[{"Title":"good and underrated chiller.","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" You don't hear or read much about this movie based on a short story written by Stephen King and I think that's a shame. It sure ain't no big masterpiece but it got several things going for it. Though, there is ONE aspect that makes this film very memorable ! The very creepy atmosphere. Graveyard Shift takes place is a textile factory during a very hot summer. Temperatures are so high, the men have to work at night...during the Graveyard Shift !You can actually feel the heat these men are working in. You can feel the sweat running down their back and you can feel the dirt on their bodies, caused by the hard work. That's a very good mood being set. When it comes to the level of scary I would dare to say that some scenes equal to that of Arachnophobia... Because the hideous little creatures here are rats, and these animals scare and disgust people as much as spiders do. Graveyard Shift contains some great acting performances as well. Andrew Divoff is a decent actor and the guy who plays Warwick is fantastic ! He has the face of a natural born bastard so the role he plays fits him very well. I don't know his name but he reminds me of Fred Ward. I'll keep my eyes open for possible other movies he starred in. And then there's ...Brad Dourif!! This guy always delivers !!! Whether he plays in big budget productions like LOTR The Two Towers or in small obscure horror films, he's always brilliant. Especially here, as the Exterminator. His little Vietnam anecdote is the best scene in the whole film. He's still too underrated, if you ask me. So these are all good elements, no ? Then, why is Graveyard Shift not up there with the big titles in the genre? Well, the low budget obviously killed this movie. Most scenes are very dark and hard to follow. The big monster is supposed to be very impressive, but you're never able to see it properly. Half of the time, you're wondering what? ...what happened ?? Real shame and waste. I'm convinced that with a few clear and decent special effects and make-up, this movie could have been one of the best horror films of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Silly, but enjoyable little flick","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Films like this one were released by the bucket load in the 1980's, but as 1990 approached; they became less and less common. Still, there are a lot of silly horror flicks that were released in the 90's debut year, and, surprisingly, this one isn't all that bad. It lacks all the elements that make great films great films, of course; things such as brains, coherency and any whisper of characters has been neglected in favour of monster special effects and a few nice death scenes; but seriously, that's all you want from a film like this, so to say that Graveyard Shift does it's job isn't wrong. The film is based on a short story by Stephen King. Nearly everything that King has ever touched has been turned into a film, with a lot of mixed results. I would put this one in the middling category, which isn't a bad place to be in considering all the failed adaptations. The plot is typically thin (it is a SHORT story!) and it follows a man who gets a job in a cotton mill. The place is infested with rats, and after being charged with cleaning the place up, our hero finds a trapdoor and soon he and his team are up against the reason rats have made their home in the mill...One thing that really stands out about this film is the atmosphere. Director Ralph S. Singleton delights in presenting a fetid and disturbing aura around the central location, and this helps the story massively and gives the film an almost 'odyssey' approach when the characters finally make their way underground. I don't find rats scary, personally, but many people do and this film could easily be a reason why! The way that the rats surround the characters is brooding and frightening and provides the film with one of it's key elements. Acting definitely isn't a key element of Graveyard Shift, but the appearance of popular cult actor Brad Dourif will please many of this films' audience. I'm not a massive of fan of Dourif personally, but I respect his ability to shine in campy productions. The story doesn't offer anything in the way of a point, and it's incoherency will annoy many - but if you go into this film with the right sort of expectations, and don't think you're about to see a horror classic, Graveyard Shift really shouldn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"The mutant rat movie to end all mutant rat movies","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This might be the craziest Stephen King adaptation ever made (and yes, I am aware of The Lawnmower Man). It's so f**king intense from start to finish that it makes Stanley Kubrick's The Shining look like a Hallmark movie. The studio executives no doubt wanted to make a few bucks with a by-the-numbers B-movie and chose the director based on his past experience on a number of respectable movies; no one could have predicted that he'd go balls-out crazy and treat a story about a mutant rat monster as if he'd been handed the script to Macbeth. A drifter named John arrives in the town of Gate's Falls and applies for a job in a rat-infested textile mill run by Mr. Warwick (played by an unknown actor named Stephen Macht, whose attempted Maine accent sounds more Transylvanian), a deliriously evil man who rules not only the mill, but the entire town, with an iron fist. Warwick regularly strolls through the mill to laugh at how exhausted everyone is and knowingly sends his employees to their doom in the basement, which is inhabited by a huge rat-bat hybrid. This seems like an extremely counterproductive way to run a business, but it's best not to question anything in this movie. Meanwhile, an exterminator gone wrong (Brad Dourif's performance will give you nightmares) attempts to flush out the mill's rats, and John sort of develops a relationship with the mill's secretary, although even the romantic scenes are not handled calmly. As an example of the film's overall mood, at one point Warwick sends John to help clean the basement; the script probably said, Warwick sends John to clean the basement, but it plays out with Warwick and John staring each other down wild-eyed as if Warwick had challenged John to a death-match; it is indeed the most intense one character asks another to do a simple task scene in history.Basically everything in the movie is like that, until the final sequence, at which point the maniacal director apparently tore the script into confetti and threw it into the air, because all nine levels of hell break loose. Our small cleaning crew, including Warwick, descends through a trapdoor and finds itself lost in a maze of wooden tunnels, the mill being some kind of labyrinthine, House of Leaves-style structure that extends hundreds of feet below the surface of the earth, and the rat-bat begins killing them off. Warwick goes completely off the beam at this time and begins chasing John and his girlfriend through the tunnels after smearing his face full of black grease. He encounters the rat-beast and throws himself at it, screaming, We're going to hell... TOGETHUUUHHH!!! Somehow, John and Jane descend even DEEPER, and end up in a MASSIVE cavern packed full of human bones; I could only imagine the director running around foaming at the mouth as he told his set design crew he needed the most gigantic cavern ever put on screen. Then, through some miracle, our man John makes it back into the textile mill and defeats the monster using, and this is no less crazy than it sounds, a Pepsi can. These final scenes are exhausting, but the movie isn't about to let some trifle like an ending release its grip on the viewer, because a nightmarish theme song then begins playing consisting of a bizarre techno beat with sounds of industrial machinery and bits of dialogue mixed over it. The tremendous amount of effort that was put into this thing forces me to rate it 8/10; any less and I am afraid the director might track me down and cut out my eyes or something. In conclusion, see it. "},{"Title":"Horror movie with social pathos","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is sadly underrated Actually, this may be caused by the relative low-key way the film is shot in. In contrast to many other recent horror-movies (take The Mummy for instance) the special effects are not generally exploiting gory, in-depth looks at the monsters (which almost always tend to ruin much of the real horror, i e where you yourself fill in on the aspects not covered by the camera; a commendable example of this last aspect would be the first Alien, where the monster often only is shown in extreme short-cut scenes). Anyway, what made the film stand out is, however, not the spare use of monster-over exposure but the social setting of the plot. Unlike many other American stories, which seem to be set in rather idyllic surroundings (but for the appearance of the monster, that is!), this film actually lay out a more grim, perspective The owners and the manager of the plant are basically exploiting the workers in search of greater profits, the possibilities of getting other jobs seem slim, the local people is not very keen on strangers and peoples´ basic attitudes towards each other often seem to range between distrust and hostility. This creates a darker, more menacing setting for the everyday life than could be expected; something I find much more interesting than the ordinary everything here was so fine until the monster arrived to our idyllic town-plot. If one likes to think about symbolic interpretations of horror movies (and why not? Even Stephen King does this in his book Dance Macabre), one could perhaps state that the monster in some way could be perceived as the physical manifestation of all hostility, exploitation and other bad feelings which seem to prevail in the little society depicted;-)To top it all (warning- spoiler ahead!), given what happens to one of the sympathetic characters very close to the end of the movie, there is not a really wholeheartedly happy ending Quite extraordinary if you think about that this actually is an American movie! To summarize This is a horror movie which, in many positive ways, feels like it was made by an independent company!  "},{"Title":"Pretty gruesome horror film.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In Gates Falls,Maine,an old textile mill that has been closed down for many years is reopened.The place is dirty,run down,and overrun with huge rats.The graveyard shift is operated by a skeleton crew,just enough to keep it going.This is where we meet John Hall,a young drifter who gets hired on to work with the crew.The plant which is infested with rats also harbors something much larger,deep in it's cotton filled bowels,something that wants to come up to the surface.The crew of the graveyard shift are about to come face to face with what's underneath the factory.Graveyard Shift is loosely based on Stephen King's short story.The film is fast-paced and entertaining and offers some gore plus a few shocks.Many people trashed this horror film,but I don't care.Graveyard Shift is still much better than bloodless and politically correct horror garbage produced today.The cast is decent and the production design provides plenty of eerie atmosphere.Give this one a look.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another Dourif must-see!","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Right then, I've read every review up until this one and I have to say..its the same old story - you're mostly all fruitcakes. GRAVEYARD SHIFT is one ripper of an admittedly oddball movie. A few people evidently share this view which is encouraging at least.The film is a terrific character study and never have I come across a more depressingly grotty and apt setting for a bleak horror film. You need little imagination to smell the filth and dirt. David Andrews makes a superb anti-hero, as the college-boy/drifter who takes it right up to Mill owner Warwick...as dislikable a screen presence as any and so well played by Stephen Macht. Loved the caddie-bashing sequence. Brad Dourif as the Exterminator was simply out of his tree here - overacting?????  hardly! this is Brad Dourif we're talking about!So, four-fifths of you heaped scorn on the rat/bat? (it was a BAT actually) What the HELL does it matter WHAT it was - a feral chicken even? I've seen way worse monsters than this in my time around horror flicks. The production values on this film were high, this was NOT a rabid el-cheapo along the lines of HOWLING II !In case you're interested. I would rate this as one of the better horror flicks of the last millennium. If I'm losing my objectivity then it must be a case of collective hypnosis because everyone in this family (and you're talking seriously varied tastes here) likes this flick! I would rate it a 6.75 !  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this film to death. It's one of my childhood favorites. It's incredible how a film can constantly stay in your memory and ignite such excitement thinking back on it through the years as this one does. A solid horror film, one of the best ever made. It should be watched every year on Halloween to celebrate it. And every actor that was in it should be hunted down and hailed. This film is such a masterpiece, it has every ingredient possible to create a true and complete horror film Extreme terror and gore, a creepy old mill and cemetery, a cool handsome hero, an evil ugly boss, a wacky exterminator, a small forbidden town, an unspeakable monster below, a dirty job, a kick-ass title, great lines, great music, comedy, what more can you ask for??? It's impossible to get every atmospheric scene and campy character out of my mind. It's one hell of a joy ride. A must see for serious horror buffs. Will you survive the Graveyard Shift? "},{"Title":"Pretty good horror Rat movie.","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" John Hall (David Andrews) is a drifter looking for a job in a small town, somewhere in Maine. He is hired by Warwick (Stephen Macht) to work the Graveyard Shift at the local textile mill. Some of the employees are starting to disappear during the night shift. When Warwick hires John and a group of other workers to work in the fourth of July for clean-up work. Soon enough, they discover the unknown.Directed by Ralph S. Singleton made an decent horror movie, based on a short story by Stephen King (Cat's Eye, Creepshow, Stand by Me). The two-thirds of Graveyard Shift is pretty good, but the Giant Rat-Bat(!) shows up towards the end, the feature turns silly. Still, there is some good performances by Andrews, Macht and Brad Dourif as the Exterminator. Andrew Diroff, Best Known as The Djinn in Wishmaster 1 & 2 is wasted in a supporting role. Die-Hard fans of Stephen King might forgive some of the flawed. Despite, an messy third act. It is worth a look. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Rats! Rats! Rats!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bland David Andrews is a quiet hunk drifter who starts the late shift at a grimy Maine textile mill, headed over by a sadistic sleazeball boss (Stephen Macht). The basement work crew start falling prey to a giant rat monster that lurks underground. Real rats are all over the place too, to clean up the bodies.The gore FX are mostly top-notch, the sets are good and there's plenty of violence and action, but this pointless movie is one big, unpleasant cliché thanks to poor direction and scripting (by John Esposito, based on the Stephen King story). Everyone yells and screams a lot, but Kelly Wolf (as a tough female worker who can hold her own) and Brad Dourif (as 'Nam vet pest exterminator Tucker Cleveland) are the only two who bring any spark to their roles. "},{"Title":"Graveyard Shift","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one that goes under the title, How To Make a Bad Creature Feature. Still, it's completely trashy nature charms me somewhat. It certainly has enough filth, garbage & rats to satisfy anyone who loves to immerse themselves in low-rent horror.Down in the bowels of a cotton mill lives something quite sinister, with an appetite for factory workers who venture anywhere near his lair.John Hall(Dana Andrews, who is simply a lifeless blank)is a mysterious drifter who wanders into the position of running a Graveyard Shift textile machine once operated by someone else who saw something massive and fell it that blasted machine providing the rats with nourishment. Warwick(Stephen Macht, a hoot as he overextends his character's menace to the extreme) is the manager of the mill with a bit of a nasty streak which hides under a vile visage. Tucker Cleveland(Brad Dourif, who easily steals the film with his limited time on screen)is the exterminator of the mill who works day and night wasting those rat-vermin who wish to rear their ugly heads from the bowels. This mill should've been closed down forever, but Warwick has a way of extending time for a 4th of July clean-up where those who decide to work for double-pay, including Hall and his love-interest Jane(Kelly Wolf), will find true horror down in the basement of the place.I have no right whatsoever recommending this hunk of pure trash to anyone, but those who enjoy rats and garbage may find it amusing. It's full of nefarious, colorfully animated characters like Macht's evil manager and Dourif's exterminator which may bring a delight to trash-lovers everywhere. Highlights include Dourif's exterminator explaining to Hall about an experience in Vietnam which inspired his choice of occupation where a prisoner of war is used as meat for specially trained rats(as he expresses in exact detail, Dourif gets so caught up in the intensity of the character he sheds a tear..that ought to bring a bit of respect from some that an actor of his caliber would care so much to give away part of himself to such a rotten movie), or how Hall traps the monster in the textile machine.But how Warwick goes over the edge, insanely with face paint used from grease of an old jar, as he chases after the creature has to be the ultimate highlight.I think the best audience for this type of film is those lovers of bad Creature features, because in it's own ugly way, this film can be entertaining. But, it doesn't have one good bone in it's body, so others might wish to stay as far away as possible. "}{"Title":"Graveyard Shift","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I did not think this film was bad, in fact I enjoyed it and I was surprised, my usual 'tipple' are 1930's black and white horror, usually I do not like modern horror but this film was Shown over Christmas 2004 on British TV and I thought I would watch it, I am glad I did.... Why??? A uncle of mine used to have a farm and he was plagued with rats, there was hundreds of them, the dogs would go mad... ...in one week we finished of some 500+ in one day saw over 250+ and... I once heard a Vicar/Preacher talk of meeting some thing strange when he was in a graveyard one night, some thing over eight feet tall and very evil looking, he was serious, very very serious.... There are some very strange things on this Earth... Do watch this film.... Martin Dawson "},{"Title":"Intensely Yours!","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Graveyard Shift speaks a lot about director Ralph Singleton's ability to make a great splatsticks and cheesy flicks. Perhaps this is as gory and bizarre as the novel itself. I believe Stephen King has a guardian angel that is always atop his head, inspiring him bring out the most unusual horrific thoughts. As far as the budget is concerned, GS is mediocre but the way this tale has been presented makes this film bit outlandish. The plot is simple, but the cause is freaky. The cinematography is great and gives a strange sullen atmosphere to the movie. The film has enough offering for the gore-hounds, who would love this flick for splatter reasons. The plot would have worked well even if it were incorporated in any of anthologies like 'Tales from the Darkside aka Creepshow 3.A run down textile mill is restarted by a firm. The owners appoint a grouchy and malevolent supervisor Warwick (Macht) to make new recruitment and keep the production on the go. The exterminators, specially Brad Douriff discovers that the mill is infested with rats. The population of the rodents is so high, that they have dug big holes in the mill premises. We soon watch John Hall (David Andrews) taking role of a night shift worker. Others are astonished to see John take the night shift. The shift has a notorious past, because it took the life of old workers. We also come to know that the deaths have something to do with rats. Andrews soon assumes his responsibility and is time and again bugged by the presence of rats. He manages to fend some of them with an empty cola can and sling. John is bullied by his fellows Danson (Divoff) and Brogan (Polizos), but he wants to keep his profile low. John also shares some pleasant intimacy with his co-worker Jane (Kelly Wolf), which is despised by Warwick. Time goes by and other incidents of disappearances take place. Searching for the clue, the exterminator Douriff scans the nearby graveyard and discovers a tunnel. Before he could track the channels, he is crushed under a tombstone. Warwick compels the workers to participate in the extermination program. Unfortunately, the team stumbles upon a chain of interconnected tunnels, that lead to a nearby graveyard. One by one the workers are killed by something unimaginable, that rests and breeds inside this tunnel waiting for the good time. However, John still has his time for the final showdown.The film succeeds in taking the viewers to discomfort. Unlike any other ambiguous horror farce that is trashed out in the name of horror, this doesn't lose grip. A newbie to horror may take it for a slow starter and soon start pigeonholing this gem of a film with other inferior squibs. This film has a strange atmosphere, that gets tedious and intolerable due to the presence of rats. Well, consider yourself working past midnight at a mill with no ventilation, heavily enervated and badly perspiring. Then to add to your troubles, you are alone, and furthermore you are surrounded by several hundred rodents, that are smelly and also HUNGRY! How do you think you'll react to this? Well watch GS to believe it. Cheers to Ralph Singleton! "},{"Title":"Graveyard Shift","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King's Graveyard Shift is a gritty and messy little film about rats and yarn mills. The story is about a group of workers who are instructed by their boss to clean out the rat infested basement of the mill they work at. Meanwhile, a few other people have been murdered by a mysterious creature roaming the workplace. Also there is a hoard of rats down there which love to lick up human blood. So as soon as the cleaning crew start their work, they get attacked by the huge creature and many of them die. The creature's death at the end is done well, but it doesn't make up for the boring movie.Now, I still don't know what the hell the huge creature is at the end. It's supposed to be a giant rat (I think) but it looks like a bat. Maybe it's a mutation, who knows? It does look gruesome though. The death scenes involve lots of gruesome gore as well. The problem with this film, which was originally a short story, is that it goes on and on too long. It's very dull and just plain boring at times. And I have to say watching this film, I wonder if the actors were told not to shower at all during the making of it. They all looked so dirty and nasty. The grittiness of the movie is at an extreme.And all of the characters are plain scum. As viewers you root for them to die in a way just so they'll shut up. Like the guy down in the basement killing rats with a water hose. Did he have to scream every time he pumped out the water? That scene went on for a good three minutes. I couldn't wait for him to be off my screen. This is one of Stephen's King's worst adaptions. Children the Corn is often frowned upon when King's films are mentioned, but this is far worse.3/10 "},{"Title":"Good late eighties flick","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I first saw this film back in 1991 and was not to impressed. It wasn't until about 7 years ago I decided to watch the film again and give it a second chance. It's a good thing I did because the film is actually rather good. The characters are interesting enough, especially Brad Douriff's character as the exterminator, but I think what makes this film worth watching was the atmosphere. It is very dark and you get the feeling through the whole movie something is horribly wrong. I think it was one of the better Stephen King adaptations to screen (even if it is loosely based on the short story). I give it a 7. Worth while for any horror buff simply for the mood of the film. "},{"Title":"Decent enough rat/bat creature feature","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Assistant director of plenty of classic 70s films Ralph S. Singleton gets a promotion or maybe it's a demotion to director of Graveyard Shift - his first and last director gig. This is the kind of horror film where the set floors are foggy from dry ice and the theatrical set design is filled with cobwebs, bones and just bathed in horror. It's a welcome throwback to B movie-making. Our drifter hero takes a job in a cotton mill, where the worker conditions range from grotesque to lethal and a giant rat/bat monster is making work more difficult. The foreman Warwick is played by a scenery chewing Stephen Macht, who is more monstrous than the monster, as a misogynistic scumbag. Brad Dourif shows up as the exterminator, chewing the scenery and the props and doesn't really fit into the storyline. As the workers move further down into the basement of the seemingly never ending mill, as quick as a light switch being turned on, Warwick starts to go bananas. Warwick's transformation into a murderous loon, take place over about 45 seconds and he looks like he just came off Marlon Brando's deranged compound in Apocalypse Now. Graveyard Shift is a mostly entertaining creature feature that doesn't really deliver on the creature part, but there's enough silly horror atmosphere to make up for the lack of a good monster money shot. "},{"Title":"Awesome creature, lousy script","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Poorly plotted and poorly scripted film continues the long string of box office duds based on decent stories by Stephen King. This one begged to be filmed, given the deliciously disturbing short story from which it was lifted, but the end result is, alas, a mess.The film keeps close to the source material, but padding it out to feature length stretches the material too thin. It also jettisons the short story's concept of a small ecosystem of mutated rats--the characters simply have a severe rat infestation to deal with, and a single mutated bat creature that appears when the script dictates that a character is isolated enough for a monster attack.The acting is above par for what seems to have been a very rushed production, given the shambles of a script it provides for them. There's little suspense, and although I was willing to suspend disbelief and imagine that a textile mill could have a series of what appears to be 15 basements, I wasn't willing to sit through the obviously plot threads that go nowhere. Much is made of the mill boss and his sadistic manner of treating people, so much so that the early portions of the film become redundant. There are a few too many extraneous characters, not the least of which is an exterminator played by Brad Dourif. Dourif brings a little more dimension that necessary to the part, which requires so little of him that he never even gets to confront the monster for his death scene--he's killed by a sliding coffin. Who thought that up? The creature itself is fantastic, and apart from the decent performances, it's the best thing about Graveyard Shift. Detailed and expertly realized, it belongs in a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Rat thing on the rampage","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*A bunch of people get told to go down to the basement of an old mill and clean up the mess. It's their bad luck that they run into an army of rats. There's also a big cheese living among the rats and its name is not Ben. It's some sort of big, bad super rat that's crawling around down there and it has the munchies for human flesh.Yes, it's another rat movie. This time the rat monster has grown to gigantic proportions. Graveyard Shift is a simple, straight forward, people vs. rat mutant movie. There's nothing particularly wrong with Graveyard Shift but there's nothing particularly right either. It's all kind of ho-hum. Everything goes exactly as you'd expect it to. There's a monster in the basement and it has a ton of horror movie clichés with it. If you're used to this kind of horror movie logic, (always stick your hand into a dark hole, people will twist their ankle at the worst time etc), you'll probably think it's a fair horror flick. I'd go 4/10.Two last thoughts. The name of the mill is Bachman Textile Mills. Get it? Richard Bachman was/is Stephen King's alter ego. I'm not sure if Bachman was credited with Graveyard Shift or if it was a King story. What am I saying? They're the same guy! Or are they? Hmmm... Also, why does the Forman have an outrageous New England accent while no one else does? Were the rest of the workers out-of-towners? Was working the Graveyard Shift at a disgusting mill so tantalizing that people came from out of state just for the privilege of working it?  "},{"Title":"A film born without a spine... (LOTS OF SPOILERS)","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are the types of horror films made that surpass everyone's expectations and at the end of the movie, everyone is like wow, that was pretty good for a horror movie. This isn't that kind of movie.Reading the back of the box lets you know that GRAVEYARD SHIFT is nothing special. Just another hokey horror film made for the sole purpose of wasting people's time and having them break their TVs. The synopsis on the box makes no reference of this film having to do with killer rats, and when I first saw the one guy die in the beginning, I thought Oh god I'm gonna shut this sh*t off! but I didn't. (Don't read the rest of this unless you want the film to be spoiled for you miserably). Here's what happens this guy kills one of the rats and then very duly, he says class is over. I don't know what the hell that means, but, still he procedes to kill another one of the rats and I'm thinking to myself I do hope that its ONLY about the stupid rats killing people and not some giant mutant creature. But, no such luck. We hear this creature thing scream out a cliched reeeoooawwww!.The rest of the film moves pretty much like that as well. There is even the token black guy in here which is pretty rare considering the fact that this film is made before 1994. It's such a shame that a Stephen King story had to be killed just about as brutally as some of the people in the film. Ralph S. Singleton directs a film that looks like the cast had a fun time making it, but, to be honest, this film is one big mindless cliche. Every scene in this film could probably be traced so some other horror movies. For a better killer rat movie, see a film which is aptly named THE RATS. I suggest that you read the Stephen King short story and then see a better film. Overall opinion, this is not a bad movie, just not a good one in the least.GRAVEYARD SHIFT 2/5. "},{"Title":"Pretty weak film.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was pretty poor. It has good direction and a good script, but it is overall pretty much your low budget ametureish stuff. skip this one. "},{"Title":"BAD... VERY VERY BAD","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  the only thing good about this movie is the fact that you keep guessing over and over and over until the annoying ending. i rank this movie a 2 out of 10 because it makes no sense, the monster makes no sense, and they could have improved greatly on the actors. "}{"Title":"Stephen King adaptation at its worst","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King and Hollywood has always had an unsteady relationship. For every good to decent film produced from the prolific horror-meister's works (Misery,Pet Semetary,Stand By Me) there have been several more middling to downright awful ones (Children of the Corn,The Lawnmower Man,The Dark Half). Graveyard Shift, a 1990 adaptation of King's same named short story, is absolutely in the latter category. Graveyard Shift is a complete waste of time and celluloid, devoid of any scares, laughs or any other redeeming quality. If you want a bottom of the barrel Stephen King film, look no further than this travesty.Set in a cotton mill in what I guess is supposed to be Maine (one character references Castle Rock, King's well known fictional Maine town), Graveyard Shift begins with a character who likes to shoot rats with rocks being attacked by . . . something . . . and then dying in the cotton picker. Into town walks John Hall (Dave Andrews) a drifter looking for work, who lands a job at the mill, under the direction of the rather unkind, and potentially unhinged, foreman, Warwick (Stephen Macht). Warwick is a rather despicable character, using the female employees to fulfill his sexual needs while trying to cut a few bucks here and there in regards to worker safety. When he is ordered to clean up the basement or be shut down, he recruits several of the plant workers for the job, but they quickly realize that there is . . . something . . . down there in the basement with them.Graveyard Shift is the kind of film that used to be cranked out in the 1970s and 80s by major studios, I suspect, because they were cheap to make and even with a lower than average box office compared to major films, they still managed to turn a decent profit for the studio. Because it is almost certain no one was greenlighting Graveyard Shift because it promised to be a good movie. And a good movie is definitely not what director Ralph S. Singleton and screenwriter Jon Esposito have supplied. There is nothing of value in Graveyard Shift. The characters are almost exclusively ciphers, existing for no other reason than to be picked off one by one by the film's creature that lives in the mill. Main character John Hall has no development to speak of, and the attempt by the filmmakers to create a relationship between him and female worker Jane (Kelly Wolf) is dead on arrival. Neither character is interesting, or heck, even really present, other than to serve as something for the camera to be focused on most of the time.Stephen Macht provides a seemingly hissable villain in the form of Warwick, but he is almost completely a caricature, a creation of the screenplay to give us someone to root against, not a three dimensional character. When he goes off his rocker towards the end of the film, it is completely out of left field, not something that has been building throughout the narrative. The only character who is even vaguely interesting is the exterminator called in to deal with the rat problem at the mill, played by Brad Dourif. His exterminator holds a personal vendetta against rats due to their use in torture when he was in Vietnam (and I wonder if some material intended for his character was transplanted to Warwick at some point in the re-write stage of development). But slightly interesting doesn't equal necessary, and Dourif's character is even given the weakest, most pointless send-off of any of the film's characters.The makeup effects of the creature are acceptable, I guess, but we are never given much of a good look at it. But, for the most part, the film's gore quotient, one of the reasons people would show up to these films, is pretty limited. And there is certainly no tension, scares or suspense to speak of. Never once was I concerned for anyone on screen, and there is a jump scare or two, but nothing remarkable, and many of them are predictable.Graveyard Shift was released in 1990, at the end of the horror film era of the previous two decades, before the genre would go into remission for a few years before being re-born with the self referential Scream series followed by Hollywood's brief dalliance with J-Horror. And frankly, if Graveyard Shift is representative of what the genre brought to the table, then it was deserving of being buried. "},{"Title":"Drop the F, and you have a pretty accurate description","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When Stephen King hit his stride as an author whose nearly superhuman literary output averaged at least one book per year, his whoring of the rights to said books also yielded more rancid cinematic rapes than a crime-scene photographer (or film critic) would wish to count. Graveyard Shift is one such rancid production, a film whose sheer badness on almost every level makes it a slightly hypnotic, let's-see-how-much-worse-it-can-get venture, but mostly winds up a jaw-dropping exercise in futility. Based on the short story of the same name from King's Night Shift anthology, one would think a 90-minute film would be the ideal forum to iron out the nuances of a compact literary piece. Then again, that would require filmmakers who know how to expand the material in a creative, interesting way, and one of Graveyard Shift's many problems is that the source story isn't the greatest, and John Esposito's adaptation and Ralph Singleton's direction doesn't know where to go with it. While this tale of textile-mill workers abused by a shifty, sadistic foreman (Stephen Macht) and menaced by a subterranean rat-bat seems a muddled allegory for the human rat race being a literal dive into the darkest pit of Hell, it is lost in the onslaught of terrible acting and unfocused characters. While King (not to mention directors who understand his work) brings a certain local quirkiness to his patented New Englanders, here they are transformed into grotesque, unpleasant yokels whose punchlines fall completely flat (the worst miscalculation being Brad Dourif's hambone Exterminator)&#150;the violence lacks any irony, and is just more grist for the blood-spattered mill. The only remotely credible actor is Macht, whose performance hints at campy greatness that goes unrealized as a result of the script's awkward attempts at intentional comedy. The only thing that really gives Graveyard Shift any redeeming value is the often-creative set design (including an underground labyrinth that threatens to create actual atmosphere), and the not-bad (but far from great) creature FX; additionally, the small New England town does evoke King's prose with some credibility&#150;it's too bad nobody could think of a way to put it to good use. "},{"Title":"A steaming pile of celluloid excrement","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In this wretched adaptation of a Stephen King short story a motley bunch of imbecilic and unlikable mill workers are devoured by a large mutant bat-rat monster when they get trapped in the dank basement of a grimy textile mill. From its poor (mis)direction by clueless first-time director Ralph S. Singleton to its nonsensical cliché-ridden script by John Esposito to the moronic behavior of the vapid cardboard characters (who all have the appeal of a toxic waste spill), Graveyard Shift is rotten to its crummy core and such a stupendously sorry waste of time that it isn't even enjoyably bad. Instead it's just plain dreadful in a very grating, grueling and depressing sort of way. Acting wise, the insipid and underwhelming David Andrews makes for a bland hero as a college dropout drifter while Stephen Macht overacts atrociously as Warwick, a nasty mill boss with a ludicrously thick'n'heavy Cajun accent whose senseless and abrupt last reel descent into complete psychotic insanity is both laughable and implausible. Kelly Wolf tries hard as the feisty heroine, but her thankless token female role is grossly underwritten and her brutal untimely demise leaves a foul aftertaste. The grungy cinematography and filthy set design ensure that this picture is a real ugly eyesore as well. Not even some good gore f/x by Gordon (Near Dark) Smith and the always riveting presence of perennial oddball Brad Dourif as eccentric, ill-fated 'Nam vet exterminator Tucker Cleveland can redeem this dismal dud. And the horrendous ending credits rap theme song with sampled dialogue is downright painful. The absolute pits. "},{"Title":"Slow and Rushed at the same time","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Truthfully, the production isn't so bad (no worse than most King adaptations) and the direction is rather passable. The bug, like in most bad films, is the script.With such a strong cast and good production values, this should have been a great film.But somehow the story bogs down at the beginning, more interested in the terrible management of an old mill than the giant monster in the basement. The story makes a play at being true to the source while making a statement but by the last 30 minutes it suddenly remembers that it's a horror movie and tries to stuff the denouement and everything else into a few rushed scenes. The monster, which was actually quite good, doesn't even get time to breathe.Brad Dourif does his best to save the movie, playing a creepy exterminator with a Jeffery Combs style mania (if the two of them were ever in a movie, the world would explode from the awesome).But in the end this film had everything, from a giant bat to a good cast, and it still sucked. "},{"Title":"Poor, bland, uninteresting, dull and boring. That just about covers it.","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Graveyard shift is set in a textile mill that from the outside looks like a large house. It also has a small run down graveyard next to it that is constantly enshrouded in mist and fog, no matter how sunny and clear it is elsewhere. It's late at night, a worker is operating a machine called a 'picker'. He notices rats everywhere, the mill is infested with them. He picks one up and puts it into the machine which slices the rat up into little pieces. Then he notices a shadow, someone or something is behind him, he turns around there is a loud squealing noise, he screams and falls into the machine. Chopped up bits of his body emerge from the other side which the rats begin to nibble on. This unfortunate 'accident' means there is a job vacancy at the mill. A drifter named John Halls (David Andrews) wanders into town and sees an advert in a local diner for the position at 'Bachman Mills'. He talks to the supervisor, Mr. Warwick (Stephen Macht) and is given the job, that of operating the picker from 11pm to 7am which is dubbed the 'graveyard shift'. Shortly after starting work Warwick gives Halls a chance to earn double pay. He is assembling a clean up crew to tidy up the basement. Halls agrees, along with four other workers Charlie Carmicheal (Jimmy Woodward), Brogan (Vic Polizos), Danson (Andrew Divoff) and Warwick's ex wife Jane Wisconsky (Kelly Wolf). While cleaning up Halls discovers a trap door, they all venture down inside only to become trapped and be killed off one by one by a giant rat-bat monster!Directed by Ralph S. Singleton this is a seriously poor, stupid and incredibly clichéd horror film. The script by John Esposito based on a short story by Stephen King is terrible. The fog enshrouded graveyard, characters who argue with each other and split up rather than help each other to survive, a stupid over-the-top exterminator (Brad Dourif) who takes his job ridiculously seriously and rambles incoherently on about past exploits and Vietnamese trained rats who becomes the 'comedy relief' plus a blossoming relationship between the two leads which becomes stronger as the film goes on because of the situation they find themselves in. Every cliché in the book is here, you can easily figure out who's going to die and who's going to survive. The scenes in between the rat-bat monster attacks are really dull and uninteresting, I just sat there waiting for the next special effects scene hoping it's not too far away. No explanation for the giant rat-bat monster is given at all, not a single reason for it being there or how it was created. It's just sort of there and that's it, we have to accept it. The acting is uniformly bad, Andrews has to be one of the most bland and uninteresting leading men ever! You can barely understand what Macht is saying because of his ridiculous accent. This film apparently cost $10,500,000! Where did all the money go? I bet the executives at Paramount had heart attacks when they saw what their money had brought! There's not even that much gore in it, a chopped off foot, a man with no hand and a couple of shots of blood splattering over walls and furniture, and that's it. No nudity either I'm afraid. The monster is never really completely seen, just shots of it's head, claws, tail and wings although I thought the effects looked alright. A real wasted opportunity, this film adds nothing new to the horror genre and is pretty poor. Definiteatly one to avoid. "},{"Title":"It's OK - Not Great But Watchable","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well not a good film. It's rather stupid but entertaining in a weird sort of way. It's a film that if there is nothing else on TV and you like horror movies then you might watch it. You are not missing very much by missing this film.The worst part about this is all of the really weird characters - in particular the Rambo-like exterminator. Everyone was just weird and some of them not very likable characters.They never even explored the reason for the creatures existence at the end of the film. It just existed and chewed people up because it was hungry I guess.I did get a few chuckles out if this one from the sheer weirdness of it all so it's not all that horrible of a film - it's just not good.5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent entry, if not overly spectacular","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Following a series of accidents, the new worker at a troubled textile processing mill finds the incidents are being caused by a massive infestation of rats and must clear them out in order to keep it in business.There's not a whole lot to really like with this one as its pretty underwhelming. The biggest issues against this one is the fact that way too much time is spent here on the utterly useless subplot about the different workers at the plant, none of which do anything interesting overall or move the film along at all. The fact that this one tends to continually bring up the different affairs and inter-office dramas within everyone here really has the effect of slowing down the film so that it really drags through the first half. As well, there's just nothing all that interesting or exciting about all of these particular tangents which are just plain irritating as this makes it really hard to really matter what happens to them and how they tend to the various situations around here are. The better elements, here, though, do manage to counteract the flaws here as there's some rather decent efforts throughout this. There's a rather interesting series of attacks throughout which is quite entertaining at times as the encounters in the mill are highly enjoyable. The first encounter within the bowels of the factory works pretty well due to the claustrophobic setting and intense heat, the recovery team getting assaulted in the sewers underneath the mill are quite fun as the different surrounding get utilized to help with the rampaging assault on the crew, as well as the rather chilling encounter within the cemetery crypt which provides this one with plenty of opportunities to get rather enjoyable and entertaining. The best part, though, is the finale down deep in the underground shaft atop a pile of bones as the fight there includes a huge, mutated monstrosity that perfectly echoes the Gothic sensibility of the setting down there by placing such a creature in that situation to make the chilling encounter all the better. By plaguing all of this alongside the great special effects for the giant rat alongside the dead bodies floating around, this adds another level here to what works and really helps to sell the goo parts about this one.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"average acting. weak directing. some good kills","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The town has a rat infested ancient textile mill. The big problem is that people on the graveyard shift get eaten by a monster in the basement. John Hall (David Andrews) is a newcomer in town. He's given the opportunity to earn double by the manager Warwick (Stephen Macht). Over the July 4th weekend, a group of workers are given the task to clear out the basement.The actors are mostly unknowns. Brad Dourif does a good turn as a crazy creepy exterminator. Most everybody is over acting, doing a lot of manic performances, and being mean all the time. It's all forgettable.The least forgettable is all the rats. If anybody has a rat phobia, this movie will scare the it out of you. The rats are pretty good. I particularly like that the rats are big on the screen. They're not small rodents down at our feet. The audience sees them face to face with their beady little eyes. That's a great touch.Other than the rats, the directing is perfunctory at best. The pace is slow as director Singleton doesn't edit to ramp up the tension. The set is artificial but still somewhat creepy. Damn basement is always good horror material. The kills are pretty good. Again I think it's the rats. It's always creepy to have real rats around. "},{"Title":"Beware of the Giant Rat","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Graveyard Shift (1990) ** (out of 4) Silly adaptation of the Stephen King short story takes place at a textile mill where there are more rats than actual works. The problem starts when various employees go missing and it appears there's some sort of giant rat offing them. GRAVEYARD SHIFT has a few memorable moments but in the end it's a pretty laughable film but it's hard to really blame anyone other than the producers for giving this a green light. I'm not sure how good or bad the short story was but it's clear that it shouldn't have been turned into a feature. The entire idea of a giant rat killing people just isn't very scary and when you're doing a horror film that can't possibly get any scary moments then you're already playing behind the eight ball. Another problem is that there's just not too much going on here. A new guy (David Andrews) gets picked on by co-workers. Someone gets killed by a monster. The new guy starts to fall for a co-worker (Kelly Wolf). Someone gets killed by a monster. The jerk owner (Stephen Macht) picks on someone. Someone gets killed. There's really nothing for the viewer to do except wait for the next kill and wait for the next person to get picked on. The kills are somewhat memorable simply because how often to giant rats kill people? The rat creature (or whatever it is) looks rather silly and perhaps this is why they don't show it too much. I will say that the death scenes are quite graphic and bloody, which is somewhat shocking considering what the MPAA was doing to horror films in this era. The performances are all rather good with the exception of Brad Dourif who plays an exterminator. Whoever decided to have this character do comedy relief certainly didn't have the actors best interest in mind. GRAVEYARD SHIFT is a fairly forgettable movie but one almost needs to watch it just because of how silly it is. "},{"Title":"Not really that scary...","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *********CONTAINS SPOILERS************When I read the back of the box in the video store I thought I was in for a nice scare that night. Boy, was I wrong! It was more of a gore fest than a horror movie. The contraption in the basement when the main character threw the rat in, that was a tad sick. At the end when the monster thing was getting chopped up and its head wouldn't go through, that was sick. I saw Stephen King's Pet Sematary and Children of the Corn and those were scarier. I don't think it's worth your 2 bucks to rent. "}{"Title":"Not to worry. The rats don't bite.","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King adaptations seem to be something of a hit or miss and this particular feature Graveyard Shift (from a short tale) seems to find itself in the latter camp. After watching it for the first time, I didn't think it was as bad as it reputation lets on but I wasn't wowed over by it either. Quite a lumbering, by-the-numbers and threadbare creature on the rampage outing.An isolated small town community sees its business mainly arrive from their local textile mill. This is re-opened, after an accident saw someone die. A team of workers are hired to work in it and also clean it up as the decayed structure is a home to a horde of rats. However that's the least of their problems as there's something much bigger and hungrier shacked up in the mill's cellar.The makeshift story is rather daft, nothing is truly explained and the set-pieces are only there to set-up the cheap, dreary shocks which are plastered throughout. There's a real nastiness within. Some moody atmospherics from its gloomily dirty windmill setting with a neighbouring graveyard (despite some stagy direction), along with a colourfully intense support role by Brad Dourif as a rodent exterminator make it worth a gander. David Andrews is in the lead and draws up very little, while Stephen Macht overdoes it. Kelly Wolf is half-decent and Andrew Divoff shows up in minor support. The f/x work is modest for it low-budget, so is the creature design; something of a bat cross rat hybrid. Never does the camera get you a good look of it, as it stays hidden or in the shadows with only glimpses. A so-so creature feature. "},{"Title":"The Graaaaveyard Shift...","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another King story gets a kicking here, as David Andrews gets out performed on the charisma front by a load of rats. The old textile mill he works in seems to have a rodent issue, although what is lurking deep in the bowels of the building's numerous basements is far more sinister than rats. Well, it's supposed to be.The films plods along until Andrews and a bunch of unpleasant co workers, along with Stephen Macht and his demented accent, get down to the business of trying to clear the basements up, and then there is much screaming and running. The monster effects themselves aren't too bad; but the film sticks with gore rather than trying to go for any real scares. It's difficult to say this is offensive to the source material; rather than wasting potential, the film has stretched the original story way too much; its reasonably chilling seven or eight pages were good in themselves, but hardly effective material to make an 80 minute film.That said, there are plus points from trying to place Macht's accent, and Brad Dourif's wonderful turn as The Exterminator. There is at least a vague suggestion of some suspense as the clean up crew go from basement to basement; and the gore and effects are maybe enough to please anyone in the mood for undemanding horror. Certainly, if you can switch your brain to the right setting to enjoy Maximum Overdrive, this one shouldn't disappoint. However, it's doomed to stay hidden in the abyss of 80s and early 90s trash horror. Certainly not good, but not bad enough to stand out either. Yet another example of unexceptional horror, but which isn't as terrible as people make out. "},{"Title":"Scary enough for me...but too unpleasant to recommend...","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stretching a Stephen King story about a rat-infested cotton mill in Maine to 90 minutes may have seemed like a good idea, but giving the rat infestment too much close-up coverage was not. Dwelling a little more on the human element and why the townspeople behave as they do toward the new mill worker (a drifter with a college ed), would have helped. Unfortunately, the script doesn't give any of the actors a chance to develop credible characters.Nevertheless, loopholes and all (inconsistent motivations for the things certain characters do), GRAVEYARD SHIFT manages to serve viewers a fair share of unexpected twists and turns in the course of a typical King tale of terrorized victims which just happens to take place in his favorite domain, Maine. None of the performers are well-known (which can be a good thing), except for Brad Dourif who is hilariously over-the-top as The Exterminator. It doesn't help that the female lead is particularly unappealing.What helps considerably are the able performances of David Andrews and his uneasy relationship with boss Stephen Macht, heavy on the Maine accent. Macht has the perfect face for sneering villainy. Andrews' predicament as the new mills worker is what kept me wanting to see how things turned out. The rat-filled prologue should have warned me of things to come, but even a dedicated horror fan should get some unexpected jolts from the last half-hour.Not a great horror film, but one with the atmosphere down perfectly. You can almost smell the stench of Andrews' surroundings and the sweat on his back as he makes the most of a gruesome situation. I understand the new DVD version is an excellent transfer that makes the most of the gritty atmosphere.Definitely not for those who can't stand the sight of the nasty little critters. I just happened to be in the mood for a spooky movie, and settled back to watch this on TV. Certainly not the worse King film committed to film and it does have its moments of pure terror.But still, the subject matter is just a bit too unpleasant to give this any sort of must see recommendation. Strictly for die-hard King fans. "},{"Title":"kinda cheesy","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  kinda cheesy but still an okay flick cause it is watchable but it gets way too cheesy for it's own good and the ending is laughable acting is decent and there is a fair amount of gore but still it's nothing better the average ** out of 5 worth a watch if ya got nothing better too do "},{"Title":"Worst Film Ever!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A very pointless movie where my friends and I ended up laughing at the characters' bad accents and faked reactions rather than scared. There was no real plot and the characters had no purpose. If you're looking for a good laugh, rent it; otherwise, it's just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"quite amusing... but i guess that was not the point really","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i remember seeing this when i was about 15 and i remember thinking it was really cool and scary. that was 12 years ago now and when i watched it now i realized how wrong i had been. i would not really recommend this film to anyone except die hard horror fans. "},{"Title":"Well, it didn't get any better","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was absolutely one of the worst films I have ever seen, if it in fact doesn't take the top spot. The monster rats were the most fake looking animals I have seen in a film, the acting was half-hearted at best, and the script was pathetic. It looked as if everyone involved with the film took their jobs as a favor for someone. I would imagine that King was embarrassed to find one of his stories turned into such celluloid crap.Did I mention that i didn't like this film very much? "},{"Title":"Keep It Buried.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on the Stephen King short story from his Night Shift collection, about a drifter who comes to a small New England town looking for a job, and finds one in a cotton mill run by an obnoxious foreman(played by Stephen Macht). It turns out that workers have been mysteriously disappearing in the bowels of the mill, which is infested with rats, which the local exterminator(played by Brad Dourif) has been unable to wipe out, much to his annoyance. However, the rats are the least of the problems, as the workers who must pull an all-night shift will discover...Awful film is devoid of suspense or intelligence; despite the potential atmospheric chills of the underground setting, the direction is extremely poor, characters not developed or overacted, and result is a grimy, foul-mouthed piece of junk. "},{"Title":"The worst end credit song in history....","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is one of those Stephen King movies that got released in the nineties, and made a bit of money thanks to his name.Some were good (Dolores Claiborne, Misery) and some were bad. Like this one.So there's a cotton factory named after Kings alternate name, and people are going missing.Is it the Wishmaster? he's there, but he's more of a red neck in this. The main bad guy who owns the factory runs around trying to sound like Fred Gwynne in Pet sematary, and Brad Dourif, spends his cameo just trying to look cool.Turns out there's some sort of huge rat/bat creature living in the factory, and picking off random workers who talk to themselves or treat the other rats as children.Cue John Connors girlfriends dad from Terminator 3, and you know he's a good sort because he ignores heckles and does as he's told.It's pretty bad stuff, marking off every single horror cliché from the early nineties, and the main problem is that the film isn't scary, exciting, nor is there any fruitful characters you would expect from a King story.The setting is good, but the rest is awful, and if you only take one thing away with you, it's the fact that Diet Pepsi is probably better than Coke. "},{"Title":"mediocre at best","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i rented it a few weeks ago, mostly because it was $1.  if you've read the short story, you won't hate this movie, but it's mediocre at best.  if it's on tv it's worth watching, not renting. "}{"Title":"Greed, stupidity and cat size rats.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a tale of factory workers needing money bad enough to take on a tedious graveyard shift. These people that hardly get along with each other have the chore of digging through the sub-basement of the factory. Hellish rats try to protect their dark domain and will need more than pop cans slung at them. What is disappointing is that the Stephen King short story plays out in your mind a whole lot better than this screen version. The cast includes David Andrews, Andrew Divoff, Vic Polizos and Kelly Wolf.  "},{"Title":"Just don´t watch it.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I hardly dare to write anything about it. If scary movie is a quality rating, this movie certainly gets it. It´s scary how bad a movie can be.  "},{"Title":"I'd rather pull a sickie on this shift...","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I came to watch this movie, I had armed myself with pessimism, after all, Stephen King book-made-movies sure do suck the pacifier. I won't waste my words on the plot, there's one available back in the movie details, but if you came here looking for plot details, think factory, think monster, think OH&S issues, therein lies the story. To be brief without sounding too pretentious, it sucks. There is no tension, I have seen more tension in my upper thigh region. While a lot of movies keep their monster mysteriously hidden from the viewer to invoke the fear not knowing (Rosemary's Baby for instance) it usually works. I think there is intention in this movie, but as I pointed out in my earlier summarizing, it sucks. It sucks on many levels of suck. The monster is pitiful, full of pity for the Alzheimeric. I was expecting the devil incarnate, to redeem the celluloid mockery previously screened but instead I got a damned fruit bat. I wasted 90 minutes of my life, I respect your condolences.  "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film ever made of a King work","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Graveyard Shift is a contemptible piece of crap. That it was based on the wonderful and creepy short story of the same name is even worse. The story and the film have very little in common. The monster in the film is NOT in the book and I highly recommend that you read the story and forgo the movie entirely. The movie itself is horribly done with horrible acting save the performance of Brad Dourif, who is always good. Brad must have been hurting for money because this is obviously just a payday for him. Bottom Line Unless it is your mission to watch every film based on King's work, forget this movie ever existed and go back to your life, which is better off without the memory of this movie anyway. "},{"Title":"I love you Stephen King","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It has been a very long time since I've seen this movie.  I tried to find it at the video store the other day but couldn't find it. It's about a college guy who needs to make some money so he applies at the paper factory or cotton factory, something like that.  While cleaning they discover a whole bunch of rat like bats breeding in the basement. Well i'm not going to say anything else or I'll wind up giving the whole movie away. Another good movie from Stephen King.  Some people just can't appreciate good horror/thriller. "},{"Title":"Good underrated flick","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Graveyard Shift is a very good movie.I have seen the bad reviews and I tell you there wrong.Everything in  graveyard shift is excellent.The setting,the atmosphere,the people.David Andrews is great as the strange drifter.And the ending is good too.Thats what I call an ending.Based on a Stephen King story,graveyard shift picks you up from the beginning and dosent let you go till the end. "},{"Title":"One Of The Weakest Stephen King Adaptations but still an entertaining Horror Film.","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Graveyard Shift is one of the weakest Stephen King Adaptations but is still an entertaining Horror film that is filled with atmospheric direction,a good cast,an intense score and memorable special make-up effects. All of those make Graveyard Shift a memorable guilty pleasure.Based on Stephen King's short story and set in Maine,Graveyard Shift tells the story of a drifter named John Hall(David Andrews)who's just arrived in Maine looking for a fresh start and a job. John eventually finds a job at a textile mill working for Warwick(Stephen Macht),the mill's sadistic boss and working from 1100 p.m to 700 a.m--the Graveyard Shift. But,at the Mill the place is infested with Rats and John and his co-workers are being stalked by a huge killer bat. Now,John and his co-workers have to worry about getting a good paycheck and survival.Stephen King despite being one of the greatest and most iconic bestselling Authors of all-time the film adaptations of his work have been a mix bag because the truth is for every great and strong Stephen King adaptations like Stanley Kubrick's The Shining(1980),Frank Darabont's The Shawshank Redemption(1994),and Brian De Palma's Carrie there is always a weak adaptation like Graveyard Shift. Even though it's not one of the best Stephen King films I always watch the movie when it's on television because there are some good things about it and it's entertaining and memorable. One of the things that I like about Graveyard Shift is the film's atmosphere which is dark and mysterious giving the movie a sense of doom and dread giving you the feeling that nothing is going to be alright in the end. Where most Horror films made now are pretty and glossy,GS is neither pretty or glossy,but ugly and dirty being true to the working class feel that the main characters represent. The heat and sweat also play a big part in GS because with the heat and sweat you feel like you are with the characters working with them and getting dirty in the textile mill and the heat just comes off the screen when you watch it. The killer bat(or rat bat)is good villain for film because what makes the bat so effective is that we the viewers only catch glimpses of the creature whether it's the bat's eyes,wings or mouth and we never see the Bat in it's full form until the very end which makes the creature in the film more effective. The blood and gore in Graveyard Shift is disgusting and not for the weak at heart,but will satisfy Horror fans and gore hounds. While there are things I like about the movie there is also problems with the film. GS has a great atmosphere but lacks the scares and suspense to back it up because with a movie like this GS should be a scary and creepy but the scares never come. Being that Graveyard Shift was based on a 15-page short story and the running time is 89 minutes GS feels too short and seems like there should have been much more in the film. And at the same time GS feels too long giving the film a few scenes there are necessary and some scenes that are unnecessary. At times GS almost seems like if they cut 30 or 40 minutes out of the film that it would've been better if were apart of Anthology films like George A. Romero's Creepshow and Twilight ZoneThe Movie rather than it's own film. While some of the main characters like John Hall,Warwick,Tucker Cleveland(Brad Dourif)and Jane(Kelly Wolf)are interesting the rest of the main characters are thinning written and forgettable to the point where you don't care about what happens to them. The final 30 minutes of Graveyard Shift are wonderful and is filled with non-stop thrills and moments of blood and gore. A fantastic conclusion.The whole cast does great jobs in their roles. David Andrews is wonderful as John Hall,with Andrews bringing intensity and depth to the role. Kelly Wolf is terrific as Jane,a female co-worker of Hall. Stephen Macht is excellent and over the top as Warrick,with Macht doing a great Maine accent. Brad Dourif is brilliant and at his best as Tucker Cleveland,an exterminator of rats. Andrew Divoff(Danson),Vic Polizos(Brogan),Robert Alan Beuth(Ippeston),Ilona Margolis(Nordello),Jimmy Woodard(Carmichael),Jonathan Emerson(Jason Reed),Minor Rootes(Stevenson)and Kelly L. Goodman(Warrick's Secretary)give good performances as well.The direction by Ralph Singleton is good,with Singleton bringing a dark and gritty atmosphere to the film. Fine direction,Singleton.The score by Brian Banks and Anthony Marinelli is effective,moody and adds to the films tone and I loved the theme song that plays during the end credits. Good score and theme by Banks and Marinelli. The film also has a few songs on the soundtrack by The Beach Boys(Surfin' Safari),The Charlie Daniels Band(Bad Boys,Joanna,Honky Tonk Dreams),The Metropolitians(Blue Hour)and Scott Reader(They're Gone).The special make-up effects are great,realistic and well-done when used. Terrific special effects.In final word,if you love Stephen King,Horror Films or Monster movies,I suggest you see Graveyard Shift,a film that is one of the weakest Stephen King movie adaptations,but is still an entertaining Horror Film that is watchable. Recommended. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Your Standard Stephen King Story","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In a very old textile mill, with a serious rat infestation, the workers discover a horrifying secret deep in the basement.We have legendary character actor Brad Dourif as the exterminator and Andrew Divoff (who later became famous for Wishmaster and Lost) as Danson. Dourif really does steal the show, as he so often is known to do... not sure how this guy is not a bigger name among the mainstream and not more or less considered a fringe actor.The film received poor reviews from critics, and it currently (December 2012) holds a 13% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 4.3 on IMDb. The tomato rating is much too low, and the IMDb one is still a bit low. I maybe be a bit generous with my rating, but I really do not see this being below a 5. Compared to many other horror films, it is a lost gem, and unlike some King films (e.g. Pet Sematery) has not been overplayed to death. "},{"Title":"It's a pretty good plug for Diet Pepsi, in any event.","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Mostly an average shocker, based on a short story by Stephen King, Graveyard Shift does have a couple extra things going for it to make it a fairly amusing view. What distinguishes it is its commitment to looking as grungy and unappealing as possible. In fact, it may be the grimiest genre film since C.H.U.D., which also took place underground. King's grisly and ghoulish tale tells of the crew of a textile mill in a small town. The mill is infested - yeah, that's the understatement of the year - with rats, and periodically the employees disappear. As it turns out, there's something in the bowels of the mill that's much bigger and uglier than any ordinary rat. Atmosphere and set decoration are pretty strong here; horror fans will dig a particular chamber that's just stocked full of human bones. There's a sufficient amount of gore and very crude yet undeniably entertaining creature effects. David Andrews is a good looking but rather bland hero, but Kelly Wolf is cute and endearing as his feisty leading lady. It's very cool to see a pre-stardom Andrew Divoff (Wishmaster) as one of two bullies; Vic Polizos plays the other (and *he* was actually *in* C.H.U.D.!). The cast members that really make watching this thing worthwhile are Stephen Macht and Brad Dourif. Macht hams it up something fierce, speaking in an exaggerated Maine accent that's so hilarious one may crack up every time he utters a line. He's a mighty fine white trash villain; perhaps his best moment in the movie is when he goes completely bonkers, rubbing the dirt from an old bottle on his face as if he's going to war. And Dourif, as a mangy exterminator, delivers a performance that's really way too good for this sort of thing; he even manages to shed a tear during a riveting monologue wherein he explains the Viet Cong's use of rats as torture devices during 'Nam. One of his best lines has him firmly state that he's not the kind of veteran one would see Bruce Dern playing on film! The direction is by Ralph Singleton, in his sole feature film directing credit; he's usually been a producer, assistant or second unit director, or production manager. He makes this a pretty clunky affair that's still a hoot in all of its tacky glory. There's certainly much more prestigious Stephen King cinema than this, but there's still a respectable amount of entertainment value to be found here. That extends to the choice of music for the end credits, a decidedly non funky beat over which dialogue from the movie is played. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"We're going to hell together!","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I do not like rats. This place is full of them, Why did I watch this? These rats are vicious. But there is something in the basement that is even more vicious.I really enjoyed David Andrews as the man you most want to see in the basement alone.Brad Dourif as the exterminator made the film worth watching.But, it is not just the foreman who ends up in the basement, but the whole gang. Will they escape? Maybe some will. Will there be screaming? You can count on it. Will the foreman get his? You'll have to watch to find out. "}{"Title":"Too Bad ...it Had Potential","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Usually the movies made from King's novels and short stories are so far from the original material yet I found this one pretty close to the short story. I even felt it had a good competent cast and the script wasn't all bad just needed a little tweaking. Yet the movie fails from not connecting with the audience, not connecting the mills boss lunacy as things degrade as if it just came out of nowhere maybe something ended up on the cutting room floor. Ralph Singleton has been second unit director on many high profile films but he cannot manage to build suspense, frights or much more than what feels like a sluggish misguided attempt that is as bad as the muck in the basement of the mill. The Creature could have been a bit better considering the budget and someone needed to reign in Brad Dourif who was way over the top along with Stephen Macht. If you haven't seen it you probably should but I doubt you'll go back for seconds. "},{"Title":"Of Mice and Men","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" An often overlooked and long forgotten Stephen King adaptation, Graveyard Shift tells the tale of a group of blue collar workers hired to clean the basement of a textile plant in Maine. Unfortunately for the workers, dust and cobwebs aren't their only foe, as the place is absolutely over-run with rats. However, these aren't your ordinary vermin, as the workers soon find out. One by one, in predictable fashion, they find themselves being picked off and forced to face an unbelievable horror.One of King's more middle-of-the-road adaptations, Graveyard Shift gets by with ample suspense and atmosphere, in spite of its dreadful (not in a good way) pace. Director Ralph S. Singleton does a good job of capturing the cramped feeling of the story's setting on film, as you can almost see and feel a layer of grease and sweat on the screen itself. The acting ranges from bland to over-the-top, with Brad Dourif taking the cake as The Exterminator. An intense Vietnam vet with an axe to grind against the rats, Dourif single-handedly steals each and every scene he appears in. It's almost a shame that a character invented strictly for the film adaptation turns out to be its best feature, though.When compared to some of King's more tepid adaptations, Graveyard Shift is actually a rather competent and effective little horror film, if not a bit forgettable. It takes a while to get to its point, and by the end, we are left with a payoff that doesn't quite match the build-up. It's at least worth seeing for horror fans seeking some decent creature effects, colorful characters and cramped conditions. "},{"Title":"It's a fine movie!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I do not think this movie is as bad as many say it is! I am a Stephen King fan, not a hardcore fan, but I am a fan. Of course it is easy to see that it is a low-budget film, but I think that the directing and acting is at an acceptable level.To be honest I have never really found out what the creature is. If it's a bat or a rat or are mix of both.I give this one 5½/10 "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE RULES!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I dont care what anyone else is saying about this movie because I happen to think this is one of the greatest horror flicks of all time!  Excellent macabre setting.   Eerie unsettling emotions throughout this show. Anyone who cannot see that just doesnt have the ability to think on a higher level. Stephen Kings 'Nightshift' was a great book, and the movie in my opinion, although different in many aspects, was great!  I about sh*t my pants head boss got his head torn off by the winged demon.  Evil was comprised of the rat monster and the boss.  The two creatures were one in evil although it never displayed bluntly.THIS IS A MUST SEE FOR ANY TRUE HORROR MOVIE BUFF! Lots of twists and suspense.  If you are into movies that blow things up and the superficial bullsh*t themes, then this is not for you and you probably posted negatively if youve seen it!  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King films are usually a lot worse then the books. His worst stinker to date was the incredibly poor `It'. This, I believe, was one of the films that I didn't manage to see during my Stephen King phase, screening on television late night. My mother can hear the TV upstairs when she is asleep, but I managed to watch this without her hearing anything, in the dark at around one in the morning. It really helped the atmosphere. This movie has a bleak atmosphere, one that is truly evil. The fact that the exposure this film gets in the horror genre is practically nil, it really surprised me. When watched late at night, it certainly sends a chill down your spine &#150; some truly horrible scenes are in this. Take the scene where the mans head gets crushed by a coffin outside in the pouring rain, in the mud, his head gets crushed into rock, mixing blood with mud, then all you hear is the eerie silence and the pouring of rain. This scene is really eerie, and sent chills right down my spine. This film isn't brilliant, but it's certainly one of the only Stephen King films that managed to make me feel slightly unsettled. The only other moment in a King film that had me shocked was when you saw someone getting shot through the back, with blood spraying out the other side in Misery. It was a true `Where did that come from' moment! The acting is average, and the special effects are as good as they need to be. The ending is somewhat uninspired. Overall, a good `watch late at night in the dark' movie. "},{"Title":"squeak","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King only has to write his name on a piece of paper and someone will convert it into a movie.  Graveyard Shift is another film culled from the book of short stories Night Shift.  King's short tales are effective due to their immediacy and non-dependence on a happy ending.  Film adaptations usually fail on both counts.  To fill roughly ninety minutes extra scenes and characters are added thus losing the `gist' of the story.  The most extreme example is The Lawnmower Man.  Secondly most studios are reluctant to give their adaptation a downbeat ending, with anaemic results.  Witness the awful Children of the Corn.  Graveyard Shift is guilty on the first count, less so on the second.In Night Shift a group of workers are clearing out a disused workhouse.  One of them is a college student and receives a cold shoulder from the blue-collar workers.  However, any animosity is forgotten when they disturb a nest of hungry rats.  Munch, munch.  This would only fill a half-hour section of a portmanteau film, e.g. Cat's Eye or Creepshow.  So the filmmakers pad it out with a slew of cliched characters and situations.  The college boy remains (albeit slightly older), but add the sinister, greedy boss, the unfriendly and dim-witted yokels (one of which has seen too many Rambo films i.e. three), a female romantic interest, and the token black character.*spoilers*Brad Dourif appears as an oddball rat exterminator similar to John Goodman's character in Arachnophobia which was made about the same time.  Dourif's role seems extraneous to the plot and is just an excuse for overacting.  He exits the film with a crushing headache similar to his comeuppance in Trauma three years later.Alas the rats don't do the killing.  A giant rat with bat-like wings does (why does it have wings it never flies?). The presence of this monster and its connection with the rats is unexplained, perhaps to the films advantage.  It would doubtless be some radiation or chemical waste tedium. The film would have been better if they had dropped the monster altogether and stuck with killer rats cf. The Abominable Dr. Phibes or a James Herbert novel.  `Everyday' creatures can be more effective screen monsters than fantastic creations (careful with the editing and animal rights though).Towards the end the film veers into the realms of fantasy with labyrinthe tunnels and bone-filled rooms.  There is a striking sequence with the two `heroes' wading shoulder deep in red hued water, through a narrow passage using a coffin for buoyancy.  It is the most unique image in the film.The best character is the factory manager with his strange dialect and questionable motives.  Notice how he suddenly appears when you expect the monster to.  I considered that they might be the same entity, some shapeshifting creature.  He is the perfect counter foil to the beast and they should have died together.  But I suppose the college graduate had to do something at the end.  "},{"Title":"Completely Underrated Midnight Movie","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King's Graveyard Shift will never win an Oscar. It will never change anybody's life or be mentioned on any top one-hundred lists. But it's easier to find flaws in a little horror film than to 'mine' it for good points as so many have failed to do.Adapting a short (very short) story from Stephen King's collection Night Shift, Ralph Singleton took a small budget, unique sets, and a remarkably gifted group of actors and spun a film called Graveyard Shift.Plot A group of over-worked misfits in a textile mill run afoul of a strange, mutant creature and a large number of rats. Simple, huh? The film has a very dodgy quality as it suffers from budget restraints, unreliable accents, and an uneven pace. Stephen Macht is divinely evil (if that makes sense) as the unscrupulous Warwick, who runs the mill like his own demented clubhouse. Macht's performance is over the top as his accent wavers at certain times and his mania takes over but somehow it seems to fit in this guilty pleasure.But it's hard working character actor Brad Dourif who walks away with this picture slung over his shoulder as he portrays an intense exterminator with an unnatural hatred for rodents. His screen time is limited but, as in Exorcist III, Dourif fills it with charisma. The rest of the cast is quite good as well including the likable David Andrews, the sweet Kelly Wolf, the slimy Vic Polizos, and the underrated Andrew Divoff playing a bit of a jerk (go figure).It would be easy to kick the movie while it's down, as critics and audiences do quite often. But this movie's grimy, unusual charm has won this reviewer over time and time again.Shut your brain off and tune in.Okay, show's over! "},{"Title":"This movie is great fun!!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This was not meant to be uplifting, thought-provoking, or 'Great Art', just a visual scare-romp. I read the Stephen King story (book?) first and couldn't wait to see this movie when it came out. Yes, it was 'icky'and gruesome, but think about how you would feel being trapped underground with all those hungry rats, forget the mutant giant one! The panoramic view of the big 'rat pit' was awesome! Campy, for sure, but underneath, horrific. Great late Saturday night viewing with friends or alone )leave on the night light).  "},{"Title":"A bit different than the story it was based on.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Of course, considering it was a rather short story you have to expect the story to change somewhat.  The short story was about a cleanup crew who was working an extra day for some extra pay.  They find a sub-basement and the main character in it did have a problem with his boss.  Though in the story you never find out why.  In this extra place all this strange creatures are there and the only weapon the main character and the boss have is a super powered hose.  The boss tries to run out and the main character hits him with a stream from the hose, the boss is dead and then the main character gets it...the end.  A few similarities between the two, but they added actually more depth to the story.  There is a reason why everyone hates the boss in this one and there is more to it than just a sub-basement.  There is a whole cavern below the foundry where they work.  There are no longer a bunch of mutant creatures, rather there is only one strange beast lurking beneath the place.  Though they do keep the part about them working an extra day and that is when they find the underground.  I thought this one was okay, it could have explained what the caves were better and the guy playing the boss goes over the top later in the movie, but I still enjoyed it a bit.  A few surprises here and there, but some of the stuff you know is going to happen way before it does. "},{"Title":"Stephen King`s Graveyard Shift!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King`s Graveyard shift is a very different but styling film. Brad Dourif`s performance was very good as The Exterminator! The monster is very different and should please most Stephen King, horror,and monster fans. "}{"Title":"Poor acting ruined a could-be good movie...","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The cover of this movie scared me more than the actual film. It lacked action and was dull for the most part.  This movie had a cast of potentially good actors.  However, they disappointed me.  The only actor who did this movie any justice at all was Stephan Macht, who in my opinion is a great actor.  On the contrary, this movie did have decent special effects.  Though they weren't spectacular, they were definitely convincing.  If you like Pet Cemetary, It, etc, you will most likely enjoy this movie.  Anyone else...... I'd stay away. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The works of Stephen King.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Graveyard Shift (1990) was another Stephen King short story that was stretched out to fill a ninety minute movie. I felt that the movie would have worked as a short subject. But as a full length picture was too much of an overkill for me. What made the story cool (many references to H.P. Lovecraft) were missing and a lot of needless in-jokes were added to the mix. I have a question, why were so many bad movies that were produced under the Stepehn King moniker released during the eighties. Like I have said in the past, it was the era of such wonderful film making.A young dude decides to take a job at a rundown mill. Whilst working the night shift, he encounters a mean boss who doesn't like him and less than desirable working conditions. Will the young dude make it to clock out? What will he find in the cellar? Just how mean his his boss? To find out you'll have to suck it up and watch GRAVEYARD SHIFT. Don't confuse with the amusing GRAVEYARD SHIFT from 1987. You might actually be entertained.Not recommended at all. "},{"Title":"Underrated,","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *** stars out of ****.I thought that King's graveyard shift is an underrated film that mixes scares with humor. In it, a mill in Maine (no pun intended) is re-opened after many years, but little does it's twisted owner (Stephen match) know that it's haunted by a giant mamillian bat monster. Interesting-looking monster, O.K. acting, creepy musical score, top-notch gore effects....Good horror/monster movie! I recommend it! I love Matche's performance too.....He helped this movie a lot I think. Cast also includes Andrew Divoff and Kelly Wolf. "},{"Title":"Inferior rat movie","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie was well done and took the short story to its farthest limits. But it still REEKED! Sorry, but since Willard and Michael Jackson's Ben, I've had nothing for rat movies. The actors did the best they could with this type of scripting, the director must've been on some heavy medications or something to even take this job, and the effects were typical, pre-star wars fare.Honestly, this was a dismal attempt with no scares, few creative devices, no suspense, and very little in the way of entertainment.Hated It!! I don't even care that Stephen King's name is on it...somewhere. And the end? The monster at the end? Isn't even a freaking RAT! It's a giant BAT! WTF?! It gets a 1.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"stop picking on Stephen King","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Sure Stephen King has had some bad movies made based on his work. This however is not one of them. Maine is once again the setting this time at a paper mill where something evil is lurking below. If your not a horror movie fan there is no way you would like this. If you are one you can easily look past all the faults and find plenty of things to like. David Andrews who plays the lead role is pretty good as the cool, mysterious loner type. The fact that he has a love interest is clichéd but what can you do. Brad Dourif as an exterminator and Andrew Divoff as a local yokel also turn in good performances. Stephen Macht as the evil Warwick plays a character that's very similar to characters in other King movies namely Gus from Pet Sematary 2. The giant Bat, why it can't fly I have no idea isn't shown a lot but when it does it's very impressive. The last act of the film when they go underground is superb. It's a ripoff of the Alien movies where people are being chased in dark tight spaces but in a movie like this who cares about originality. If your a horror fan and Stephen King fan you should check this out. I'm sure all the negative reviews on it are from people who aren't fans of either of those things. "},{"Title":"Oh, Rats","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Seeing a certain overrated Oscar-winning film recently made me think about making a list of the worst films I've ever seen.  This one is Number One. There is absolutely nothing good about this movie.  Hideously unappealing characters stumble about in the dark until they're killed by bad special effects.  I saw it in a theater in Philly in 1990.  People were actually talking back to the screen, and the audience seemed to be enjoying their comments more than the film!  Unfortunately, this wouldn't have worked on the real Mystery Science Theater 3000 it's far too dull.  I love horror movies, but the only horror here was mine at being stuck watching this disaster.  Avoid this film at all costs. "},{"Title":"Forget it.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The only thing that scared me about this movie was that there were other filmmakers that were almost as bad (if not worse), as Edward D. Wood Jr..  I don't know why I'm even writing about this piece of s**t!  If you are stupid enough to even think about wasting your time on this, then you need your head examined!  I can't even think of enough bad things to say about this thing!  I rented it, and I want my money back!  You're an idiot if you even consider watching it to see how bad it is.  At least Ed Wood's Plan 9 was funny.  I pity the actors who had to go through with this insidiously stupid crap!    "},{"Title":"Bad.  Very Bad!!!!!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie absolutely is one of the worst movies that I have ever seen.  In fact, I looked it up on this site just to warn anyone about renting it.  It is boring, cold, and there is no reason why this thing should have ever been made.  In fact, I saw this movie when it was released in 1990/91, saw it when it was released, and left.  One of the few movies I ever walked out of. By the way, if I can remember this movie from that long ago, then take my word, you will hate it.  Look at the other comments!  "},{"Title":"A Very Disgusting Movie","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In a dark and nasty textile factory close to a cemetery and infested of rats, many workers are missing. The corrupt manager Warwick (Stephen Macht) does not take much attention to this problem, but hires the exterminator Tucker Cleveland (Brad Dourif). He asks Tucker to use less poison than necessary to reduce the costs. Meanwhile, the drifter John Hall (David Andrews) asks for a job and accepts a position of operator of a textile machine in the graveyard shift. What they do not know is that there is a huge creature is in the underground of the plant threatening the workers. This film is very nasty and disgusting. Although I did not like it, indeed the director, actors and actresses are not bad . The problem is the very dark story and the rats all the time. Certainly it is recommended for a very specific audience. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) `A Criatura do Cemitério' (`The Creature of the Cemetery') "},{"Title":"Bunch a Cotton Pickers","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now this should be classified as the comical horror. I bought the movie for 5 bucks (Canadian so thats what? 35 cents American?) Anyway was not too spectacular however I do enjoy he part when the first guy gets caught in the cotton grinder. The monster rat with wings was pretty cool. And I especially loved all there rats/mice whatever they were not too clear they kept changing there minds. But this is a classic.7/10 One too watch just to say you have seen it "}{"Title":"Possibly the worst film EVER made!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Graveyard Shift when it was released back in 1990 and was so amazed at its truly awful badness. I cannot recall seeing a film as bad as this one. The actors seemed to have been made of cardboard. Yes, this acting is SO bad that it has to be seen to be believed!! I read the short story by Stephen King, and I would advise him to sue the makers of this film. In his story there is no giant bat/rat, there are several rats and as the story progresses their sizes become larger.I have no idea what the production people were thinking when they made this film. Every scene is as interesting as it is biting into a stale piece of bread. Near the end, there's a big a struggle in a pile of bones and a woman is killed senselessly. I had such a thoroughly unpleasant experience at this film. What I found most disturbing about this movie is that people paid good money to see it. This is NOT an exaggeration! This film is THAT bad.Wanna know just how bad this film is? Before it started, they showed a trailer for another Stephen King film, Misery. I enjoyed that short trailer much more than Graveyard Shift. Heck, I would have rather watched the Misery trailer over and over for the same length of time as this disaster, and would have enjoyed myself immensely. DO NOT, under any circumstances, see Graveyard Shift.   "},{"Title":"Sure cure for insomnia!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A very poor horror film based on a very good Stephen King short story (called Night Shift).  Basically it's about huge, killer rats.  This one is about one huge killer rat (with wings no less).  The story is dull, ALL the actors sucked (only Brad Dourif went on to any type of a movie career after this) and the monster looked as fake as it was.  I caught this little fiasco at a first run theatre back in 1990.  The place was crawling with high-school kids (despite the R rating).  They were quiet at the beginning but then they started to get restless and yell things and/or laugh at the screen.  When the monster was seen in full view the entire audience exploded with laughter.  Mind you, these are 14 and 15 year olds!An absolute waste of time and money.  A definite one to avoid.  Read the King short story--you'll be much better off. "}]