[{"Title":"To Define True Madness, What Is't But To Be Nothing Else But Mad?","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"61 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd put off viewing this version of Hamlet for a long time, because I'd heard that they'd turned this most cerebral of plays into an action movie, but I ended up quite liking it.I should begin by saying that I approve of ALL interpretations, because each choice reflects different possibilities all of which are supportable by the text; no one vision can encompass every potentiality inherent in the play. And the text per se, of course, will always exist in absolute form despite the number of hands that manipulate it.All productions (except Branagh's) cut certain elements as a sacrifice to tighter (though narrower) focus. And the use of film rather than stage allows (even necessitates) different types of dramatic development. Films unfold at a different pace than stage plays. Zefirelli's adaptations WORK as film-making, without detracting from (or unnecessarily supplementing) Shakespeare's language. For instance, the little prologue scene showing the internment of the dead king. It is original to the movie, and yet the dialogue is still from the play; it doesn't misrepresent anything about the characters in its new context. And perhaps most importantly, it works in the movie that the director is making. But on to the substantive comment...Mel Gibson was, in my opinion, too old to be Hamlet (making Glenn Close, by extension, too young to be Gertrude), but the issue of Hamlet's age has always been a problem. He's 30 in the text (this version leaves out that calculation), but that makes some of his relationships (with Ophelia, for instance) seem a little... immature. And yet if he's portrayed too young, his depth of thought is almost impossibly precocious. But I thought he was convincing nonetheless, particularly in expressing something that I've found central to my understanding of the play but I all too rarely see dealt with in Hamlet's portrayal, which is thisHamlet IS quite mad. 'Tis true 'tis true 'tis pity, and pity 'tis 'tis true. From his first meeting with the ghost onwards, he is profoundly disturbed. It is irony that he then puts an 'antic disposition' on, because he has in actuality gone quite 'round the bend.Mel Gibson not only gives the first convincing portrayal of Hamlet's pretended madness that I've seen, but he also shows us the desperation of the character in his quiet moments. Hamlet is not, as Olivier posited in his 1948 version, merely a man who could not make up his mind. Gibson's Hamlet spends much of the film alternating between mania-induced impulsiveness and paralyzing inability to act. The Dane is not merely melancholy, he is certifiably manic-depressive. (Claudius, I believe, sees this.)Over all, I believe that this would be a good introduction to the story of Hamlet for those who otherwise would have had no contact with it, although as I said it can then be supplemented by other adaptations (and of course there's no substitute for, ultimately, reading the text). "},{"Title":"A genius adaptation","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zeferelli, although cut some seemingly vital parts to the play, made it his own, and created a beautiful tribute to Shakespeare. I am sure if the Bard had a camera, he would have filmed and wrote the screenplay somewhat the same.Mel Gibson has portrayed Hamlet in the most true-to-human nature as anyone ever has. His brooding and depressing personality is realistic. Gibson doesn't allow the madness to overcome him. He is passionate, powerful and the epitome of the son who has gone through hell over his father's death and incestuous marriage of his mother. His performance brings tears to my eyes.Glenn Close is amazing; her motherly attitude and sincerity toward Hamlet is so much that one sometimes cannot feel anger towards her. Close gives life to Gertrude that no one has been able to before or after. She is a real character, with traits both despicable and kind.The other performances are astounding, especially when it comes to Helena Bonham-Carter's moment of lunacy in Ophelia. Her reaction to her father's death is so convincing and terribly sad that I cry at merely seeing her.The interpretation of the story is a perfect one that required surely a great amount of thought and reading of the very play. Zeferelli interprets it so well, that it flows like real life. Every aspect comes together to form a very real event.Zeferelli is a master filmmaker, and I highly suggest this film to anyone who has ever marveled at the human spirit portrayed through film, and literature as well.   "},{"Title":"Hamlet","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson explained how Hamlet was shot out of sequence. He lamented the film cut the 4 hour play in half and how it is more suited to the stage. He confessed it only seemed like he played Hamlet. But it was his portrayal of the confused Dane which made me respect him as an actor. I cared nothing for Mad Max or his previous work. Hamlet is a beautiful film. The grays and browns of the middle ages contrast nicely with the colorful Glenn Close as Gertrude. Hamlet was directed by Franco Zefferelli who did Romeo and Juliet 22 years earlier. I found this remarkable. We are told the themes of Hamlet are revenge, madness and procrastination. Its overwhelming concern is death in all its forms murder, suicide and natural causes. To be or not to be. In the graveyard, Hamlet contemplates the skull of a court jester he knew as a child. Shakespeare's greatest play asks life's biggest questions. Why must we die? What is the point of life if we must die? Is there life after death? Heaven? Hell? Biblical thinking pervades the play. There was little science in either mideval Denmark or Elizabethan England. Mel Gibson brought an energy to his role not seen before. His facial expressions show his mental state. Helena Bonham Carter renders a distracted Ophelia. "},{"Title":"Zefferelli Had to Be Cruel to be Kind","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit I really like this film. Zefferelli is an unappreciated master he knows how to stage a crowd (essential to his Romeo and Juliet), and move people; how to frame and light a sequence so it flows. He has a fine sense of color and its movement. Moreover, this Hamlet has the very best set, and also to my mind the best Gertrude.What he has done is focus on the story. He's chopped and dropped and rearranged to create a story that makes sense. It moves and moves well from beginning to end. But.But the problem is that Shakespeare's play is not at all about the story. That's just the skeleton on which some life altering metaphoric structure is built. Now all gone. You'll need Branagh for that, but his story doesn't flow effortlessly as this does.Result If you want Hamlet, seek him elsewhere. If you want a similar, masterful piece of filmwork, look here. The language is fittingly conversational not stentorian, so that the players can manage it. Just as well.Ophelia is very pretty, and in her greatly reduced role does well. Her start-double take-astonishment-puzzlement after the play within the play is a moment which will last in your mind. This is an actress to watch.Trivia The incidental Osric here is the wonderful Mercutio in Zefferelli's much earlier Romeo and Juliet around whom the whole play revolves. The First Player (incidental in this version) is the excellent Friar in the other (macho thug MTV) Romeo + Juliet around whom that whole version revolves. Curious. "},{"Title":"Movie Review","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet Movie ReviewThe movie Hamlet, released in January 18, 1991, shows director Franco Zeffirelli's selections of Shakespeare's original Hamlet and reflects one intriguing possibility of the text. There are various interpretations of each character and the story; however, no one vision can adequately encompass every perspective of the play. The text, of course, will always exist in permanent form and it is up to the individual's interpretation to make the story their own. Zeffirelli did a terrific job at directing such a complex story into a film easily understood by viewers. In most translations from books to movies, producers sacrifice certain elements to narrow the focus and make the film unique to his style. The use of film techniques, compared to the Victorian stage plays, allows different dramatic developments in the story. Thus, the movie unfolds at a different pace than stage play, creating a whole new dynamic between scene transitioning. Christopher de Vore's skill as a screenwriter accurately portrays the characters without detracting from Shakespeare's language. For example, the prologue in the beginning of the movie demonstrates the enthrallment of Hamlet Senior as a ghost. Retaining the originality to the dialogue in the text, the movie is still unique to the director's vision. Most importantly, the director's interpretation of the story works well in developing the depth of each character without creating a new twist in the story of Hamlet. Although he cut some essential parts from the play, Zeffirelli employed his own style and created an amazing tribute to Shakespeare. He edited parts of the movie and rearranged it to create a story that would make sense to contemporary audiences. Through this, he gives in an apparent life to the play which moves well from beginning to end.Shakespeare's play is not at all about the story. The story is just the outer armor on which some life altering metaphoric structure is built around. For example, Hamlet Junior bellows, Tis true 'tis true 'tis pity, and pity 'tis true. From Hamlet Junior's first meeting with Hamlet Senior's ghost, he is profoundly disturbed and begins to question his mentality and judgment of reality. Ironically, he pretends to be crazy to conceal his true plans to kill his uncle Claudius. Zeffirelli has a fine sense of coloring in each scene with movement between light and dark, and good and evil. Zeffirelli focuses on the characters and allows them lead the storyline without compromising the text's originality. One complaint is that Mel Gibson seemed to be too old for the role of Hamlet, thereby making Glenn Close too young to be Gertrude. The issue of Hamlet's age has always been a problem. According to the text, he is supposed to be in his thirties; however, that makes some of his relationships with Ophelia, for instance, seem pedophiliac. Yet, if Hamlet is portrayed too young, the depth of his thought is almost impossible to imagine. I thought he was a good actor; particularly in reciting the Shakespearean lines is something I have found most important to my understanding of the story. His passion clearly portrays a son who has gone through madness over his father's death, contemplation of murdering his uncle, and the incestuous marriage of his mother. Gibson not only gives a convincing depiction of Hamlet's cloak of madness, but also shows us the desperation of the character in his quiet moments as Hamlet is not a man who could not make up his mind, but rather, one who riddled with uncertainty. Thus, Gibson spends much of the film alternating between mania-induced impulsiveness and paralyzing inability to function with sanity. Glenn Close is amazing as she portrays Gertrude as a real character, with traits both shameful and empathetic. Helena Bonham-Carter's performance is astounding as well, especially her moment of lunacy as Ophelia in reacting to the death of her father, Polonius. The cast of characters in this version of Hamlet was more than enough to bring Shakespeare's stage theater alive on screen. Overall, I believe that this is a good foundation to understanding the language of Hamlet further, and would be supplemented with the Shakespearean text. I commend Zeferelli as a master filmmaker for his directing skills. I would promote this acclaimed film to anyone who has ever marveled at Shakespearean language and would like to watch a film literature as well. "},{"Title":"The mad Dane and his family","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson,  Glenn Close, Helena Bonham Carter make this a great version of Hamlet.  The camerawork is very intimate- especially the scene where Hamlet confronts his mother in the bedroom.  I could almost feel their breath, and when Hamlet holds the skull of Yorick.  I wanted to check this one out because a new Hamlet with Ethan Hawke is coming out this summer.  This was a very energetic version of Hamlet- I think I understood the Danes madness with Gibson's interpretation.  "},{"Title":"I love this Hamlet!","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was my first introduction to the story of Hamlet, and though condensed and simplified it did a magnificent job. I was only 11, but it made me fall madly in love with Hamlet. After reading it, it quickly became my favorite Shakespeare play. I love how clear and defined the film is, while still having the essence of Shakespeare's intent. The acting is so intense, yet believable. I love the interpretation of the era, and how the delivery of the lines made them so easy to grasp without losing the authenticity. The play is really long and repetitive, so I think this movie did a fantastic job of really getting the meat. In some other Shakespeare film adaptations I've seen the lines are stale and rehearsed, and it really shocks me that someone could accuse these actors of being out of touch with the dialog. I found it to be quite the opposite. So many of the scenes are just so juicy. They really capture the story's power and depth. Plus, I'm really into that period, so I found it difficult to get into Branagh's film, no matter how good it was, *and* I really can't stand to watch Kenneth Branaugh. He really irritates me because I feel like he uses this same set of annoying expressions for every couple phrases. Huge apologies to all those out there who worship him. It's just how I feel. This version is just more my cup of tea in so many ways. "},{"Title":"Entertaining - Do not compare it to Branagh","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And vice versa.Hamlet is, to me, the greatest work in the English language. It dares us to look at the truth of our own mortality and at the same time consider right vs wrong.Branagh's choice was to present the entire play, Zefirelli chose to compress it for the screen. Each choice has its merits. I like Branagh's version too and I think it's a mistake to compare the 2 versions or add a comparison to Olivier either. Judge each on its own merits.Looking at this film, Mel Gibson is simply great. His Hamlet is obviously someone with a zest for life and a sense of humor who is completely stunned by the events at the opening of the film and thrown even more off kilter by his father's ghost. All I can say is, I love the way he plays it. The other players are excellent as well. I've never particularly liked Glenn Close's looks, but she's a great actress. Helena is my favorite Ophelia ever. And Alan Bates is superb.I've never quite accepted the theory that Hamlet can't make up his mind. Just reading the play one sees Hamlet go from a thirst for blood to messing around with a fencing match because Claudius placed a bet on it. How to explain this? What we are seeing is a bright, brilliant mind going through a nervous breakdown and then regaining sanity.You HAVE TO understand, too, that Hamlet can't just go stick a sword in his popular uncle and say his father's ghost told him to do it. Pay attention and it's clear that he needs more than just the word of the ghost and this limits his choices. After the visit from his father's ghost Hamlet seems to be not just feigning madness but literally out of his mind, he's not in control. Hamlet tells us that one reason not to commit suicide is that God has outlawed that choice. If Hamlet accepts that from God, how can he commit murder, even if his father's ghost tells him to? Hamlet's antic disposition at the Mousetrap is not an act. And Gibson's Hamlet really is off his rocker when he rails at his mother and accidentally kills Polonius. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are victims of this madness as well.The Hamlet who comes back from England isn't charging back to Denmark for revenge, is he? He hardly mentions it. To me, at this point Hamlet HAS made up his mind. He has resigned himself to the fact that he does not want to be a killer and he is going to take things a day at a time. Gibson plays it with this sense of resignation. He still has his intelligence and sense of humor, he's regained control of himself. He is swept into the duel with Laertes willy-nilly, there is no more strategy for killing the king. He's almost beginning to enjoy life again as the duel starts. He even tells Laertes that he was crazy when Polonius was killed and says it wasn't the real Hamlet who did that. It's not until Gertrude is poisoned and Laertes tells Hamlet he is doomed that he explodes with rage again and doubly kills Claudius. His father's murder isn't the reason for this act, it's rage at Claudius for the deaths of Getrude, Laertes, and Hamlet himself.Hamlet's fatal flaw isn't indecision, it's his humanity, intelligence, and his conscience. That's the human being that Shakespeare created and Gibson brings to life. "},{"Title":"Very pleasing, if too restless, adaptation, with many splendid cinematic touches","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a joy this adaptation is! Its main virtues are a fine performance from Mel Gibson as Hamlet; a script that makes full use of the movie medium while giving Shakespeare sufficient scope to enrich and entertain us with his people and his words; two great performances from Alan Bates as Claudius and Paul Scofield as the Ghost; two good performances from Nathaniel Parker as Laertes and Glenn Close as Gertrude; and a fine music score from Ennio Morricone that anticipates and amplifies our emotions.First, my criticisms. In directing his actors, Franco Zefferelli makes two big mistakes, one interesting and one painful. The interesting mistake Ian Holm changes Polonius from a doddering old man to someone evil-minded and fully possessed of his wits. When this Polonius babbles about plays that are pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral he is being deliberately comic. One scene demonstrates the badness of this choice. We have no idea why this sharp-witted, not-very-old man is prating to the king and queen instead of coming to the point about Hamlet's madness. (Then again, Richard Briers gives us a smart Polonius in Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet, and there it worked.) The painful mistake Helena Bonham-Carter changes Ophelia from a meek victim to a strong-willed, independent-minded young woman. The director and actress probably thought they were being good little feminists, but the idea is psychologically and dramatically disastrous. Bonham-Carter's Ophelia could never go mad. And even if she could, her crass new self is no longer sharply contrasted with a meek former self. This Ophelia seems fully capable of being earthy and vulgar even before she loses her mind. This blunts the effect of the mad scenes which in themselves are beautifully presented and played.Now the praise. Gibson reads Shakespeare's words skillfully and is bettered in this regard only by Bates and Scofield; his readings convey the words' music and meaning at long last I understand the line, What should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven. He also reveals one aspect of Hamlet that I see when I read the play. Hamlet is never more dangerous, or off-putting, than when he's clowning. The melancholy Hamlet attracts me and the joking Hamlet repels me. Gibson's Hamlet does the same.Shakespeare never suffers from the artful cutting and rearrangement of his text. This script is especially clever. Among many nice surprises was hearing Hamlet deliver his Get thee to a nunnery speech to Ophelia as they sit in the audience before the play. Even better are the dozens of little touches that only a movie can provide. I loved how the camera showed Hamlet and Polonius spy on scenes that in most productions take place out of their sights. But the script and direction are also a shade too restless. The camera shots and the scenery change rapidly as characters dart from one place to another. Once or twice the movie should have paused and let us luxuriate in the language. The perfect opportunity would have been the To be or not to be speech; but Gibson and Zefferelli make it a scene of high drama. I craved the usual Hamlet who stops and tells us what he thinks because he wants to overhear himself.The idea of Hamlet and Gertrude lusting for each other works surprisingly well. Most post-Freudian productions present this notion, but I don't think it's in the play. The interview in the bed chamber is Polonius' idea, not Hamlet's or Gertrude's. And even Hamlet's most piquant behavior, including his condemnation of his mother's sex life, is consistent with that of a son outraged by his mother's betrayal of his father; but it's inconsistent with that of a jealous son. Surely a jealous son wouldn't dither over killing Claudius. But the script shears off those inconsistencies, and the actors make it work. I could see it in Hamlet's eyes the moment he's alone with the ghost Oh, God, let it not find out that I want my mother. "},{"Title":"Outstanding rendition of the Shakespeare classic.","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On the surface, one might reasonably conclude that Mel Gibson and Glenn Close starring in Hamlet may be some kind of joke, a parody of the Shakespeare play, but there is no joke. This movie is for real and both Mr. Gibson and Ms. Close give commanding performances in their respective roles. This movie is proof that when given quality material under excellent direction, talented actors will flourish. The rest of the cast is stellar too, but this movie squarely revolves around the two lead characters and if their performances fail, then the whole movie fails. In recent years, Mel Gibson's reputation has taken hits, but there can be no denying that he is a gifted actor and in this movie presents a novel, dynamic interpretation of Hamlet that brings new life to the character, transforming a brooding young man into a man of action who takes charge and pays the price, wherein lays the tragedy. For Hamlet is a tragedy. However, unlike previous renditions of the play, which focus on the murky and somber, this rendition is lit up, the characters are active, Gertrude is young and beautiful, all of which make the ending even more provocative and powerful. This movie should have been nominated for an Academy Award in every major category; that it wasn't is perplexing. All in all, this movie represents another triumph for Franco Zefirrelli, once again who proves that Shakespeare can be produced for the screen, if you do it right. "}{"Title":"Not as good as Branagh's, but still enjoyable","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Franco Zeffirelli's adaptation of Hamlet has filled some of the gaps left by Shakespeare. This version of the classic story is thoroughly watchable. Gibson is perfect as Hamlet the Prince of Denmark, and he is well supported by Glenn Close (Gertrude), Alan Bates (Claudius), Ian Holm (Polonius) and Helena Bonham Carter (Ophelia). However, after already seeing Kenneth Branagh's 4-hour long version, I was left a little let down. Although this version was only 2 hours 20 minutes approximately, it was more boring in parts than Branagh's was. And no one can beat Kate Winslet as Ophelia, though Bonham Carter performed the lunatic scenes extremely well.The acting, as is aboveforementioned, is the highlight of this version. You can see the emotions boiling over on Gibson's face, and Close gives Gertrude's nature a remarkable realism as both a worried mother and a lustful lover. Bates is the best Claudius I have ever seen, and Holm displays in Polonius what makes him such a great actor.This Hamlet has an extremely good set design that complements the mood of each scene perfectly. The castle has a great look to it, both inside and outside.The costumes, particularly those worn by Close, are excellent. They really highlight the mood and temprament of her character perfectly. On top of this, all of the costumes worn by the players (actors in Hamlet's play) in colour and shape symbolise the message that Hamlet was trying to get across.Technically, this film is very well put together. The shots are each able to complement the action in that shot. Sound effects, especially in the ghost apparitions, as well as the lighting and juxtapositioning, set the moody feel of the film.Of course, one cannot escape comparing this to Branagh's masterpiece, though in its own right is is a great version of Shakespeare's play that, through its star power and easier-to-follow storyline, should attract the younger audiences that saw Baz Lurmann's 'Romeo + Juliet', '10 Things I Hate About You' and will possibly see the upcoming 'O'. ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare in a Blender","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is by far the worst version of William Shakespeare's tragic masterpiece I have ever seen. It seems the filmmakers didn't actually read Shakespeare's text. No, they just took what they wanted from the Lawerence Olivier movie. The plot is out of order and slimmed down to its bare necessity, yet there is time for the non-canon Olivier created incest hint between Hamlet and Queen Gertrude. Could we have had the Something rotten in the state of Denmark bit instead? Casting is another issue. I understand that the far superior Branagh movie had its weak bits (Robin Williams and Charlton Heston come to mind), but this one has very few good moments. I do like Laertes and Polonius, but the rest of the cast is stale. Mel Gibson's creepy stubble is irritating, and one often wonders if he has any idea what he is saying. Many of the actors seem to have just memorized the part--they know less about what is being said than sophomores in high school.If you want a version of Hamlet, check out Kenneth Branagh's or even Lawerence Olivier. To be frank, even Disney's Hamlet is better. "},{"Title":"the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Admittedly, the only reason I watched this film -- since it's been about a decade since it was released -- was because of Ian Holm; I was intrigued to see his portrayal of my second-favorite character in this play. At any rate, this film is as gritty as anything the Old Zeff has produced since Jesus of Nazareth. But some of the best parts of the play have been left out. I understand the directing/editing choices, but I don't think that it really does justice to the play. Perhaps I'm too much a purist. I would have to direct people (who have read this far) toward Branagh's version, if it weren't that I despise his tendency toward over-dramatization. All the same, he plays a better Hamlet than Gibson. But then, weren't we all waiting for Gibson to prove himself as an actor? Now, all he's done is to prove that he wants to make films in extinct languages....Perhaps the only Shakespearean-worthy acting here is Scofield as The Ghost. "},{"Title":"Sub-par","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie, though certainly not bad, was also certainly not good. First, the acting. Although Gibson does do an acceptable (barely) job, he often butchers the language and more than often rushes inexpressively through important lines. Gertrude as well, and also the more minor characters Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, really do shabby jobs with their lines and acting. The same is true with many of the other characters, especially Polonious, who is played once again as a pitiable and lovable old fellow, a role-casting that completely ignores many of his lines. In all fairness, Ian Holm's acting in the neither a borrower nor a lender speech (his goodbye speech to his son) is fine, but, I am guessing largely because of the director, he speeds through (quietly) all the lines that add any depth or anything despicable to his character before pronouncing loudly the only kind lines in the speech. The director does this more than once choosing carefully which lines to include, which to exclude, in order to present a story more to his liking. He cuts out many of the earlier scenes that develop Claudius' character, instead choosing to display his character by showing him drunk and laughing upon many an occasion. He also adds much of his own to the storyline, shifting scenes, showing characters spying on scenes that Shakespeare did not have them spying on. By cutting so much and by inserting his own additions the director has essentially leveled all the characters and make them much more dull and single-faceted. Hamlet comes off as a dumb, bewildered hothead, which makes his more intelligent lines (and this is largely thanks to Mel Gibson's mediocre acting) seem out of place and dull. Gertrude,Polonious, and Claudius, as well as Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, are similarly paired down until they lose all their intricacies and become single-trait characters Polonious is well-intentioned but silly; Gertrude is loving bewildered; Claudius is evil to the core, without any nuance; Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are conniving and a bit out of their league. In fact, the only actors somewhat major actors who play their roles at all satisfactorily are Ophelia, Horatio, and maybe Laertes, and they have together perhaps 100 lines. But, despite the poor acting, the director is most at fault for the failures of this film. He switches around many scenes, destroying the momentum and gradual realization that Shakespeare's brilliant scene progression. He changes characters and butchers lines in order to simplify the movie.I am sure this is all in some effort to make the play more accessible to a wider audience, but I think it is a tremendous insult not to the English language's most celebrated author, but also to that wider audience for the director to feel that Hamlet needs to be doctored up and dumbed down for anyone to appreciate it. I don't want to sound like another one of those people who is simply throwing a hissy fit over how the the movie is not being faithful to the play (like all those people who got angry about the Lord of the Rings flicks.) I can only stress that Shakespeare is the most famous English writer in all of history for a reason he was profoundly skillful not only at poetic writing but also at creating complex and interesting characters that did more than simply tell a story but also called upon important philosophical questions and questions about the interplay of the characters themselves. What the director has done by editing and shaping the play so much (and I admit that Hamlet is a LONG play when not edited) is remove many, many, (ie all) of those intricacies that make Hamlet more than any old movie. I do not object to adaptations in general. I do understand that the director has time constraints. I just feel that his choices, as well as much of the acting, make this adaptation one to be avoided. "},{"Title":"wonderful adaptation","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really loved this film version of Hamlet. Yes, Mel Gibson was on the old side to play Hamlet, but as one poster said, Hamlet's age is a little difficult to figure out in the best of times. It was a challenge for Gibson to take on this film, and he was up to the challenge. Glenn Close made an excellent Gertrude. The entire cast was wonderful.The scene that will always stay with me is the one between Hamlet and his father's ghost. I'm not sure what there was about it, but I saw it on the big screen, and it was so breathtaking to me, I thought my heart would stop. It was just one of those moments, what can I say - but it was a beautiful scene. The other scene I loved was the mother-son business between Hamlet and his mother - as the years go on, that scene goes a little further with the affection each time. I found it, in the hands of such fine actors, fascinating.One thing that struck me big time was that, when Gertrude went to drink the poison toward the end, a lot of the audience was screaming at her not to drink it. I commented to my friend later, what a bunch of plebeians, they don't know the story of HAMLET? (On the TV show Odd Couple, after Felix's sinus surgery, he couldn't see, and Oscar read him Hamlet. Tired of it, Oscar ends with, And they live happily ever after. Felix says, Nobody lives happily in Hamlet. Nobody lives.) But I realized what a great compliment that was to the film, that people who perhaps ordinarily wouldn't go to see a movie version of a Shakespearian play went to see this, perhaps because of Gibson, and got into it. "},{"Title":"I love the Play Hamlet thats why I don't like this film","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love the play of Hamlet thats why I don't like this movie. For one thing they cut out almost half of the text including some of the most important moments in the play.With the exception of Glenn Close and Ian Holm the performances are quite simply sub-par especially in the case of Helena Bohnam Carter as Ophelia.The film seems to be an attempt at complimenting the Lawrence Oliver version of 1948. Both deal completely with the psychological while omitting the political and they both go with the Freuden theory of the Oedipal complex. This was most apparent when they showed Hamlet thrusting at Gertrude in her bed. The problem with this interpretation is that in order to support it you must disregard everything you know about the culture of the renaissance.They also cut out the Act 4 Scene 4 soliloquy, granted about 90% of the Hamlet films do but this simply shows a misunderstanding of the text. That soliloquy is the second turning point, the moment where Hamlet realizes his duty and becomes a man, and the entire fifth act seems like a mindless contradiction without it.If you want to see a film of Hamlet from someone who actually understands the play I suggest Kenneth Branagh's film.  "},{"Title":"pretty good performance","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Franco Zeffirelli gives his version of the famous William Shakespeare play. It's been 3 decades since I read the play and I don't pretend to be an expert in Shakespearean work. Zeffirelli puts the locations to good use although I want better representation of the spirit. It doesn't use cinema to the fullest and leaves the movie locked in as a play. Glenn Close is Queen Gertrude. She's playing it on the flighty side. I like the character more as a harlot. This is a showcase for Mel Gibson and he gives it his all. He comes away with a good performance. I don't think it's a complete performance but he is a compelling big screen movie star. He is able to hold the audience. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson's Hamlet","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hamlet (1990) stars Mel Gibson. The film was directed by Franco Zeffirelli. Mel Gibson ranks at the top of my list of unlikeable Hollywood stars. However, as as reviewer, I have to give him credit for doing a creditable job in the demanding role of Hamlet. Film Hamlets don't have to be skilled Shakespearean actors. The ability to murmur a soliloquy that can be heard in the back row of an auditorium isn't required in the movies. The director can order numerous takes until one turns out well. He can use close-ups--as Zeffirelli does--to make sure we understand the actor's emotions. I don't think Gibson would have managed the role onstage, but on the screen he carries it off.Glenn Close, as Gertrude, is excellent. This is especially evident in the bedroom (closet) scene. She really does portray Gertrude's mixture of fear and shame in a convincing manner.However, in my opinion, acting honors go to Helena Bonham Carter as Ophelia. Bonham Carter's Ophelia is shy and innocent. She is flattered and frightened by Hamlet's professions of love, and she is crushed by his violent rejection. Most impressive is her portrayal of the mad scenes. She acts these so well that you actually are convinced that you are watching a young woman who has had a descent into mental illness.I've watched several Hamlets as part of a Shakespeare on film honors course. Each movie has it's strengths and weaknesses. This Hamlet deserves to be seen. Zeffirelli Is a brilliant director, Mel Gibson is a satisfactory Hamlet, and Helena Bonham Carter is the perfect Ophelia.I watched this movie on DVD, but it would do better in a theater. It's worth watching it in whatever format is available. "},{"Title":"real delight","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" beautiful images. precise direction. great cast. impressive performance. and magnificent essence of unique play. a Zeffireli. after his vision, result of his rules. aesthetic. and more. because the mark of this adaptation, not the best, not giant, not maybe, memorable, is the soul. each word, each face expression, each gesture is fruit of a profound feeling of a strange prey. sure, it is Shakespeare. but delicate manner to introduce in the Hamlet universe, the care for detail, the rough Scotland, the solutions for ordinaries problems of adaptations are worthy of respect. after Romeo and Juliet and mature experience, it is not a surprise. only form of seduction. because , more than a director work, it is a delight. "},{"Title":"Wanted to like it but didn't really work for me....","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film as I love the play and I do like Franco Zeffirelli(especially for his opera films like La Traviata). While this 1990 film is far from terrible, it is the weakest for me of the three Hamlet films I've seen- I loved Branagh's and especially Olivier's- and possibly Zeffirelli's weakest Shakespeare adaptation also. It does have some undeniably good points, it is very well made with very evocative scenery, beautiful atmospheric lighting, sumptuous costuming and cinematography that is moody yet shimmering. The music is haunting and the sound effects really enhance the mood. The script is condensed, but still is very powerful and moving when needed. Ian Holm is a very effective Polonious, the character is creepier than one would expect but it proved to be an interesting touch. Mel Gibson was better than expected, initially it does scream disaster but actually he is charismatic and delivers his lines with meaning. He is perhaps too old for the role(but understandably as other reviewers have pointed out) and Branagh and Olivier conveyed Hamlet's tragedy more convincingly but coming from a non-fan of Gibson this is not a bad performance at all. The acting honours go to Glenn Close, whose Gertrude is beautifully elegant, expressive and sincere. On the other hand, while it is a long play with much complexity and so forth(therefore a slow unfolding pace is necessary) there are some scenes that do come about as too drawn-out and laborious. Zeffirelli I do like for his sumptuous style and how directs actors(and singers), but he does bring forth ideas that are interesting in hindsight but don't do very well in terms of the motivations of the characters, Orphelia and Claudius in particular really suffer from this, and like his Jane Eyre it does get pedestrian in places. Two performances don't work. Alan Bates did have potential to, he is a great actor and has done creepy and evil very well before in The Shout for example. But, not helped by the fact that the scenes make Claudius the character he is are severely reduced, consequently Bates is never evil enough. The worst offender though is Helena Bonham Carter, she has given very good performances(A Room with a View, Sweeney Tood and Howards End) before and like Bates seemed ideal for the role. The reasons why she wasn't is largely again to do with Zeffirelli, the idea to not have Orphelia poignant and meek and instead have her as the complete opposite, strong-willed and almost headstrong was a big mistake, undermining her lunacy scenes. Whereas they should be moving, this change to the character is partly why Bonham Carter's performance feels wildly overacted. On the whole, didn't really work from my perspective but it is not a bad film. 6/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Alas poor Hamlet, I know you","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having just completed a review of the Branagh Hamlet, I felt it fair to offer my two cents on this one also.Shakespeare is not above criticism. Nor does a person require a Ph.D to enjoy, or even interpret his words. While the historical plays may benefit from some due diligence to flesh out the finer points, the plays were written for a colloquial Elizabethan audience who were hungry for entertainment, innovation and also a little sex and violence.Not too different from people today I think.Hamlet is a very complicated play about a conflicted, hallucinogenic kid who struggles to cope with an uneasy, perhaps immoral, relationship with his mother and the marriage of her to his uncle after the sudden death of his father. It's heavy stuff, and boy does it get heavier. All that said it can easily serve as digestible entertainment on the level of a vengeance story. There is a reason this play has lived for so long. A mathematician may even call it invariant with time. No matter how you transform it, the song remains the same. Even if this version of the song isn't perfect, it's largely a delight to the ear and also the eye. It is also quite accessible and easy to follow. I watched this movie and felt at home and also entertained.So enough of that. What about this movie? Well in nearly every area I demonized the Branagh production, this Franco Zeffirelli one excels. The ambiance is richer and more convincing in the dank castle halls. The editing flows surprisingly well for a two hour performance. The long lensing really zeroes in on the performances. There is a wealth of context in the relationships of Hamlet with all the major players. It feels as if Zeffirelli is acutely aware of subtext and exploits it with subtlety at every turn. With some exception, the actors are all steeped in the part and not simply engaging in dry recitation. Paul Scofield is absolutely scorching as the Ghost, who may, or may not actually exist. Ian Holm as Polonius is vibrant and also sad. Helena Bonham-Carter is just about perfect for Ophelia. Glen Close too really nails her unfortunately small part. Mel Gibson? Well he doesn't do all that bad. You really do take Hamlet as crazy, that's for sure. But Lethal Weapon could have easily been passed over for somebody better. On the other hand, without him, the film probably wouldn't have ever been made. To be or not to be I guess. "},{"Title":"Prince on the brink of insanity","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie, Mel Gibson's performance was Oscar worthy by far one of his best next to Braveheart! I haven't seen very many versions of the classic Shakespeare's play, but two. But this one surpassed the other one by far ! This is my daughters take on this movie.I have seen every one of the older versions of this play.And I can honestly say that his performance is just as good,as the men that portrayed this crazy prince in the past.Mel really made me believe that he was a mad man.He me feel sorry for him and mad at the next.If Shakespeare were alive to see him,in this play he would of loved it as much as I did. Glen Close, was great in this movie;she truly made me think that she too had gone mad. "},{"Title":"Before Mel Gibson went insane....","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... he starred in this spectacular take on the famed Shakespearean tragedy.Hamlet was directed by Franco Zeffirelli, but don't let that deter you! Even though Zeffirelli directed the absolutely *abominable* 1960s version of Romeo & Juliet (which, itself, is abominable), there is absolutely no resemblance between the two films except the Shakespearean dialogue.Gibson gives an interesting performance as Hamlet, backed up by Glenn Close as Gertrude, Helena Bonham-Carter (in her best performance yet) as Ophelia, and Paul Scofield in the greatest role of all, Hamlet's father. The film has a spectacular look and a wondrous atmosphere that really enhances it all around. And the staging? I don't think Shakespeare could have done it any better himself!If you're repelled by Gibson's recent tabloid-friendly behavior, ignore it. It'll help. A lot. "},{"Title":"The screen Hamlet of choice","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a moment at the very end when Mel Gibson's Hamlet, suddenly gripped by poison, looses his footing. It's shocking, natural and a terrible surprise, even to him. Such is the momentum of this melodramatic, almost operatic version of Hamlet that the audience's legs are torn from under them as well. I like this very much, a Hamlet performed by a company with respect but not reverence for the text, converting the script into movie drama not simply committing it to camera.Zeffirelli's biggest coup might be the setting, a damp and distant medieval fortress at odds with Gibson's modern, witty but clearly unbalanced Prince. The British cast assembled around him are very fine - I think Alan Bates would have to be my ideal Claudius. Glenn Close's Gertrude is rather spiky but this highlights her predatory sexuality which (I think) suits this arrangement. Morricone's score is bonus. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A great adaptation off of Hamlet that should not be forgotten","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have not been impressed with most film adaptations off of Shakespeare's work. The only three movies based off of Shakespeare's plays that I would watch are Kurosawa's Ran, the 1970 version of Romeo and Juliet, and this adaptation of Hamlet. Even though many of the lead cast members are American, they pull off their roles wonderfully. Like many people, I'm used to seeing Mel Gibson as the tough Mad Max and the humorous Sergeant Riggs, but he gives an intense performance as hamlet. He merely doesn't stick to the play's dialog, but his eyes burn with an intensity that makes me think of the depressed, cunning, and vengeful Hamlet that is in the play. Ian Holm is perfect as the Polonius that I imagined from the play, the mumbling, sneaky, and funny but wise old man that works for the deceitful and treacherous Claudius. Helena Bonham Carter is youthful and pretty as Hamlet's doomed lover Ophelia. I can't help but smile when her character goes insane for her nonsense singing reminds much of her marvelous work as Mrs. Lovett from Sweeney Todd. Paul Schofield as the ghost of Hamlet's father is not only frightening but moving as a lost and doomed soul. But the thing I liked most about this movie was that it did not retract itself from the Shakespearean language of the play. This not only held true to the play but also made the film itself accurate to the time period. In addition, the set-decoration by two-time Oscar winner Dante Ferretti and costume design by Maurizio Millenotti is beautiful. The score by Ennio Morricone (as he always does) sets the mood and pulls me into the film's story. However, like the play, the movie was slow and at times tiresome. Nonetheless, this is a great adaptation of Hamlet that should not be forgotten. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This film is appalling.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The play has been heavily edited and the order of the scenes has been completely mixed up. The acting is appalling (especially by Helena Bonham Carter) and the cinematography poor.The result is a slow, confused, boring film which will put those new to Shakespeare off Shakespeare instantly!If you can't see a stage play then at least see the Olivier version (1948) instead of this drivel!  "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, most horrible.","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, to each his own, but I thought Gibson's Hamlet was the most god-awful rendition I had ever witnessed... as subtly nuanced as a paper bag, and as inspired as a telemarketing call. The only reason I watched the movie through to the end was that I held out hope that either it would get better or become unintentionally funny. No luck.No disrespect for the supporting cast or for Zefferelli's staging, but nothing can make up for the bungling of the main character. I have seen Hamlet well-portrayed as an African prince, as an animated lion, as a rough-and-tumble warrior, as a romantic poet, etc. etc. etc. . But IMHO this portrayal was just a plentiful lack of wit together with most weak hams. "},{"Title":"A Hamlet without the prince","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is one of the joys of Shakespeare that there can be no definitive performances - no single performance can be &#145;right', but some can be wrong, and this one is. There are at least two things about Hamlet which cannot be dispensed with 1. His indecisiveness and inability to take any kind of action. For God's sake that is what makes the play last as long as it does. If you had Othello there instead of Hamlet, Claudius would be dead by the end of Act One. Any production has to try to explain why Hamlet delays, why he is incapable of action. 2. His sexual disgust. His total revulsion at the thought of what his mother and uncle get up to in bed fill him with an utter disgust for all things sexual and this means that any kind of relationship with Ophelia is impossible. At the slightest hint of sex, Hamlet throws up. So, what does Mel Gibson give us? Lusty action-man. You could not get further from the character of Hamlet if you tried. There are lots of ways Hamlet can be played, but this isn't one of them! What I don't understand is since they managed to get such good actors for the other parts - Claudius, Polonius and so on, why couldn't they find one to play Hamlet as well. Mark Rylance in the part would have made this a great film. This &#145;Mel Gibson', whoever he is, completely let down the rest of the cast. And lets face it, Hamlet without the prince really doesn't work.   "},{"Title":"Totally inaccurate and offensive","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently viewed this moving picture (whatever that is--I don't know because I was born in 1570), with my childhood comrades Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. We thoroughly enjoyed the film, finding that its humours are perfectly balanced. M. Zeffirelli has endowed our story with the perfect mix of suspense, comedy, and sheer stupidity. I was overjoyed to have been played by such a competent actor as Mel Gibson. He was kind of ugly and his hair was a stupid color (Shouldn't someone have done some fact-checking and realized that my hair is brown?). But I digress--it's all water under the bridge to me. The director definitely took some liberties in adapting the REAL story of my life. I mean, my dad's not even dead!There was one aspect of the film with which I truly took offense, and that was the depiction of my relationship with my late mother, rest her soul. There was this one scene in which, M. Zeffirelli, in what I am sure was merely a case of oversight, had M. Gibson proceed to kiss the actress playing my late mother in a most sensual manner! This was both offensive and ludicrous. Not to mention the whole thing was incredibly uncomfortable. Tell me, M. Zeffireli, do you often kiss your mother in such a way?!?!?! I beseech all who view this film to take it with a grain of salt--do not be fooled by this grave act of trickery. The story is a fallacy. I hereby call for the destruction of all extant copies of this pathetic excuse for a play upon a screen! "},{"Title":"High Quality introduction to Shakespeare","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This title has fallen to the wayside over the last 21 years... Not mentioned much, if ever.Even a very high quality Blu Ray release on July 5, 2010 (ASIN B0040T7316) didn't wake up interest in it... though I believe it was a Australia only release, it's available at Amazon and various other outlets... including BestBuy.It's a shame, because Zeffirelli's take on Hamlet occupies a very good niche... beautiful cinematography, perfect direction, and some truly breathtaking acting combine with a shortened story to bridge the gap between modern cinema and Shakespeare... no small featMel Gibson gives a unique and sharp rendition of Hamlet and his madness. His delivery is effortless and entirely believable. He gives life to Shakespeare for the modern audience. Even my high school age kids now have a genuine interest in Shakespeare, which I doubt any mainstream American kid has actually had in the last 3 generations.Helena Bonham Carter delivers the performance of her career with incredible affect... mesmerizing to watch.Likewise Glenn Close performs the scene of her career begging Hamlet for mercy upon learning of her new found husbands treachery. A truly stunning scene.This production cuts significant parts of the play as well as adding a prelude... but the story of Hamlet is told in a very artistic and true way.Snooty Shakespeare snobs will write terrible reviews of this as if there is no room for alternative viewa in order to adapt his plays... but I would argue that NONE of his plays are suitable as-is for modern film.... the idea itself is absurd, so let them whine while you enjoy this film. Anyone looking for a superlative introduction to Shakespeare in film should see this... a tour de force filled with subtlety... it's simply the best modern version of any Shakespearean play. "}{"Title":"Hamlet 1990","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1990 William Shakespeare's Hamlet saw a new version.Its director is Franco Zeffirelli.The star of this movie is Mel Gibson, who's not known as the most Shakespearian actor.But he certainly doesn't fail in his job, on the contrary.Glenn Close gives a very good portrayal of his mother, Queen Gertrude.Alan Bates is terrific as King Claudius.Paul Scofield makes the scenes with the ghost of King Hamlet very vivid.Ian Holm, who turns 80 next week, is marvelous as Polonius.Helena Bonham Carter is brilliant as his daughter Ophelia.Trevor Peacock is magnificent as The Gravedigger.The late great Pete Postlethwaite plays Player King.Ennio Morricone is the man behind the music.This Hamlet is good, even though not the best adaptation made of Shakespeare's play.But I liked how Ophelia losing her mind was portrayed.And the tragic events that took place in the end.And the medieval times really comes to life in this movie, that was shot in actual castles.I have not seen a bad adaptation of the play.All of them have had something good. "},{"Title":"Conscience makes cowards of us all","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After the king of Denmark dies(yes, back then, battles over ascension were common), his widow soon marries the man's brother. But Hamlet, the natural heir to the throne suspects that it was not as natural a demise as it might appear... could the man now bearing the crown be implicated? I have not read the play itself, but I have seen other adaptations(and I can definitely tell that the dialog is kept intact, if there are trims... so we get the undeniable lyrical skill, wit and cleverness of Shakespeare, with sayings that people sometimes forget actually are from him), and the '48 one with Olivier is a tad better. Gibson in the role is obviously the more crowd-pleasing choice, if he does do a good job. Everyone does give a passionate performance, and we are graced with immense talent in the cast, counting Close, Bates, Holm and a young Bonham Carter. This is a visual approach(I don't know if that is how this director goes about these, it's the only one I've watched), rather than the filmed theater of the half a century old take on it. It is photographed rather nicely, if there aren't really any stand-out images. This does have a solid pace, and the 2 hour, 7 minute running time sans credits is never boring. It is a story dealing with how death causes pain, as the survivors are devastated and the killer is haunted by the deed. There is disturbing content, including sexuality, in this. The DVD comes with a two minute trailer. I recommend this to fans of ol' Will. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dramatic Shakespeare","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Franco Zeferelli's version of William Shakespeare's classic and much revered play is a very over the top, dramatic version of the tragi-comedy. Zeferelli's direction is powerful and the acting is likewise. Mel Gibson plays the tormented Hamlet, supported strongly by Glen Close, Alan Bates, Ian Holm, Paul Scofield and the lovely Helena Bonham-Carter.There has been much argument about how true the film is to the old bard's original concept. Yet although Christopher De Vore's cut down screenplay was not, as has been said before, grassroots Shakespeare, it was most definitely entertaining.Saturday, March 23, 1991 - Forest Hill Chase "},{"Title":"Zeffirelli's trilogy","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" my favorites in order of the Shakespeare plays he directed are Romeo & Juliet, Taming of the Shrew and this production of Hamlet. and Hamlet is my favorite Shakespeare play.it is an average for Zeffirelli, which in comparison to others' directorial efforts is a notch above. he cut some scenes and juxtapositioned others in this one, but the story still comes thru. I find the scenery and movement of the actors helps me get around that Shakespearian English and follow the progress of the story better; Zeffirelli does this.there was a bit of overacting in a few places especially Glenn Close, but overall a very well done job by all involved.where do they find these old buildings to stage the plays? kinda hard to have any 'spoilers' with Shakespears stuff eh? !! I wonder if he has any other plays in mind to do. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that probably every British lit class has seen. I know there were people who fell asleep in my lit class when I took this course ten years ago. And there seems to be a sharp contrast between those who like and those who don't. But the movie is not bad in my opinion - at least compared to reading the actual play. Mel Gibson played Hamlet wonderfully. And Helena Bonham Carter looked hot. Although it's been ten years since I last watched Hamlet, I remembered the casting, acting, costumes, and background scenes being well done. I'm not a big fan of movies based on old British plays, but if you're going to watch one, this one isn't too bad. "},{"Title":"The best Hamlet yet.","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best Hamlet yet. Mel Gibson captures the beauty of the language. Mr. Gibson also captures the essence of the tragic hero. The period costumes are fabulous. The three defining moments in this movie that set Mel Gibsons version apart from all others are The encounter with Ophelia in the courtyard when Hamlet exclaims (not the exact quote mind you) you have one face that God has given you so why do you make another face to hide it. The evening play in the kings court as the players act out the murder of Hamlets father for all to see. The final fight in which Hamlet is killed by the king through Ophelia's brother and the final murder of the queen. "},{"Title":"Mad Max Does Shakespeare","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the first of two filmed Hamlets in the nineties, the other being Kenneth Branagh's from 1996. Franco Zeffirelli had earlier made one of the great Shakespeare films, his Romeo and Juliet from 1968. (I have not seen his version of The Taming of the Shrew). Whereas his Romeo and Juliet was set against the background of the sunny Italian countryside, his Hamlet, in keeping with the play's Scandinavian setting, is appropriately cool and northern, although it was actually filmed in Scotland.Branagh's Hamlet was also filmed in Britain, but the two films are very different in terms of their visual style. Branagh shot his film in the depths of an icy winter against the formal grandeur of Blenheim Palace. The interior scenes, by contrast, are opulent and palatial; all the leading characters wear splendid costumes. (The film is updated to the nineteenth century, so that means crinolines for the women and military uniforms for the men). Branagh's aim seems to have been to contrast outward pomp and splendour with inner corruption and decay. Zeffirelli's film is set in spring against a castle on the cliffs above the sea. The exterior scenes are often sunny; the predominant tone is the bright green of the grass. In this case, however, the interior scenes are dull and claustrophobic; the predominant colour is the grey of the castle walls. The film is set in mediaeval times; not the high Middle Ages, which might have made for greater visual colour, but earlier, in the eleventh or twelfth century. (This period may have been chosen as this was the time when the Danish chronicler Saxo Grammaticus wrote the first version of the Hamlet story). The costumes, even of the royal or aristocratic characters, are dull and subdued; Zeffirelli seems to have intended them to reflect the mood of the characters in the play. I first saw this film in the cinema on the recommendation of my then girlfriend, but I did not hold out any great hopes for it, as Jill tended to judge every film solely on the looks of its leading man, a sort of female equivalent of those lust-stricken males who will solemnly insist, against all the evidence, that Pamela Anderson or Bo Derek really are great actresses. Mel Gibson was one of her particular heart-throbs, but at that time I regarded him principally as Mad Max and just could not envisage him as Hamlet. Well, Jill was right and I was wrong. Talk about coming to jeer and staying to cheer. Gibson is actually very good. He is not as polished as Branagh as a speaker of Shakespearean verse, but he brings his own rough honesty to the part. Like Branagh, however, he has little time for the traditional concept of Hamlet as indecisive, passive and melancholy. His Hamlet is vigorous and robust; his low spirits and disgust with the world are not the result of some innate character flaw but rather a natural reaction to the tragedies of his father's death, his mother's betrayal and the revelation that his uncle is a murderer. Of the other major characters, I liked Helena Bonham Carter as Ophelia (indeed, I preferred her to Kate Winslet). I also liked Alan Bates as Claudius. His performance is rather different to Derek Jacobi's in Branagh's film, but equally persuasive. Jacobi suggests that Claudius could have been a good man under different circumstances, before he allowed himself to be led astray by ambition and lust. Bates' character is a more straightforward villain, but one who is adept at hiding his villainy beneath an outward show of jovial good fellowship. Paul Scofield's Ghost is less frightening than Brian Blessed's, but perhaps more moving. The one major character I did not like was Glenn Close's Gertrude. In 1990 I still thought of her mainly as the bunny-boiler in Fatal Attraction, and her performance here did little to dispel that impression. To start with, she is nowhere near old enough to be Mel Gibson's mother. More importantly, Gertrude seemed to be fatally attracted not only towards her brother-in-law but also towards her son, embracing both with vigour and kissing them warmly on the lips. Close and Zeffirelli seem to have been heavily influenced by the idea that there is an incestuous attraction between Gertrude and Hamlet, something which has always seemed to me to owe less to Shakespeare than to Freud (or possibly to a misunderstanding of Freud), and which I think works to the play's detriment. The big difference between this version and Branagh's is length. Branagh's version is based on the full uncut text of the play and runs to over four hours, nearly twice the length of Zeffirelli's which, like Olivier's, is based on an abridged version. (The Fortinbras subplot, for example, is omitted altogether). Doubtless abridging the play in this manner makes commercial sense; three hours or thereabouts (Titanic, Lord of the Rings, etc) seems to be the outer limit of the modern cinema-goer's patience and Branagh's film did not do well at the box-office. Nevertheless, it is in my view the better of the two films, bringing out not only the full complexity but also the full emotional power of the play. Zeffirelli's version works well as a film in its own right, but it is little more than half of what Shakespeare actually wrote. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This is a movie","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zeffirelli's Hamlet is naturalistic, accessible, and merciless. He's chopped and rearranged and interpolated the play into a very compelling story, really taking advantage of the resources old Will didn't have.  The setting is actually medieval Denmark, with an amazing castle, and rich, but not new-looking costuming.  The result - a highly entertaining movie.Like no other, it focuses on Gertrude and Glen Close's lusty, needy, affectionate queen goes a long way to explaining Hamlet's trouble.  Who wouldn't be disturbed with *that* for a mother?   This Gertrude jumps into Claudius' bed with greater alacrity and enthusiasm than any other I've seen, making Hamlet's disgust and the dated definition of incest come alive for modern audiences.  Still, she measures her love out generously to the prince as well.Mel Gibson does not play the contemplative bits very well - he seems kind of in awe of the verse - but he's excellent in anguish, humor, anger, and charisma, and really makes the prince his own.  He even makes us laugh in the best duel scene by far.The biggest offence in the cutting is that so little of Horatio is left. Fortinbras is gone and unmissed; the other major parts are all excellently filled. This was the first Hamlet I saw, and whether from that natural advantage or their own merit, this Gertrude, Ophelia, and Polonius are the definitive standards for me.  Claudius and Hamlet are great, but there's no definitive here.  C'mon, Derek Jacobi played both roles!  And Branagh's done Hamlet, though his mannered treatment is not as engrossing.  "},{"Title":"Get a six pack sit back and enjoy the funniest Hamlet ever","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film at my friend's behest. We sat there at first we were taken in by the seriousness of the play. I mean it is a tragedy, and it is Shakespeare, and think someone must have told Mel Gibson the same. They must have taken him to one side and said. Mel Hamlet is not Lethal Weapon, we are talking class acting --go and study the late Larry Olivier. He did. Mel looks like Olivier --bleached --a bit also like David Hemmings --and with this new hair color --he becomes tragic. Not. I waited to see how he would deal with the greatest lines in the play and I noticed --and how deadly this is in films, and at that point you lose interest in everything but this, this head movement. The director must of told Mel to move his head in a tragic way like Larry did. And it is sublime. It is so, so, funny. I couldn't help but think of those dogs in the back of car bobbing up and down. And you know what --I laughed and laughed. This is the funniest --unintentionally, film I have seen for ages. My respect for Mel went up. I think he has the potential for playing tragic parts, but he needs to find a better director and role model.  "},{"Title":"WoW!!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To be or not to be... is no longer the question. Now, it is to see or not to see Franco Zefferelli's 1990 Version of Hamlet.Shakespeare wrote this infamous play during his third period, more commonly known as his dark period. He could never have imagined how popular this play was to become.True to the period it was written in Hamlet is a dark, or tragic play. It follows one mans journey from normalcy to insanity because of the unfaithfulness of his incestuous mother after his father's murder. In this remake of the classic Franco Zefferelli turns a morose and somewhat confusing play into a vibrant, clear and dare I say, upbeat production that everyone should watch.I was a bit hesitant at first to watch the movie because Mel Gibson was playing the lead of Hamlet. I did not think that he'd be believable in that role, but he really proved me wrong. His interpretation of the character gave me an understanding of the plot that I didn't have after merely reading the play and watching the Kenneth Branagh version of the play. To say that his film cleared up a few things would certainly be an understatement. He played the role perfectly.Another wonderful actor who must be mentioned is Helena Bonham-Carter as Ophelia. She gave the term crazy a whole new definition. A character that goes over the hill in the midst of the film must be able to forget about everyone else and only play on his or her reason of instant insanity. She does this so well that by the end one doesn't know where Ophelia ends and Helena begins.The film did have a few shortcomings such as the director's choice of season and his butchering of the play. Yet, it's true that sacrifices must be made for the benefit of the contemporary audience. No one in today's day and age would like to sit through a complete, uncut, three-hour version of Hamlet. Therefore Zefferelli's actions can be forgiven and even, thanked. His choice of season though, remains an issue. Had he done it in winter, there would be added symbolism that was not seen in the movie. Other than that, Zefferelli made good choices from the actors to the music to the choreography of the duels.In an overall view of Franco Zefferelli's 1990 version of Hamlet starring Mel Gibson, it was phenomenal. It had all of the qualities of a modern day hit with none of the redundant story lines. To call this film a must-see isn't giving it enough credit. "}{"Title":"Shockingly Disappointing","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hamlet - Possibly the greatest play of all time and Zeffirelli and DeVore butchered it into an incoherent and unmoving series of events with flat characters who act without any apparent motivations.  For example, Horatio (in the play) is the model of friendship and yet, we have no sense of that relationship between him and Hamlet.  And what of poor Ophelia?  Why did she go insane?  Who Knows?  She shows no true feelings for Hamlet except annoyance and fear.  Her father treats her like a dog.  She seems to love her brother, Laertes, and he is safe in France so what's there to go mad about?  Polonius is just a jerk and there is no indication of his political motives and fawning manipulations.  The Ghost is a weepy shadow of his former self and conveys none of the anger or horror of his own murder.So here you have weak, flat and uninteresting characters in a script that can only be described as a jumbled perversion of the original.  (Get thee to a nunnery during the play?!?!)  One is forced to laugh in many places where laughter is not intended (Meet it is I set it down...), but it is a bitter laugh at best.  Unbelievable. I must find great fault in the direction, also.  How Zeffirelli can misuse such accomplished actors as Ian Holm and Paul Scofield is beyond me. Also Michael Maloney (who was able to read a line with honest conviction of his character despite the director) was so appallingly underused that one could only feel sorry for him. This is exactly the type of Shakespeare that you were exposed to in high school.  You remember those days.  Long, mind-numbing readings of Romeo and Juliet followed by that horrible Olivia Hussey film?  It was enough to make you hate the Bard. Rent Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.  It is infinitely superior to Zeffirelli's.  Branagh's passion for the play is more than evident and his skill in bringing it to the screen is unsurpassed.  Branagh exemplifies why Shakespeare's work has survived so long.  Zeffirelli illustrates why high school kids see it as an endurance trial. "},{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the greatest horror films I have ever seen. The play it is best on was written when stories where ether called comedy or drama. This has so mush in it about ghosts and murder that I consider it a horror movie. One of the best horror movies ever made. If you want to see a really scary movie see this one. If it does not scary you no movie will. This movie has great acting. It also has great special effects. It also has a great story line. The king of Denmark is haunted by the ghost of his father. The ghost tells him that his brother murdered him to get the throne. Hamlet (the king of Denmark) is out for revenge. The movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Visually Appealing but  a Little Too Watered Down","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I put off watching this film for quite some time. I am a rather faithful follower of Kenneth Branagh's version and didn't quite feel comfortable with the knowledge that, in Zefferelli's Hamlet, dialogue was shifted, huge sections deleted and major characters were given smaller roles. I have nothing against editing down Shakespeare to a 2 hour film, but Hamlet seemed entirely too epic to ever be shortened.What comes out of all this is a much more mature feeling film. Gone are a lot of the repetitions of crucial facts and certain character relationships that, in the long run, can be downsized without hurting the flow of the story.The biggest thing that got me was the deletion of the ghost's appearance to Horation right at the beginning. But after seeing this film, it works beautifully. We first meet the ghost at an emotional high point, riding Hamlet's internal roller coaster with him. I also really appreciate that the ghost was not made into a special effect or visual spectacle of some kind. He is a character and treated as such.Glen Close' Gertrude is utterly gripping. Silly, naive, but loving and kind. She's a victim as much as Hamlet. You despise her, yet pity her and eventually care for her. Ophelia is just terrific. Helena Bonham-Carter creates a fragile, haunted Ophelia. Even before the death of Polonius, you find yourself knowing that this poor girl will never make it in the world, being entirely too emotionally delicate.I did have some issues with the portrayal of Claudius. First, I am very loyal to Derek Jacobi's excellent portrayal of this character. Second, Zefferelli seems to be trying to make him sympathetic on a level that doesn't work with this character.Finally Mel Gibson himself. I think what makes his portrayal so excellent is that he seems to be slightly unhinged as soon as the story starts. His feigned madness is an augmentation of this, but it seems to flow from his performance much better that other Hamlets. His facial expressions are subtle enough not to be silly, but powerful enough to elicit a response from the audience. I respect that the director didn't try to make Hamlet a 'sexy' character in this, but rather focused on the story instead. The results are quite excellent.All in all, an entertaining, visually sumptuous ride, but somewhat lacking in the complex interpersonal and emotional core of the original story. "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert is spot-on here!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert writes an excellent review of this version of HAMLET, which you can read by clicking on the external reviews link at this website. I can't improve on his review and I urge you to read it. I enjoyed this this version. I also enjoyed a special feature of the DVD a movie about the making of this film showing some comic mishaps and interviews with Gibson and the rest of the cast. Another highlight of this documentary is an explanation of the interior shots and the exterior scenery. Apparently this is the only HAMLET ever filmed at a real castle! The whole cast is good, the great standouts being Helena Bonham Carter and Alan Bates, the latter always being up to any sort of acting challenge. This is the same actor that was so good in GEORGY GIRL--you wouldn't know it was the same actor! Again, if you read Ebert's review, I think you will want to see this version. (Let me add that since I wrote this review, I have seen Kenneth Branagh's HAMLET, made five years after this one. Branagh is the lead and also directs. His film is superior in every respect and has the entire text, no words are cut. The biggest difference is that comparing Gibson to Branagh is like comparing Kraft Velveeta spread to the finest English Gloucester cheese.) "},{"Title":"worst director in Italy? Not quite.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The non-Italian filmgoer probably ignores the bad name Zeffirelli has in Italy in two words he's considered an inflated balloon, as we say in Italian. His great merit in this movie, I think, is to have made Hamlet watchable for almost everybody. It's not a small task, and consider that outside Britain and the USA Shakespeare plays don't enjoy even the familiarity that derives from school. Simply, by the masses, they suck. And Hamlet is widely known as the man holding a skull saying To be or not to be  (Yorik's not very heard of). The fact of seeing a popular, almost proletary, and very humane and close Hamlet like Mel Gibson's instead of a pale and posh British actor can help somehow. For the rest, the direction doesn't risk anything again, it looks like Hamlet explained to the masses, including the oedipean kiss between mother and son (I'm not spoiling I suppose? everyone knows the plot). The only thing I didn't like at all was that effacing Fortinbras also my favourite  How stand I then,               That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,               Excitements of my reason and my blood,               And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see               The imminent death of twenty thousand men,etc. etc. has disappeared.  Anyway, if only Franco were a bit more simpatico! "},{"Title":"vastly better than Branagh's rubbish version","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the ultimate version of Hamlet. A masterpiece.Kenneth Branagh's interpretations of Shakespeare are rubbish, and he couldn't act his way out of a nutsack.Zeffirelli has captured the perfect atmosphere in which to tell this story - to make the characters believable, and to make the film a pleasure to watch. The actors - every single one of them - have played their roles to perfection. Even Mel Gibson, whom I would not otherwise have rated as a particularly talented or versatile actor when it comes to serious work - has proved to be the greatest Hamlet film has ever seen.I haven't compared this movie in detail to Shakepeare's play, no doubt lovers of the play will notice some omissions, differences, etc, but, in its own right, Zeffirelli's Hamlet is true to the mood, vibe, atmosphere, etc that Shakespeare intended. As a film in itself, it is cohesive, well-integrated, as complete as any film version of Hamlet need be.5 stars out of 5. Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"excellent portrayal of the Dane","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gibson's best work. This film hits on all cylinders. Hamlet is one of the hardest characters to pull off in film and Gibson does it with ease. There are more traps than one can imagine with Hamlet and Gibson deftly avoids nearly all of them. All roles were expertly played and the production value was fantastic. It was a truly extraordinary production and I highly recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of the Bard's work - or any film fan for that matter. It's unfortunate that so few people go to the theatre any more so it's nice when the theatre comes to them in the form of films. Again, I highly recommend this piece to anyone who likes movies (or plays). Well done. "},{"Title":"STRICTLY DIRECTOR HAM","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I suppose Zifrenneli's Hamlet may have its good points, but I saw an unmerciful cutting and misdirected shuffling of scenes from Shakespeare. The director indulges himself with long supposedly dramatic episodes between lines, and it is not always clear as to which lines are the bards, and which were put in as additional dialogue. Sometimes the acting is downright silly.Believe me, I'll take Branagh's version over this this one any day. "},{"Title":"at least the title character never bares his butt","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Purists be warned this star-driven pulp rendition of the classic tragedy, adapted from the play by William Shakespeare, might just as well be subtitled (without apology to fans of Mel Gibson's previous bubblegum blockbuster) 'Bard On A Wire'. The source material survives more or less intact, but the rhythms and tempo of Shakespeare's language, so beautiful on stage, are not entirely suited to celluloid, at least not with director Franco Zeffirelli's artless insistence on video-format close-ups and choppy continuity. Gibson, on center stage for most of the film, hasn't enough depth to carry the entire drama. He gives the Prince of Denmark as much fire as he can muster, but falls flat on his much-photographed bottom during every soliloquy, and his credibility is further damaged by the casting of 43-year old Glenn Close as his mother. The rest of the cast is well balanced by such stalwart pros as Scofield, Holm and Bates, and (wonder of wonders) Ennio Morricone has actually composed some effective, understated music, a welcome change of pace from his usual bombastic background scores. "},{"Title":"The Time Is Out Of Joint, O Cursed Spite","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Prince Hamlet of Denmark is overcome with grief at the sudden death of his father, and is appalled when his mother quickly marries her brother-in-law Claudius. But worse is to come when the dead king's ghost appears and reveals a ghastly murder ...William Shakespeare's Hamlet, written around 1600, is pretty untouchable as a property. I could say I think it's a bit long (especially Act IV), Ophelia has bugger all to do with the plot, and the ending is the old scribbler's trick of killing everybody off because you can't think of anything better, but there's not too much point because you probably either don't like Old Billy much or worse, are a Culture Snob who thinks he's a paragon. This movie version is very good all round really; the main difficulty in adapting Shakespeare to film is the stage direction, which is heavy on speeches and short on action. Gibson imbues it with energy and Zeffirelli wisely abridges it down to two hours, focussing on the passion and the agonising doubt at the core of the story. Fundamentally, the play is really about the essence of death; the horror of the King's murder, the damnation of Claudius, the tragedy of Ophelia, the bones of Yorick. His father's killing forces Hamlet to stare the horror of death straight in the face and he doesn't know how to live - to sleep, perchance to dream. Gibson is great in the lead, ably supported by Bates, Holm and Scofield (all of whom played Hamlet on stage to great acclaim) and he makes the tough-going dialogue surprisingly palatable and mellow. There's also a fine incidental score by Ennio Morricone and excellent production design by Dante Ferretti (most exteriors were shot at Dunnottar Castle on the east coast of Scotland), and it was the first film made by Gibson's respected Icon production company. I like this movie a lot, as I do any movie which tries to take the illustrious High Arts and turn them into something anyone can appreciate. I think it's the best movie adaptation of the classic tale - the 1948 Laurence Olivier and 1996 Kenneth Branagh versions are both a bit stodgy, but the cheapie 1969 one with Nicol Williamson is not bad. Weirdly, the best movie versions of Hamlet (as with most of Shakespeare's plays) are the ones that are cagily disguised as something else, such as Akira Kurosawa's corporate killer drama Warui Yatsu Hodo Yoku Nemuru / The Bad Sleep Well, Tom Stoppard's whimsical Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead, Dave Thomas and Rick Moranis' hilarious The Adventures Of Bob & Doug McKenzie Strange Brew (which mostly involves beer and ice-hockey, two crucial elements Shakespeare left out), and Aki Kaurismki's lovably nutty Hamlet Liikemaailmassa / Hamlet Goes Business, in which Hamlet is the heir to a rubber-duck manufacturing company. Also, this movie is perhaps the perfect example of an international movie with no homeland; it was funded by French money, distributed by Americans, stars an Australian, was made by an Italian, filmed in the UK and is set in Denmark ! Don't be put off by the intellectual pedigree; this is the world's oldest revenger's tragedy and a great thought-provoking film. "}{"Title":"A fantastic rendition.... if you like Shakespeare","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson is Hamlet, the son of the recently deceased King of Denmark. Hamlet is mourning the recent death of his father and the marriage of his mother, the Queen (Glenn Close) to Claudius, who therefore inherits the crown and becomes King. Hamlet is visited by the ghost of his father, who tells Hamlet that he has been murdered, murder most foul, and the ghost implores Hamlet to seek revenge.Awesome. From reading Shakespeare's play, I had a very good understanding of the language, the plot and the underlying subtext of the story, so I was overwhelmed by the movie. The effort of the actors, and the delivery of their lines was exceptional&#133; there were frequent scenes where the actors were required to deliver long monologues of the play with passion and uncompromising dedication, and without the benefit of a change of cameras to allow any editing of mistakes. Mel Gibson was remarkable as Hamlet, and the supporting cast were incredible. However, I think that I appreciated the movie because I had read the play, and have grown an appreciation for the effort required to perform Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"good movie but please","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a pretty good scaled down version of Hamlet but please don't even mention this version in the same breath as the Kenneth Branagh version. They are really two different animals. The Zeffirelli version is a great example of the pervasiveness of short attention spans and the superfluous need to edit the greatest playwright of all time. Branagh's version tells the whole story in the absolute and exquisite language chosen by the Bard. One note to those out there who think Shakespeare is wordy and tedious try writing the same situations the Bard wrote, your version won't hold a candle!! "},{"Title":"Talent is everything","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare is said to be the best writer of English language, and one of the best ones in all time literature. I think everyone should have the opportunity to read one of his plays or sonnets, so that his talent and beauty of this works can reach the most distant spots in the world. Hamlet is simply the best of his texts and many people could think it's impossible to be taken to screens, such are the small details and secrets the bard carries in his words. Some directors, however, have made it beautifully. Franco Zeffirelli is one of these people who could give life to Hamlet. Mel Gibson is Hamlet in this production, and, believe in me, he's great! His talent lends the film the perfection that makes it impossible to ignore the movie. The monologues are impressive and Gibson's looks make us think he is Hamlet really. "},{"Title":"Far Better Than Expected","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't believe that giving away the plot of Hamlet would constitute a spoiler, but just in case, I have marked the warning. You can never tell. Forty years ago a sweet young thing was handed Hamlet as a reading assignment. My professor, from whom I heard the story, said her response was Oh that was wonderful! When is this Hamlet guy going to write another one?Apocryphal? Perhaps.When I had the Gibson version thrust upon me, I had never seen the star. My response was, you've got to be in jest! A Hollywood actor? Then I noticed the supporting cast and decided to give Mr. Gibson's effort a chance. Well . . . The late Sir John Gielgud once noted that just as there were no bad Hamlets, there were, neither, any complete ones. (I don't know I absolutely refuse to consider K. Branagh an actor at all; so as far as his Hamlet goes . . . ?) This movie version is better than any I have seen in several ways. The portrayal of Ophelia is most beautifully accomplished and very touching. Heretofore I couldn't wait for the poor thing to drown. Alan Bates as Claudius is most interestingly cast, and he manages to be just right for the role, but then he's a superb actor, indeed. As for Ian Holm's Polonius - I certainly wouldn't want to follow it I can't think of a word other than perfect. Many actors have captured the riotously funny idiocy of the rambling dolt, but few the pathos. Holm makes him almost endearing.G. Close manages not to be revolting as Gertrude. I trust this is not a spiteful remark. There are those who doubtless are quite good, but that I never want to see again. For example, Katharine Hepburn is one (except for the very early Tracy and Cary Grant comedies). Now to Mr. Gibson. He gives flesh to Gielgud's axiom. His overall performance is, quite frankly, as acceptable as any I've seen. As opposed to Jacobi, who brought out the acerbity better than most have, and made the relationship with Horatio acutely heartwarming, Gibson, especially in his major scene with Polonius, makes superb comedy; and he excels, exceptionally, in honing, if that's the word, the profundity of the dilemma the Prince finds himself in the metaphysical dimension, as it were. A simple line like Readiness is all. becomes penetrating in a haunting, prescient way I've not before encountered. (It is a shame that Olivier never remade his version, which was so sliced up and Freudianized as to be virtually unrecognizable.)Where things go wrong is in the final scene, and I put the blame here entirely on the director. I found the fight scenes and the various killings absurdly done. Perhaps Zeffirelli realized this because he cut the perhaps most heart-rending line in the play (when delivered correctly in a context that hasn't been rendered a shambles). I fear that if Horatio had come out with Now cracks a noble heart, I'd have laughed. At first I couldn't believe the cut; then I was grateful for it.Since I began with a comment by Gielgud, I'll end with a comment about him. There has never been a Closet Scene to equal the electrifying performance Sir John gives of it in an early radio broadcast, of which year I know not.Were it not for that loused-up final scene, I'd have given the movie a higher rating. See it. You can always stop the tape (or walk out of the theatre) before that debacle of a final touch. "},{"Title":"A Decent Try","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am not a big fan of William Shakespeare.There, I've said it. Now can we move on? I am even less of a fan of Hamlet, as this was the play that I had to do my Year 12 English Coursework on at school.Have we got that sorted? Good.So you can imagine my surprise when, bored out of my wits one rainy afternoon, I found myself browsing the video collection in our school library when, low and behold, I found this version of the play.Don't ask me why I sat down and watched it - it was just a simple compulsive matter. I had heard about it, certainly, but all the time it had been negative criticism after negative criticism. And I believe in giving a film a fair chance before being persuaded by someone else. After all, why did I go and see Hide And Seek, which some of you felt was appalling? Because I wanted to see it for myself.To be perfectly and shamefully honest, I actually enjoyed this film. I think it is very well made and has some really good and strong performances in it. The scenery is pretty impressive, and the director - Franco Zeffirelli - does well not to make too much of it.Gibson in the title role does well, though half the time I was waiting for him to suddenly shout out But they'll never take our freedom! and start attacking the British. Glenn Close is typical Glenn Close in the role of Gertrude, the Queen, but sadly I felt that Alan Bates' interpretation of Claudius just wasn't right. This man is supposed to be evil - a power-hungry, wicked old uncle like Scar from The Lion King. For me, Bates just wasn't evil enough. Half the time you were not sure if he was the villain or not.This argument of course must be taken into consideration with other interpretations of the film and indeed the play, and I heartily accept that. But the fact of the matter is that Hamlet, is the greatest play Shakespeare ever wrote - or at least the most famous. If a director wants to make a simple version of this then the plot details must be simple. Hamlet is a tragic hero, Claudius is a classic villain, Ophelia is the little woman ruined by everyone - just like Desdemona in Othello.This is a film for anyone who has read Hamlet once and knows of the various interpretations there have been. If no one has ever seen or read the play before, then I advise you breathe a deep sigh and rent the unedited, unabridged, LONG version directed by Ken Branagh. I've not seen it personally, but then, I don't want to.Contradictory? Me? I don't think so.6/10 "},{"Title":"Correct mood and tone","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although less faithful to Shakespeare's play than Branagh's version, I much prefer Zeffirelli because of the setting. One can almost feel the damp castle walls, the drafts, the mist in the air. This dreary, cold, almost hostile setting establishes the correct mood for the play and indeed parallels Hamlet's frame of mind. Mel Gibson plays an angry, brooding Hamlet on the verge of violence--if not to his enemy then to himself--a more believable and attractive character than the typical whiny Hamlet. Freudian bedroom scene with Gertrude notwithstanding, this version of Hamlet comes much closer to the mood and tone of Shakespeare than Branagh's. Good teaching tool. "},{"Title":"Definitive introduction to Shakespeare","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ====== FOREWORD =====>It was late in 1991 when I first saw this film. Earlier that year Kevin Costner's version of Robin Hood was showing in the theaters but I missed it. And I was glad that I did because one of the reasons being Costner's accent in England's medieval period was such a NO-NO and simply Hello, please wake-up, Costner, you're in England now. Of course, that Richard Gere's film FIRST KNIGHT being the same case.====== THE FILM =====>Then around September of 91 or so this HAMLET was shown. From the poster, I thought that this film would be something to the effect of Robin Hood, of having that essence of medieval style of grand majestic royalty (which I happened to love a lot). So I went to see it.During the course of the film, I found that this film was incredibly draggy and hard to follow in terms of its language spoken and the pace that it was going. Keep in mind that was the time when I have absolutely no idea who Shakespeare was and knew nothing about his works. But at the end of the film, when I left the theater and knowing that the principal characters died, it was then that out of curiosity I began to be intrigued by the plot of the story and say Hey, this is interesting. Hence, I began my own study of the play and soon enough I learnt about HAMLET and Shakespeare.Therefore, I must say that I am truly grateful that I saw this film (and missed Costner's Robin Hood....Thank God!) because it was this very film that initiated me to the works of Shakespeare.And on the topic of the film itself, I believe that this was truly how the Bard himself would have wanted it to be played - in all its majestic proportions.Following this film, I did my own study on Shakespeare's other works like King Lear and Macbeth. And now, I'm into more of the Bard's rarely performed plays like Titus Andronicus, Cymbeline, Timon Of Athens and Coriolanus.But sad to say this excellent film have yet to come out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Franco Zeffirelli and Mel Gibson do Shakespeare's Hamlet","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Franco Zeffirelli directs Hamlet. Mel Gibson plays Hamlet. William Shakespeare wrote Hamlet. There are 40 film versions of William Shakespeare's Hamlet listed in IMDb, dating from 2000 back to 1907. This is one of the best. Besides Mel is in it. Need I say more? "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of Shakespear's play","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading the play in my College-Prep Literature class, we watched the movie.  I didn't think it was too bad a movie, but I guess I didn't pay much attention while reading the play.  The dialog can be quite difficult to understand.  Nevertheless, the acting was excellent.  Mel Gibson, Glenn Close (who also plays Cruella DeVil in the live action version of 101 Dalmatians) and many others. "},{"Title":"Decent Shakespeare film","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is quite a well done version of Shakespeare film with Mel Gibson as a surprisingly good Hamlet.  It's a nice Shakespeare film but I wouldn't start watching it at like 11 or so. It's pretty long.  But all the same great movie.  My favourite part is when Hamlet puts on his play. "}{"Title":"A solid production with its own style and rewards","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Interesting to see Mel Gibson as Hamlet after Kenneth Branagh's definitive version. He may not be the best Hamlet ever, but he's certainly competent--his Hamlet has a kind of energy and restlessness. His feelings are never hidden from us. He is supported by a marvelous cast--luminous Glenn Close (Gertrude); gentle Stephen Dillane (Horatio); manly Alan Bates (Claudius), lovely Helena Bonham-Carter (Ophelia). The script really consists of 'Hamlet' highlights--one famous speech after another (camera focused on Mr. Gibson) with an occasional full ensemble scene--the players, the Queen's chamber, Ophelia's madness and death, the final fight. The castle in which it was filmed provides a spectacular background and should be given co-billing. This is the perfect choice if you want to see Hamlet, but don't fancy spending 5 hours on it.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Might contain Spoilers.Mel Gibson is awesome. As a guy who has trouble getting in to literature, especially for school, Gibson's performance made me even more interested in reading Hamlet.Glen Close was great as the Queen. She injected the life in to the play when Mel Gibson wasn't on screen.Horatio was underutilized as the friend of Hamlet and seemed like a common servant.Ophelia seemed like the woman I read about in the book. She seemed in love with him and afraid of him at the same time.I loved the play scene that was the best moment in the film. I'll check out some of the other Hamlet films, to see if the others are as good as this, hopefully they would be better or just as good. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad, really","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having been thoroughly put off by the effete Hamlets of the old school, it was a relief to see him portrayed as an actual medieval Danish prince for a change.  His natural inclinations ought to make him a man of action, and his indecisiveness ought to be uncharacteristic; and this is how Mel Gibson portrays him.  The rest of the cast easily measures up.  Glenn Close in particular is superb as Gertrude.  This brings up the film's major flaw, though  She does not look old enough to be Gibson's mother. "},{"Title":"Well acted, poorly directed","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Zefferelli just loves to make a movie. It's a fine introduction to the play but it misses many of the finer points of what is probably one of the most important works of English literature of all time. I do like the choice that Zefferelli made to characterize Gertrude as early deciding in her son's favour since it better casts Hamlet's indecisiveness into relief. But Zefferelli loses because, unlike the Branagh Hamlet, I will not watch this one over and over again despite it's good points good and transitory. Zefferelli found all the entertainment with such a script how could he go far wrong? "},{"Title":"Gibson","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If, prior to the release of this film, anybody had told me Mel Gibson could pull off one of the most entertaining performances of Hamlet on film, I would have laughed. If Gibson were only about to make this film now, and someone were to assure me that he would not perform Hamlet in an overly pretentious fashion, I would simply sneer. But the fact is, he did make this film, and his performance is unpretentious and very entertaining.My suspicion is that Gibson, in going to work on this film, decided he would let Zeffirelli tell him everything he needed to do for the film, and just do it. Wise choice! He lets Shakespeare's words draw attention to him, and avoids trying to turn his performance into a star-turn. I am particularly impressed with his soliloquies, always the most noticeable parts of a performance of Hamlet, and for that reason, the easiest aspect of the performance to get wrong.Gibson is supported with strong performances from the rest of the cast and very appealing scenery well-photographed and edited. Because of Zeffirelli's decision to compress the play, this is not the definitive Hamlet. But it'll do. "},{"Title":"substantial metaphor","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very pleasing film.Once you see Franco Zeffirelli involved you don't need much more as proof and quality are guaranteed.He manages unlikely others to give the film the austere dark and grave atmosphere that a theatrical play like this,needs.The set is purely filled with melancholy agony and intense which are the very words that Gibson portrays Hamlet.This is Gibson's most adequate and solid performance ever.I believe no one expected that he is capable of this,but he is surpassing all expectation's because he really is a fine actor after all.He makes Hamlet so convincing,someone who is tiptoeing between righteousness and injustice,a fine prince who is not willing to accept the life and the lies which the others give him.He stands alone.Gibson gives the strength and all the intense and the fury that the role needs..Under the strict and charming guidance of Zeffirelli the film is excellent.Both these two are underestimated Zeffirelli is most.But we know who he is and what he can do.Many they said that Brannagh's performance was better,which i think was very good but Gibson's agony was never in Brannagh's eyes..A very satisfying film... "},{"Title":"Not unimpressive, Mel.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare's Hamlet is arguably both is greatest work, and the greatest work of theatre in history (I lean more towards Macbeth on both counts). Shakespeare took the well-known (at the time) story of Prince Hamlet of Denmark, and transformed it into a psychological and existential drama unlike anything scene before. Now, director Franco Zeffirelli, who was behind the classic 1968 Romeo and Juliet, brings his version of Hamlet to the screen, with the seemingly odd choice of Australian action star Mel Gibson in the title role. Behind Mel is an almost exclusively British cast, with Glenn Close as Queen Gertrude being the exception. Indeed, several important cast members have themselves played Prince Hamlet on stage. Mel creates an energetic, melancholy Hamlet who works well on screen, even if he's a bit too energetic on occasion. A young Helena Bonham-Carter is wonderful as the tragic maiden Ophelia, while Close, Alan Bates (as the usurper Claudius), Ian Holm (as ill-fated adviser Polonius), and Paul Scofield (as Hamlet's murdered father) all provide seasoned support. Zeffirelli has trimmed Shakespeare's lengthy text (his longest play) considerably, making things flow more smoothly; for a less commercial, edit-free Hamlet, seek out Kenneth Branagh's 1996 film. I give Hamlet a 10/10. Would that Zeffirelli had done an adaptation of Macbeth. "},{"Title":"Great performance","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ******* WARNING!  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! *******************Mel is wonderful in this, so are the supporting cast (Glenn Close, Ian Holm). I rented his years ago on DVD.   He brings a sort of firey everyman to the role of Hamlet.  You want to root for this guy even though he's doomed.  The only thing I didn't like about this movie was that Ophelia's role - and screentime - is barely developed.   It was puzzling and a bit irritating.   All of a sudden she's crazy, with little or no explanation. My hope is the DVD version that comes out Feb 2004 will include missing scenes that fix this minor quibble with the movie.  Otherwise, it's flat out great entertainment and convincing acting. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this on DVD?","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this telling of Hamlet. Gibson's portrayal, by far, fits more closely to how I envisioned the character of Hamlet than any others that I have seen (I have yet to see Kevin Kline's performance, however). He is not flowery or weak with words. Gibson gives us a tortured soul, conflicted and angry, confused and weary, and yet witty and charming, though he can be an ass to those he doesn't like (why would he try to hide it anyway?). In short... Gibson is fantastic, and Franco Zeffirelli did a wonderful job directing without overstating the visuals (such as the ghost scenes). And I should also mention how excellent the supporting cast is also, especially Alan Bates. It's a masterpiece.So, why is this version not out on DVD?!! I know I'm not the only one who enjoys it. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Branagh version","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Zeffirelli version of Hamlet cuts many lines from the play and moves around many others.  For example, in the nunnery scene (which is not really a nunnery scene, as Zeffirelli has moved Hamlet's Get thee to a nunnery speech to the middle of the play scene for no good reason), most of Ophelia's very moving lines are eliminated -- Helena Bonham Carter just stands there and looks confused.  The complexity of characters is just ignored.  Claudius, especially, becomes a one-dimensional Hollywood villain. If you want to see a version of Hamlet much truer to Shakespeare's text, get the Kenneth Branagh version made in 1996. "}{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We are studying Hamlet in my English World Literature class and we are watching bits and pieces of the Kenneth Branaugh version and Mel Gibson's version. And I am growing to like the Kenneth Branaugh version better.In this version...there are so many cuts you can't even keep track of what's going. And they also move various scenes around. An example is the nunnery scene. In this version it happens around the play scene, but that's not where it happens in the actual play. I found this irritating.One thing that disturbed and disgusted me the most was how the director made Hamlet and Gertrude kiss. I don't think Shakespere intended for Hamlet to have an Oedipus complex. I mean, first Hamlet is humping his mother and then she makes out with him. Yuck! Shakespere would be rolling around in his grave if he saw this disgusting scene. If you want to watch a Hamlet movie...I suggest watching the one that stars Kenneth Branaugh. At least that movie follows the actual play...And no sons humping their mothers in that movie! "},{"Title":"Good Stuff This Shakespeare","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having never read nor seen another production of Hamlet I have nothing to judge it against.  All I can say is that the family (all adults) was very entertained.  The acting, photography, production...I couldn't find fault, couldn't see how it could be improved.And the fear that the family couldn't follow the dialogue or plot was unfounded.  A treat.    "},{"Title":"Good version, except ...","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the most part, the actors are perfect for their characters. Gibson plays a great Hamlet, moody, gloomy, and indecisive. Polonius was especially enjoyable Neither a borrower nor a lender be... as Laertes is just tolerating him. Perfect.The only one I didn't like was Glenn Close as Gertrude, partly because she's nowhere near old enough. But this brings me to the major gripe I have with this movie. The screenwriter and director seem transfixed with the supposed Oedipal relationship between Hamlet and his Gertrude. Now, I cannot find anything in the text of the play that would remotely lead you to the conclusion that Hamlet and his mother had a relationship. The only reason I can think of for believing there is, is to go in with that assumption. This, of course, tells you far more about the morals and interests of the screenwriter and director than about Shakespeare's play.But other than that, it's a good version of a great play.  "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this in my senior English class because we had finished reading Hamlet.  I am very impressed by this movie and words alone cannot describe it.Franco Zefferelli creates a wonderful movie, unlike the Victorian trash Kenneth Brannagh made.Mel Gibson is unbelievably incredible as Hamlet and Glenn Close is magnificent as Hamlet's mother, Gertrude.The thing that makes this version of Hamlet different than Laurence Olivier's and Kenneth Branagh's versions is that Zefferelli shows a much closer relationship between Hamlet and his mom.If you liked this movie, I would also recommend these films from Franco ZefferelliRomeo and Juliet  (1968) Taming of the Shrew  (1967) "},{"Title":"A good adaption","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although it has been a while since I have seen this adaption of 'Hamlet', I thought it was quite well-done at the time. I saw it shortly after reading Shakspeare's play for the first time, and I think that this film was successful in capturing the essence of the play while making it interesting for the audience in the 21st century.The acting and scenes (attention to detail in the costume and on set) was done well. Some of the story was a little slow moving and some of the dialogue could have been updated slightly. I don't mean that it should be updated to the extent of the 1990s version of Romeo and Juliet with Leonardo DeCaprio, but Shakespeare's dialogue is very flowing and not what audiences are looking for when they go to the cinema, unfortunately. Overall, it's a good job and it is a good film to show students studying Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Some interesting points and good performances highlight a cut-to-ribbons-but-passable production","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For me, Hamlet is the greatest work of literature of all time. No matter how much I love The Hobbit and The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (yes, there is someone who likes those and Shakespeare), Hamlet is the true peak of literary achievement. That said, the play is a chore for an audience, spanning 3880 lines and often over four hours on stage or film (see Branagh's 1996 film, which cuts the first quarto text entirely and still clocks in over four hours). And it is a chore for a director and his/her actors, with seemingly every scene and every character capable of encompassing infinite variety. Thus, it is the most difficult of Shakespeare's works to perform, on stage or film; and Zeffirelli flashes moments of genius in his film, but does not quite succeed in giving us the true play on screen, as Kenneth Branagh would later do.Zeffirelli commented when working on his film that he was going to move Hamlet himself away from the whiny, brooding prince of recent times and back toward the action hero he had been in Shakespeare's day. In light of that thought, the casting of Mel Gibson fresh off of Lethal Weapon is perfect. However, Zeffirelli did not follow through on this idea. Gibson broods more than either Branagh's or Olivier's (those being the two best-known Hamlet film productions along with this one), but is also reduced to a difficult mixture of melancholic brooding and uncontrollable rage, without many of the subtleties and nuances of Hamlet in the complete text. Gibson performs admirably, but his performance is hurt considerably by the changes to the character.Meanwhile, Zeffirelli also treats the play with Freud and Olivier's favorite theme to claim in it--the Oedipus Complex. However, where Olivier's film is tied together by the Oedipus complex and it is shown quite ingeniously mostly through his use of the camera, Zeffirelli seems more just to want to shock us with the kiss of the closet scene. He foregrounds the complex with the casting of Glenn Close, but her performance is too dull to really draw it out and the production thus suffers from a lack of cohesiveness from the Oedipus complex's seeming as a side-plot involving the main character and thus only over-complicating matters rather than informing us about Hamlet.Still, a few of Zeffirelli's choices are absolutely wonderful. Rather than the typical silly old man, Polonius becomes an intelligent and powerful political operator, performed brilliantly by Ian Holm, who steals the film in my opinion. Meanwhile, his picture of the ghost is an absolutely magnificent touch. While it works against the play's statements that he appears in his armor and ready for battle, the frail old man is a somehow more startling and definitely a more human image. In this case, Zeffirelli appears again to be hearkening to older stage conventions, which viewed Hamlet as driven by his paternal love, and it works to brilliant effect in this film.In addition to those already mentioned, Helena Bonham Carter performs excellently as Ophelia, portrayed in a fairly standard manner but done so quite well; Paul Scofield's performance as the ghost is wonderfully poignant, as the underrated actor again shines; and Alan Bates's Claudius is commendable, though he admittedly often seems more intelligent than other elements (especially Polonius) would make him seem.Zeffirelli's direction itself is not terribly noticeable, with the one exception being Hamlet's wonderful separation. He always seems to be hanging out above everyone else, watching them, perfectly befitting the most intelligent of all literary characters. It's as though he is a step above everyone and sees everything that happens, which, of course, Hamlet does. Otherwise, the direction is not particularly good or bad.All in all, Zeffirelli creates an interesting film that highlights some aspects of the play wonderfully and includes some fine acting. But if you're really looking for a film version of Hamlet the play, look to Branagh or (if you must) to Olivier, since this text is nowhere near the play's. (Even Olivier's is considerably closer.) But it's a truly entertaining film version of the most spectacular play ever written and it deserves credit for that. "},{"Title":"Exactly as Shakespeare planned.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie, an almost line-for-line version of the famous play.  I had read the book before watching the movie, and I was surprised at how close the two were.  Glenn Close and Mel Gibson were excellent.  Glenn played the role of Gertrude so convincingly that you couldn't help but love her.  She showed what the play could not  that Gertrude was still a good person and a wonderful mother.  The audience couldn't hate her after that wonderful performance.  Mel Gibson's version of Hamlet is great,too.  He's perfect for all the wide-eyed and bewildered scenes.  No one could have done a job anywhere close to being as wonderful as his. The costumes were original, the whole cast was smashing, and the plot line stayed true to that of it's namesake.  What more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"The play's the thing...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nary a misstep. This is, very probably, the definitive screen version of Shakespeare. (Certainly it's the most accessible, with the most charismatic cast.) Roman Polanski's adaptation of MACBETH comes in a close second, with the '68 version of ROMEO & JULIET rounding out the top three. (Akira Kurosawa's epics, THRONE OF BLOOD and RAN, aren't, strictly speaking, straight adaptations, but they do have their roots in Shakespeare and, in many ways, outshine everything else that's been done. He said, in passing.) If I had any reservations about this one going in, it had to do with the casting of Mel Gibson- but the players, one and all, perform remarkably. In terms of film-making, no creative stone has been left unturned. Certainly the most compassionate and human of all the versions. The Bard himself would've been proud. "},{"Title":"The best version of Hamlet","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Expectations are always high, when one of Shakespaere's plays is redone. I was no exception and desired to see a great movie that represented the original Hamlet well.  I was not disappointed.  The story is brilliant and the preformances are inspired.  Glen Close's performance is outstanding, and Ian Holms is a perfect Polonius. Mel Gibson's representation of the son Hamlet, however, is the best and is simply stunning. There is no weak part of this movie that I can see, and is a treasure all the way through.  A great movie.  "},{"Title":"Well acted, nice castle!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't think of Mel Gibson as a Shakespearean actor, but what do I know? He does very well here. Most other characterizations I've seen of Hamlet have been relentlessly melancholy and/or mad. Gibson brings life to the role. The rest of the cast are also excellent. The castle they used is a perfect backdrop for the tragedy to unfold in. The overall tone of the movie filmwork is dreary and grainy, but is to be expected. This story wouldn't work in Disney colors! If you don't think you could sit through Shakespeare then give this one a try; if you don't like this Hamlet then there's no doubt that you won't like any other ones. "}{"Title":"An Excellent Adaptation","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As in Romeo and Juliet, Zeffirelli masterfully utilizes youth to make the tragic even more devastating.  Gibson's vitality and general joie de vivre make his performance of the usually completely morose Dane a unique and captivating one, perfect for this interpretation of the play.  Gibson plays youth, intensity, and slight madness quite well, and he gives us a Hamlet whose nonhabitual brooding mood is poignant and thoughtful.  He has been well named the robust Hamlet.  Glenn Close gives an excellent performance as wishy-washy Gertrude, and she and Gibson make the unusually heavy Oedipal aspect of the play convincing to the point of causing the viewer's skin to craw.  Helena Bonham-Carter is the best Ophelia gone mad, and Paul Scofield gives a wonderfully sensitive and emotional performance as the ghost of old Hamlet.I've read somewhere that this version of Hamlet is more accessible than Branagh's four hour version, and I must agree.  I think it appeals especially to American audiences who may not be such big fans as the British can be of the Royal Shakespearean Theatre style of acting, which, though suited for theatre, can come across as overacting on film. "},{"Title":"A well done adaption of Shakespeare's most well known (arguably)","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson stars as the moody ambivalent danish prince in this 1990 version directed by F. Zefferelli who also directed the popular 1968 Romeo and Juliet. Gibson certainly brings energy and fire to the role and he is supported by a fine cast 7 of 10  "},{"Title":"Much more affecting than the Branagh version","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out, and again after living through the Kenneth Branagh marathon of 1996.  I was surprised at how much better I liked it than KB's treatment, in spite of the cuts and rearranging that Zefferelli has done.  I've seen several stage productions as well.Mel Gibson is remarkably subtle in this role, not grandstanding in the look, I'm a Shakespearean actor mold.  I'm also a fan of Stephen Dillane as Horatio, and Glenn Close as Gertrude.If you like Shakespeare on film, definitely check this out. "},{"Title":"I was amazed","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a Hamlet 'collector' I expected to just see Mel Gibson playing at the part. But, even as a big Gibson fan, I only saw... Hamlet!Although a bit old for the role, Gibson's ability to play the insane young man (by merely opening his eyes a bit wider) works perfectly here. And the near incestuous scene between Gertrude and her son has never been filmed more realistically, which certainly made my skin crawl.Although a Reader's Digest version of the bard's work, all the necessary elements are intact, and this is a grand introduction to the original play for today's Hollywood/MTV generation. "},{"Title":"Great Scenery, believable acting","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this movie lots of things are done which are impossible on stage, but still, Hamlet conveys believably, with acting you'd not expect from Mel Gibson. But just for the scenery alone, the wonderful castle and the river pool near the sea I would watch this movie for a fourth time. "},{"Title":"Gibson's finest performance! Zeffirelli's masterwork! What more to say...?","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a lot of Shakespeare's dramas brought to screen so far; however, Franco Zeffirelli is unique in what he does. He is one of the best, but at the same time, one of the most underrated Shakespeare directors. All of Franco Zeffirelli's films, but particularly Shakespeare adaptations, seem to reflect his artistic soul. All of them are very individual interpretations of the great English playwright. The most famous, probably, is ROMEO AND JULIET (1968) which is one of his earliest films, except for THE TAMING OF THE SHREW made two years earlier. However, while some people may see something dated in the two above mentioned films, HAMLET is, no doubt to say, exceptionally good not only thanks to direction but thanks to its new convention and absolutely great performances! Isn't acting the critical factor when concerning Shakespeare's plays?Indeed, most cast give breathtaking performances. Glenn Close, Alan Bates, Nathaniel Parker, and Helena Bonham Carter shine in their roles. I also loved the performance of Ian Holm. They all play naturally and the action moves fluently. No moment seems to be boring although most viewers know the story perfectly well. But among the cast, one man is really extraordinary, thanks to whom the film does a great job. That is Mel Gibson in the main role. Though known for his roles in Lethal WEAPON, FOREVER YOUNG and many other films, I think that the role of Hamlet is his finest performance so far. Watching this film, you will see that he really felt his role heartfelt. Franco Zeffirelli knew whom to give the main role. I even dare say that all other portrayals of Hamlet seem to be in the shadow of Mel Gibson's portrayal in this film. Once you see him in this role, you will never forget him. I promise you that!Another great acting talent of the movie is Glenn Close. The character of Gertrude is really difficult to portray and I admire Glenn, particularly the way she expresses the change of heart. First, living in lie with Claudius, the murderer of her first husband, and then, realizing the guilt. Consider her face expressions, particularly, in the last scene when she is poisoned and regrets her evil deeds. Alan Bates is also exceptionally memorable as Claudius. He portrays a man ready to wickedness, but also ready to doubt the righteousness of his deeds. And yet, Helena Bonham Carter. What a portrayal of Ophelia's madness! These eyes! Really impressive performance worth your attention!There is one more factor that comes to my mind when thinking about the movie ... the lavish luxurious costumes. There is a gorgeous wardrobe in the film, which is certainly not the most significant thing in the film, but taking into account that it is Zeffirelli's movie, wardrobe is an important point. Remember his BROTHER SUN SISTER MOON (1972) or THE TAMING OF THE SHREW (1966)? There are similarly rich costumes in HAMLET.I would recommend Zeffirelli's HAMLET to everyone. If you liked ROMEO AND JULIET (1968), you will love this movie. A must-see for Zeffirelli's fans, a must-see for Gibson's fans! Yet, a must-see for all movie fans who know what a good performance is! "},{"Title":"The best film version of Shakespeare ever.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, Kenneth Branagh and Orson Welles have made pretty damn good film adaptations of Shakespeare's work. And don't forget Roman Polanski. Laurence Olivier's much-lauded performance as the melancholy dane is excellent. As is Branagh's, especially since he took the time to make the entire play into a film. Ethan Hawke's performance as Hamlet is to Shakespeare as what Keanu Reeves in 'Much Ado About Nothing' was to The Bard(i.e. it was PATHETIC). But Zefferelli, taking some of the best actors in the biz and using beautiful and remarkable set pieces made the definitve film working of all Shakespeare's work. I know that the cool thing to do now is to modernize Shakespeare into a timeless tale (hence Baz Luhrmann's ultra-hip 'Romeo and Juliet', Tim Blake Nelson's 'O', and of course Michael Almeredya's modern spin on 'Hamlet'), but I just find it incredibly lacking. Whilst this version has it all The performances, the scenery, the costumes, and most especially, the subtext. And at the center of it all is an actor who will probably never be hailed for his acting until the Oscars decide to throw an old-timer award at him (e.g. Paul Newman, Sean Connery, et al) and that man is Mel Gibson. He plays the tortured Hamlet to perfection. His highs and lows all seem natural. Include to that cast Alan Bates, Glenn Close, Helena Bonham Carter and the wonderful Ian Holm and you've really got something going. So if you find yourself in the mood to do the Bard, watch this film and settle in. "},{"Title":"A bit slow, to be honest","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most popular version of Hamlet seems to be Kenneth Branagh's 1996 adaptation, which many critics and audiences consider to be the finest modern Shakespeare film.However, before Branaugh had his go at it, Franco Zeffirelli (Romeo and Juliet, The Taming of the Shrew) took a stab once again at directing Shakespeare for the modern audience... and kind of failed.Let's be fair Mel Gibson gives a good performance. Glenn close seems the part. Ian Holm, Alan Bates and Helena Bonham Carter are all ace. You can't really find fault in the acting.The problem, I think, is that the movie is just kind of slow and some scenes are a bit unnecessary.Zeffirelli supposedly hired Mel after watching the scene from Lethal Weapon where he contemplates suicide. It's not surprising - that scene from Lethal Weapon is great acting and Mel does a fine job. A lot of people pass him off as one of those pretty boy actors from the '80s but I think he's shown many times he has natural talent, whether or not you agree with his political and religious beliefs.Like all teenagers I was forced to read Hamlet in high school, and like all teenagers I found it to be a total bore. But the good thing about a film like this is that when you re-visit the source, the film itself puts together some of the pieces more clearly. I found the story easier to follow this time. I read Hamlet again a short time ago and it in turn helped me follow the play a great deal better as well.Personally, I've never seen Branaugh's version (I know, I know!) so I can't compare the two. All I can say is that, although I think this is a fine film, it does have its flaws - and I wouldn't be able to give it more than a fair rating.Worth seeing out of interest. "},{"Title":"The Best Film Adaptation of Hamlet","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Franco Zeffirelli's Hamlet is the definitive film adaptation of the most famous play ever written. This is a brilliant film by a genius filmmaker. This version surpasses Kenneth Branaugh's overblown version and is even better than Laurence Olivier's film. This is a very realistic and naturalistic version set during 13th Century (the period Shakespeare set his play in). The acting is amazing; Mel Gibson and Glen Close both give the best performances of their careers and everyone else is also fantastic. The film was shot entirely on location in real castles, it has amazing photography by David Watkin and a great score by Ennio Morricone. Rating A 10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"should have won mel gibson best actor. no doubt!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i was 14 years old living in a small village in the midlands of england called barrow-upon-soar when i took a trip to the neighbouring town of loughborough. i walked by the cinema and saw mel gibsons face on the poster for hamlet and thought, 'yes, finally an actor with some balls to attempt a challenge such as shakespeare....' i walked into the dark theatre and waited for what was to come. i was absolutely amazed as i felt zefferelli and mel gibson actually achieved the skill of being able to make these characters real and not get caught up in the easily confusing word play that shakespeare was so skilled at encrypting. i felt that this film should be used as an example of showing people a real and deep interpretation of shakespeare's story-telling. this film absolutely blew me away....now i have to admit that i am biased as i have always had a deep love & admiration for shakespeare's craft since i was a small child who discovered a box full of old shakespearean plays in the basement of the house my parents first bought in guelph ont., but i completely understand the challenge it is to understand the meaning that shakespeare expressed through a style of english that is not common anymore, and that because of his stature, attempts to interpret shakespeare come under heavy critique, but for me there is no denying that zefferelli's interpretation, and the film as a whole complete interpretation allows the viewer to suspend themselves in that time, it is so believable so realistic that it surpasses any attempt before it. yes that's right even olivier.....!i cannot wait for mel gibson to convey his interpretation of hamlet with robert downey jr. as the student.  -) "}{"Title":"What the...??!!??","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can someone PLEASE explain to me why I can get  Killer Clowns from Outerspace on DVD,  but not HAMLET???  We're talking Shakespeare here!!! "}]