[{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs. (1990) was another sequel. During the 80's any movie that made the slightest of profits made a sequel. For one reason only, to make even more money. However many producers never made another dime off of the momentum of the previous film and were stuck with a sequel that cost two or three times as much as the original film, Another 48 Hrs. was a prime example. The only reason films that produced multiple sequels raked in the dough was the films were cheaply made, low overhead means more potential for a profit. When you pour millions into a movie and expect to make a buck, two out of three times you're going to lose your shirt. The movie has a rushed into production feel. I felt the same way after watching Scary Movie 2. The director was given what he had to work with. I can't fault Walter Hill because he made a pretty watchable movie. The problem was this film didn't need a sequel. The end results are a remake of the first movie. No more, no less. This film was made during the peak of Eddie Murphy's over exposure period. Like so many actors, he was a victim of his own excess. Nick Nolte seemed to be going through the motions whilst Eddie Murphy had that look at me thing going.Overall it's not a bad movie. But if you're expecting something different then look elsewhere. Maybe the filmmakers should have watched the first movie again before they wrote the script. It would have helped a bit. Recommended for fans of the first film.B "},{"Title":"A bit far fetched, yet entertaining","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll be the first to admitt that the sequel probably isn't as good as the original, but for some reason i get much more enjoyment from watching it. Perhaps it's due to the fact that Murphy gets to show off more of his comic talents then he does in the original,but whatever the case i found this to be an enjoyable flick which unfairly recieved some harsh critisim (in my opinon). The basic plot for Another 48 Hours is that Detective Jack Cates(Nolte)has for years been attempting to track down a underground criminal only known as the iceman. Then when Cates finds out the iceman wants his old buddy Reggie Hammond(Murphy)     dead, he enlists his help to bring the iceman down (because apparently Hammond is the only person ever to have seen the Iceman). A few notes, at the end of the original film, Hammond only had 6 months left to go on his sentence. However since then his sentence has been changed to 6 years because he apparently robbed the prision payrole(hey i'm not making this stuff up). Ganz's(the main bad guy, from the original 48 hours) brother is one of the bad guys who has been hired by the iceman to kill Hammond and Cates. The sequel is more comic-like than the original,and truth be known some parts of it's storyline are flawed (we never really know the real story behind Hamond being detained for another 6 years)and the Jack Cates character is more lukewarm then the original. But still, Another 48 Hours provides much entertainment and if your a fan of Eddie Murphy i would recommend you giving this one a try. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to admit this film has a 'Have I met you before' feeling to it. But then most sequels do. Same characters, same personalities leads to some of the stuff being same-ish. Yet I ask you, how many people do you know that drastically change overnight? Not that many. So the same characters having the same reactions and habits to similar situations is not that far fetched. Hill Street Blues characters didn't change that much either yet it stayed entertaining. I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The acting is of a very high quality and so are some of the action scenes. And there is a twist in the film I didn't see coming. So all in all, not a classic yet highly entertaining, and that is what it was supposed to do. "},{"Title":"Mind the word another!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a good thing that director Walter Hill has waited 8 years before making a sequel of the original 48 hrs.  If he had released this film immediately after the first one, it would have become a flop.  The reason is because both films are very much alike.  Another 48 hrs. hasn't got anything new to offer; it's an almost exact copy of the first one.  And that's precisely why they waited so long before making this sequel.Nothing really changed actually.  There's Nick Nolte who plays the same cigarette-smoking and alcohol-addicted tough-guy cop forced to team together with Eddy Murphy who takes up his part as the noisy, bad-mouth and know-it-all convict-character again.  Just like in the first film, it's the chemistry between these two actors that makes Another 48 hrs. really worth-watching.  And just like in the first film, the only decent acting comes from Nick Nolte and Eddy Murphy while the rest of the cast is merely below average. Once more the action scenes are great to watch.  This is a good thing, because it makes you forget about the weak script.  The dialogues are funny, but they're overloaded again with harsh language.  Some might find this annoying; I honestly thought it became funny after a while.The ending is pretty weak and predictable, but on the whole Another 48 hrs. is almost as good as its predecessor and good waste of time; not money. "},{"Title":"Solid Entertainment! Bravo Andrew Divoff!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie just has it all, comedy; great, fast-paced action and a moderately solid story. This is the kind of movie which you should see with your friends on a Friday-night, with a great bowl of pop-corn. The actors, such as Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy (the original 48 Hours team) have a great chemistry between them and their combination of action and fun works well for the film. The movie is very funny and you'll have a hard time not enjoying it, with it good soundtrack and quite original, cool scenes (such as the bus-scene). I would like to mark Andrew Divoff's performance as Cherry Ganz, one of the biking psycho-killers that Murphy and Nolte are after. Divoff really scared the crap out of me with his wild, fierce, hyper portrayal of Cherry Ganz, who also contributes to alot of killings and violence shown in this film. People who say that 48 Hours is the untouchable original are wrong because the sequel was made by the same director who's style you immediately recognise in this picture. Another 48 Hours is as good as the original and is doubtless a highly entertaining film!  "},{"Title":"Shows its age due to time but Another 48 Hrs. is still an entertaining and action packed yarn that will quench any buddy thirst you might have.","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs. feels like a missed opportunity; it feels as if the makers have recognised the potential of the idea and have done half a job. This is because it never really elevates itself above the material it actually is. At a time when the Lethal Weapon films had proved there was a demand for white cop with black sidekick buddy combination type films, Another 48 Hrs. is perhaps a cash in sequel to a film that was never anything special any way. Where as it sounds like I'm being negative, the film was enjoyable for what it was and that said; I would have a hard time in deciding which one I liked more.A scene from this film which typically sums up the genre the film is working under highlights not only the genres inability to ever be anything above a certain level but also the problem films face when they age. The film is a crime film; a buddy combination of two people getting involved in shoot outs and general criminal activity whilst battling each others egos. In 1994 when Pulp Fiction came out, films like Another 48 Hrs. were history and a particular scene is defining evidence shortly after a prison bus has rolled over a few times, two hells angels are going to kill someone on board. But what happens is instead of riding up to the overturned bus and finishing the job, they park their bikes a few hundred yards away, get off very slowly and walk up to the bus with the intent to kill. Now, there is absolutely no reason for them to do this apart from add suspense to the scene and perhaps have two bikers walk in tandem; in slow motion amongst the heat wave in a 'cool' fashion. This is the point; films such as these rely on what would look good cinematically rather than stick to what their characters would do.I know it's wrong to compare a film to another film made after it but this highlights not only the bad way in which Another 48 Hrs. has aged but further cements what a great film Pulp Fiction really is; the buddy combination in that film of Jules and Vincent who are by no coincidence black and white but Tarantino plays with realism in the film and the scene in which someone is accidentally shot in the back of the car is so much more clear in the sense it is two fingers up to scenes like the one just mentioned in Another 48 Hrs. The film starts off with Reggie (Murphy) still in prison and shows up its other half of the buddy combination as a bit of an idiot. Another 48 Hrs. suffers from its cliché that its best cop on the force, Jack (Nolte), is actually a loose cannon whom needs to be removed even though the job is actually perfect for him; an idea toyed with in the third Die Hard film but with John McLane. Jack seems certain that an antagonist known as The Iceman is at large but is demeaned and shown up as perhaps a bit of a schizophrenic; one officer labelling this Iceman as an imaginary friend/enemy who Jack has been pretending to chase.Unfortunately, the initial incident in the film happens a little early by way of a shooting at a race track. What I couldn't understand is that with all those people watching the race, nobody saw the bad guy shoot at Jack and consequently; the police have their eye on him. Reggie on the other hand is out of jail and he miraculously survives an attack on a bus (mentioned earlier) as it rolls over several times; something that would have killed him. But the film suffers from it lack of logic that can be applied to certain situations The bus rolls over; the bikers aren't professional enough; the back up arrives a too quickly and are unable to spot the bikers fleeing; the bikers in other scenes get their guns out in full public view too many times but nobody ever seems to mind and generally, there is an acute sense of frustration during these times. But the film backs itself up with a scene in a nightclub during which it makes a pastiche out of its predecessor by putting Jack in a punch up only for Reggie to save him by acting out his cop/no nonsense routine by threatening to shoot first and the ask questions later. Along with this, Jack even makes reference to 'typical bar punch ups that you get in the movies' where he states someone always hits else someone over the head with a chair or a glass bottle. Jack then does exactly that with a bottle and the chair soon follows.But to me, this is Another 48 Hrs. recognising that is knows what it is; that it knows the formula its using and is having fun playing around with the clichés; even if scenes such as the bus rolling and the bikers not doing what they should do by finishing the job. The film is by no means great or groundbreaking but I was never bored or put off by what I was seeing; it may have lacked realism and been since pushed down a peg in the crime genre hierarchy by bigger and better films but it remains entertaining to a degree with gunshots powerful enough to propel people through windows and cops smart enough to wear bullet proof vests whilst off duty. Another 48 Hrs. is by no means a big winner but it is by no means a massive loser, even if it may indeed look like that in another twenty years. "},{"Title":"Pretty Entertaining But Totally Inferior To The Original!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a pretty entertaining sequel, but totally inferior to the original in almost every way!. I enjoyed this film quite a bit, however a lot of it is rehashed,and it had some shocking but bizarre plot twists, don't get me wrong i didn't see them coming, but they didn't make any sense, however Eddie gets to show off more with his comic talent, and had a lot more to do this time (in my opinion). Nick and Eddie still had awesome chemistry, and the film is constantly entertaining, it's just it's nowhere close to being as good as the original, and felt they could have done a bit more new material. I enjoyed this movie quite a bit however it can't match the original. The Direction is good. Walter Hill, does a good job here nothing special but he kept the film at a fast pace! good job. There is a bit of blood. We get lots of pretty bloody gunshot wounds but that's it. The Acting is very good. Nick Nolte is fantastic once again, he had awesome chemistry with Eddie Murphy, was likable,kicked that ass, and was lots of fun to watch!. Eddie Murphy is AMAZING as always, and is just plain hilarious,however both of them seemed to be going through the motions at times, still they gave it there all, and they were both great, plus Eddie gets to show off his comedic talent more! (Eddie Rules!). Brion James is good here,but didn't have enough screen time.Andrew Divoff, is great as the main villain, and was very menacing. Ed O'Ross is also good with his limited screen time. Overall well worth the watch, just don't expect the original. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Half-sequel, half-remake","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I agree with most of the past commentators. This film is a half-sequel, half-remake. So many elements were simply copied from the original film. I'm sure the filmmakers considered this homage, but it comes off as a lack of ideas. And we won't even go into the monumental plot holes. Gigantic plot holes. Brobdingnagian plot holes. And while I hadn't previously noted the enormous amount of glass breaking, until reading the comments, yes, I'd have to say they made it more or less a motif of the film. Murphy and Nolte did reasonably well resurrecting their respective characters, and there were some truly funny moments, and truly snappy repartee. But it's not enough to save this one. If you liked the original film (and who didn't) you should probably see this one, just don't have high expectations for it. "},{"Title":"The boys are back in town","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" To many people another 48 hours is a like a remake of the original. I can see why they would think so. many of the scenes are just like the ones in the first movie. However I believe it had a new plot being to catch a mysterious criminal known as the Iceman. I thought it had a great twist on who was the main bad guy after all. The end shootout was one of the best in the action movie history. There were also some good comedy scenes between Murphy and Nolte. Andrew Divoff does good as Ganz brother. Murphy's scene in the bar however is bad and does not even come close to the original. In my opinion this was a good action/comedy sequel to a classic original. "},{"Title":"Murphy and Nolte are Still Great Together","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I was little and saw the first 48 Hours, I thought Eddie Murphy looked pretty scrawny in that suit and that, upon seeing the sequel, he looked a lot more fashionable. Then I realized he was wearing the same suit throughout this movie (I guess he was in a lot better shape). Other than considering this film to be a fairly entertaining rehash of the first, I guess that's my review.Although I must mention that if someone were to fire a Desert Eagle handgun as close to their face as Andrew Divoff does in the final act of this film, he would probably burn his cheek and deafen himself... but I guess that's just part of Walter Hill's bombastic direction. "}{"Title":"A good and funny follow-up to the original","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another 48 HRS. is good for one reason and one reason only, Nick Nolte and  Eddie Murphy's chemistry together. They work off each other perfectly. This  film is not interested in telling a story, it is a mere stage for these two  actors to showcase their talent. The film only works when these two are on -screen. When Murphy and Nolte are not on-screen, the film is rather boring.  This can be credited to the fact that Nolte and Murphy are so fun to watch  that you don't care at all about the rest of characters. Fortunately, Nolte  and Murphy are on-screen more than 90% of the time.  "},{"Title":"A Faceless Clock of Old and Dry Ideas.","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Really more of a remake than a sequel as the similarities between this installment and the original eight years earlier are mind-blowing. Once again Nick Nolte is a San Francisco cop who gets convict Eddie Murphy out of prison a little early so they can stop a deviant group of criminals. This time they are after a mysterious mastermind drug kingpin who has a staggering network of thugs (mainly motorcycle) who do his bidding. And of course none of the bad guys even know who their boss is. No creativity turns this into a sequel that was just made for monetary purposes. The idea was only somewhat successful as the box office business paled in comparison with its predecessor. Critically the picture is almost a total waste. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Bigger and Louder !","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Everybody got to love certain thing crazily. As for me, among many things, it's the Buddy-Movies.Since the 1970s' end the 1980s' start, the action movies became big and loud, the expression Blockbuster has been founded, and the Buddy-Cop movie became the most fashionable subgenre. So, despite my feelings about the first 48 Hrs movie, I must admit it was one godfather for the genre and a milestone in its time. It was the beginning of an era that lasted for nearly 2 decades after, setting a specific formula where the Action thriller will be always with odd couple. So it's Abbott & Costello again yet in a world of madly violent bad guys, madly violent good guys, incessant swearing from everybody, streets full of unstoppable car chases, a sky that rains torrents of bullets, huge explosions every 10 minutes, police forces with only dirty cops, and continuous sarcastic clashes between the 2 partners who-are-going-to-be-real-friends !From the highest, most popular, franchises (Lethal Weapon), to (Stakeout), (Men In Black), (Bad Boys), reaching to (Rush Hour).. with the decline of the whole matter ! It was maybe the golden age of the American action movie, and definitely the golden age of the Buddy-action movie. So, after 8 years of the first 48 Hrs, it was some acme for its kind. For instance at the same year of 1990, you'd find another similar Buddies such as (The Rookie), and it was even the time to a Buddy-Cop spoof  (Loose Cannons)! So why not to make (Another 48 Hrs).The intention here was clear  making a fierce image all the time, with at least one explosion, gunfire, flying bus or man in every single scene, and when director (Walter Hill) and his writing team find no such matters to put, so they make the actor break the glass by his bare hand.. Just for the fun of it. Hence when its finale took place at a nightclub you'd catch on its real message; it's about having a noisy good time anyway.This is, unlike the original, a downright crazy action. You'd never meet a girlfriend character or a longer than one page dialogue. That surely affected the comedy in a bad way, though who said that this is a comedy? Even the first movie was anything but a comedy (otherwise if you consider the numerous swearing a comic thing !).The main plot is openly just an excuse to blow up things, but it managed to be good as whole. Along side being highly explosive (I love that), it enjoyed presenting a modern time old western outlaws, making an actual confusion about who's the real iceman ?, and spoofing itself smartly while the bar fight (with Nolte saying  How cliché !).But the writing didn't care much about rooting the 2 leads' relationship; which is absolute crap when it comes to a flick like this before being something already had been done in the first one. Yet it got real weak points like the iceman's complicated plan to kill (Murphy)'s character (just because he saw him once!) while it's something easier to be executed in jail more than doing it outside ?! Plus I felt that something didn't fit (Eddie Murphy), he has nothing funny to do but imitating James Brown rapidly, and he got to say the same speech of having a bad day twice already (at the hospital, then at the bar!!??).The 2 leads look fatter than the first movie. They deliver, especially to each other, spiritlessly. (James Horner) uses his original catchy main theme yet the movie doesn't give him a space to say more. (Walter Hill) seems having a riotous good time, I believe he wanted to pay a little homage to Sergio Leone's (Once Upon a Time in The West) at the slow, kind of long, opening titles in dusty desert with 3 killers gather to murder one man. And Although he managed to blast it at his full blast, but I saw that the climax wasn't up to all what was before it of stronger action.For rare time the tagline speaks the truth  Here they go again. Only faster. And tougher. Am I add bigger and louder, but not funny !P.S  At one moment of the movie (Murphy)'s character says if the sh*t became with price, these ones will be born without asses, it's a line from Gabriel Garcia Marquez's novel (The Autumn of the Patriarch) !! Or is it too far coincidence ?! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still entertaining","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Movie begins with a meeting of a few bikers. Then a some cops arrive and get killed. (who could have guessed). Then you see a racetrack where some money-exchange is taking place. After a shootout between a guy and Jack Cates (Nick Nolte). There is a little explosion but they don't find the other guys gun. So Jack is in big problems because he is likely to be charged with manslaughter. Jack visits Reggie (Eddie Murphy) in prison and tells him that he only gets his money (which Jack stored for him) if he helps him. Reggie gets really mad. BTW Reggie says he was in prison for 7 years which gets explained later. Because in Part 1 they always talked about (I think) just a few (like 2 or so, but don't hold me to that) years. Oh and on of the bikers, who are supposed to kill Reggie is the brother of the bad guy in the first movie. Well, Reggie gets out of the Prison and is on his bus. while that happens there is an attempt on Jack's Life. Because he is on the search for a ominous Drugdealer called The Iceman. (BTW I missed something before Reggie was in his cell alone and singing to his James Brown tape. Looks exactly as it did in Part one. When the movie came out, I read that this Scene was put in to compensate Eddie Murphies Wishes. But it was funny one time. The second time it looks kinda out of place.). All that happens in the first 10 minutes of the movie. So you can imagine that there is a lot of action in this movie. After a while they get to be good buddies during the movie again. It's very similar to the first movie. And a lot of scenes are kind of just copied from the first one (I mean storywise) Since Walter Hill had 8 Years to come up with a new and entertaining and sometimes funny story. But the movie just hasn't the charm of the first movie. Though if you enjoy either Eddie Murphy or Nick Nolte You'll like it I will not spoil the rest of the movie for you if you haven't seen it yet and tell you who the iceman is. Now it get's explained why Reggie was in the Can longer. He was framed for illegal money possession in Jail. Since Jack doesn't give Reggie his Money they have to work together, and Reggie isn't happy about it. Nobody from the Force believes Jack about the Iceman... Well the story develops as you might think.. They go through a lot and become good buddies again. I am watching the Movie right now. The revelation who the Iceman is, that is the only real surprise in this movie, the rest is real predictable. Well it's a typical Buddie Movie as they did back then (like from the middle 80ties to the beginning of the nineties)... like the first Lethal Weapon Movie. First the two don't like each other and during the movie they become best friends.(It's sad that they, for the most part, don't make 'em like this anymore).. If you like these kinds of movies you will like this one.. I like them from back when they were new, so I still do. But if you are used to Movie like they make 'em today , I really don't know if you will enjoy it. But it is a pretty good movie. Watch it and decide for yourself. And if you haven't seen Part 1 (48 Hours) get that one too. O.K. I will watch the rest of the movie now and enjoy myself. One last thing I really think, the movie is worth 7 out of 10 points. "},{"Title":"Another 48 Hours Too Late","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!Another 48 Hours is a waste of time, talent and space.Why?Because ANYONE who saw the first film could see the plot holes. Plot holes that are big enough to fall through, along with 10 other people.Apparently, Jack Cates (A tired looking Nick Nolte)is obsessed with The Iceman, a drug dealer. During a deal gone bad that may cause Cates to lose his job and end up in prison, he finds Reggie Hammond's (A bored looking Eddie Murphy)picture. It seems that Hammond, who is STILL in jail, is now a target. There are 2 biker guys, one of them is the brother of the bad guy from the previous film, that want to see him dead.There is too many cooks trying to cook this sad excuse of soup. Many things are not explained. For example, the identity of The Iceman. When you do find out who it is, you will scratch your head and wondered what the hell is going on! I'm not going to reveal WHO it is to those who haven't seen it. I only want to say four wordsIT MADE NO SENSE!!!!!For those who haven't seen the film, for God's sake, don't rent it, because you'll want your money back. Catch it on TV (It's ALWAYS on!)and save your cash. "},{"Title":"Trash, but entertaining trash none the less","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sure, it's not a patch on 48 hours, but it does stand as a perfect example of ne plus ultra 90s sequelitis as tougher, simpler movies are retooled into flash bang gee whizz action paintings with money flushed into entourages and re-doing the same things they did almost a decade earlier on the cheap, only this time they all actually get paid (rather than the studio running off with the money and leaving everyone to wonder why a major success still isn't in profit). So in a sense, this is just the creative players from 48 hours getting paid their due. It's also another spin for Hill on the dying embers of the West, with a motorbike gang (I sense this was first drafted in the 70s) proclaiming themselves the last true outlaws and bastions of freedom before offing some random cops and entangling themselves with Nick Nolte and his amazing never-ending revolver (I count 11 shots in the final barrage of bullets into the bad guy alone). Familiar scenes are replayed again by people now so rich (and yes, I'm thinking Eddie Murphy here in a redneck bar) that the good guys come off as cruel rather than heroic. Bult Walter can still trade gunfire with anyone out there, and for that reason alone it's worthy of your attention. It also looks like a Tony Scott film with it's earthy tones and blazing suns. Pair up with Scott's Beverley Hills Cop 2 for a great retro night in. And if you don't like, wonder how far sequelitis had worked before we ended up with Beverley Hills Cop 3 or Lethal Weapon 3 and thank whatever you worship that we never got a 48hrs squared. "},{"Title":"not  bad action  stuff","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Good entertainment in the ever-popular bad-ass cop/hoodlum buddy genre. I really dug the biker heavies, and the thing with the bus was a masterpiece. I wonder how many old buses they trashed to get that sequence just right? Much like the car chase in Bullitt; its the part you remember years after you've forgotten the plot of the film.Nick Nolte is excellent as the tough but rather dumb cop commuting between mayhem zones in his tired and much abused Cadillac convertible. Most of the western-style action takes place in sleaze-bag honky-tonks and a brothel. Quite effective.Excellent action throughout but the broken-glass festival at the end is a little overdone. The fake streetcars are very unprofessional. Why spend so much money and effort on some scenes and then blow it on basic glitches like that? Movie audiences DO notice that sort of thing, just like airplane vapor trails in Westerns, so stay on the ball, Hollywood.Speaking of balls, my favorite scene in this film is the one where Eddie Murphy gets the drop on Nick Nolte with a basketball ! Either Nolte is a very good actor or he really didn't know it was coming. Maybe both. Try doing 20 takes of that scene sometime.Perennial villain Ed O'Ross (Red Heat, Universal Soldier) is in there as one of the bad cops and duly gets drilled in the finale. Has Ed O'Ross EVER been in a film where he didn't meet a violent end ? The problem is that as soon as you see him, you just know that he's going to be one of the heels. I liked this film, and it still holds it own pretty well today for a new generation of viewers, despite the autos and clothes now starting to look a little dated.R. B. "},{"Title":"A new adventure begins!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here we go again! Jack Cates(Nick Nolte) and Reggie Hammond(Eddie Murphy) are back together, only this time, the things get more extreme. In Another 48 Hours, Cates and Hammond go after a man known only as th Ice Man. Not only that, there's an inside man in the police force helping him out. Things go bad for Hammond when his car gets blown away, was shot at when he was in the prison bus. What's even worse, one of the killers is the brother of Ganz(The killer from the first movie who stole Cates' gun). Unlike the first one, there were some biker action. I liked the part when the biker went right through the movie screen. Anyone could mistake that for 3D. There was more shooting. This one has a little more carnage than the first I should say. It was funny when Reggie finally took the lighter from Cates after he was shot. Nothing seems to change in that movie, the fun factor was still there, and the comedy was there as well. Enjoy! 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Another Bad Sequel","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sometimes it's better to leave things alone. Whereas the original 48 Hours was a well written and acted version of the buddy-cop films, the sequel is uninspired and drawn out version of the first. The audience soon loses interest in the characters that they have come to watch. Murphy and Nolte do not add any depth or growth to the characters that once made them famous. It appears to be a film where the cast & crew walked through the motions of production and collected a hefty paycheck at the end. Unfortunately the audience discovers after paying the price of admission, that if you want another 48 Hours, watch the original.  "},{"Title":"Fun & Fast!","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Sequel to the Terrific 48 Hrs, 'Another 48 Hrs.' is fortunately, a fun & fast-paced sequel , that doesn't disappoint. Its pure vintage entertainment!'Another 48 Hrs.'Synopsis Jack Cates once again enlists the aid of ex-con Reggie Hammond--this time, to take down The Iceman, a ruthless drug lord operating in the San Francisco bay area.'Another 48. Hrs' has a brisk pace, which does the trick. At a crisp 95-minutes, the sequel doesn't waste time & comes to the point pretty fast. Of course, a few sequences in the first-hour could've been better, but in totality, the narrative isn't loose. John Fasano, Jeb Stuart & Larry Gross's Screenplay is not without its minuses, but overall, its good. Walter Hill's Direction is effective. Cinematography is razor-sharp. Action-Sequences are awesome.Performance-Wise The Incomparable Nick Nolte steals 'Another 48 Hrs'. He's rough, heroic & lovable all through. Eddie Murphy is spontaneous, as ever. The on-screen camaraderie between Nolte & Murphy, remains as a high-point for the enterprise. On the whole, 'Another 48 Hrs' works. "}{"Title":"Another much more action filled 48 hours","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seven years on, a wearied Nolte, hair cropped and the lively sidekick, Murphy re team in this bigger action spectacle. While the original was more restrained, and did take a while to get to where it's going, this however surprisingly much more entertaining, as if the start is anything to go back. Apparently Nolte and Murphy, are in an avenging fire, as Gain's brother wants retribution, and we know Nolte, never losing his character, isn't gonna go down easy. Nolte enlist Murphy's help to catch this angry son of a bitch, and of course he's reluctant as first until Nolte tries blackmailing tactics on him. Murphy who is almost is free as a bird takes up with Nolte after assassination attempts are made on him. Now the angry and avenging return fire and this is where the fun of the movie lies. Even if not liking the original, which was more solid, atmospheric and hard edged, and of better quality, here's one you'll like more with racey punchy action, with an end, very much similar to the original, plus a shock turn involving one of Nolte's very own from the original, which I liked. "},{"Title":"The Boys Are Back !","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" But this time around they are not welcomed!. Don't know what happened. Same director, same leading stars,almost the same premises and what a misfire! What a shame. I was really looking forward to seeing this sequel because of the classic 48 HRS(1982) before it. But what a disappointment. This one doe not even have a Nolte vs Eddie rematch fight! (It's like it was trying to hard to replicate the success of the 1st one.(Big mistake) Even having the same music and actors and the most unbelievable , the same lines!!? Being repeated here again just made them lose all their power per say(Call for help now!) (Roxanne!..) Nolte calling Eddie convict etc...had this been more of homage then maybe it would have worked differently.In this one Eddie Murphy is now the star and Nick Nolte his co-star. They still have that chemistry but somehow it just isn't the same or funny like it was in the original. Brion James returns as 'Ben Kehoe' from the original,but now in a bigger role as in the most unbelievable ridiculous I can't believe I gotta swallow this oneway. He turns out to be now the main bad guy(the 'Ice Man')this in turn explains in some crazy way that it was Kehoe's money that 'Reggie Hammond'(Murphy) stole in the 1st movie!!?? What the hell??!! That was the best they could come up with as a story? gimme a break! Why did he wait till the sequel to get Eddie killed??! Doesn't make sense! Another actor from the original is supposedly here also(I didn't see him at all) and that is the great Frank McRae as 'Capt. Haden',he is listed here on IMDb in this film as uncredited but I still not see him for nothing. Annette O'Toole, who played 'Jack Cates's girl 'Elaine' in the original,(wisely) sat this one out as they explain that she and Jack are now divorced and she went back home somewhere.Of the new blood we have the great Kevin Tighe doing what he does best, playing a slimy , sleazy type of role. Here he is 'Blake Wilson' the Internal Affairs guy out to get Nolte. good turn for him. He even gets punched out big time by Nolte! Next we have the great(and one of my favorites) Ed O'Ross in a thankless role as a crooked cop who is in cahoots with the Ice Man. He had a much better role earlier in Walter Hill's Red Heat(1988) as Viktor 'Rosta' Rostavili. Here, he was just wasted.The main villain here is played by none-other than the great Andrew Divoff. He plays 'Cherry Ganz' the brother of Albert Ganz from the original that was played by the great James Remar. Divoff did a believable(even with the fake wig and stuff) job, even sounded a lot like Remar's Ganz but then again they are suppose to be 'brothers' so that totally worked for me.i was surprised to see the great Bernie Casey.Don't get me wrong, he did a great turn as 'Kirkland Smith' the man inside prison with Murphy that Eddie 'owes' a favor big-time. His role was brief but good. His daughter in this film is played by Tisha Cambell(Gina from 'Martin' fame) that was nice but she came out to close to the end and once again I feel she was wasted in her brief thankless role. it would have been interesting to have had her come out earlier and see if she and Murphy would have had some chemistry. Oh well, we will never know.It looks like director Walter Hill uses many of the actors he has worked with in his prior films. Like for instance Brent Jennings who was in Hill's Red Heat(1988) as 'Abdul Elijah'. here he has the role of 'Tyrone Burroughs' the so-called 'Ice-Man's right-hand man.It was a OK role but I feel he was wasted also. Another actor used was the late Edward Walsh, who sadly this was his final film. he had a brief role also as a fellow detective of Nolte and was just not used properly like he was in Hill's debut Hard Times(1975) as the sleazy, double-crossing 'Pettibon'. This film was not a good final swansong for him.The late character actor of countless B Movies Hoke Howell had a brief bit here as an ill-fated bartender. Stuntman/actor Allan Graf did both jobs in this one also in his brief bit as the ill-fated bus driver.Also performing stunts only was the beautiful and talented Patricia Tallman.Two very surprising bits that were so brief you better not blink type were from two very distinguished Asian actors George 'kee' Cheung and Dana Lee. I barely saw George's scene but missed Dana's completely. What made these very talented actors at this juncture of their long career's take these throwaway bit roles is a mystery to me. Maybe they were Walter Hill's friends and did it for a lark or they were just happy to be working and getting paid no matter what the role required. Complete mystery. Ironically, these two gentlemen had previously worked together 5 years earlier in RamboFirst Blood part 2(1985) in way better roles being the bad guys/villains to Stallone's Rambo.And last but certainly not least, is the blink and you'll miss it scene of the great Kitten Natividad shown briefly as a nude stripper in a movie playing in the background as the action/climax just tears up the screen she is on. I guess you gotta take what you can in Hollywood and I'm thinking that's just what these actors all did! )P.S. That's none-other than Jesse Johnson (formerly of The Time) playing at the club the '48 HRS' signature song, The Boys Are Back In Town "},{"Title":"not as good as the original but still pretty decent","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this sequel to 48 Hours has a much darker tone than the original.it's more violent,with probably even more very strong language.there is a bit less comedy,but the comic bits are a bit funnier than in the first one.the action is thorough the roof in this one.it's much more exciting.i liked the storyline more.it's more developed and a bit more complex.the plot isn't that original,but the movie is well executed.the movie is a bit too formulaic at times though.Eddie Murphy gets to show a little of his impression talent in this one.the dialogue,while pretty good for the most part,is at times overdone and a bit of a stretch.overall,i think this movie is pretty decent,but not quite as good as the first one.for me,Another 48 hours is a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Bigger, Faster, Funnier, Smarter...and Better","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Forget what you've heard, this is a far better film than the original. Sure, the story is implausible, far-fetched and unrealistic, with plot holes you can fly the Spruce Goose through, but it's a lot more fun.In the first film, the big baddie, Albert Ganz (frighteningly realized by the fine character actor James Remar) lends a touch of realism to the proceedings. The big baddie in the sequel is none other than Ganz's brother Richard Cherry Ganz, a killer that makes his brother look like Gandhi. They say bad guys make the movie, and Andrew Divoff does an admirable job as the psychopathic biker out to kill both Reggie and Jack.The shootout finale is classic, and the twist ending sure to please.Hill's direction is first rate and the action sequences, especially the scenes with the motorcycles, unparalleled, even by today's standards. And did I mention it was pretty darn funny? If you are a fan of the first movie, don't miss this. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy return in the belated follow up which finds both Nolte and Murphy teaming up again when the iceman shows up on Nolte's wanted list once again tons of action ensues but this time the thrill is gone and all that is left is a by the numbers police thriller which only has a few decent moments that save it from the turkey pile. Nolte and Murphy still have chemistry but for some reason not as much as it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"The same car, the same clothes, the same plot.","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The violence even more excessive, the plot even thinner, and the laughs even fewer, as cop Nolte is again forced to turn to con Murphy, just being released from eight years in prison, to crack another case, keep his own ass out of prison, and try to save his career.All of the dialogue is exposition, spelling out to the audience what little is going on, and some of it is even taken verbatim from the earlier film, as the filmmakers apparently play the first film's soundtrack album, and while glass shatters seemingly endlessly. When this is not recycling its predecessor's soundtrack album, there is a curious choice of country music heard in the background.I couldn't even recommend this to the biggest fans of either Murphy and/ or Nolte, nor can I think of a redeeming quality or value to this exact duplicate of the original. The only reason I give it a 2/ 10 is because I slightly chuckled at the several jokes about hillbillies, and several background extras (the singer in the bar, and the guy standing on the courthouse steps) who stare at the camera. Or, were these scenes guerrilla filmed, and those people didn't know they were on camera?Even more than the original, the thin plot collapses if given even the slightest bit of thought. "},{"Title":"loads of action but not much else","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" San Francisco police detective Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) has been tracking mysterious drug-lord Iceman. Iceman henchman Tyrone Burroughs is hiring a hit-man to kill Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy). Jack kills the hit-man but Tyrone escapes. Internal affairs Blake Wilson investigates and Jack is suspended facing possible charges. Reggie is getting out of prison after his 5 years. He demands to get his money from Jack but Jack refuses unless Reggie helps him. Tyrone hires Ganz and the violent biker gang to kill Reggie. Ganz is looking to avenge his brother and kill Jack. After they are both attacked, they are forced together once again.Director Walter Hill returns with Nolte and Murphy. It is wall to wall violence. It's explosions, gun battles, crashes and kills. However, the comedy isn't there any more and the vile language has been tone down quite a lot. I still like the guys but they don't have the same chemistry. It's missing the raw energy and Murphy's humor in the original. "},{"Title":"Respectable Sequel","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) once again enlists the aid of ex-con Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) -- this time, to take down the Iceman, a ruthless drug lord operating in the San Francisco bay area.Eddie Murphy received a salary of $9,000,000 for his role as Reggie Hammond (because of his success in Beverly Hills Cop and later films), an improvement over his $450,000 salary from the first film. That is quite the promotion! The movie got some awful reviews and made a ton of money. The money confuses me, but the reviews I get. Although it is enjoyable in the way that films like the original or Lethal Weapon are, it just seemed dull and half-baked compared to the first film. Like it never quite got as much love from the writer as it should. And Nolte seemed... well, off. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A rehash of the first one, but still a poignant, gripping story that glues you to your seat from the start to the finish. This cast interacts with absolute precision, whether walking around a room or interrupting each others' wisecracks. The script and direction meld into a strong movie. What's best is that not one character ever withdraws tongue from cheek. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. It reminds me of some of those sombre German films that were popular back in the 1990s. An awesome, good surprise for me this little movie was, so that I highly recommend it. Rating equals 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The Boys Are Back In Town","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs isn't a sequel to Walter Hill's 1982 movie 48 Hrs it's a clone. Following the theory that success is not to be tampered with, director Walter Hill has paired up convict Eddie Murphy with cop Nick Nolte and poured them in to story little change from the original. Just like the first movie, Murphy is released from prison and must unwillingly help Nolte solve a crime in 48 Hrs. They happy ending of the first movie is long since gone, and the two don't like each other again. Presumably, so we can have the same bickering banter all movie before the out their differences aside and take down the bad guys as in the first movie. The score is reused from the first movie as is the song 'The Boys Are Back In Town'. As well as all that all the best scenes from the first movie are duplicated here.To be fair the story has been updated a little bit, Nolte is no longer permanently hungover, his wife has left him and Murphy is out of prison permanently.Crude, mindless, foul mouthed and violent. This film plods along grabbing every easy laugh along the way. Not as good as the first one, but a more than watchable movie, staring Eddie Murphy wearing his I'm only in this for the money trademark grin. "}{"Title":"You got framed. That's what every convict says!","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The theme tune says it all really, the boys are back in town. Nolte and Murphy are back together as cop and convict wading through a plot as lazy as it gets. Walter Hill directs once again and it's only his action scenes that stop this from being an outright stinker. Every thing about it comes off as a cheap cash in lacking originality, with scenes even reproduced from the first film here. A strong supporting cast of character actors file in to make some easy money, with the likes of Brion James, Ed O'Ross, Brent Jennings and Kevin Tighe at least proving to be reassuring presences.Murphy and Nolte jostle, fight each other and swear a lot, which would be OK were it not already done so much better in the first film. All things considered, it's a no brainer really to suggest you watch the first film instead. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Entertaining,Funny And Action-Packed Sequel From Walter Hill,Eddie Murphy And Nick Nolte.","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs is a terrific,entertaining,funny and Action-packed sequel that is filled with great direction,wonderful performances from Eddie Murphy,Nick Nolte and a fine cast,thrilling Action,good laughs and a great score. And while Another 48 Hrs is not as good as the original,the film is still a solid sequel.Set seven years after the original,Another 48 Hrs finds Jack Cates(Nick Nolte)trying to track down and nail a drug lord named The Iceman,a drug dealer who has been operating in San Francisco. With nowhere to turn,Jack needs help once again from Reggie Hammond(Eddie Murphy)who's been in prison for five years and is about to get out. The only problem is that The Iceman wants Reggie dead. Now,Jack and Reggie have Another 48 Hrs to bring down The Iceman and with Jack and Reggie the boys are back in town with more laughs and thrills.Released in 1990,Another 48 Hrs is an entertaining sequel that not only came out 8 years after the excellent,landmark Action-Comedy classic 48 Hrs but also came out after the Box Office success of the first two Lethal Weapon films. While Another 48 Hrs was a Box Office success,the film received a mixed reaction from film critics who felt Another 48 Hrs was too much like the original and while this film isn't very creative or truly groundbreaking like the first film it's still a fun and thrilling movie that entertains you for 95 minutes. Another 48 Hrs is a good Action-Comedy that pretty much taking what worked in the first movie and bringing it to this film mixing thrilling,intense Action with hilarious Comedy that is non-stop from beginning to end. The Comedy and Humor in Another 48 Hrs. is funny and will make you laugh out loud because the Humor is very much in line with the first film showing how Jack and Reggie deal with each other while looking for The Iceman and getting into various situations that are funny with Eddie Murphy being the funny guy and Nick Nolte being the straight one. Although the Comedy in Another 48 Hrs is funny,the Humor sometimes lacks the edge and politically incorrect tone the first one had. If there is one thing that is different and bigger from the first 48 Hrs it's the Action scenes. The Action scenes in Another 48 Hrs are not only amazing but are bigger and louder than they were in the first film because director Walter Hill(who was given a much bigger budget with this film)goes completely insane with the Action with each Action scene being more explosive than the last. Hill's Action scenes always feature people flying in the air or going through broken glass and while there is people flying in the air,there is more broken glass shattered in Another 48 Hrs than in any other Walter Hill film whether it's with windows or glass doors. There is enough Action,gunfights,explosions and thrills in Another 48 to satisfy any Action film and Walter Fill fan. The main characters Jack Cates and Reggie Hammond show in this film that despite not seeing each other for seven neither one of them has changed since the last time they saw each other with the two still throwing funny jabs and insults at one another almost like they were never apart. Throughout the film we also see Jack and Reggie try to repair their friendship which has been strained(the two haven't seen each other in seven years)but as the film goes on and the two work together their partnership and friendship grows despite the funny lines the two throw at each other and the chemistry is still there. The ending of Another 48 Hrs is great and filled with Action,excitement and laughs and a twist you wont see coming at all. There is also a wonderful bit at the end that is a funny homage to the ending in the original film that will make you laugh. A great ending.The cast is terrific. Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte are excellent once again as Reggie Hammond and Jack Cates,with Murphy and Nolte displaying great laughs and chemistry. Brion James is great as Kehoe,Cates' fellow cop and friend. Kevin Tighe is wonderful as Blake Wilson,an Internal Affairs cop that is on Jack's back. Ed O'Ross does a fine job as Frank Cruise,another San Francisco Cop. David Anthony Marshall(Willie Hickok),Andrew Divoff(Richard 'Cherry Ganz)and Ted Markland(Malcolm Price)are outstanding as the three murderous bikers. Bernie Casey is fantastic as Kirkland Smith,a fellow convict that Reggie owes a debt to. Brent Jennings is sensational as Burroughs,a man that works for The Iceman. Tisha Campbell(Amy Smith),Page Leong(Angel Lee)and Cathy Hasse(Girl Bartender)give good performances as well.The direction by Walter Hill is wonderful,with Hill always moving the camera and keeping the film moving at a tight pace and Hill also does a great job with the Action scenes. Incredible direction,Hill.The score by James Horner is great,intense and matches the tone of the film. Fantastic score,Horner. There is also the return of the classic song The Boys Are Back In Town by The Bus Boys and another version of the song by Jesse Johnson.In final word,if you love Action-Comedies,Walter Hill,Eddie Murphy or Nick Nolte,I highly suggest you see Another 48 Hrs.,a terrific,Action-packed and funny Action-Comedy that will keep you entertained. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Another Sequel.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy return for this sequel, as Jack Cates and Reggie Hammond must re-team to stop a powerful drug kingpin named the Iceman who is trying to kill them both, for different reasons. Jack is under suspicion for murder after killing a crook shooting at him, but the gun can't be found. Hammond is being released from prison when the bus carrying him is attacked, and he is almost killed. Both realize that they must unite again(despite lingering resentments) to save their lives, reputations, and recover some stolen money.Heavy-handed film must(as other critics have noted) set a record for smashing more glass than any other film in history. Identity of the Iceman will come as a surprise, but not a good one. Story is barely memorable, though the actors do their best to recreate the humor from the first that made it so popular(but not with me). Otherwise, routine. "},{"Title":"Fans Of The Original Will Be Disappointed,But People Looking For A Quick Comedy To Laugh Should Enjoy,","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hours is a good enough movie with a pretty decent storyline and some reasonable performances from Eddie Murphy and Nick Nolte.Its definitely a disappointment compared to the first 48 Hours,and a lot of the jokes seemed repeating from the first one (for example,the scene's when Reggie Hammond is singing) and I really felt like they were just doing it for the money.However,I do feel that if you put this movie on,and you never saw the original,you would probably enjoy it,if you just look at it as an easy to watch comedy,not a sequel.Fans of the first 48 Hours will probably be very disappointed by this movie.Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) releases Reggie Hammond from prison again in order to catch the Iceman,a drug dealer who is almost impossible to catch,but Reggiewants nothing to do with Jack this time around. "},{"Title":"Not Another Hit Movie","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Aptly titled, this movie is just a replication of the 1982 box-office smash movie that marked Eddie Murphy's Hollywood debut (However, Eddie is about 20 pounds heavier and has star billing over Nolte this time around). Yet the same elements that made the original movie so appealing--Reggie Hammond singing Roxanne in a jail cell, bar room brawls with redn*cks, fist fights between Hammond and Cates, Reggie literally coming in between Cates and the bad guy in a shootout, and of course, Reggie's relentless endeavor to steal Cates' cigarette lighter--just doesn't pack the same punch the second time around in this movie. And many of the scenes in this sequel are rather tedious and at times predictable.I guess it's like the old saying, You just can't reheat a soufflé. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hours, the sequel to the smash hit 48 Hours, again directed by Walter Hill is a sort of letdown. Again, Nick Nolte (who plays Jack Cates) is forced to team up with a hardened criminal (Eddie Murphy as Reggie Hammond, who owes his fame to the first film, one that helped make him a movie star) for another 48 hours in order to track down a drug dealer named The Iceman. This time, Reggie is nearing the end of prison term and is therefore hesitant on helping out his old buddy. And The Iceman seems to know a thing or two about both of them.While it's nice to see the duo together again after so many years, the story is too simplistic and lackluster. On the music front though, composer James Horner, who created the score to the first film too, develops and explores further the suitable theme he created for the aforementioned first film. All in all, a letdown but still nice to watch Murphy and Nolte team up again - 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sequel that has nothing","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" No action , no humor , no freshness . First movie had some originality in it . It felt fresh and Eddie Murphy was a discovery . Here ? Once again Nolte needs Murphy help . Once again they will argue and help each other . Once again there will be some action and laughs.Unfortunately not . The movie sticks to the formula that worked so well in the original , yet everything sucks . There isn't anything here that I liked in the first one &#x96; unpredictability , jokes and chemistry between two stars.The plot tries to surprise the viewer with a twist in the end , but it fails to impress anyone. The chemistry between our heroes is gone and the whole movie feels like  We have to do it to get some money . It feels tired and uninspired. I guess it's still better than what Murphy's is making now &#x96; family friendly crap movies , but still it's a bad movie . Not a disaster like Robocop 3 or Batman and Robin, definitely not . Still , I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Same shtuff, different (two) days...","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The inevitable sequel is hardly original in any sense of the word, but again that works in the film's favour.See if this sounds familiarHardened cop Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) obtains a temporary release for convict Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) in order to hunt down some hardened criminals linked to a major drug dealer in the San Francisco area known as the Iceman. Violence and profanity ensue&#x85;Many of the minor characters from the first film return &#x96; predominantly cops as most of the bad guys ended up dead &#x96; even the music is essentially the same. Hell I'm even about to give it the same score!Jack and Reggie trail the Iceman through the same areas, using almost the same techniques, often resulting in the same trail of bodies. The filmmakers smartly rev up the friction in the early goings and maintain it so that the pair are always just a little on edge and distrustful of each other.Internal affairs are on Jack's case due to his 'carefree' attitude to the law and procedure, and Reggie is being dogged by rednecks again. There is another bar fight, another hotel shootout and another standoff. This film though obviously boasts a bigger budget, with most of it spent on big explosions and a few eye-opening stunts. Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Another 48 Hrs doesn't reinvent the wheel to bring Reggie and Jack back together, if anything this 'same (funny action-packed) sh*t, different (two) day(s)'&#x85; "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I thought it was kind of dumb but after seeing it again I began to realize it was'nt so bad.  Sure a lot of the scene's are pretty much exactly like scene's in the first one but there was plenty of good action and new scene's to make this movie strong.  the ending gunfight in the strip club was pretty cool(Ive never seen so much glass break in my life), and the bus rolling over scene was cool too.  Also, the dialogue scene's with Nolte and Murphy are just as funny as the ones in the first.  I dont know why so many people think this is such a bad movie.  Sure its not as fresh and original as the first one, but its still entertaining.  3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Nice try, but misses the mark...","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I eagerly awaited a sequel to Hill's classic 48 Hrs., but this film just wasn't it. In the original, Nick Nolte's Jack Cates was the cop who knew all the ins and outs, but needed the wise cracking little black hustler to assist him in his investigation. But in this sequel, their roles are completely reversed... Cates seems to have lost any modicum of respectability or skills as a detective. And Reggie Hammond (Murphy) seems to have spent 8 years in Beverly Hills being a cop! Go figure.MAJOR SPOILER AHEADWhat really ticked me off is a fair amount of logic thrown to the wind... Ganz's brother (who looks just like him, from the first film... cuz he's played by the same actor... natch!) teams up with the Iceman - the very guy that his brother robbed a half-million dollars from just a few years earlier - to get revenge on the cop that killed him. Okay, I see it... BUT...The Iceman, it turns out, is Kehoe - the wiseassed cop from the first film that occasionally gives Nolte a hard time... What's with that?  Why wouldn't Kehoe have put a hit on Hammond in the first movie when he was getting out of jail for the first 48? At very least, wouldn't he have recognized the mug shot that Cates had hanging on the wall in the squad room? (Remember the Dick-f**king-Tracy comment he made when Cates shows the picture of Henry Wong?) And wouldn't he recognize the name Reggie Hammond that Cates and other cops bandied about a couple of times?  Sorry, but if the Iceman is so slick, how come he's so god awful stupid?  There are some clever moments, particularly the whole business with Cates' lighter - but the first movie starred Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy. This one just starred Eddie Murphy, with Nick Nolte... "}{"Title":"A fun action sequel","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw 48 Hrs. a little while back, it was a fun action movie with some decent comedic elements to it as well thanks to Eddie Murphy. So while I was renting some movies, I decided to see the sequel, Another 48 Hrs. I was curious where they would take the story and if Eddie Murphy still had it. Unfortunately, this is where Eddie's career was going down hill and Nick Nolte's was doing just fine. The only problem I had with this film is that it seemed like it was just an attempt to get more money, it was still a fun sequel though, it's definitely worth a look. Even though it was predictable, but once you've seen a lot of action movies, you've almost seen them all, you know? But Another 48 Hrs. has comedy, action, and our favorite team back. Eddie Murphy could have been funnier, but it's all good with this action packed sequel.Jack is back and he's fighting a criminal named the Iceman who just keeps disappearing before he can get to him. It's getting so bad that Jack will loose his job over this and possibly go to jail for missing money that he's been accused of taking. He needs the street smart Reggie once again who is in jail still for a crime he claims he didn't commit. But it's hard when they are fighting since Jack hasn't visited Reggie in a while, but they work together to find the Iceman, but they discover that one of the men that works with Jack just might be a bad cop.Anothre 48 Hrs. is fun, but I think it could have had more comedy. But like I said, unfortunately Eddie Murphy's career was going down hill at the point where this sequel was made. But I loved the scene where Jack gets into a bar fight and Reggie has to help him out, I loved how he was pointing the gun at one of the fighters, and the guy calls Reggie's bluff with the gun, but Reggie shoots his knee to prove to him. Unrealistic, but funny on Eddie Murphy's part. Another 48 Hrs. is worth a look, it has really cool action scenes and all in all, it's a good action movie. Let's just hope that Eddie's ego will calm down, hopefully he'll get more good roles in the future.5/10 "},{"Title":"Conflict-habituated relationship gives you a headache","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 HRS. came out in 1990, eight years after the original. Like the first one, it's a crime thriller starring Nick Nolte as Jack Crates, a tough guy/alcoholic cop in San Francisco who hunts down cop killers by enlisting the services of a convict (Eddie Murphy). The killers this time out are violent outlaw bikers, but Cates' real target is the elusive Iceman, the drug kingpin of the area. In the eight years between the movies Murphy became a mega-success and so holds top billing in this one.The first half struck me as better than the first film, but then it devolves into almost shockingly bad in the second half. It's what-were-they-thinking bad. A good example is the scene where the two bikers drive their cycles through a movie screen during a nude sequence. Why sure! The only thing I can think of is that director Walter Hill was shooting for mythic cool-ness in the manner of The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Unfortunately, he ended up with laughable dreck. To add insult to injury, the revelation of the Iceman is lame. Would a real drug kingpin keep an exhausting full-time job? Isn't the purpose of being a drug kingpin to make loads of money so you can kick back and enjoy the high life? Moreover, the conflict-habituated relationship of the protagonists really starts to grate on the nerves by the second half.There's another scene in the first half that's a cool action scene on the surface; that is, until you think about it. It's the sequence where two bikers attempt to kill someone in a mini-bus by riding alongside the vehicle on either side while blowing holes into it. All the driver has to do is swerve to one side or the other and &#x96; voilà &#x96; both bikers are taken out. Lastly, there's just something trashy about this film. While the protagonists have admirable qualities underneath their gruff exteriors, the majority of the characters in the film seem like the dregs of society. I'll take 1984's Beverly Hills Cop over the two 48 HRS flicks any day. It's all-around better with more likable characters and redeemable qualities. The film runs 93 minutes and was shot in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Folsom, California, as well as Las Vegas, Nevada. GRADE C- "},{"Title":"Passes the time, but way too similar to the first","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ANOTHER 48 HRS is the sequel to the hugely successful Eddie Murphy/Nick Nolte team-up 48 HRS, and the producers at Paramount clearly followed the old if it ain't broke, don't fix it adage because this one copies almost exactly the same formula as the first film. Walter Hill is back directing, Murphy and Nolte are back as the leads, and the storyline is virtually the same as in the first.Sadly, the law of diminishing returns hits this film hard, making it a shadow of his predecessor (which I found to be only an averagely entertaining movie at best). Every scene, situation and shoot-out is overly familiar, and absolutely nothing that happens - even in regard to the twist involving the villains' identity - is a surprise. Murphy's high-wire, sometimes frenzied acting helps add much needed energy to the production, but Nolte is sleepwalking and indeed appears half asleep in this movie.Still, on the plus side the pacing is fast and quite a lot of the humour works well. Hill's directing can't be faulted, and he's fleshed out his supporting cast with a number of familiar faces from the '80s Kevin Tighe as the IA man, Brion James and Ed O'Ross cast against type as cops, and an early role for WISHMASTER's Andrew Divoff as the baddie. It's just a shame more original material couldn't be found to sustain all of this. "},{"Title":"Doomed by what it had to live up to.","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I heard there was a sequel to 48 Hours, which is one of my favorite films of all time, I practically jumped for joy. I couldn't wait to go see it. The problem was that I was only 17 years old at the time, and I really hadn't grasped just how much this film had to live up to. Although I was a little disappointed by it, I still laughed pretty hard at most of it along with the entire theater. It really is a funny film. That's about all you can say for it, though.Missing is the edge provided in the first film by the ever-nasty James Remar. The plot this time around is almost impossible to decipher, also. All we know is that Murphy and Nolte have to reluctantly team up to stop some bad guys. The rest is window dressing.The humor in this film is top drawer. Nolte (one Nebraska's most famous sons) actually has the funniest lines, and he's having a ball saying them. You can tell. I always wanted a chauffeur, Reggie! and You can always catch another bus. You had a lot of luck with the last one! and so on. Murphy was also very funny. I miss the Murphy of those days just like everyone else in the world. One thing you can do when this film is on is play a neat drinking game. Every time some glass breaks, everyone has to drink a shot of beer or some other pre-determined beverage. I swear I have never seen a movie in which more glass is broken. They way over-did it with that effect.Overall, this film falls way short of the original, like most sequels. It can provide you with a night of entertainment, though.I'm feeling generous today. I'll give it 7 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound.   "},{"Title":"Passable sequel. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although time and budget requirements didn't help ANOTHER 48 HRS at the time of it's original 1990 release against the likes of DIE HARD 2, DAYS OF THUNDER and TOTAL RECALL, Walter Hill crafted an enjoyable movie with some good thrills. Keeping in the spirit of the original film and maintaining consistency of character, it was a worthy successor to the brilliant original.Logistically, the film is true to its origins. Jack Cates (Nolte) is on the backfoot when his determination to track down a mysterious killer called the Iceman who is the owner of the money that Murphy and co stole from in the original film finds him under investigation by IAD and has to enlist Hammond's (Murphy) help to identify and catch the man in question.The weakness is probably in using faceless Hell Angels stereotypes who are assigned to kill Hammond who really don't have the dark tones of James Remar's Ganz in the original film. As with DIE HARD, the sequels diluted the villainy at the expense of suspense.Still, there is much to enjoy in ANOTHER 48 HRS. The bus crash is spectacularly staged and a reminder of Walter Hill's talent for action and James Horner's classic music still brings goose bumps to the heart. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first but still  a decent sequel","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another 48 Hrs. isn't as good a film as the oringial but it's still has it's moments. Eddie and Nick still have the chemistry as Reggie and Jack. The action seqeunces are upped a bit and the finale of the film is action pakced. I give it *** stars. "},{"Title":"The Fresh Action/Comedy Between Eddie Murphy And Nick Nolte Is Back","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy, the comedy box office magnet who made his highly successful film debut in 1982's 48 Hrs. reprises his role as vulgar convict Reggie Hammond in this 1990 Paramount sequel. Nick Nolte also returns as arrogant San Francisco cop Jack Cates. The two of them had worked together on a two day stakeout in the original film and they now reunite to take on a crazy killer who's known only as The Iceman. The chemistry between Murphy and Nolte is just as successful the second time around. Murphy should go back to making comedic cop thrillers again. They rank as his best films. "},{"Title":"Another 48 HRS","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nolte and Murphy reteam once again as cop and jailbird in this so so sequel to the original 80's hit with Nolte taking on an allusive killer known as The Iceman, while Murphy tries to help and stay alive.  "},{"Title":"I preferred it to the overrated original.","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs. starts as two vicious killer bikers Willie Hancock (David Anthony Marshall) & Cherry Ganz (Andrew Divoff) ride into San Francisco looking to carry out a hit on Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) who is soon to be released from prison. Meanwhile detective Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) for the past four years has been trying to discover the identity of a powerful drugs dealer known as the Iceman, after a shoot out with one of the Iceman's men Jack finds a picture of Reggie & figures he can help him find the Iceman. Reggie is released from prison & a hit is made on him but he survives while Cherry Ganz decides to kill Jack to avenge his brother's death but a bullet proof vest saves him, Reggie & Jack have no choice but to work together to unmask the Iceman & stay alive long enough to do it...Directed by Walter Hill who returns from the original 48 Hrs. I actually think Another 48 Hrs. is a better film than it's predecessor on just about every level. The script by Jeb Stuart, John Fasano & Larry Gross is a more balanced film, it moves along at a tighter pace, the action scenes are better, it still has plenty of amusing one-liners but has thankfully dropped the racist overtones & there's just more going on. From the problems Jack has with internal affairs to Reggie having to pay someone off who kept him alive in jail & from the mysterious identity of the Iceman to the fact that Reggie is now a free man & doesn't have to work with Jack just make Another 48 Hrs. slightly better than the original. On the down side it's nothing particularly new or original & while it's not a complete rehash of the original it can feel pretty similar at times & there's just so many buddy buddy cop flicks out there Another 48 Hrs. has sort of gotten lost in the crowd somewhat. Personally I liked it, it has plenty of bad language, one-liners, decent set-pieces & fights & a bit of mystery surrounding the plot although it's not that hard to work it out.Director Hill does alright but the film looks & feels a lot like the first, the action scenes are well handled & it's suitably profanity ridden. Brion James has said in an interview that Another 48 Hrs. ran for something 140 minutes originally & that Paramount cut huge chunks out of it including a lot of footage with him in it which I find very easy to believe, James name is third in the opening credits yet he comes across as a glorified extra. Interestingly James is third in the opening credits while Murphy & Nolte come first & second although unlike the first film Murphy is now credited first & Nolte second which says something all on it's own. The violence isn't too strong here, some gory gunshot wounds a & some punch ups is as violent as it gets but at least it's a solid 'R' rather than a 'PG'.Apparently this made near $20,000,000 in it's opening weekend which I would imagine is a decent amount even for films released today so it's maybe a bit puzzling a third 48 Hrs. flick wasn't forthcoming. It's well made with that big budget Hollywood feel & look to it, again set in San Francisco it was again like the original partly shot in Los Angeles. The acting is good with the two leads having a good on screen chemistry & Murphy in foul mouthed mode is pretty funny to listen too, Nolte is alright but seems to be going through the motions somewhat.Another 48 Hrs. is a throughly enjoyable 90's action flick full of bad language & violence of the sort they just don't seem to make anymore which is a shame but there you go. I think it's a slight improvement on the original & a solid action flick in it's own right, worth a watch for sure. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie on UPN a few years ago and I found it to be one of the better sequels I have seen in a long time. It may not be as good as 48 HRS., but it is better than most sequels. The formula of the first movie may have been done to death by the time this came out in 1990, though screenwriters John Fasano, Jeb Stuart, and Larry Gross are still able to make the story seem somewhat fresh and original.In ANOTHER 48 HRS., Reggie Hammond(once again excellently played by Eddie Murphy) and Jack Cates (Nick Nolte) must once again team up to find a mysterious drug dealer known as the Ice Man. Much gunfire ensues in this better than expected sequel that proves as long as a sequel has the director of the original, it always is good. Recommended for fans of the original. ***  "}{"Title":"The Boys are back in town...for the paycheque?","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nearly every comment here is spot on, this IS just a lazy remake of the excellent 48 hrs, not a sequel as such, just a downright lazy, give me the money movie for director Walter Hill and stars Nolte and Murphy. The sad thing is when a lousy sequel like this comes out it kind of sours the original film. It really is an insult to the viewer when this movie is so like the first in nearly every concievable way. For example in one scene, Eddies in jail like the first film, and he puts on his walkman, like he did in the first film, and starts singing The Polices Roxanne in a really high voice..like he did...etc. Now this was very funny in the first movie but in this one its sad, unfunny and smacks of desperation in Eddie Murphys case. Its like just seven years down the line in his career making movies he's already trying to live off former glories. Nolte just seems to be there for the paycheque sadly, as he is a great actor. This film did none of them any favours and came and went at the box-office pretty sharpish. Do yourself a favour, if this comes on the telly, give it a miss. On the other hand if 48 HRS is on stay in and watch it and you'll see these guys can make a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Not much to say","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy does a good job with a bad script. Nick Nolte doesn't have it in this movie at all! The plot was just dumb, there trying to get the Iceman! They shouldn't have made a sequel and what's worse is that it seems more like a remake of the original. If it wasn't for Murphy I would like it even less. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"What...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...a load of absolute rubbish. Walter Hill has sunk to a new low with this 'effort' (if it be called such a thing). Allow me to explain.WARNING - OPINION ALERT. AUTHOR'S OPINION EXPRESSED BELOW.Walter Hill must have a great big curl right in the middle of his forehead. Why? Because 'Southern Comfort', 'The Warriors', '48 HRS' and 'The Long Riders' are very, very good, but 'Extreme Prejudice' and 'Another 48 HRS' (and the other ones that are just too tiresome to remember) are horrid.Some, like 'Red Heat' and 'Trespass' are OK, nothing more, nothing less.WHAT is going on here? What (other than a chequebook being waved in his direction by Paramount) possessed him to remake 48 HRS in the first place? That's all this is, a remake, and for those people who don't like remakes and criticise them for not being as good as the original, look at this film it's trying to be exactly the same as the original and it sucks. No humour, no believable action, no dead-eyed scary baddie, no believable plot, no real chemistry. Ganz's brother? Reggie back inside again? Jack still on the force? Kehoe as....what? (Don't want to give away the 'twist' - possibly the worse contrivance in recent film history). Too many questions.Why not just re-release the old one? The reason this annoys me so much and yet I dislike slagging off remakes as a rule (as they DON'T destroy the originals, regardless of how many people are of the opinion that they do) is because this could have been fantastic. Look at the original. But what they've done here is taken the things that made the first one a classic and amped them up to unbelievable proportions. Let's see...the redneck bar, the meeting between Reggie and Jack in prison, the pumped up gunfight at the end, the lighter jokes, Reggie's singing etc. It's 'Beverly Hills Cop II and III' syndrome, that's what it is. Do it again but make it bigger and louder so we make more money. Recreating the chemistry is possible in the right circumstances, recreating the menace and oppressive mood is also possible, but was fudged here. Don't bother with this - another nail in the coffin of sequels. Rent the original.  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As fresh in a tired genre as the original 48 Hours was, this movie really sucks.  Is a top-five exhibit for the contention that Hollywood's standard for enjoyable and believable scripts is (inexplicably) far lower for sequels to successful movies.  Some of the worst movies in Hollywood history are sequels to some of its best films - start with this and include Halloween II(may be the worst major movie ever made), Jurassic Park II(ditto), the Beverly Hills Cop rehashes(shiver), Caddyshack II.  Yecchhh.  "},{"Title":"The demise of Eddie Murphy *1/2 out of ****","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before 'Another 48 Hours' was released, things were already in an uproar. Nick Nolte and others involved with the movie, vowed never to work with Eddie Murphy again. There were constant spats on the set with the biggest complaint that Murphy would arrive three hours late for filming while everyone would have to set around and wait for him to show up. If the above was true, Murphy is not the one to blame for the movies failure. 'Another 48 Hours' offers no surprises, originality and a plot that has been recycled over and over again.Co-written by the director of the first installment, Walter Hill, (who had years to come up with something good) gives the fans of the original a HUGE letdown. The opening scene has three bikers cruising all over the country blowing innocent people away and apparently they work for a major drug dealer known as Iceman that Jack Cates (Nick Nolte)has been trying to track down for years. The Iceman wants Reggie Hammond (Eddie Murphy) dead for reasons that go unexplained throughout most of the movie.Cates job goes on the line when he kills a suspect who's gun cannot be found after the shooting. The suspect is burned to a crisp in a gasoline fire but the one important clue is unbelievably sparred.So Cate calls on Murphy to assist in saving the day and while the chemistry between the two was so good in the original '48 Hours,' something is now wrong. Nolte and Murphy don't seem to be enjoying themselves. They are not having fun. And either am I.The routine plot becomes more routine as the writers seem to know that the movie is not funny and try their best to distract the audience with endless car chases, shootouts, and the likes. One unintentional laugh I got was watching a bus roll over a dozen times at 50 miles an hour with Murphy in it but later seeing him walk away without a scratch. And the so called surprise when the identity of the Iceman is revealed is about as believable as Frosty The Snowman. (Perhaps the Iceman would be a better bad guy in Spider Man 3).Eddie, come back to us. We miss you. "},{"Title":"When Murphy didn't need the fat suit...","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" San Francisco cop Jack Cates has been after an unidentified drug kingpin who calls himself the Ice Man. Jack finds a picture that proves that the Ice Man has put a price on the head of Reggie Hammond, who is scheduled to be released from prison on the next day. Jack tries to convince him to help clear his name and find the Ice Man, but Reggie says he won't help unless he gives him the $500,000 that Jack has been holding on to. Jack refuses unless Reggie helps him......One of those sequels that were made in the late eighties, early nineties when the stars power was dwindling, and the original was quite successful.Thankfully this isn't the dog you've been led to believe, and to be fair, it's a lot more exciting than the original. They have tried to relate both films by making one of the bikers the brother of one of the people who were killed in the first one, but this is all about the stars.The script is good, and Nolte really stands against Murphy, who was easily one of the biggest stars in the world at the time. Set pieces are good, the plot can be a little incoherent at times, but it hurtles along at a good enough pace, you really forget that the chief bad guy is named after a Marvel character.If it were made before Harlem Nights, it would probably have had success like BHC 2, but one feels that Murphys ego was partially to blame.A fun movie. "},{"Title":"A Sorry Sequel Indeed!","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The biggest difference between the sequel and the original is the order of the cast in the credits. Nick Nolte took top-billing in 48 HRS, but Eddie Murphy now takes top-billing over Nolte in Another 48 HRS. The only character from the original who returns is Jack Kehoe (Brion James), a friend and police colleague of the Nolte character Jack Cates. The villains are two long-haired, leather-clad, trigger-happy bikers who have no qualms against cold blooded murder and prove it in the opening scene in a desert cafe where they blow away two cops and then kill an innocent bystander--the cafe owner. One of these bikers, Cherry Ganz (Andrew Divoff of Air Force One), wants to avenge the death of his brother who Cates killed in the original movie. You know Ganz is a bad guy because he wears the tattoo of a tear beneath one eye and the strap on his boot where the spur would be holds bullets. The one character who is conspicuous by his absence is the police captain that Frank MacRae played, though if you look hard enough you might catch a glimpse of him. Another 48 HRS doesn't generate the suspense or tension of the first film and the humor isn't as consistent. You'd think that as much as Eddie Murphy put into the plot that it would have yielded better moments for him. This is another example of a thriller where the individual held hostage pleads with his friend to shoot him. Speed would later appropriate this tactic. This time around our hero Jack Cates is searching for a mythical villain known as 'the Iceman,' but this Iceman apparently does not exist in any known data base. If this were not enough of an obstacle, Cates has to contend with a conscientious Internal Affairs detective, Blake Wilson (Kevin Tighe of Road House), who has dedicated his every waking minute to seeing Cates prosecuted for a wrongful act. Cates had to gun down a suspect at the outset of the action, and nobody recovered a firearm at the sight of the shoot-out. Consequently, Jack will have to face a day in court. This possibility won't have you tearing your nails out. Meantime, Reggie Hamond (Eddie Murphy) finally gets out of jail, but learns from Cates that some bikers have a contract on him. Walter Hill, who called the shots on 48 HRS, is still calling the shots on this slick, visually opulent, but rather lackluster sequel that adheres closely to the original formula. Cates refuses to hand over the money that Reggie stashed because a couple of outlaw bikers are raising hell. Plus, these guys are tied in with the Iceman. Jack does not have to worry about standing up a female friend because he has no women in Another 48 HRS. The biggest action scene involves a prison bus flipping 17 times after a could of vengeful bikers shoot it up.When Hill and scenarists John Fasano, Jeb Stuart,Larry Gross, and Murphy under the pen name Fred Braughton divulge the identity of the infamous Iceman in the last quarter hour. Don't you hate it when the filmmakers refuse to let you participate in the process. We are never given the chance to deduce his identity before he is revealed. This revelation doesn't help this pedestrian thriller. Another 48 HRS coasts on strong performances and action sequences that Hill stages with his customary flair. The genius of Hill is that he makes this superficial, 95-minute, R-rated comedy-actioneer flow so well when the story lacks the depth of a bed pan. Nick Nolte looks in better shape in this outing, though he still chain-smokes but no longer nips off a flask. Eddie Murphy looks like prosperity has grown in him because he was a lot skinner now. Bernie Casey plays a convicted felon in prison who has asked Reggie to do him a flavor. Matthew F. Leonetti lensed the action adeptly and it looks good, especially a musical act at a nightclub. Unfortunately, Murphy does not get a chance to repeat his bar act from the first film. This is one of those sequels where anybody other than the leading players winds up dead. Another 48 HRS fails to top 48 HRS. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are only two or three characters that Eddie Murphy has done that I enjoy. So, while others are out this weekend to Meet Dave, I revisited Reggie Hammond.Murphy and Nick Nolte make a great combination. They are just what you want playing off each other in a buddy movie. They did a fantastic job in 48 hrs., and I had high hopes for this one, also. Unfortunately, it fell short of expectations.That doesn't mean it wasn't worth watching, but it turned into a shoot-em-up instead of the relationship they had in the first.It also marks the only appearance I can recall of Kitten Natividad, who appeared in other enchanting films like Zombie Ninja Gangbangers and La cage aux zombies. "},{"Title":"By the numbers sequel","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another 48 Hrs. isn't as good a film as the oringial but it's still has it's moments. Eddie and Nick still have the chemistry as Reggie and Jack. The action seqeunces are upped a bit and the finale of the film is action pakced, althought this is one of the films that started Eddie down's fall and it shows in his performance. But for me the action sequences and the bar scene earn the film ** 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel which sticks too closely to formula for its own good.","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Make no mistake I'm a big fan of the original 48 Hours, with its abrasive dialogue and raw violence. The sequel promised to be a good film, especially since both stars agreed to reunite and the same director was at the helm. However, Another 48 Hours is not a good film, primarily because it is a near replica of the original with very few touches of originality or freshness.The story finds the same cop (Nolte) releasing the same convict (Murphy) from jail so that they can team up to track down some crooks (much the same as they did in the first film). They argue a lot (like they did in the first film), they swear a lot (as in the first film), there are lots of shootouts and characters turn out to be somebody else other than who you thought they were (which, low and behold, also happened in the first film).It seems a bit of a cop-out that a film purporting to be a sequel is, in actual fact, such a thinly disguised retread of the original movie. The film isn't a complete bomb, but it could have been an awful lot better. Best scene? Probably the one where Murphy is about to get shot, but the bad guy has run out of bullets. Murphy taunts him cruelly by aiming his own gun at him with a cheeky grin on his face, but when he pulls the trigger, his gun also has no bullets! A rare ingenious moment in a film full of borrowed ideas and rehashed sequences. "}{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hrs. (1990) ** (out of 4)Walter Hill's sequel to the hit 1982 film has Jack (Nick Nolte) asking the recently released from prison Reggie (Eddie Murphy) to help him bring down a drug dealer known as The Iceman. This man has Jack facing a possible prison sentence so the two ex-friends are under the gun to track him down as well as another man seeking revenge for the death of his brother (from the first film). ANOTHER 48 HRS. isn't quite as horrid as its reputation would lead you to believe but there's still no question that it's one of the most disappointing sequels to ever be pumped out of Hollywood. This film's failure has always confused me for one main reason. Most bad sequels happen because the original makes money and the studios rushes the sequel out without much thought. That's not the case here since this one took eight years to make so why does it feel so cheap? I'm not sure why more time wasn't spent on the screenplay because the story here is just extremely forced and comes across as a bad rehash of the first film. Everything that made the original a classic is missing here including the fun back and forth between Nolte and Murphy. This here should have at least been a given but the two star's chemistry is missing and that charm is also gone. This film also suffers from some pretty weak villains and there's really no adventure or excitement in the two stars tracking them down. The biggest thing missing from this picture are the laughs, which sadly there are very few of. Both Murphy and Nolte get a couple good one-liners but the majority of the laughs fall flat. Speaking of flat, the performances from the two leads are also quite bland and never spark any life into the picture. Hill pretty much pumps up the action sequences but when everything around them is flat they really can't bring any additional life to the picture. ANOTHER 48 HRS. remains watchable simply because the viewer has flashbacks to the earlier, much better picture but it's really a shame more wasn't done here. "},{"Title":"The boys are back,  but why did they bother?","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nick Nolte and Eddie Murphy team up for Another 48 Hours, a sequel to 48 Hours that was made eight years later. The question isn't why did they wait; the question is, why did they do it? This is basically a re-tread of the original film, the focus being on the dynamic relationship between Jack and Reggie (Nolte and Murphy). They make a great team, but I would have loved to see them teamed up in a fresh story or another kind of film.In Another 48 Hours, instead of eight years later, it's just four. Jack has been chasing a drug kingpin known as the Ice Man, whom some of his cronies don't even believe exists. After taking part in a shooting where the victim's gun has disappeared, Jack is in trouble. He enlists Reggie's help to find the Ice Man so that he can clear his name -- also, Jack has learned that the Ice Man has put out a contract on Reggie, who is about to be released from prison. Reggie will help if Jack will give him the $500,000 he's been holding for him. Jack refuses, but Reggie winds up helping him after a bus accident, when he's released into Jack's custody. And on and on.Another 48 Hours doesn't have the crackling energy of the first film or the excitement, though there are some good chase scenes and some funny lines. There were lots of sequels in the '80s, and there still are. This is but one and like many of the others, it's just not very good. "},{"Title":"bad remake","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Other reviewers have pointed out, this is not a sequel, but a remake. Almost a homage shot for shot, bad ass witticism for bad ass witticism. The bad guys have long hair, face tattoos, and have stupid written all over them. Hardly believable as operators of a huge drug operation that no one in California can track down. Anyway, bad scripting, bad set up, and this time around, bad chemistry between Nolte and Murphy. This is no way to make a sequel, it just gives off bad vibes that everyone needed a paycheque. As usual when there are no ideas, the writers decide to go for character, so Nolte and Murphy are told to exaggerate every little tic, every little thing that made it work in the first. That's what makes it everything so irritating, they're simply trying too hard. "},{"Title":"Another Sequel Snoozer","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you see an action-comedy sequel with a huge budget to spare and it's boring, you know something is wrong. Another 48 Hrs. copies every cop-buddy film's formula and tries to claim it as its own. Another retread of Red Heat, Turner and Hootch, K-9, and, of course, 48 Hrs. The beginning gripper involving a gang of bikers having a shoot-out in a small-town bar didn't excite me at all, and considering that's the big beginning of the film, you know what comes later on. The first was very funny, and one of the first cop-buddy/comedy/action films. This one is not. It plays more like a rip-off than a sequel to a lively film. Disgraceful.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Another 48 Hours... If Eddie Murphy movies persist see your Doctor.","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another 48 Hours 3 out of 10 If you want a synopsis of what was wrong with many movies in the 1980’s (and why the decade has such a bad cinematic rap despite some great films) Another 48 Hours provides a great starting point. (Despite being made in 1990).The first 48 Hours was a bonafide hit that started and/or influenced the cop buddy film genre for years to come. It was Eddie Murphy’s first film and along with Trading Places made him a star. It combined comedy with intense straight up action and still works today despite having its conventions replicated in a thousand films since 1982.Another 48 Hours came on the scene at a different time. Eddie Murphy had just had some high profile cinematic bombs and people were anxious for his next great hit. (Little did we know at the time, how great a wait people would have.) Nothing that worked in the first film works here. Eddie Murphy sleepwalks through his role and the film simply is not funny.The action scenes are not much better. The villains look like a Klingon Biker Gang. There is a muddled story with a reveal at the end that could not make less sense if they tried. The direction by Walter Hill is pedestrian and the jazzy soundtrack practically assaults the audience.There are a few positives. Nick Nolte seems game throughout much of the film despite the ridiculous script and some of the action set pieces are decent. Over-all the film is a clear miss and an example of why sequels got such a bad name back in the Eighties (Okay early Nineties).Overall the film is not worth ten minutes of your time let alone another 48 Hours. "},{"Title":"Clumsy Script","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This sequel gets off to a fairly good start as three bikers from hell meet in a deserted bar . Boy are these guys scary , they're the reason why you don't want to go to an American jail . On deeper reflection they're the reason you don't want to go to America period . Unfortunately having established these bikers are ruthless violent criminals the screenwriters inject a piece of violent action which is totally unnecessary and which draws attention to their actions iun the context of the movieIf truth be told these bikers could have been amongst the best screen villains of the 1990s but the cast are let down by the screenplay , it's both very contrived while failing to explain some things . Bikers are right wing aren't they ? and these  Western Brotherhood  guys confirm this by stating they're like the old pioneers before America became a god forsaken melting pot , so what are they doing hanging around with a black crimelord ? That's because it sets up the sequel featuring Reggie and Jack , like I said contrived . It does explain how Reggie is involved but it's rather throwaway and unconvincing , the script would have been much better if it concentrated on niggling little things like how can characters be abducted from a supermarket and brought into a busy nightclub without anyone calling the cops If you loved the original then you might enjoy this sequel but it was spoiled by a very clumsy script  "}]