[{"Title":"Incredible Colors, Incredible Cast","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"60 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is amazing-looking movie with the whole thing done in just six or seven colors. When it came out over 15 years ago, it stunned audiences with its color scheme, being so different from anything else that had ever been put on film. Those colors, for me at least, make this an absolutely fascinating film to watch. There are literally thousands of scenes I wish could freeze and somehow convert them to a painting to study for their artwork.The characters and the story don't match up to the greatness of the photography, but they are all over-the-top, especially the villains. The famous actors who played them here must have a had a lot of fun on the set playing Flatop, Pruneface, Lips, Mumbles, etc.Meanwhile, Warren Beatty and Gleanne Hedley are good as Dick Tracey and girlfriend Tess Truehart, and she's as sweet and soft as her name. Another good addition is Charlie Korsmo as the delinquent young boy Dick and Tess take under their wing. The colorful other characters are played by Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, William Forysthe, Paul Sorvino, Mandy Patinkin, Madona and other names you know but are too numerous to list here. Check the full credits on the main page and you'll amazed.The only negatives I found were Pacino's voice which grates on you after awhile, Madonna's off-key singing voice and the fact that the film would have been better trimmed about 10 minutes. Those faults are all minor because overall, this is a fun movie....a cartoon strip coming to life in an incredibly-colorful fashion.....like nothing you have ever seen. "},{"Title":"All those colors","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"42 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If Dick Tracy was in black and white, the pope wouldn't be religious. Giving a new sense to the concept of color in a movie, we are offered an unique experience throughout a comic-strip world, and it's one of the few movies which succeeded in doing so, thanks to a serious script, good direction, great performances (Al Pacino is astonishing) and most importantly a powerful mix of cinematography, art direction and costume design. Using only primary colors, the experience is quite different from anything we have seen before. And there is also a quite successful hommage to all the gangster-movie genre, pratically extinct from modern cinema. Overall, I see this movie as a fresh attempt and a touch of originality to a cinema which relies more and more on the old and already-seen formulas. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Why Wait for the Sunday Funnies Section?","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is one of our family's favorites -- the actors are great -- the art direction is exceptional -- the music is magic. It's not supposed to be To Kill A Mockingbird -- it's a fun experience.Stephen Sondhemim's songs are stellar Back in Business is energetic, Sooner or Later is just right, What Can You Lose is haunting -- even tunes like Live Alone and Like It add to the storyGot to love the giddily over-the-top performances of Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, Glenn Headly, Charlie Korsmo, Mandy Patinkin, James Caan, Dick Van Dyke, supporting villains...  The list is far too long. And, yes -- even Madonna and Warren Beatty are awesome.  Written with a smile a minute (how many times have we looked at each other and said, Wait a minute -- I'm having a thought -- it's gone!?).However, one of most telling things about in this film is that everyone involved seems to be having a good time -- and that above all adds to the enjoyment for the viewer.  So, if you haven't already, why not give Dick Tracy a chance -- accept it for what it is -- a Sunday comic strip brought to life -- and in a wonderful way!! "},{"Title":"One of the best comic book adaptations of all time.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"48 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've been watching Dick Tracy for years, and as a result it's become a vital part of my life - it was with me throughout childhood and I used to see it quite often. Seeing it now, as an adult, it's still a very good movie - dark, satiric and incredibly misunderstood. About the only thing that can be said is the Oscar nomination Pacino received - other than that it is rarely discussed and didn't make much of a fuss when it came out.Pacino is over-the-top but to good effect as he's clearly having loads of fun. Beatty is great as Dick Tracy and behind the camera manages to capture the atmosphere of a film noir comic book better than any other film, possibly, I have ever seen. Just taking a look at one scene from the film is breathtaking. The lighting, velvet overtones and smog/smoke combine to create a great effect.There are some really funny cameos including one by Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles, and I don't think there are any flaws at all in terms of acting - even the mandatory kid-character is far better than expected.Overall, a really fine movie that has become misunderstood over the years since its release and is incredibly underrated with only 5.7/10 average on IMDb. The critics' reviews are very positive (check out RottenTomatoes.com) and after seeing the film once again it's not hard to see why - this is a perfect example of capturing the essence of a comic book, from style to eccentricity.Highly recommended. 4.5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Sooner or Later It Will Get Its Due","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a marvelous film.  Warren Beatty managed to film it just like a comic book MIGHT be brought to film with humourously grotesque and bizarre characters, beautiful colours, and a plot that really only could have come from a comic book.  The buildings, set design, make-up, and props are like nothing I have ever seen in film before.  Now, never having read the original strip leaves me out as far as making probably very insightful comparisons with this film and the original source.  That being said, I think that Beatty, although drastically changing some of the villains in the film to fit smaller roles, tried to keep the spirit of the film inside the comic strip.  Does that make sense?  Probably not.  Anyway, Dick Tracy offers a lot.  It is a visual feast with a decent story and some prime time stars doing some things you may not expect from them.  Beatty is very good as the lawmen, but much of the supporting cast steals many scenes from him.  Al Pacino as Big Boy Caprice is sensational as an over-the-top thug out to get every criminal under his control, while he intermittenly quotes folks like Nietchze, Jefferson, and other historical figures.  Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles is wonderful - if you can finally figure out that it is him(notice in the scene where a stenographer is taking down what he says((That is Oscar winner Kathy Bates!))).  James Caan has a brief yet good scene with Pacino Godfather style and Beatty gives Michael J. Pollard and Estelle Parsons cameos as well(both co-starring with him in Bonnie and Clyde).  Then there is Madonna.  She tries her best to live up to her name of Breathless and does a VERY credible job at it.  And then of course there is the music of Stephen Sondheim, an Oscar winner for this film.  It is very good and in some ways more memorable than much of what goes on in the film.  Perhaps a song here or there might have been cut, but for the most part the music greatly added to the overall effects created in the film.  Is Dick Tracy great?  No, but it is a whole lot better than it is generally given credit for.  In some ways its innovation must be reviewed again.  I think that for its type of film it is one of the best.   "},{"Title":"Tracy, Tracy, Tracy!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never attended the midnight showing of a movie before Dick Tracy came out.I still have the t-shirt ticket I had to wear to get admitted to the showing around here somewhere and, like that shirt, Dick Tracy has stuck with me ever since.If you've seen the movie, the sharp visuals, bright primary colors and strong characters have no doubt been etched into your brain.  It's a wonder to behold.As director/star/co-writer/producer, Beatty knows what works in a film and shows it here, taking a familiar American icon and re-creating him for a whole new era.  Still set in the '30s, Tracy has a kind of timeless quality like all good films do.  I've lost track of how many times I've watched Tracy and I still catch something new every time I do.The others are all top notch, starting with Pacino's Big Boy Caprice (a reminder that he can do comedy with the best of them), even Madonna's Breathless Mahoney is a relevation in that under the right environment, she can act (GASP!).  But there's still such themes touched on as the necessity of family, keeping true to one's self, good versus evil, even Machiavellian themes are explored.  Odd for a comic strip film, but hey, it works.All in all, Dick Tracy is a classic unto itself.  Compared with other films of this decade, it makes a strong statement.  It's a good, strong film that doesn't depend on blood, violence, profanity or nudity to make its point.  There's a lesson to be learned here.Ten stars.  Great Scott! "},{"Title":"Simplistic but enjoyable.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't look for an overdeveloped plotline here....just sit back with some popcorn and enjoy this one.  A gallery of stars pop up as the classic cartoon character's villains in this live action comedy, which features incredible makeup and set design, not to mention knockout performances from Beatty, Madonna, and Pacino.  Great fun for kids and adults alike.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"It Does Make an Impression.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An all-star cast, vivid colors that could give you a headache and Madonna's sizzling performance made many think that Dick Tracy is much better than it actually is. It is one of those typical quantity over quality projects that uses smoke and mirrors to make the audience think that it is something unique and intriguing. However, the film is little more than a comic strip that jumps up at you ala the Superman or Batman group of films. Warren Beatty's performance and in-your-face direction are not totally successful. The seemingly endless name of cast members also becomes dizzying. Al Pacino (Oscar-nominated) steals every scene and pulls a Jack Nicholson from Batman out of his hat. Dick Tracy is a good film, but it is far from being a masterpiece. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Pure Dick Tracy Nostalgia","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this true to form take on the Dick Tracy persona. This is a well done product that used modern technology to craft a imagery filled comic era story. If you are a fan of or recently watched some of the old Dick Tracy b&w movies then you're sure to get a kick out of this rendition. The pastel colors and larger than life characters rendered in a painstakingly authentic take on an era gone by is entertainment as it's meant to be. I personally find Madonna's musical element to be a major part of this film-the CD featuring her music from this movie is one I've listened to often over the years, it's just so well done and performed musically and tuned to that era. In my mind, Madonna's finest moment both on-screen but especially musically. This is sure to bring out the kid in you. "},{"Title":"Impressive, enjoyable comic book movie (spoilers)","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Released in 1990, Warren Beatty's take on a popular one-time comic book detective is at once successful and distinctive.  It doesn't have the preachy Americo-centric moralism of the Superman movies, neither does it possess the dark and tragic depths of the early Batman films.  Dick Tracy is distinctive as it just tries to be what it is a literal live action comic strip.  In this the cops headed up by a straight-laced detective (and his plucky kid sidekick) are the heroes, with a horde of ugly, scheming gangsters as the villains.In a town simply named The City, Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) is an honest but reckless detective who divides his time between chasing villains and going out with his girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly).  He finds himself a new sidekick in the shape of the Kid (Charlie Korsmo), a homeless young thief he pulls off the streets.  Tracy will need all the help he can get, as his arch-nemesis Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) is on the rise.  He's just rubbed out his main rival Lips Manlis (Paul Sorvino), taken over his club and stolen his girlfriend, singer Breathless Mahoney (Madonna).  Now he's preparing for a rampage that will ensure him complete control of The City.....Take the story out of the movie and it would make a fine period melodrama.  There are enough twists and turns in the plot to keep it interesting for the bulk of it's two-hour running length.  The script mixes a healthy stock of comic book characters (hard-nosed cop, honest sweetheart, streetwise kid, mean ugly gangster and attractive but sleazy moll) and has the standard surprise ending.  This is combined with a show of action scenes (featuring cement baths, punch-ups and tommy gun shoot-outs) but in keeping with the pictures lighthearted tone, there is nothing gory or explicit.The setting and technical aspect is especially good in this film.  The use of primary colours in both the backdrops, sets and costumes is brilliant and makes the whole film really come alive.  Enhancing this is a wonderful music score, put to good use in both the action scenes and the quieter, more sentimental moments.  Even Madonna's songs fit in well with the picture, as they're cleverly used in ways that bring the story forward and add irony to key scenes.  The performances are for the most part excellent.  Warren Beatty is on form as eponymous detective and he works well in tangent with Charlie Korsmo as The Kid, who is both his partner and surrogate son.  If the film has a recurring weakness, it's in the lack of chemistry between him and leading lady Glenne Headly.  There is certainly more discernible tension in scenes between him and Madonna, who turns in a good performance as the scheming, gangster's moll.  She is certainly no Oscar-winner, but neither is she the wooden disaster so many make her out to be.The cast of prosthetics-clad gangsters reads like a Who's Who of vintage character actors Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, Paul Sorvino, William Forsythe, James Tolkan, etc.  The outstanding performance here, though, is Al Pacino as Big Boy.  Usually known for his more serious portrayal of villains in films like The Godfather and Dog Day Afternoon it is a delight watching him go gleefully over the top here.  Big Boy is deluded, cruel and arrogant and makes a worthy adversary for Tracy.Not one of the most well-known comic book films going around, but it is still a joy to watch.   "}{"Title":"A town this tough needs a cop this tough.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is one of my all time favorite films.  I must admit to those that haven't seen it.  You will either really love it or really hate it.  It came out a year after the success of Batman.  So everyone's expectations were so high that many were let down simply because the plot is so simple.  But its based on a comic strip...what did you expect?  Creatively, this movie is amazing!  The sets, make-up, music, costumes, and the impressive acting make this film fantastic. The film has bloodless violence and no bad language - that's something rare these days.  Directed, produced, and stars Warren Beatty as the ace crime fighter going up against Al Pacino's evil Big Boy Caprice and his mob of thugs. Madonna steals the show as the seductive Breathless Mahoney. This is one of the best characters Madonna has ever played.  She has the best one liners I've heard!  Madonna fans would love it! One of the coolest things about the film is that they only used seven colors to make it look like a comic strip. This film is truly a piece of artwork that is sadly overlooked by the public.  To sum things up, this film brings out the child in all of us.  It's a film that will leave you smiling at the end.   "},{"Title":"Well, it looks pretty","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With his sights primarily set on Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino), Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) tries to round up a number of gangsters. At the same time, he informally adopts a street kid (Charlie Korsmo), encounters problems with girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly), and flirts with Breathless Mahoney (Madonna).If I were to rate Dick Tracy only on production design--sets, matte paintings, costumes, special make-up, color schemes, and so on--I wouldn't hesitate to give it a 10. Throughout its length, the film looks fantastic--like a surreal, day-glo, pop art film noir. Super saturated primary and secondary colors dominate, occasionally offset by rich tertiary colors. The colors are consistently combined in effective, varied and intriguing ways. The surreal locations are a combination of matte paintings and sets seamlessly melded in a manner that remains technically impressive. The make-up effects for Dick Tracy's bizarre characters are excellent. They manage to both capture the precise look of the comic books villains and appear realistic at the same time. If the film were just a set of art photos and/or paintings, it would be one of the masterpieces of at least the 1990s.However, as a film, there's a story that writers Jim Cash and Jack Epps, Jr. want to tell. That story is a complete mess. For some godforsaken reason, Cash and Epps try to include every villain from the Tracy comics that they can remember. They seem to also include half of the plot lines they can remember. But they forget to write in any explanation or motivation for why Tracy is going after whomever he's going after at a given moment. Combined with overly quick, abrupt editing that too often bounces back and forth between unrelated scenes, the plot seems as if Cash and Epps set out bullet points of villains, villain interconnections and schemes, then threw them together almost randomly in a string of non-sequiturs.Characters played by well-known and capable actors are completely wasted. There's just not enough time to get into them. Others, such as Madonna, seem to have demanded contractual clauses that guaranteed screen time (in this case featuring singing) whether the appearance serviced the story or not. Some of the cast, such as Pacino, crazily overact. Others, such as William Forsythe as Flattop, turn in understated performances. I don't mind either style (and who is more fun to watch chewing scenery than Pacino?) but Beatty, who also directed, appears to have not known what he wanted to shoot for in that capacity. Part of the problem could be confusion due to the script being such a mess. Beatty, by the way, displays a peculiar inability to change his facial expression, which remains cemented in a seemingly new character--I'll name him Frogface--throughout the film (maybe that's how Beatty always is and I just didn't notice it so much before). In terms of his vocal phrasing and general emoting, Beatty portrays Tracy as a cross between Bob Newhart, Keanu Reeves and Harrison Ford. I like all of those other actors, and I'm definitely a fan of oddities, but in this context, I'm not sure it works. I was never a big reader of the Tracy comics, though. Maybe it's a perfect fit, but I'm guessing that it makes as much sense as Gilbert Gottfried as Batman (which, come to think of it, I'd like to see, but obviously more as a spoof).There appear to be fans of this film, so the plot must not be such a mess and the performances must not be so questionable in everyone's opinion. For my part, I suggest that you watch the film like a slide show while you put on a couple CDs for a soundtrack and ignore any pretense of a story. "},{"Title":"Film Noir in Technicolor","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First and Formost, this movie hits the comic strip right on the nose (it was goofy looking and freak'n violent). The one thing that always gets me is that we have detectives, feme fatales, rutheless gangsters, exploding cars and machine guns, all done in super bright rainbow colors. I find that the bright colors really pull this movie off, It conveys the whole comic book idea, better than the giant balloons from Batman, the verbaitum sound effects from X men, and certainly those annoying panel shots from hulk.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Exciting and Underrated.","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After seeing Dick Tracy in the 6.99$ bin at Future Shop I decided to give it a go with no previous knowledge and being a big fan of Mafia and Crime movies. I was very surprised to see a very fun, smart entertaining movie with solid performances throughout. The movie moves along well, it has of course another solid performance from Warren Beatty, but the real standouts of the film are Al Pacino and Madonna. I was happy to find out that Pacino was nominated for his performance as an over the top gangster trying to take down the city. Madonna was great as the damsel in distress, she really impressed me and added depth to her performance. If you go in with the attitude of wanting to watch a fun, smart movie with great acting and a solid script then give Dick Tracy a try. I don't think you will be disappointed. And Watch for the cameos from Paul Sorvino, James Caan, Kathy Bates and Dustin Hoffman among others. "},{"Title":"Colorful and entertaining but mindless","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not the biggest fan of Dick Tracy and outside of this movie I couldn't tell you anything about him other than he's an honest cop who favors yellow and he's been around for a long time. Comic-book movies are a dime a dozen these days so maybe now Dick Tracy doesn't stand out as much as it did in 1990, a shame because Warren Beatty's color scheme and attention to detail is quite impressive. And the film did win 2 Academy Awards for the art direction and the gruesome make-up. I think Disney were shooting for a successful franchise in the vein of Burton's Batman the previous year. The films are very similar visually and it's a shame we never got more Dick Tracy movies.The plot is nonsense, some Gangster called 'Big Boy Caprice (played by an over-the-top Al Pacino in such eccentric make-up it actually looks like Antoine de Caunes playing Al Pacino playing Big Boy) wants to take control of 'the city' and Dick Tracy does his best to take him down. Madonna pops up as a floozy and the wretched kid who played Peter Pan's son in Hook pops up as...um...'The Kid'. Amidst these unremarkable plot developments dozens of grotesque gangsters bicker and mumble and fill up the running time. It's not so much fun following the plot as it is keeping your eyes open for all the actors hidden underneath the make-up. Such as William Forsythe, Ed O'Ross, Paul Sorvino, RG Armstrong and Dustin Hoffman, who is hilarious as Mumbles. It really makes you think about how successful actors can be identified by their unique voices or by their eyes.Some of it is rather dull but there are moments of spectacle that make it worthwhile. The matte paintings and color schemes are truly wonderful, turning the movie into a modern day film noir. Danny Elfman however, cranks out YET ANOTHER generic, lifeless comic-book movie score that brings no life of it's own the images on screen. He's truly my least favorite film composer (tying with Randy Edelman). But it did win another Academy Award for 'Best Original Song' as well as being nominated for 4 others.There have been rumors for years that Beatty's cut of the film was 135 minutes long and that Disney demanded that he cut it down to 105. This seems to make sense regarding some unusual edits in certain scenes and the fact that all of a sudden the movie is set on New Year's Eve during the climax despite the fact that it is clearly not winter nor is there any mention of Xmas (much like Ghostbusters II).Disney seem to hate the movie, despite its success, and I'm not surprised considering the massive legal trouble it brought them with various rights disputes over the years, which is why there was never any sequel. Beatty still retains the rights and promises that there WILL be another Dick Tracy, but the dude was born in 1937. He can't play Dick Tracy anymore unless the movie will be set in the 1960s. "},{"Title":"I Liked This Film","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you were a fan of previous incarnations of Dick Tracy, then this is the film for you. If not, find another film to watch...Warren Beatty does a decent enough job as Dick Tracy who battles the underworld. Warren also directed this film and did a good job.Dick Tracy was always a great character complete with an unrivalled rogues gallery of villains (except for Batman). The villains are all here and kudos to the make-up department who made the bad guys totally hateful. The plot is also quite good as well and the colour is good too. I believe the film was shot in only six (or maybe seven) colours and the sets of the city are totally faithful to the original Dick Tracy comic strips.Obviously, this film tried to emulate Batman but immitation is the sincerest form of flattery. This film is almost as good as Batman and certainly not deserving of the criticism it had when it first came out.One more thing-Madonna as Breathless Mahoney. I don't know if a film like this suited Madonna but it was great to see her in it because she is beautiful and improves with age.All in all, a cracker of a film which I urge youngsters to see because they will enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Brilliantly portrays the comic-strip feel","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The opening credits make for a brilliant, atmospheric piece of escapist entertainment that's full of little nods to the comic strip. All the good guys are good, all the bad guys are bad, and the film is jam-packed with familiar character actors covered in gruesom make-up to hi-lite their characteristics.Warren Beatty, as Dick Tracy, is the ultimate tough guy straight man, incorruptable, calm usually, always a better fighter than the other guy, and rarely one to push the limit on legality. Al Pacino, as Big Boy Caprice steals every scene he's in as a hunch-backed gangster in some unnamed metropolis of 1930s gangsters. Maddonna plays the kind of person she'd probably play best, Breathless Mahoney, a nightclub singer and femme fatale with her own little agenda going. Gleanne Headly is Tracy's tough-talking, fiercely independent long-time girlfrined. And then there's The Kid, a funny little street urchin Tracy takes in, who models himself after his surrogate father, and saves Tracy when the detective has accepted his fate of being blown up.The supporting players are a Who's Who of character actors. Charles Durning is the chief of police. Dick Van Dyke is the District Attorney, who's bribed by Big Boy's goons to keep him on the streets. Dustin Hoffman has a humorous turn as Mumbles, the snitch whose dialect is so indecipherable the cops can't make head nor tail of what he has to say. R.G. Armstrong is Pruneface, one of the rival gangsters Big Boy forms a special allegiance to in order to create a network of crime spreading throughout the whole city. Mandy Patinkin is 88 Keys, the piano player for Breathless's show. Paul Sorvino plays Lips Manlis, Breathless's former benefactor until Big Boy gives him the Bath. James Caan wears relatively little make-up in his performance as the only gangster who won't go along with Big Boy's grand plan. William Forsythe and Ed O'Ross are Big Boy's enforcers, Flattop and Itchy.This movie retains all of the corn of the comic strip, plus it is full of vibrant colors. Almost all the suits are elaborate in blues and greens and yellows and reds. All the colors of the rainbow are found in this movie--and then some! The matte paintings that are used truly realize this world as two-dimensional, only acted in three-dimensional sets. The humor is plentiful. Al Pacino fills the shoes of his character like no other character he's played before or since. Big Boy is kind of crazy, and kind of self-pitying. He's an eccentric little man who takes pride in quoting our Founding Fathers and likening himself to great political leaders. The man with the plan, always looking for the smartest way to do business. "},{"Title":"Best Comic Book movie made yet!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is easily the best comic book based movie made to date. The movie has the same feel as the comic book, staying true to the color scheme. The Batman series has climbed, fallen, climbed and fallen again. Dick Tracy has true staying power as something that both adults and children can enjoy. The good guys triumph over evil, without blood and gore to get the point across. Al Pacino does a wonderful job of his own adaptation of Big Boy Caprice and Madonna is memorable as Breathless. But the best job by far is Warren Beatty who just epitomizes Dick Tracy just as he did with Clyde Barrows. I can't wait until it comes out on DVD on April 2, 2002, my tape is wearing thin.  "},{"Title":"Warren Beatty's adaptation of Chester Gould's Dick Tracy","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After staying away from looking at the movie for a number of years,due to always hearing a lot of negative reactions towards the title,I was recently caught by surprise,when I read a wonderful review by a fellow IMDb'er that made the film sound much more stylish than I had expected it to be,which led to me getting ready to finally meet Dick Tracy.The plotBeing called away from a play that he is attending with his friend Tess Trueheart,police officer Dick Tracy attends a crime scene shooting which appears to have been committed by the city's leading gangster Big Boy Caprice.As he talks to Tess the next day about how he believes the shooting to have been done by Caprice, (who is about to open the city's biggest nightclub)whilst they walk to a café,Dick notices a kid attempting to run away with a man's watch.Catching the kid,Tracy discovers that he is an orphan who is working for a small time gangster.Beating up the gangster and destroying his hide out,Dick decides to take the kid under his wing.Taking the kid back to the café so that he can have a bite to eat with him and Tess,Tracy receives a phone call telling him that a secret mob meeting is taking place.Gathering up a few of Caprice's hangers on that were still hanging around at the warehouse, Dick decides that he must take a gamble and bring Caprice in for questioning,for a 5th time. Despite being certain that Caprice is guilty,Dick ends up having to let him go,after the district attorney reveals that Caprice's arrest would have a serious effect on his upcoming campaign for the mayor election.Desperate to clean the streets of Dick Tracy once and for all,Caprice arranges a meeting between himself and the other leaders of the city's underground,who due to all feeling uneasy about the impact that Dick has had on their power base,agree to Caprice's landmark idea that they should become a coalition,which will rid the streets of Tracy once and for all.View on the filmReuniting with cinematography Vittorio Storaro, (who had earlier joined him for 1987's Reds) lead actor/director Warren Beatty firmly places Tracy in an eye dazzling,comic-book world.Staying away from any bleak colours,Beatty and Storaro splash the film in primary colours,which along with giving all of the characters a very animated appearance,also soaks the title in a wonderfully brittle pulp atmosphere.Packing the rouge's gallery with an amazing number of familiar faces,each of the lead baddies display a clear joy in their performances,with Al Pacino biting everyone's head off as delightful boo-hiss villain Big Boy Caprice,and Dick Van Dyke shows himself to be a less than clean DA.Despite every film that she now appears in largely getting trashed,Madonna, (who its alleged is one of the few Hollywood actresses that had a romantic relationship with Beatty) gives a very good performance as Breathless Mahoney,as Madonna shows Mahoney to be a dame whose more than happy to push either Caprice and Tracy to the side.Taking on the title role,Beatty gives a strong,lively performance as Tracy,with Beatty showing Tracy to be a cop who has one eye on the rulebook,and one eye on getting a grip on Caprice via means that are 'slightly' outside the law.Sadly the screenplay by Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr. is never quite able to match the stylishness displayed in Beatty directing.Being partly damaged by the studio ordering Beatty to cut the movie down from his preferred 135 minute cut of the title,the writers never allow Tracy's battles with the baddies and his growing relationship with 'The Kid' to fully intertwine,which leads to the pace of the movie feeling rather uneven,as the screenplay fails to match Beatty's dazzlingly drawn pop-art Comic-Book. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Labor of love for star and director Warren Beatty, Dick Tracy was a film I hated when it first came out. I was a kid and stupid, only caring about what's cool. What was cool then (and sadly still is) was dark and gritty heroes like Batman. Dick Tracy was considered corny and lame. When I first watched it I thought it was a kids' movie and I was at that age where anything like that I hated. Happily, I feel much differently about the film now that I'm older.Dick Tracy is a live-action cartoon, with eye-popping visuals decked out in bright primary colors. It's a beautiful film to behold. Everyone involved in the stylized look of this movie should be proud. The sets, the lighting, the matte paintings, the makeup and effects are all superior to any CGI crap we get today. Real work and passion went into this and it shows.The cast is great. Beatty is criticized by many for not being the right fit for Tracy or for being too old. While he's not a perfect representation of the character, I feel he does quite well and his age never occurred to me while watching it. Madonna gives easily her best performance in this movie. That's meant slightly as a slam I guess, as most of her other work is very weak. But it's also meant as a compliment. Here she plays to her strengths sex appeal and oomph. Her double entendres and skin-tight dresses make Breathless Mahoney a very memorable character. There's also some fine support from Glenne Headley and Charlie Korsmo. And who can forget the villains! Chester Gould's distinctive-looking villains come to life thanks to superb makeup, played in many cases by uncredited stars. The leader of the bunch is Big Boy Caprice, played by the wonderfully over-the-top Al Pacino. Pacino was having a lot of fun with the role and it shows.My only real complaint lies in the music. Not the Stephen Sondheim songs -- they're great. But the Danny Elfman musical score is way too similar to the one he did for Batman the year before. It's very lazy and doesn't seem to fit the action of the film. Forget what you've read from naysayers about this movie and judge it for yourself. It's a fun movie with exceptional visuals and colorful ambiance. "}{"Title":"Colorful and glimmer adaptation based on famous  comic strips created by Chester Gould","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Warren Beatty successfully bringing the comic strip to life , the renowned police detective Dick Tracy who this time tries to solve a case involving Big Boy , the public enemy nº 1 . Beatty wears the caps on all fronts , as he is actor , writer , producer and filmmaker , incarnating the legendary police detective Dick Tracy from Chester Gould's comics and his relentless crusade against crime . However his Tracy is somewhat flat in comparison other comic book heroes . Dick Tracy is the only man tough enough to take on ranting mobster boss Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) and his band of menacing mobsters (William Forsythe and Dustin Hoffman who made a small character as Mumbles as a favor for Warren Beatty) . Big Boy and his gang set out a wave of crime that bring them face to face with dapper Tracy . Dedicated to his work but at the same time devoted to his loyal sweetheart (Glenne Headly ), Tracy find himself torn between love and duty . Tracy becomes even more difficult when he gets saddled with an engaging orphan (Charlie Korsmo) . The comic strip detective finds his life vastly complicated when a singing siren named Mahoney (a seductive Madonna) makes advances towards him while he is attempting to fight Big Boy Caprice's united mob . Later on , Tracy tries to find his kidnapped girlfriend while Big Boy is on the loose . This comic strip spring to life similarly the original drawings and being faithfully recreated , though sometimes looks like an extended stage musical . The bad guys all have overblown features and they and the cops , journalists all wear different coloured coats to correspond to the drawings in the original comic strips created by Chester Gould . The timeless and imaginative settings capture the essence rather than reality of the city . There's so much music in the movie mostly from Mandy Patinkin and especially Madonna as the singer Breathless Mahoney doing her best screen acting to date . Good though excessive performances from Al Pacino who is perfectly cast as the gangster Big Boy looking like a caricaturist impression of a cartoon and splendid Dustin Hoffman as his hoodlum named Mumbles . The make-up used for all of the villains was based directly on how they were drawn by Chester Gould in the original comic strip , the only exception was Big Boy Caprice, whose make-up was designed by Al Pacino himself. People expecting Gothic scenarios and spectacular action of Batman may be disappointed , but moviegoers will be thrilled . Colorful and stylistically superior cinematography by the Italian Vittorio Storaro , shot in a few colors , the main colors in the film are only six that the original comic strip appeared in red, blue, yellow, green, orange, purple, plus black and white . Jolly and amusing musical score by Danny Elffman . Other films about this classic comic book character are the followings  ¨Dick Tracy¨ (1947) 15 chapters starred by Ralph Byrd and directed by John English and Ray Taylor ; ¨Dick Tracy Detective¨ (1945) the first feature movie directed by William Berke with Morgan Conway and Jane Greer ; ¨Tracy returns¨ 15 chapter serial directed by William Witney with Ralph Byrd ; ¨Tracy meets gruesome ¨(1947) with Ralph Byrd and Boris Karloff ; ¨Tracy vs Crime Inc¨; ¨Tracy vs Cueball¨(1946) by Gordon Douglas with Morgan Conway and Anne Jeffreys ; ¨Tracy's dilemma¨ by John Rawlins with Ralph Byrd and Jack Lambert , among others . "},{"Title":"DICK TRACY  Should Be Seen As An Example Of What A Comic Book Movie Should Be...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" DICK TRACY Warren Beatty's 1991 adaptation of the classic Dick Tracy comic books has only improved with age. At the time of it's release, DICK TRACY's visual style was unlike anything the movies had seen and perhaps some of the public didn't know what to make of it. Beatty decided to have a color palette of just 7 crisp colors, the same colors that were available when the Dick Tracy comics were first published. By doing so, he has created a cinematic world that has the miraculous ability of never feeling dated. This is incredibly refreshing when you consider that fact that the continuous development of computer technology and special effects has caused so many great movies of the past to lose some of their magic over the years. Not the case with DICK TRACY.Warren Beatty has certainly proved himself over the years to be an incredible contributor to the art form of film with a resume including REDS, BUGSY, BONNIE & CLYDE and more. However, never before and never since has Beatty put out a film full of such nostalgic excitement and fun.Though there were many different comics and story lines regarding everyone's favorite cop Dick Tracy, Beatty managed to consolidate them all into one engrossing film. DICK TRACY begins with Big Boy Caprice (played by Al Pacino with a great deal of abandon and fun) starting to gather together all the city's gangsters for one unified deal. Together, all of them can rule the city.Big Boy's plan includes buying out the nightclub where Breathless Mahoney (played by Madonna, in perhaps her best performance) sings and then turning it into a den for underground gambling. Meanwhile, Dick Tracy and his ever-faithful girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headley) have just taken under their wing a young orphan (an incredible Charlie Korsmo) with an endless appetite for food and action. As Dick Tracy tries to get to the bottom of Big Boy's plan, he sees his only link to getting to the truth is Breathless Mahoney... a woman who's not willing to help him until he shows interest in having her as his woman.The plot is simple, but it is more then compelling enough as a compliment to the incredible visual flair of Beatty's comic book adaptation. Everything including the special effects, make-up, costumes, music, and all the performances are perfectly suited to the film's tone. Everything has a comical cartoonish quality to it, including the dialogue, however everyone involved seems so aware of this quality that they've successfully embraced it and incorporated into their work.For such a unique film, it's amazing that all the pieces can come together and blend so wonderfully as a cohesive whole... but I suppose that's just a credit to Beatty's directing here. He has managed to literally bring the world of the Dick Tracy comic strips to life on screen in a manner that has only been matched by Robert Rodriguez's SIN CITY. They are two films very different in substance, however their ability to create a unique world so powerfully is unmatched by other comic adaptations.One of DICK TRACY's most entertaining qualities is the cast it has gathered together. The ensemble is a who's who of great actors even down to the smallest of roles (watch for Kathy Bates and Catherine O'Hara in blink & you miss them cameos). Everyone here is having fun without losing focus. Pacino's Big Boy is a thrillingly over-the-top bad guy opposite Beatty's cool and collected all-American hero. Also, the two leading females offer polar opposite performances of equal appeal. Madonna has never been so compelling in a role (aside from a refreshing performance in A LEAGUE OF THEIR OWN) and she embodies a Marilyn Monroe gone bad like no other could have. Glenne Headley is so engagingly sweet that you don't even notice how spineless she is... she's the epitome of damsel in distress. And Charlie Korsmo as the kid offers one of the most brashly confident child performances captured on film in recent years.To top it off, DICK TRACY also features some incredible original music from Stephen Sondheim. Music plays a major role in DICK TRACY from the montages to the live performances, and yet it only enhances the film. DICK TRACY is just an example of all the elements adding up to make a great whole... and there's no single element that ruins it for the rest of them. This is a movie that made me feel like I was a kid again in awe of the new things that only film can show me. It's a shame DICK TRACY isn't more fondly remembered then it is... b/c for today's filmmaker this should be held up high as an example of what to aim for when creating a comic book adaptation.... A ... "},{"Title":"A noble failure...","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Director Warren Beatty's intention to turn Chester Gould's famous comic strip into a live-action cartoon (with Beatty himself cast in the lead as the square-jawed detective) had sweet overtures of innocent nostalgia--quite unusual and intriguing coming from Warren Beatty. Unfortunately, the picture is requisite ham, fun for awhile but eventually tiring. Dick Tracy attempts to bring down mobster Big Boy Caprice, aided by loving Tess Trueheart but tripped up by evil Breathless Mahoney. For the first half-hour or so, the Oscar-winning art direction and set design are wonderful to absorb but, as the plot creaks along predictably (with no real sting in the writing), things begin to congeal. Al Pacino got a surprise Supporting Oscar nomination as bad boy Caprice, and Madonna (who is mostly used as a decorative prop) gets to sing Stephen Sondheim's Sooner or Later (I Always Get My Man), which copped the award for Best Original Song. Lots of heart, thanks to Beatty--who was dedicated to his vision--but the picture is too cool and calculated. It lacks heat. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Style, Little Subtance","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Too much style and not enough substance. That sums up this 1990 effort, based faithfully on the popular comic strip about the no-nonsense private dick in the yellow trench coat and fedora. Director Warren Beatty is decent in the title role as Tracy deals with grotesque villains, a rambunctious young lad and the conflicting demands of the two loves of his life - girlfriend Tess Trueheart and his job. Things get even more complicated when he's framed for murder and attempts to unravel a conundrum set in motion by the mysterious Man With No Face.The worst thing about Dick Tracy - and it's not altogether an awful film - is that the plot is so non-cohesive. We simply go from one scenario to another without much thought or consequence. It plays more like a series of those old cliffhanger serials than an uninterrupted movie. And Madonna, as lounge singer Breathless Mahoney, is annoyingly trampy.In its defense, Dick Tracy has probably the greatest comic book feel of any film. Its use of color, makeup and musical interludes makes it at times amazing to watch. But none of it has the storyline to match. It's like the writers felt that bringing Tracy to the big screen (this was not long after Batman exploded into theaters) was enough. Get the detective on the screen and the rest will follow. It doesn't, but still, Dick Tracy has enough redeeming qualities to make it worth a rental on a slow night. "},{"Title":"A Fun Time!","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 1990 film Dick Tracy is the most modern cinematic take on the comic strip created by Chester Gould which ran from 1931 to 1977. This version stars Warren Beatty as Dick Tracy and his love interest Tess Trueheart is played by Glenne Headly. Dick Tracy continues on his mission to clean the city of the gangster that try to run things. Big Boy Caprice played by Al Pacino is trying to unite all of the different mob organization to take over the city and be done with Tracy for good. Those who don't join him such as Pat Patton (James Caan) and Lips Manless (Paul Sorvino) meet an untimely demise. The only one who can stop Big Boy is Tracy. Tracy hits the gangster hard until the character called No Face frames him for the murder of D.A. Fletcher (Dick Van Dyke). With Tracy off the streets Big Boy and his goons own the town. How will Tracy with the help of Kid (Charlie Korsmo) put an end to this madness? With the main theme being the typical good versus evil that is present in so many comic to movie story lines, this is not the melodramatic dark story of Batman. It parallels in a lot of ways to Sin City. The use of colors to make up the cities between the two films is similar as is the hard-nosed cop going after the bad guy at any costs. While this is a much more family friendly movie than Sin City, the similarities between the two in terms of graphics are definitely there.Besides the amazingly bright colors that make up the city and the costumes, the singing done by Breathless Mahoney (Madonna), when she isn't too busy trying to seduce Tracy, really captures the camera. By the end of the movie you might be wishing that they had cut a song or two out of it, but none the less, Breathless lived up to her name with her amazing revealing costumes. The costume designing throughout the movie was great as many characters seemed to match. Kid took quite a liking to Tess and was often seen wearing the same shade of red as she was. Tracy wore his trademark yellow trench coat and fedora of course, but every character in the movie was dressed to the 9's.The only part of the movie that really out-shined the wardrobe was the superb job done by the makeup department. The effect they used to change the faces of the villains was incredible. Big Boy was only identifiable as Al Pacino by his voice, and the work done to Flat-Top was great. The job of acting by Dustin Hoffman in the role of Mumbles will leave you laughing, especially the scene with the court reporter.Overall this is a fun movie to watch as a family. There are the parts that will make the parents smile, and the content is suitable for most ages, as well as the theme of good versus evil in a dazzling colored world, and you will finish the movie wishing you had one of the famous Dick Tracy two-way watches. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated?","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The comic strip detective (Warren Beatty) finds his life vastly complicated when Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) makes advances towards him while he is trying to battle Big Boy Caprice's united mob.After almost twenty-five years, this film is still entertaining, well-acted and just good fun. While a bit silly, this is part of the fun, and it is still amazing to see how many big names were willing to take parts where they would be hardly recognizable.Unfortunately, I think the weakest link is Danny Elfman's score. I hate to say hat, because I love Elfman's work, but he was coming off of Batman and many of the film's musical moments sound like recycled bits from that prior film. "},{"Title":"A bit too mellow yellow.","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is directed by Warren Beatty and written by Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr. Based on Chester Gould's comic strip creation of the same name, it stars Beatty, Al Pacino, Madonna, Glenne Headly, Dustin Hoffman, Charlie Korsmo, Charles Durning and William Forsythe. Music is by Danny Elfman, with songs by Stephen Sondheim, and cinematography is by Vittorio Storaro.Punk Rock band X-Ray Spex once sang about The Day The World Turned Day- Glo, Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy was exactly that. The live action cartoon is a feast for the eyes, as the city backdrop for this cops and gangsters tale is a fountain of bright, lurid primary colours. The characters are drawn brilliantly, where the good guys are very much human, but the bad guys are a bunch of grotesques, like a mutant gathering under one coalition banner. All star casting, striking costuming, amazing effects work, quality songs and a brisk musical score (Elfman reworks his score for Batman from the previous year), Dick Tracy as a production is grade A stuff. It also did very well at the box office, where although it didn't reach Disney's expectation levels financially, it coined to the tune of over $100 million in profit Worldwide. Not bad for a film some still think was a flop!It's a film that feels a lot better watching it now than it did back on release, to be able to view it as a smart technical accomplishment for the time it was made. The cast factor also makes it something of a fascinating experience, watching legends like Pacino and Hoffman absolutely buy into the cartoon excess on show. However, the old problem with it just will never go away. Yes the plot is very simple, but that's easy to accept these days, it was after all a gangster movie made for all the family, it's that Beatty's portrayal of Tracy is too under played. He's a good guy, we know that, we are on his side, but it's a flat characterisation, he's never pushed to be anything other than a cool dude. This of course lets the monstrous villains take the film by the scruff of the neck, as most villains tend to anyway, but for a film carrying his name, you expect a bit more from Dick Tracy the man.Still, Dick Tracy is a fun movie experience, not all it can be, but enjoyable regardless. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Calling Dick Tracy","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy was released in 1990. Tim Burton's Batman was released a year earlier and nearly a quarter of a century later is starting to look its age.Dick Tracy on the other hand with its comic strip look and a colour palette of seven colours with a focus on primary colours looks fresh and dazzling even today.Warren Beatty was never an actor who chased populist vehicles rather make films that were thoughtful, even be deemed to be boring. Here as star and director he deliberately went for a unique approach to the Chester Gould comic strip character. Only Ang Lee with his approach to the Hulk has shown that kind of originality.What Dick Tracy also has is a wealth of stars, many of them under heavy make up. Al Pacino has a licence to chew the scenery even more than his Tony Montana. Madonna is sultry enough although she is not a strong enough actress but at least she gets to sing a few Sondheim tunes.Beatty is believable as Dick Tracy, Glenne Headly is the one who is actually more sexy than Madonna as Tess Trueheart. There is an actual script with a decent storyline and its one of the more original takes on a comic book adaptation ever made. Plaudits have to go to Beatty the Director for that. "},{"Title":"A distinct comic strip movie adaptation","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just like The Phantom (1996), The Shadow (1994) and The Rocketeer (1991), the 1990's was the decade Hollywood thought it would be a great idea to revive older comic book/strip characters from the 1930's due to the strong reception from Richard Donner's Superman (1978) and Tim Burton's Batman (1989). Unfortunately, none of these films did fantastic at the box office because of the lack of support. But that doesn't mean what was produced, was poor material. This film is probably the one that lit the fuse to construct the other three later to come.There is a subtle difference between this particular film and the other three - the sense of realism. The setting is the same, which takes place in the 1930's but the world that detective Dick Tracy lives in, is a little bit unrealistic. But this is what makes it so avant-garde. For example, Each characters name depicts what they are like. If a mob member's name is called Flattop, they will literally have a flat top. Or another named Little Face, truly has a small face. Each character is a characacher of their own name. This is actually rather clever and funny at the same time. I liked that a lot, even if no person would ever have such a misshapen body structure.Starring is Warren Beatty, an acclaimed actor, best known for his role in Bonnie and Clyde (1967), directs his third film with this comic strip icon - Detective Dick Tracy. Along with him, co-stars Al Pacino, a very young Madonna, Paul Sorvino, Glenne Headly even Dick Van Dyke and several others. And even with a big cast, sometimes films don't do well, but here, it works out well because of how likable these characters are. Beatty plays Tracy like it's been his job for more than his acting career. Madonna is attractive and highly seductive like she was supposed to be, so that works. Even Al Pacino as the villain gives some comedic relief. It's funny because how his make-up was applied makes him look like a Muppet.What also stood out was just how colorful the entire film was, in its most basic form that is. Movies now a days and even back then contained a multiple array of colors but in Beatty's film, it sticks to your regular Kindergarten colors - green, yellow, red, blue, black, orange... and so on. There are no shades to these primary and secondary colors. They are just your basic crayons and it really stands out. Dick Tracy wouldn't be as memorable to me if he didn't wear his banana colored fedora and trench coat. It just wouldn't be the same and it's because of these colors that help accentuate the exaggerations of the characters.Lastly, comes the music score provided by none other than Danny Elfman. What's great about Elfman's score in this particular work is that he gives the comic strip hero and his love interest each their own memorable theme. Along with that are Elfman's other tracks that contain a lot of jazzy tunes consisting of trumpets and other instruments from that specific time. I did find it cliché though to how the famous detective gets himself into trouble for a lot of silly things because he's either not paying attention or because he lets his selfishness get to him. But that's about it.The movie adaptation of the 1930's comic strip detective is colorful, clever, has great performances and memorable music. It's writing is shaky in some places but it still holds up to a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Looking Films Ever Made","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy (1990) ** 1/2 (out of 4) At times brilliant, at times downright boring, Warren Beatty's adaption of the Chester Gould comic strip is a very frustrating film that has so much going for it but the end result really doesn't reflect that. In the film Beatty plays Tracy, the detective trying to bring crime to an end but without any witnesses he finds himself fighting an uphill battle. The main goal is to bring down Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) but without the testimony of Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) there's not much Tracy can do. DICK TRACY is such a beautiful film to look at that it's a real shame the final product isn't better. If the story and pacing had been better this here really could have been one of the greatest comic adaptation but as it stands the film is simply too painful to sit through to fully enjoy. I use the word painful on purpose because even though this things runs just 101-minutes it really does feel twice as long as ROOTS. I'm really not sure what happened and why the film turned out this way but Beatty certainly must get some of the blame with the lack of any real characters and the fact that everything happens at such a slow pace you just wonder what was the point. None of the characters are really all that memorable in regards to their actions but their looks are terrific. The special make up effects are one major asset and it certainly brings these characters to life, their ugliness and all. Even the Tracy character isn't all that deep for some reason. With that said, the technical side of this picture is downright flawless. The art direction, set design and cinematography are among the greatest you're ever going to see. The beautiful colors are some of the greatest you're going to see. I'd also say that the performances are extremely good and that includes Beatty in the lead role and Madonna as the sex symbol. Pacino screams his lungs out but manages to be fun and Charlie Korsmo is good as Tracy's little buddy. The supporting cast includes big names such as Dustin Hoffman, William Forsythe, James Caan, Charles Durning, Paul Sorvino, Kathy Bates, Dick Van Dyke, Henry Silva and Catharine O'Hara. Beatty's BONNIE AND CYLDE co-stars Michael J. Pollard and Estelle Parsons even show up. DICK TRACY is a beautiful film to look at but sadly it's mainly all style and very little substance. "}{"Title":"Mr. Beatty's devotion to resemble the source comic strip counts for and against his picture.","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As somebody who is constantly griping about the lack of ambition in contemporary cinema, I find it extremely difficult for me to blast a movie that does the opposite of its many vision-starved coevals. Especially when it's been so lovingly cared-for as Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy, a mega-blockbuster from the dawn of the 1990s. But alas, I tragically have to. For despite all that it has going for it, despite all that it got right (and it got a lot right), the movie ultimately tries to cram so much into so little and came off, for me anyway, as a little empty. It just didn't wow me as its marvelous art direction made me want it to.Mr. Beatty's fear that no sequel would be made to his film ultimately came true, and because of his prediction he shoved well over twenty characters from the long-running Charles Gould comic strip series into a 105-minute window. So many characters for so simplistic a plot. Director/producer Mr. Beatty also plays the square-jawed detective bent on catching his arch-nemesis in the act. His fiend is the united mob's leader, Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino), a cantankerous, self-delusional patriarch with an endless array of punch lines. Whenever he's not attempting to pin a charge on the mobster, Tracy is tending to a runaway orphan (Charlie Korsmo) and attempting to maintain his relationships between two women. One a quiet little botanist (Glenne Headly) the other a sexy nightclub singer (Madonna).Amidst them are countless other peculiar individuals, many of them portrayed by famous stars clad in heavy make-up. But there we have the first of the movie's problems. There are more than twenty characters from the comic strip, all crammed in there so tautly, and yet so desperately for screen attention, that few of them ultimately leave any kind of a mark. Even though R.G. Armstrong and William Forsythe are extremely good in the movie, the only thing really distinguishing is the level of cosmetics applied to their faces. There are so many villains and so many of them demand attention and yet the only one who really stands out is Mr. Pacino, who gives one of the most happily hyperbolic and energetic performances of his career as Big Boy Caprice.Another problem the movie has is an ambition to show and contain so much within so short a window. As a result, many sequences skimp over without leaving any kind of a mark. The denouement, though unexpected by me, came off as kind of flat because of the narrow writing and overly-taut editing. And frankly, even though Mr. Beatty does a great job playing the straight-face detective most of the time, his dynamics with the two central women in the plot are flimsy and not so interesting. Now in a comic strip, one can get away with a narrow narrative and characterizations, because all of that is being contained within a stretch lasting a page or two of panels. But for a feature-length movie, unless done with some surefire cadence, this formula doesn't quite work.The movie attempts to be a lot like the comic strip, but it only truly achieves that in the art department. The set design by Richard Sylbert and Rick Simmons (who swept away the Academy Award for this film) do a spot-on job of presenting the comic book world in which Dick Tracy inhabits. Not only is the city presented in an almost two-dimensional (and yet eye candy) format, it is painted with the primary colors. Yellow suits, green and purple cars, orangeish streets. The movie really looks fabulous. And the performances all around are quite good. Whenever he's not interacting with Madonna or Miss Headly, Warren Beatty is superb and buttoned-up in the role. The two ladies I mentioned also play their parts well, as does Mr. Korsmo. Mr. Pacino steals the show with his performance, and there are many other notable cameos by people such as Dick Van Dyke as the skeptical D.A. and Dustin Hoffman as the duplicitous Mumbles.Dick Tracy has a lot going for it but that there just might be the problem. It has ambition. Perhaps too much, perhaps too little at the same time. Reportedly, there is a cut of the movie out there encompassing an additional twenty minutes. I hope it sees the light of day, for it just might contain the extra boost that this version that I saw really needs. "},{"Title":"looks good, but lacks a screenplay","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" On its own merits (minus the impressive promotional smokescreen) the latest appearance of Chester Gould's fabled gumshoe is an empty but otherwise innocent comic strip adventure. The film is difficult to dislike, but it's even more difficult to overlook the gaping hole where its title character should be. After making every villain a lively cartoon caricature, director/star Warren Beatty either forgot or (out of vanity?) declined to provide himself with comparable make-up to match his character's familiar, square-jawed profile. The comic book design is certainly dazzling, with its artificial sets and primary colors (all eight of them, according to Beatty), but without a story to hold it all together the novelty wears thin quickly. A successful film needs more than just clever make-up and production design, but Dick Tracy offers nothing else of interest; the monotonous, jury-rigged plot moves back and forth without progressing anywhere, and the presence of Madonna is an instant liability. Needless to say, it's a far cry from 'Bonnie and Clyde'. "},{"Title":"Crime Fighter Extraordinaire","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At one end of the Eighties Warren Beatty created and starred in the literate epic Reds about the founding of the Soviet Union as seen through the eyes of iconoclast radical John Reed. It was a profound film both entertaining and with a message presented by an all star cast. At the end of the decade Warren Beatty created another kind of epic in Dick Tracy that makes no pretense to being anything other than entertainment with a whole bunch of the best actors around just having a great old time hamming it up under tons of makeup.That both Reds and Dick Tracy could come from the same individual speaks volumes about the range this man has as a player. In this film Beatty managed to get all the famous cartoon characters from the strip and put them in one original screenplay.The city's top mobster Big Boy Caprice is making a move to really eliminate competition. The film opens with him rubbing out Lips Manlis's henchmen in a Valentine Massacre style shooting and then Lips himself being fitted for a cement overcoat. But Caprice's moves are making him a target for Tracy.In the meantime a third mysterious and faceless individual is looking to topple Caprice himself. Will our hero sort out this thicket of crime?The spirit of fun this film has is truly infectious. When people like Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, Paul Sorvino, William Forsythe, R.G. Armstrong get themselves outrageously made-up to look like the cartoon creations of strip author Chester Gould and then indulge in an exercise of carving the biggest slice of ham, you've got to love this film.Al Pacino got a nomination for Best Supporting Actor, but any of these guys could have, it's only that Pacino as Big Boy Caprice gets the most screen time. Only Beatty plays it completely straight, the others all seem to play off of him. Dick Tracy won Oscars for Best Art&Set Design, Best Song written by Stephen Sondheim and introduced by Madonna, Sooner Or Later. The fact he was even able to get somebody like Sondheim to write a score for this film only shows Sondheim wanted to get in on the fun. As for Madonna, the Material Girl does more than hold her own with all these acting heavyweights as club torch singer Breathless Mahoney.Before this film, Dick Tracy movies were consigned to the B pictures and worse as Saturday afternoon serials. The only thing that rivals this all star extravaganza is a radio broadcast done for Armed Forces Radio during World War II that got to vinyl. Can you believe a cast like Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, Frank Sinatra, Dinah Shore, Jimmy Durante, Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, and the Andrews Sisters? Try and find a recording of that gem.Until then Warren Beatty's classic comic strip for the big screen will do nicely. "},{"Title":"Did we watch the same movie?","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Heh, if I tell you to compare The Dark Knight with some 18-years-old comics-adapted movie rated 5.9, will you call me crazy? That's just to catch your attention. Everyday I meet people complaining there are no good movies, who seem to only know the recent blockbusters. It's never a bad thing to search and explore old movies, especially those with good artistic values. Dick Tracy is one of those can't be easily outdated, in terms of technology.The negative reviews mainly complained about DT's messed up story. But it appears to me that the storyline is quite clear, and I had no problem following it. I didn't see the comic books, yet I am not a huge US comic fan, but I appreciate the top-notch film-making and performances. Maybe the expectations of most people were too high about the story it would tell. But, if you see a movie casting Madonna and Warren Beatty together, what would you expect. I had some scratches on my head, and can't help but wonder, did we really see the same movie? The title role, although not as competent as it sounds, still was able to pull him up and charm the audiences. Madonna was more express-less than breathless in her seductive role, but added a lot of fun to the story. Al Pacino was funny and prodigy to himself. Apparently he's bold enough to go sarcastic on his previously successful roles. We can see a hybrid of Scarface, Michael Corleone, Adolf Hitler and Robert De Niro punching our stomaches to make us laugh. And many thanks to make-ups.To me it's not bad at all. The surreal feeling really got me. "},{"Title":"All's fair in love and business.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is a film about the exploits of detective Dick Tracy, based on a comic series. While Dick Tracy is a detective, this film cannot be properly called a mystery film. There is only one major mystery in the film and that mystery is only a minor element of the story. Dick Tracy is better classified as a constant battle between Dick Tracy and a local mob, headed by Big Boy Caprice.The fictional city that is the setting of the film incorporates the technology and mob activities of 1930s Chicago and has scenes that are very colorful and an interesting mix of realistic and unrealistic backgrounds. Even the costumes and 1930s style cars are colorful, with Dick Tracy himself wearing yellow detective attire. This film features a great soundtrack by Danny Elfman and equally great original songs from Steven Sondheim, my favorite being Back in Business.Warren Beatty delivers an interesting performance as Dick Tracy. Tracy is self-assured and even excessive in fighting crime, yet awkward when interacting with women. Glenne Headly is effective as Tracy's girlfriend, Tess Trueheart, and Madonna is appropriate as Breathless Mahoney. Charlie Korsmo should also be commended for a solid performance as The Kid. The villains of this film only come in one shade over-the-top, whether in appearance, performance or both. Al Pacino is in command of the mob as Big Boy Caprice, who cannot be taken seriously at any time for the film's duration. I greatly enjoyed his performance with his strange look and mannerisms, gruff voice and hilarious historical misquotations. The supporting villains are also notable, with Dustin Hoffman giving an amusing performance as Mumbles.The story has enough developments to keep the film interesting. Essentially the bulk of the film is like a game of chess where Tracy and Caprice make their moves to try and topple the other. The film also explores Tracy's relationship with Tess and his interactions with Breathless. Overall Dick Tracy is a successful adaptation of the popular comic series. "},{"Title":"A Lot of Fun","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I will not under any circumstances even try to defend this film as a touching drama or an exciting thriller. However, it is still a ton of fun, and is packed full with great over-the-top performances, flashy musical numbers, and great production design.There are three things about Dick Tracy that make it such a fun movie.1. The snazzy production design and set decoration are fantastic. They make the movie look just like a living comic book strip, which is what Dick Tracy is and always was all about. The costumes, buildings, and makeup all spruce the actors and settings up as well. It's a bit strange, but it certainly works.2. Al Pacino. This is one of the best, funniest, and most over-the-top supporting performances of the 1990s. Al Pacino shows in this movie that he knows how to commit to any role, even the villainous and eccentric Big Boy Caprice. His lines, which are filled to the brim with false quotations and paradoxes, blend perfectly with his grandeur appearance and accent. No offense to Joe Pesci, but i think Pacino deserved to nab the big gold man for this one.3. The all-star cast of this movie makes it a formidable film indeed. Warren Beatty doesn't have to do much as the detective, and Dustin Hoffman's Mumbles is under-used, but does it really matter? The fact that these major names are in the film is still worth something. Even Madonna makes a competent appearance as the mysterious night club singer who tries to win Tracy over.This is a fun film, and is very enjoyable to watch for people of all ages. It's no Crash, but it does what it does very well. Bravo. "},{"Title":"Genuinely Good","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beatty's choice of color and light, style, and awesome casting all come together with a compelling mob script to make one heck of a movie.This was a real surprise, as I had personally never thrilled in the Dick Tracy line, but this film is top row! The all-star cast comes together in a startling way to present this well-written script in such a way as to thoroughly entertain.The resulting final product is s solidly executed, vividly presented, well written, brilliantly directed retro-actioner, which is both story AND character driven.Frankly, there wasn't anything NOT to like about this one. I do speak, however, as a non-fan of the original source. I've read Dick Tracy throughout my life, here and there, but I've never really liked the work. THIS, I liked.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Richard Sylbert - Design God","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When they write the history of 20th Century cinema design, Richard Sylbert will be up there with Ken Adam, Scarfiotti, Beaton and Richard Day as the untouchables. This is a stunning film an absolutely brilliant comic book adaptation, wherein the saturated colours, magnificent cinematography and spot-on performances (including that rare thing, a very good Madonna performance) coalesce into something pacey, fun and accomplished. Sets aside, the prosthetics used to transform such crime icons as James Caan, Al Pacino and Dustin Hoffman into hideous gargoyles of the comic book world are staggeringly good enough remains of the actor beneath the mask for it to be a performance, rather than a voice-over. It's an absolute joy to watch - and a key film for anyone who's interested in the achievements in design (or who may have enjoyed the recent, accomplished but inferior Sin City). "},{"Title":"One of the Better Comic Book Movies...","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bringing comic books to the screen is a rather recent trend in cinema but it looks like it is definitely here to stay and one of the best offerings of this genre was the 1990 version of DICK TRACY, Warren Beatty's colorful and smart re-thinking of the square-jawed comic book character. Beatty has mounted a beauty of a film here that is gorgeous to look at (the film won an Art Direction Oscar for its flawless and dazzling settings as well as for Costume Design). Beatty has also wisely chosen to underplay and let his huge, all-star cast shine in their various roles and above them all is Al Pacino, who walks away with the film effortlessly with his completely over the top but totally watchable performance as Big Boy Caprice, I don't think Pacino has ever been funnier on film and even received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his efforts. Madonna also leaves an impression as Breathless Mahoney (one of my all time favorite movie character names)as do Paul Sorvino as Lips Manlin, and Mandy Patinkin as 88 Keys among others. Patinkin and Madonna give effective service to the songs by Broadway genius Stephen Sondheim (one of them, Sooner or Later, also won an Oscar). Though fairly predictable, DICK TRACY is a colorful and entertaining ride through comic book land that is definitely worth a look. A treat for the eye and ear. "},{"Title":"Excellent crime flick!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" DICK TRACY, in my opinion, is an excellent crime flick. I thought that Tracy (Warren Beatty) really knew how to wipe crime off the streets. Also, in my opinion, Breathless (Madonna) sounded gorgeous when she sang. My favorite song of this movie is More. The one I like second best is Sooner Or Later. Even so, all the songs that Madonna performed in this movie were gorgeous. If you ask me, 88 Keys (Mandy Patinkin) was a good piano player and singer. The one character that scared me a little was Big Boy (Al Pacino). Even thought he scared me a little, I thought he gave a good performance. I believe that Tess (Glenne Headly) looked very pretty, especially in the outfits she wore when she and Tracy went out on dates. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that when I think about it, I laugh when I think about Flattop (William Forsythe) saying, Hey, copper, maybe you ought to look before you leap. We've got rights. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this smash hit to those of you that are fans of Warren Beatty or like crime flicks. "}{"Title":"Holds up to the personal test of time....","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I give this movie a nine out of ten. It is one of the best superhero/comic book movies ever made, and do you know why? Because it recognises - unlike a great deal of other comic book films - that it needed to be a fantasy. Not for one moment did I believe that the world it created was real and living, but in the basic terms of fantasy it achieves exactly what it set out to achieve.I think this is to the detriment of Tim Burton's original Batman which I also saw again recently and thought it has aged really poorly. Batman Begins is the definitive Batman because it recognised that Batman needed to act like it was based in reality. Dick Tracy doesn't and Warren Beatty takes full advantage of this simple, direct, straightforward material, hamming it up almost to the point of satire.I say this in terms of all aspects of its direction. The writing is basic and somewhat comedic, the acting is so in-your-face it's like an ensemble realisation of what Jack Nicholson's Joker should have been (Al Pacino in this movie kicks Jack Nicholson's arse!!!!), the design, while much maligned by some, is so crucial to the feel of the film that I can't imagine it any other way. The man with no face pastiche was going a little far, but at least that one had an explanation.Overall, I strongly recommend this film. It works on repeated viewings although I can imagine it being more useful to a film class than to the general public or to the families that it was intended for. It's such an obvious piece of Pop Art that it doesn't warrant the kinds of tactile thrills of a Spider-Man 2 or a Batman Begins, also among the best superhero movies ever made. But as a fantasy, this ranks with The Wizard of Oz or Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. And I'll say this It's the movie Batman wasn't, but Batman was the movie that got the attention this deserved. "},{"Title":"Flashiness In This Movie Makes up for Substance","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie had so much potential, sadly the film really falls short despite the visual appeal. Warren Beatty plays the comic book hero, but really makes a bad lead. He doesn't look the part of Dick Tracy. But you can't deny the incredible cast in this film Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, Dick van Dyke, as you can see a cast to die for. The great cast manages to waddle through a contrived script. The technical aspects of this film are incredible, the costumes, the sets, the props the style everything fits here so perfectly to make the film look like one of the coolest in recent time, and when I was a little kid I loved the movie, but I really didn't pay attention to the dialogue or the plot. I knew who was bad and who was good but that's all I cared about. When I watched it again many years later I started realizing this movie probably wouldn't be so good to an adult. The action just doesn't seem real. I know it is not supposed to necessarily but I just didn't seem able to get into the film. As an adult I really could not get into the film, it wasn't enough in areas such as substance. Perhaps for a movie like this the film was too short, and there wasn't enough. Since the movie was so grand, the bringing back of a big comic strip series and such a pedigree it should have been longer. I think two of the other choices to play Dick Tracy would have been better, Jack Nicholson, or Robert De Niro. Still I guess this wasn't a horrible film just could have been much better, considering the talent and budget involved. "},{"Title":"How Did Folks Miss This One?","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Up until Sam Raimi's Spider-Man came along, this was arguably the best feature-length movie adaptation of an existing comics character. Maybe it still is. The script and direction took the shrewd-ish tack of giving the characters of Tracy, his girlfriend and the Madonna character a little breadth and humanity, while retaining the grotesque nature of the Chester Gould villains which drove the comic strip. There are some concepts of loyalty, morality and personal ethic examined in the Tracy character reminiscent of the John Woo approach in some of his Hong Kong movies with Chow Yun Fat.They manage to pull this off without dulling down the narrative, and without clashing with the highly stylised, cartoonish and riotously played villains, which is some feat. When I saw this on release with a friend, we both thought it was an obvious major hit, and one that would become a favourite on video and in revival screenings. Actually it seems pretty much forgotten now. It was probably more intricate than the action movie crowd of the time really wanted (not that it's any devastating mental challenge or anything) and the idea of a superhero movie with at least the rudiments of heart and issues (crime v society/personal morality/what makes the hero tick etc) in a superhero type setting probably didn't come into its own in the mainstream until the Spider-Man movie. Anyway, it's overlooked. Everything about it shows craft and care, from the design (particularly use of colour), visual direction, and the music. (Of the three soundtrack albums I believe there were, skip the instrumental one, and the Madonna songs one, and try and get the various artists song one, which is one of the best and most varied soundtracks of original material to accompany any movie.) The battle between Al Pacino's caricature Al Capone character and Beatty's Tracy makes this come off as a musical and sometimes comedy (controlled) parody of Brian De Palma's movie version of The Untouchables - or alternate-universe version of that film - which is probably not an accident. It works on that level very well, and also on enough other levels to more than hold the attention. Consistently enjoyable and refreshingly non-stupid big movie overdue for rediscovery, but with its current status, this would take some muscular archaeological work "},{"Title":"Sparking, volatile comic strip caper with colourful visuals.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  `Dick Tracy' is a film that has divided audiences. There are those who think it is too over-the-top to comprehend, and those who regard it as a slick, colourful and enjoyable picture. I fall closer to the latter in terms of opinion. While it is far from realistic, it isn't a film to be taken seriously. The real beauty lies in the polished 2D set decoration that brilliantly resembles the cardboard cut-out look of the newspaper-strip comic. Well done to Oscar winning art director Richard Sylbert.The exuberantly synthetic streets and glaring reflection of the roads are a beauty to gaze it. Also top-notch is the costume design. Suits and ties are given the appropriately bizarre coloured look, while the images of the gangsters are as grotesque as one could hope for. While it's easy to discard this off as a `technical' movie, there's enough diluted substance to satisfy all genuine expectations. The narrative isn't as limp as one might think. Sure, for the most part it is reduced to a series of stylised set-pieces, but this isn't supposed to be `Casablanca'. Rarely have superhero movies received so much of Uncle Oscar's attention. Nominated for 7 Academy Awards (winning three), surely this has broken a record. Sometimes engrossing, often very hammy, all is done with deliberate intentions.Seldom has this genre received such a classy cast either. Warren Beauty produced, directed and starred in the picture. Quite the hat-trick, he does a great job on all accounts. Not only does he personify the image of Dick Tracy; he also perfectly balances the two elements that make this film work- charm and style. Hoo-haa; Al Pacino was Oscar nominated for his part as typically cheesy gangster- Big Boy Caprice. I have to admit, that's crossing the line (was the performance really worth the Academy's attention?) but he's not bad.Madonna is appropriately slutty as exotic dancer Breathless Mahoney. As if this wasn't enough, all is bolstered by fine supporting turns from the likes of James Caan, William Forsythe and Glenne Headly. Also in there are `blink and you'll miss them' cameos from Kathy Bates, Estelle Parsons and Catherine O'Hara, as are eccentric parts for actors who just faded away over the years (Mandy Patinkin, Charles Durning, Paul Sorvino et al).The script is appropriately done like one continuous comic strip with twists and tangents at every turn. Clearly, the film is not for all tastes. As I said, there are plenty that just won't see the point and believe it to be another triumph of style over substance. It was one of the first to do so- this war began in the late 80's/ early 90's in pictures such as `Wild At Heart' and `Total Recall'. In the end, style won. Not only that, it loses some momentum and collapses a tad in the final third.Not to worry- the glittering sets and illustrious props overshadow all. When the cover's this pretty, who cares what's inside. Not saying that the film's hollow or anything. If you want some illustrious comic-strip mayhem, you can't go far wrong with `Dick Tracy'. My IMDb rating 6.8/10.  "},{"Title":"Enjoy the production design & make-up","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  DICK TRACY (1990) **1/2 Warren Beatty, Madonna, Al Pacino, Glenne Headly, Charlie Korsmo, Dustin Hoffman, Seymour Cassel, Mandy Patinkin, William Forsythe, Charles Durning, Paul Sorvino, James Caan, Dick Van Dyke, Michael J. Pollard, Estelle Parsons, R.G. Armstrong, Kathy Bates, Catherine O' Hara.  Severe case of style over substance in this big-screen extravaganza adaptation of the classic comic-strip cop and his battles with criminals known more for their grotesque characteristics than their actual crimes.   Beatty's wooden acting is perfect as the no-nonsense lawman and his eye candy production design of primary colors is fine despite a weak plot and enjoyable overacting by Pacino as Big Boy Caprice and some scintillating scenes from a not-so-bad Madonna as the appropriately named chanteuse Breathless Mahoney.  Oscars went to Richard Sylbert's Art Direction and the on the money make-up by John Caglione, Jr and Doug Drexler as well as Best Song Sooner Or Later (I Always Get My Man). "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and Stylish","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the most visually stylish movies I've ever seen. The characters are brilliant especially Al Pacino as Big Boy Caprice and Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles. Warren Beatty fits the title role perfectly making this the second best comic book movie after X-Men. Plus, Madonna is HOT HOT HOT in her tight black satin dress. The only downside is that we don't get to see Madonna tighty bound and gagged like a true 1940s style damsel.  "},{"Title":"Excellent crime flick!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  DICK TRACY, in my opinion, is an excellent crime flick. I thought that Detective Tracy (Warren Beatty) REALLY knew how to wipe crime off the streets. Also, in my opinion, Breathless (Madonna) sounded gorgeous when she sang. My favorite song of this movie is More. The one I like second best is Sooner Or Later. Even so, all the songs that Madonna performed in this movie were gorgeous. If you ask me, 88 Keys (Mandy Patinkin) was a good piano player and singer. The one character that scared me a little was Big Boy (Al Pacino). Even thought he scared me a little, I thought he gave a good performance. I believe that Tess (Glenne Headly) looked VERY pretty -- Especially in the outfits she wore when she and Detective Tracy went out on dates. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that when I think about it, I laugh when I think about Flattop (William Forsythe) saying, Hey, copper, maybe you ought to look before you leap. We've got rights. Now, in conclusion, I recommend this smash hit to those of you that are fans of Warren Beatty or like crime flicks.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of work.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember this movie going back to the early nintees. I saw this movie with my late wife, and my oldest son. The makeup for one thing was something to talk about. The acting, well, I can't say one bad thing about the acting. It had an all-star cast, featuring Warren Beaty, Al Pacino, Glenn Headly, Madonna, William Forsythe, Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, James Tolkan, Paul Sorvino, Ed O'Ross, And Special appearances by numerous celebs. The Plot outline was amazing, Al 'Big Boy' Caprice wants to take over a town run by the mob, only one man stands in his way, The Man they call Dick Tracy. This is a movie that over runs the classics, which by the way, where very good for their time. If your in the mood for a Romance, Action, Drama, with a hint of comedy if you look close enough Dick Tracy is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"A Classically Styled Piece of Work","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I admit, I was cautious. I didn't think this would be very good. I basically thought it would be a completely stupid cash in on a classic film seiries. I was wrong. This IS a classic. Maddona is perfect as Breathless Mahony and Beaty does a great job as Tracy. But the real prize goes to Al Pacino who makes the role of Al Bigboy Caprice a classic homage to the old gangster style and makes this film definetly worth a peek. As an old fan of the tracy comics I have to say that this film is a perfect representation of them. The freakish villians in particular are noteworthy. Theyre all here! Pruneface! Lips! Flattop! And the clever makeup gives them life in a way that is impressive even today. (Stephen Spielberg Actually cited this film as an influence for Jurassic park. The lifelike but still exagerated villians are really cool.) Grade I give it an A, with possible bonus for the cools semi-animated backrounds. "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!!!!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is a cinematic tour de force of excellent visualisations. The outstanding make-up marries itself superbly with the simply stunning set designs to accord us with in effect a living comic book. The plot is waifer thin, but as with Batman 1989 what matters is how the film looks, and unsurprisingly it looks fantastic. As well as all the above things you also have class performances from all the cast members. Warren Beatty's is now the definitve performance of Dick Tracy. After seeing Beatty it is hard to imagine Ralph Byrd and co in the role. Beatty also performs wonders with the stylish direction. Al Pacino comes across seriously in a comic role as the evil Big Boy Caprice, wonderfully hidden behind luxurious make up designs, and Maddona as Breathless is just fantastic. Stephen Sondhiem's songs add to the fun and above everthing is Danny Elfman's glorious themes. Excellent a winner. More Dick Tracy movies now please. "}{"Title":"A unique action movie with a lot of style","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When this movie first came out I was 12 years old. I saw it six times in the theater- it was, in fact, the first movie I ever saw alone. Looking back, it definitely seems a lot better than it is, but having recently re-watched it, I think it still holds up and there's a lot about it I'm still impressed by. As action movies go, it's definitely unique, prioritizing plot and characters over explosions, but still maintaining a fast pace and some great chase sequences/gun fights. As far as performances go, I prefer Warren Beatty in those over anything else I've ever seen him in- the same is largely true of Al Pacino. Charlie Korsmo manages to be compelling instead of just cute- which is rare and wonderful in a child actor (too bad he grew up to be in CAN'T HARDLY WAIT). Glenne Heady gives a truly genuine performance as the long-suffering love interest and provides some emotional thrust to the movie. And then there is Madonna... frankly, along with Eva Peron, this seems to be a part she was born to play, and she does pull it off very well- she was definitely at the height of her sexiness in the early nineties (back when I was too young to really appreciate it). The major kudos for this film, however, go to the art director, whose use of only six colors for all the costumes and scenery is wonderful and very, very stylish. Also, big gold star to Stephen Sondheim for some wonderful,extremely witty songs, and Mandy Patinkin for his cameo as 88 Keyes, and his stunning duet with Madonna.   "},{"Title":"Too stylish for it's own good.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  DICK TRACY was indeed stylish too look at and matched the feel and look of the comic strip, however, it was as if Beatty couldn't decide on whether to give us a story or scenes of Tracy and Breathless Mahoney exchanging fleeting glances in a romantic subplot that didn't work. DICK TRACY was a huge disappointment. Granted, it was well filmed and directed, but a scene with AL PACINO singing????? There should have been more action adventure and less schmoozing between Beatty and Madonna. "},{"Title":"Homage to Classic Cinema","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy is not just a tribute to the famous comic strip, it is an homage to the great film tradition of the past.Dick Tracy benefits from three vital components  Beautiful, smart cinematography, a terrific Danny Elfman score, and strong acting performances.  Al Pacino has finally found a role where his hammy overacting is warranted in the role of Big Boy Caprice.  Warren Beatty serves Tracy in good stead, Madonna is sufficiently steamy as Breathless Mahoney, and Glen Headly shines in perhaps the best performance of the movie.  Her Tess Trueheart is the perfect foil for Tracy and the antithesis of Breathless.  Headly gives a funny and very subtle performance.  Just watch her face closely, every frown, every twitched eyebrow serves as a window into her character's emotions.  Cameo performances by Paul Sorvino, Dustin Hoffman, and Kathy Bates among others are hilarious.The lasting power of Dick Tracy lies in the cinematography.  The use of primary colors creates a cartoon world, and by using this very striking color canvas, it gives the movie a look which is, paradoxically, similar to the classic black and white detective stories of the 40's.  The use of soft lenses and familiar noir backdrops adds to this effect.At it's heart, Dick Tracy is a classic romance; you can almost see Humphrey Bogart as Tracy and Lauren Bacall as Breathless.  This romanticism is enhanced by a score which ranks as one of Elfman's finest.I would recommend this movie all sorts of movie-viewers those looking for action, romance, comedy, and those looking for technical genius which is balanced by superb acting.  And after you've seen it, watch it again, you might catch something you missed! "},{"Title":"A Big Fat Dud","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is an example of what happens to a movie when it's over produced and over marketed. At the time of its release, it was touted as THE big movie of the year, and it built up expectations it couldn't possibly meet. Granted, it's not a very good movie anyway, so even with lower expectations it still would likely have bombed, but I think it seemed worse than it was because people were expecting so much.The production and costume design are fun, mimicking the look and style of the comic book series. Nothing else is notable, least of all the acting, which with a cast that includes Warren Beatty and Al Pacino, should tell you something right there. They should have taken the money they spent on sets and cameos for big stars and hired better writers.Grade C "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies as a kid. Plus MADONNA.. WOW!","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just picked this up on DVD and watched it again. I love the bright colors vs. dark imagery. Not a big Beatty fan, but this is an excellent popcorn movie. Pacino is astounding, as always, and well, this movie marked the period where Madonna was her absolute sexiest. I wish she had stuck with the Breathless look for a while longer. Charlie Korsmo's first really big role, other than What about bob?. The makeup effects were cutting edge then and still hold up for the most part. Beautiful scenery and mood transport you directly into a comic strip environment. The cars, wardrobe, buildings, and even the streetlights et a great tone, not to mention the perfect lighting, although the scenes with a lot of red can get a tad annoying, as it tends to blur a little. Just wish Beatty had gotten the chance to make a sequel. All in all, a fun few hours. "},{"Title":"colorful is the word to use for Dick Tracy, a marvel of its kind, an abstract blockbuster","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Most successful comic book movies usually depend on having villains that are bigger than life, ready to jump off the screen and strangle you alive with a smile or a demented line or two of dialog. The Tim Burton Batmans had it, as did (in an even more grotesque manner) Sin City. With Dick Tracy producer/director/star Warren Beatty piles on the villains until it becomes part of the framework. Like a boisterous homage to 1930s gangster pictures- only this time meant for kids as opposed to the darker Bonnie and Clyde- Dick Tracy is filled, joyfully, with archetypes and bright, primary colors, where the criminals carry tommy guns and are formed on their faces to shape their personalities. Villains like The Stooge, Shoulders, Lips, The Brow, Mumbles, the Blank, Pruneface, Spud. Chester Gould gave the names to his characters that fit their profiles, and gave his hero a jaw that could cut glass. The film is a continuation of sight gags that are perfectly taken seriously.If, at the time, movies like Batman and (underrated) Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles were darker depictions of reality within a comic-book outline, Dick Tracy is more 'old-school'. It's a story of cops and crooks, or rather A cop, detective Tracy as he tries to bust Big Boy (Al Pacino, in what is arguably his BIGGEST performance to date, and in a sense the one that makes sense for his grandiose style), but with no such luck. There's also a little kid, called simply the Kid (Charlie Korsmo, who somehow brings more spunk to this little kid than would've been imagined), and Tracy's love interest in Tess. And then there's the nightclub 'dame' (Madonna, who probably doesn't give any kind of great acting performance, but maybe that suits the role fine, and she sings excellently when called upon), who wont testify unless Tracy admits feelings he doesn't have for her. Then there's convoluted dealings with taking Tracy down, and a mysterious masked figure with a scraggly voice.Meantime, as if doing an impersonation of a Howard Hawks film in a splash of visual effects and bigger explosions, Dick Tracy adds on the wink-and-nod comedy and the action like its syrup on a tall stack of pancakes. It's a wonder to look at this world, which is created in ways that have a fascination to them that had they been done today would just be simply by proxy of computers (i.e. Sin City, which can be justifiably compared to Beatty's film). We're driven through this world in great big shots and then thrust in the plot line, or whatever there is of it, in big editing montages with camera angles that seem to come out of those little tilted panels in the comics of old. I'm almost reminded of the Cotton Club during these sequences, as story, music, detail, and a few BIG punches and gun-shots go a long way to revealing what needs to be said, which, actually, isn't more than it needs to. And there's a heap-load of catchy dialog from the script (one of my favorites the enemy of my enemy is... my enemy, plus any of Pacino's references to other figures in quotes).Revisiting this after seeing it for the first time in the movie theater (and only remembering little bits), Dick Tracy is a hard-boiled fantasy to the finest degree. It's filled with good cheer for the kids, and with some pretty good action squared away without some of the more sinister intent of its cousin comic-book movies (i.e. PG-13 fare), and for the adults its throw-back central done with panache and a solid feeling for the unsubtle. Even Dustin Hoffman hams it up, and he barely says an audible word! "},{"Title":"Ambitious comic strip adaptation has a lot of look, spirit, but little else","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is a baffling movie. This is not because of its plot, which is fairly simplistic, or the characters, which play like the comic strip characters that inspired them. Rather its the pure ambition of the film that is puzzling.Dick Tracy was made after Batman, which was nothing short of a re-imagining of a comic book hero, removed from the confines of the colorful world of comic books. If Batman was an intent remove its hero from the comic book world, Dick Tracy sets out to celebrate it.The artistry of this film is original. It is not just merely an attempt to recreate a comic book world - it is one. The heroes' outfits are mixtures of all sorts of solid colors that look like their lifted straight from a painter's palette - Yellows, Greens, Oranges abound. There is no attempt to make the villains more realistic. They're here in classic form Prune Face, Flat Top, Big Boy, Lips Manless. The comic feel is even captured in the films scenes, which each play like a 3-4 panel comic strip.This is where ambition becomes a bit much for a film to handle. While the attempt to capture the spirit of the comic is to be admired, the result is a rather awkwardly paced film. While there's never a dull moment, the action and resolution seem rather trivialized. The barrage of characters is overwhelming. Furthermore, the cardboard characterizations keep us from really caring about anyone. It becomes a rich looking spectacle, and nothing more.Complaints aside, it is well acted. Besides Al Pacino's pastiche of noir gangster types everywhere, there are a couple of supporting and one could even say cameo performances that are memorable. Notably, Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles. He provides for some comic relief late in the film. It's always nice to see Hoffman take a humorous turn, even if it is for a small part. "},{"Title":"Great Designs, But Incredibly Static","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Less than a decade earlier, Warren Beatty directed himself to considerable critical acclaim in the film REDS. But with 1990's DICK TRACY he stumbled badly although it received considerable hype and numerous critical accolades for its art and sound design, the film fizzled at the box office, and these days you are more likely to find the film in a retail bargain bin than in some one's personal collection.Even so, DICK TRACY isn't as bad as its detractors often claim. The film has several things going for it, most particularly that deservedly lauded art design, which seeks to recreate the look and feel of golden age comic books. Built in largely primary color and with a tremendous sense of line, the designs are among the most striking of the 1990s. The make-up designs, which go to considerable length to recreate the look of the comic book characters, are also enjoyable.The film also has several memorable performances, and the most notable among these comes from someone who is has had little success on the big screen Madonna. As femme fatale Breathless Mahoney, she looks good, has the best lines and delivers them with considerable spirit, and flawlessly performs the complex musical numbers specifically written for her by the legendary Stephen Sondheim. (Sooner or Later may be single best thing she's done on film.) Glenne Headly, as Tracy's steady girl Tess, also makes an impression, as do many of the cameo performers, who range from Dustin Hoffman to Kathy Bates and from Estelle Parsons to James Caan.But for all its memorable visuals and the occasional outstanding performance, DICK TRACY is an incredibly static film. Although the art designers did a terrific job in capturing the look of comic book graphics, the cinematographer miscalculated in repeating the look in terms of camera setups, which are presented in a flat-frame style calculated to recreate comic book frames. The result is a host of beautiful images without any motion dynamic at all, and over the course of its run the film develops a static quality that I personally found absolutely exhausting.The script doesn't help very much either. The story finds our hero trying to put away Big Boy Caprice and being tempted away from Tess by Breathless in the process--and that's really all you can say about it one way or another. And with one or two exceptions aside, the dialogue is as uninspired as the plot. What with the camera locked down like the Rock of Gibraltar and the script dead in the water, it's hardly surprising that most of the performers reacted by offering performances so incredibly broad that most of their efforts feel acutely forced.I can understand why many people admire and even enjoy the film, but by the time the final credits rolled I myself was glad to see it go, and I'd recommend that you either borrow it or rent it before you go so far as to buy it. As for the DVD, the picture and sound quality are great, but there are no extras of any kind.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"I Still Want More!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie based on the old comic strip really capture the atmosphere of the old days. Especially the colors of the buildings and the villains looked just like the villains of the old comics, with their exaggerated names and faces. Anyways I believe this is a very fun movie to watch, I never read the comics, but I find this very cool. I also liked the soundtracks here from the young Madonna, the jazz really fits the environment. If this was made today it would've been cooler, because right now, there are a lot of remakes, imagine if this one was made today. I believe Michael Buble, Robbie Williams, Diana Krall, or Jamie Cullum would've made better soundtracks to this movie if it was. Nevertheless this is really good. "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy is a classic!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  They couldn`t have made Dick Tracy any better! With a all star cast,great acting,tons of action,great villains and characters and most of them are from the comics which they look great in this movie,and a great double score/soundtrack by Danny Elfman and Madonna makes Dick Tracy a classic! I saw this when it came out in the theatre and it was awesome! I just love this movie and I hope there will be a sequel soon! "}{"Title":"Best comic book adaptation","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pros Cinematography, Costumes, Al Pacino, The Kid, Madonna, Elfman's score Cons Breathless Mahoney lacks character and so does TracyDebuting in 1990 as a big budjet movie directed by Warren Beatty, Dick Tracy is a brilliant comic style film-noir and Warren Beatty shows sumptuous style in directing this fine cast and also starring the role of tracy himself. Many didn't like this film but it is the best comic book adaptation ever and thus qualify as one of the best movies at least in the nineties. Sadly this underappreciated gem has been largely forgotten by the public. Also contains one of the best score for a movie Period.Premise Tracy must stop big boy caprice, find out who frames him, and meanwhile dodging the charms of breathless mahoney and proposing to tess trueheartDick tarcy was nominated for seven academy awardsGrade 10/10 (Unforgettable Classic) "},{"Title":"watching the detective Dick Tracy","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In my review about Lara Croft Tomb Raider (2001), I wrote that when a director decides to adapt a comic strip for the screen, the result is rarely convincing. Well, Dick Tracy is an exception to the rule. Indeed, this movie is supported by a brilliant and often inventive directing and above all, Warren Beatty's movie is an aesthetic success. Warren Beatty perfectly managed to restore the spirit of this comic strip which was highly successful in the USA in the thirties and forties. With this movie, we are dealing with a sort of comic strip that is unfolding on the screen. There have been a lot of efforts at the level of the sceneries, costumes and especially the make-up the gangsters' faces are particularly impressive and successful. On another hand, Beatty used a voluntarily kitsch photography with bright colors and it gives a lot of appeal and charm to the movie.As for Warren Beatty, he's a perfect Dick Tracy lucid, brave when it's necessary but also good-looking, sometimes funny (Beatty also introduced in his movie a quiet but effective humor) and especially he's a man haunted by his duty. Concerning Madonna, well I think she's a better actress than singer.A movie full of numerous impeccable qualities, Dick Tracy pays also a tribute to gangster movies which the action mainly takes place in the thirties at the time of Prohibition. At last, the movie was an unexpected commercial success when it was released in 1990. Besides, a well-deserved success so why is it only rated 5.7 out 10 on IMDB?  "},{"Title":"How could this movie win any awards that wasn't Razzies?","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The most embarrassing part of the film is Warren Beatty (53 years old!!!) at the time casting himself as Dick Tracy, a part that should have been played by an actor 20 years younger than him. Due to Botox and plastic surgery he has as little facial movement as the actors wearing heavy makeup or masks to look like comic book characters. And he can't act either, which is possibly because there is no-one to direct him. And despite how great looking he think he is, he looks old and tired. All the great actors in this movie (not counting the very old douche-bag Warren Beatty) are completely wasted here, because they're unrecognizable in their heavy makeup or masks.Apart from a funny Al Pacino) as the main villain Big Boy.And Dustin Hoffmann as Mumbles, that I didn't recognize until his second scene and in a closeup.Madonna is very sexy as Breathless Mahoney, but they would get better acting out of a chimp than her.As for the movie in general the matte paintings and the stupid colors on the fake looking buildings that is suppose to look like a comic book city are not impressive. Especially not, thinking about Sin City, where this was done on a computer. And looked a 1000 times better. I know this movie was made 26 years ago, but it must have looked like crap even then.And what's the deal with making all the badguys look like comic book characters and only 5 actors in the movie looking like human beings? Either they all look like comic book characters or they all look like human beings.The movie is slow in pace and drags along and could easily have been half an hour shorter.There is zero chemistry between Warren Beatty and Madonna and Warren Beatty and Glenne Headly. Probably due to the old Beatty, playing opposite women that could be his daughters and Beattys inability to direct other actors.The kid playing Kid is okay.Overall a dull movie and the worst comicbook adaptation I have ever seen.Avoid this crap!! "},{"Title":"Calling Dick Tracy!","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is an incredible movie and can be enjoyed by everyone of all ages... This film won three Oscars for Makeup, Art Direction, and Best Original Song (Sooner Or Later).Warren Beatty stars as Tracy; a tough detective who is determined to fight crime at any cost. One of the main bad guys he is trying to get off the streets for good is none other than Big Boy (Al Pacino). But Big Boy isn't going down without a fight, and is willing to put a stop to Tracy's career with his gang of colorful hoodlums... I really did enjoy this movie, and it is a classic. There are still elements of danger and suspense... The actors did a great job. Beatty is awesome as Tracy, but I have to say this; as always, it is Pacino who steals the show. He is so alive and colorful in this movie. Had it not been for his famous voice, you would've never known it was Al... Warren Beatty also directed the movie and did an awesome job at doing so. Everything about the movie was convincing and believable. Had this project been given to someone else, chances are that the results wouldn't had been as good.Dick Tracy is a well acted, visually glamorous and stupendous movie- going experience that's a fun throw back to old film-noirs and jazzy detective yarns filled with blazing tommy guns and screeching tires. I loved it! And I wished they'd make more movies like it, but I guess in some ways you could argue that they are making a bit of a come back, but instead of splashes of color here and there, Dick Tracy is an overwhelming tidal wave of color, and it sweeps you up off your feet and away.Overall rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Untouchables Meets Adam West Batman","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another Time, Another Place... Big Boy Caprice wants complete control of the city and will stop at nothing to get it. The only standing between Big Boy and his goal is Dick Tracy, the cop with the yellow hat and trench coat, who will stop at nothing to bring down Big Boy. The only one standing between the lantern jawed cop and wily gangster? The mysterious and elusive Blank. Bright, colorful, briskly paced, cheerfully tongue in cheek adaptation of the old Dick Tracy property is an engaging mash up of the Untouchables and Adam West Batman, with Tracy as Elliot Ness and Big Boy as Al Capone. The entire cast has fun with their roles. Director Star Warren Beatty embraces Tracy's no nonsense attitude with the same straight laced yet winking gusto of the aforementioned Adam West as Batman while Al Pacino gleefully sends up his own Godfather Michael Corleone gangster image as Big Boy (his Godfather brother James Caan has a cameo as a rival gangster in an amusing nod to those earlier films). Madonna is appropriately glamorous as the seductive Breathless Mahoney while Glenn Headley shines in the understated role of Tracy's gal Tess Trueheart. The 9th highest grossing film of its year and said to be the highest grossing film of Warren Beatty's career, a sequel was sidelined by disputes over who owned the rights to the character (and supposedly whether or not coming in 9th was good enough or not), which was unfortunate, to say the least. Still the film itself remains a fun ride for lovers of colorful pulp fiction. "},{"Title":"Not a Tracy of Feeling...","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film has an intelligent structure, contemporary visuals, breathtaking music, not a bad line up of actors & even an OK script. So what makes this film a stale watch? Quite simply - it's a drag. There is PLENTY for everyone to work with, but they just don't respond. It's a shame. Perhaps they are playing it cool? Or that they hold back for it's comedic values? There are some potential moving moments in this film, but when Madonna is showing more emotion than her supporting cast, you gotta ask yourself.. whats going on! Anyway, I'm glad I watched it though. It's such a unique style that you can't help but give it recognition. "},{"Title":"Arresting entertainment","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Warren Beatty's 'Dick Tracy' is high on star power and color, and low on plot and logic. Thankfully the former overwhelms the latter to the point that it doesn't matter. Much. Unlike the previous year's game changing 'Batman', 'Dick Tracy' embraces its comic roots and attempts to create the strip come to life, and it succeeds for the most part. In other ways it blatantly mimics Tim Burton's blockbuster, right down to its clock tower ending and Danny Elfman score.In the end I was very surprised that I enjoyed this much more in 2015 as a 41 year old than in 1990 as a 16 year old. Oh, and Madonna. Breathless indeed. "},{"Title":"A Visual Extravaganza","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Maximalist in its neon pleasures and a visual dream in its uncompromising vision, Dick Tracy is a comic book adaptation of unusual ambition. Rather than simply take stock characters and infamous plot lines from the pages of the strip and pray that an impression will be made by way of the silver screen, it attempts to fully realize every ocular atomic bomb the original frames shook the world with during its prime years. Prosthetics uglify the faces of villains, placing their tarnished psyches in full view; the cityscape, especially at night, glows with gaudy neon while advertisements and apartment lights act as pulp accents. The film is absolutely stunning, so photographically and stylistically original that I dare you not to stare at the lusty fantasy of it all without some sort of flabbergasted reaction.Upon release in 1990, Dick Tracy was surrounded by a hailstorm of pervasive media coverage, which heightened expectations to levels no film could ever match. Universal hoped it would be the next Batman, ultimately spending over $100 million on production, marketing, and promotion. Madonna, the most famous woman in the world at the time, decided to release a concept album based on the character she plays in the film, titled I'm Breathless (which features pop archetype Vogue). So when Dick Tracy turned out to be an uncontrollably stylish foray into comic book lure, most were turned off by its spirited approach. They wanted a fun blockbuster but got a self-serious museum of noir-on-acid tropes.Twenty-five years later, without the noise of Universal's promotional moshing and the combination of the star power of Madonna and Warren Beatty, Dick Tracy isn't just an underrated blockbuster &#x97; it is also an artistic triumph, so completely intransigent in its determination to mimic the look and tone of its source that it finishes thrilling in its disregard for conformity. Whether you liked it or not, it is impossible to completely forget. Its images leave an imprint in the brain like Sin City or Waking Life, its attitude joyously foolhardy in its every step.Beatty portrays the titular protagonist with stoic morality &#x97; he is a detective without any other interests besides making the world a better place. Persnickety cynicism is left at the door. A hero of capable tenacity, he spends his days fighting crime, his nights with longtime sweetheart Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly) and their may-as-well-be-adopted-son Kid (Charlie Korsmo). But Tracy's life is far from routine. Currently stalking the streets of the city are mob leader Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) and his many associates. They want to become crime gods, but Tracy, his usual heroic self, makes it nearly impossible for such dreamy successes to become reality. Using lounge singer Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) as a seductive pawn, the thugs plan to off him quickly and without evidence. But Tracy isn't one to wither away in the face of temptation.Dick Tracy's story is fairly standard, but so are the stories of all comic books. Like every work of pulp fiction, clichés are wrapped up so neatly in adventuresome style that we find ourselves lost in the good cop/bad cop dynamic, despite the fact that we've seen it all before. The only way clichés can work is if they exist in their own separate universe. There isn't anything special about a car chase set in a blasé, modern-day San Francisco, but when the act occurs in a wasteland of unwavering vision (a la Mad Max Fury Road), everything becomes a surprise. Thanks to Beatty's decision to film Dick Tracy in pop-arted, artifice obsessed design, anything resembling a dime-a-dozen trope becomes new again.I could go on and on lauding Dick Tracy's style, but that would be an injustice to the actors. To survive in a film like this, a performer must put on a brave face and be willing to transform themselves into a caricature &#x97; here, the cast goes above and beyond, and that's an immensely difficult thing to do. As wooden (and too old for the part) as Beatty is, he fits the mold of Tracy quite well with his passive masculinity and unwillingness to go against his moral compass. But the film belongs to Pacino and Madonna, who don't walk but run with their parts, so infatuated with their roles that they fly from camp territory to convincingly authentic lands. As Big Boy Caprice, Pacino is loud, melodramatic, and fittingly moody; Madonna, in an impressive Marilyn impression, whispers her way through a role that requires her to do what she does best sing and take on a compelling persona.In terms of style, Dick Tracy is a work of complete originality. In temperament, it reminds us why comic books have remained such a staple in popular culture; despite their artificial touch and exaggerated characters/settings, there is truth to be found amidst all the fakery. You either love Dick Tracy or you hate it. But even its biggest detractors can't deny how visionary Beatty's direction is. "},{"Title":"Might be the quintessential comic book movie","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy holds up surprisingly well. And just to get the negative out of the way . . . Ugh, Madonna is awful. Her half-assed line deliveries drag every one of her scenes. In all fairness, I'm not a Sondheim guy, so the songs aren't my cup of tea, either (same problem I had with Sweeney Todd), but it's astounding how dead weight she is.But in spite of that burden, the movie stands as a love letter to the comic strip medium and the period; the artful shot compositions, the gorgeous matte paintings, and my god the chroma saturation. This thing's a visual feast. Warren Beatty created a pretty cool world to visit, populated with coppers, hoods, fedoras, Tommy guns and flying fists. It's simplistic, but that's it's charm. And a lot of love went into this. It brings back memories of that Summer in 1990 with the marketing-as-pop-art campaign, and it's totally Disney's grab at Batman levels of success (even nabbing Danny Elfman, although his score is a high point). But it's still some good comic book fun.7/10 "},{"Title":"Tracy overtaken by Merchandising Face","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" FOLLOWING ADAPTATIONS THAT extended from Radio, Four Serial cliff-hangers, B Movies, TV Live Actiom & Animation, the ever-reliable symbol of Law & Order in America finally made it to a big release, blockbuster Feature film. This 1990 production featured the 'handsome as a movie star' Warren Beatty, not only as the Star; but also doing triple duty as Producer and Sitting in the Director's chair.BEING THAT THE Daily & Sunday Comic Strip of DICK TRACY had made its original appearance in print in 1931 and continues to the present, the production team had a choice of several eras from which to use in its presentation. Wisely, they chose the post prohibition Gangster days of the 1930's; which just happens to be the historical time-frame of the strip's genesis.WITH THE FOUNDATION of a top rate cast, the film was constituted with a most interesting script, great original musical sound tract, highly creative photography and color work that mimicked the primary four-color lithography of the news print. There was a definite attempt to create the look of a comic strip come to life.BY THE WAY, they succeeded! COINCIDING WITH THE release was a tremendous wave of Dick Tracy items that swept like a deluge over the department stores. Apparently the intelligentsia at Disney and the Chicago Tribune enterprises had figure on a new mo$t lucrative franchise; duplicating that of Batman in the late 1960's.WELL, AS WE ALL now know, these things did not pan out. The movie did less than spectacular business; in spite of its honest effort to stay as close to the DICK TRACY of the newspaper comics section.WHAT WENT WRONG, we ask our selves? Perhaps too much was expected of it. With so much riding on its success, nothing but superlatives were acceptable. Soon, the various Dick Tracy hats, trench coats, toys, games, coloring books, etc., were relegated to the remainder racks.NEEDLESS TO SAY, there wasn't a sequel; and that was too bad. Isn't that right, Schultz? "}{"Title":"This dick movie is very limp. It's alright, but could had been bigger & better. It's need more balls.","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Calling Dick Tracy, a bad movie is an overstatement. As a kid of the 1990s, it was alright for the most part as a comic book film noir movie. Directed by Warren Beatty, and produced by Disney under their Touchstone Pictures banner, the movie, adapted the Chester Gould's relatively simple crime-drama comic strip and reimagined it as a complex big-budget extravaganza with big-name actors, colorful costumes, special effects and plenty of music. The movie tells the story of Detective Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) who must save his beloved city, from up-and-coming gang boss in Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) who unites all Dick Tracy's rivals into a citywide gangland coalition. Now Tracy's only hope in foiling Big Boy's schemes lies with nightclub singer Breathless Mahoney (Madonna), who is prepared to help the detective for a price that Tracy cannot delivered. Can Dick Tracy take down Big Boy Caprice's united mob or will Dick Tracy, be swimming with the fishes, by the end? Watch it to find out. Without spoiling too much of the film. The film feels like a rip-off of 1989's Batman in its look, music, and plot. If that wasn't all, the movie story is not the greatest. It felt like a series of comic strips, put into one. It often felt very disjointed and things move in a nearly out of place motion. It gets ready confusing. A lot of things don't make sense like the twist toward the end. The story is often riddled with huge plot-holes as if shot with a tommy gun. The movie pacing move as fast as paint dries with music acts, action and exposition scenes that wasn't really needed. It's snail pace. Most of the main performances seem dull and phoned in. Supporting actors like Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles, and Dick Van Dyle as the D.A get way under-looked. It was just a huge mess. Warren Beatty as Dick Tracy is mediocre. One of the biggest problems is that Dick Tracy just isn't an interesting character. Warren Beatty certainly doesn't put much effort into making him a compelling character. It was one of his last big main roles before retired in the early 2000s. Glenne Headley as his girlfriend, Tess Trueheart is forgettable. Sean Young claims she was forced out of the role of Tess Truehart after rebuffing sexual advances from Beatty. I think Sean Young would had made the movie, ever worse. She's not a favor of mine. Charlie Korsmo as the nameless Kid that Dick Tracy adopt was too annoying to care about. Al Pacino might be a little over the top silly, to be taken seriously as a threat. He never once, seem menacing. I was deeply surprised he was nominated for an Academy Award for this role that year. I thought, it was one of his worst performance, ever. Madonna, who was then in a relationship with Beatty, pursued the part of Breathless Mahoney, but offered to work for scale to avoid any appearance of nepotism, because they were in a relationship at the time. I guess Madonna really wanted Beatty's dick. Surprising Madonna's acting is probably the best of all. Still, her acting wasn't much of a stretch. She was indeed sexy as the femme fatale lounge singer. Most of the music, she does in the film, works. The song, 'Sooner or Later' by Stephen Sondheim and sung by Madonna is great sexy lounge music. Glad, it won Best Original Song at the Oscars that year. The song more' doesn't deserve any awards. It sounds like a Marilyn Monroe 'Diamond are a girl's best friend' rip off song. It's cut to pieces anyways with the horrible editing. It's annoying smug. While, Madonna didn't do these songs, 'Back in Business' & Live alone and like it' were pretty catchy. Still, I don't know why 'Live alone and like it' was put in a montage of Dick Tracy's doing family things. That was a bit weird. Once again, bad editing ruin that song, as well. While, not feature in the film, 'Vogue' was indeed part of the Dick Tracy soundtrack. Vogue would become one of Madonna's greatest hits of all time. Danny Elfman theme song was disappointing. I really wanted more for him. One of the striking features of the film was its attempt to replicate, in live action, the flat colors and limited palette of the pulp magazine atmosphere. It did delivered great in the old school effects. The Matte painting was visually beautiful. One drawback to that, you can't move the camera. I guess the static camera is obviously a tribute to the panels of a comic book, but it kinda looks lazy. The makeup is pretty cool. I love seeing the many distort faces of the criminals. Still, some of them, look a bit too fake looking. Holy crap, for a PG film, you have a lot of sexual innuendos. Breathless in a sheer nightdress, wearing barely anything at all is very scandalous. Lots of see-through nipples. Not only the sex, but the violence. It's somewhat very graphic for a kid's movie. Lots of people getting mow down by Tommy Guns. While, the film was a hit. However, a combination of underperforming and the overtone cost, cause a sequel to never be made. Disney had hoped Dick Tracy would launch a successful franchise, like the Indiana Jones series, but sadly decades-long battle over the rights between Beatty and the Tribune Co. put any immediate follow-ups to the long run. So Dick Tracy 2 is not on his way, anytime soon. Overall This movie isn't perfect, but it's not the worst. This surrealistic comic book need a comeback, and I hope it does. It does need it. "},{"Title":"If you ain't for the people, you can't buy the people...","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A minor box office flop in its day, Disney's Dick Tracy is one of those films that has slipped into undeserved obscurity. Obviously given the green light on the back of Batman the previous year, Warren Beatty's version of Chester Gould's comic-strip is one of the most faithful interpretations of its original source material. Even more than something like Sin City, this movie places you in its gaudy comic-book universe like no other big Hollywood movie has managed. A striking prohibition-era city full of gaudy primary colours and grotesque gangsters, the world of Dick Tracy would have lent itself ideally to animation, but the fact that Beatty managed to do it so well in live- action is far more impressive. Accompanied by a masterful, logo-led marketing campaign (posters simply read 'This year they're out to get him'), Dick Tracy was released in the summer of 1990. Beatty gives one of the best performances of his career in the title role, playing a straight-arrow cop with unexpected ease (his awkwardness with women is also a revelation). Madonna also hits a career high as 'bad girl' moll Breathless Mahoney; unable to shed her kit in a PG-rated effort, she has to actually act to get us to buy into her sexually predatory character, and comes up trumps. Al Pacino has loads of fun as villain Big Boy Caprice, and the supporting cast is a galaxy of Hollywood's finest in minor roles. Unlike the Batman films, Dick Tracy wastes no time in pointless back-story, and has a simple but effective plot that just works. Beatty's relationship with his girlfriend, Glenne Headly's plastic Tess Trueheart, amazingly manages to be realistic, and his growing friendship with the 'Kid' is touching too. Technically, the film is on a par with the big action films of the time, and the climactic Tommy-gun battle is far more exhilarating than similar scenes in The Untouchables. The music is the best thing about the whole movie; Danny Elfman's score is just as good as those he wrote for Batman and Spider- man, and the Madonna / Stephen Sondheim show tunes are great too. Long overdue for a re-evaluation, Dick Tracy is one of the very best comic book movies. "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy, a must see film.","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy, I think the only way to sum that up is ahead of its time. There are so many movies that have taken cues from it, it's honestly amazing. 300, Sin City, and a Scanner Darkly all smack of influences from the movie. So, here we have a movie based on a comic strip that utilized a lot of the visual styles of the comic. The costumes, cars and sets all look like they belong in the Sunday funnies. The comic strip itself originally started in the early 1920's and for most of its run imitated the daily real life of the world around it. With the exception of the character Big Boy and maybe a few others, most of the villains in the comic strip were individual's not affiliated with organized crime. The movie however, visually sets itself in the mid 1930's. No exact date is given, but it sets itself up as an essentially stereotypical gangster movie, complete with the mob boss and the goons with funny names. Thematically, its essentially your run of the mill good guys win at the end of the day procedural police film, you don't need to watch much of it to find out that there is going to be A) silly bad guys that are more funny than bad B) super sexy objects of sexual desire &#x96; after all, Madonna mid 1990 was smoking hot, as the very svelte, very sensuous Breathless Mahoney &#x96; Britany Spears could have taken notes. Comic relief is supplied by the gangsters themselves and the very dramatic over acting of all of the actors, something that we saw in shows like the TV series of Batman from the 60's. Along that line the use of color, most notably Tracy with his white/eggshell colored coat is denoted as the good guy while Breathless, is continually shown in various black dresses, obviously to highlight her as the main provocatrix in the story. As the story evolves Breathless has a change of heart, you see her in the last scene in the club in a white dress, before the last scene with her alter ego Faceless, when it is revealed to Tracy that she is the one who not only set him up for murder, but is also the one who drives the situation in which Big Boy is killed, relieving him of his arch nemesis. Much like another movie The Crow, Dick Tracy makes special use of its choice of color, especially in terms of how the mood is set and for whom you should be paying attention to in the story. Whereas The Crow is essentially very dark with only small amounts of color, most of which is during the happier scenes, the use of bright color throughout Dick Tracy suggests a light and almost comedic mood in relation to its much darker theme elements and with the main characters, Breathless and Tracy, being shown in strikingly contrasting colors, until the end of the film.With all of the emphasis on theme and its gentle poking at social issues such as organized crime, police abuse of power, and child abuse the film can seem a little drab. Its silly characters and its bright colors seem almost out place when discussing these issues and today's movie going audience would be better served by something that looked more like Sin City. All that said, Dick Tracy is a classic film, if you haven't seen it you need to, if you have seen it, watch it again and think about what the film is actually about and then realize that it was truly ahead of its time, buts definitely a great film. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but an achievement in a lot of ways","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The cast are reason enough to check out Dick Tracy, and in a lot of ways you are not left short-changed. Dick Tracy is not without its flaws, the story does feel rushed at times with scenes and character development(with the exception of Charlie Korsmo) that feel skimmed over. And, for me, Warren Beatty does a better job directing the film than acting in it, here in the title role he underplays and comes across as rather stiff and even for a character who's meant to be too laconic. His directing is great though, Dick Tracy was clearly made with love and with a clear sense that Beatty knew what he was doing, and while the story is at times skimpy and lacking in depth it is told with a lot of warmth and fun, the deliberate pacing not hurting it a bit. The atmosphere is wonderfully surreal and really draws you in, the homages to gangster movies are very well done. Adaptation-wise, it is a little tamer compared to the comic strip but with the surreal atmosphere, the dialogue that balances amusing comedy and grim seriousness very well and the colourful portrayals of the villains the essence of a comic strip is there. Danny Elfman's score is a contender for his most playful if in places reminiscent of Batman and Stephen Sondheim's songs are equally great, Sooner or Later being the highlight, in fact the whole soundtrack works. What is particularly good about Dick Tracy are the cast and the visuals, both of which manage to be great achievements. Of the cast the standout is Al Pacino who seems to be enjoying himself immensely and is hilarious, that he has the best lines and is the most memorable character helps. Charlie Korsmo is endearing(better than he was in Hook at any rate) in one of the more memorable characters in the film, while Glenne Headley does sympathetic very well and even Madonna is surprisingly good. Dustin Hoffmann fares best in the large supporting cast, all of whom are solid. Visually, Dick Tracy looks absolutely incredible and most likely one of the most striking films of the 90s, with lavish costumes and sets and plentiful colours that are incredibly rich and vivid. Plus the make-up is superb. The photography is equally gorgeous. To conclude, Dick Tracy may not be a perfect film but achieves a lot. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Make-Up, Color and Madonna","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While at the opera, squared-jawed detective Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) answers a call on his wrist-radio. He's informed about the opening massacre, orchestrated by the city's leading mobster, Alphonse Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino). Bullets spell out the message Eat Lead Tracy at the crime scene. This is obviously a call to action. Witnessing the event is a homeless and hungry orphan known only as The Kid (Charlie Korsmo), soon to be Tracy's sidekick. Clad in his trademark yellow raincoat and cap, Tracy tries to maintain law and order in the city. Meanwhile, alluring singer Madonna (as Patricia Breathless Mahoney) tried to seduce Tracy, threatening his relationship with traditional sweetheart Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly)...Madonna wears arousing, slit dresses and sings new songs, written for the film by Stephen Sondheim. The more successful songs on Madonna's soundtrack album I'm Breathless (like Vogue) are not heard in the film. She's quite an attraction, but she's always Madonna. Cartoonist Chester Gould's famous character looks convincingly like Mr. Beatty, who also directed. He has a great production team and the film is beautifully shot; it has a stylish, comic strip color scheme. Make-up recreates the funnies characters to a degree; my favorite was Flattop (William Forsythe). However, all the expense can't disguise the fact that there really isn't anything very spectacular going on in the story. For looking good, Dick Tracy won several film awards.***** Dick Tracy (6/14/90) Warren Beatty ~ Warren Beatty, Madonna, Al Pacino, Glenne Headly "},{"Title":"This is not a good movie. But I recommend you see it.","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I avoided this movie for years because it looked like it was pretty bad ... and, having just watched it, it is ... but I recommend it.Overall it's not very good, but it has bits and pieces in it that are beautiful.There are city-scapes, flyover shots of the city they're in, which are very good. + The villain makeup is kind of annoying and distracting. I get what they were trying to do, capture the grotesque faces of Chester Gould's bad guys. But they just look like their faces are puffed up from some allergic reaction. - Some of the acting is very good. It's an incredible lineup of actors. Al Pacino does decently in a fairly typical Al Pacino bellowing and gesticulating role. Not a great acting stretch but loads of fun. + Madonna is stunning. Is she acting or playing herself? But I think she captures something in the character she created which is very unique, and stunningly bad-ass and good. The singing is good, especially at first. I got a little tired of musical numbers, but the first few really impressed me. The first especially. Madonna really showing some genuine talent. ++ Warren Beatty. I really can't stand Warren Beatty, at least since watching this movie. After seeing what they did with the villains, I expected they would at least make some nominal attempt to capture the look and personality of Dick Tracy.Nopes. Forget that. This is Warren Beatty. He is way too good-looking to bother doing anything in a movie but walk around looking good. It probably helps a lot that Beatty produced this, so he could guide the script and ensure it didn't involve anything he could do by just being Warren Beatty. There are relationship-tension scenes with his girlfriend that acknowledge the character a little, but they are still pretty much nothing but Warren Beatty being cute and adorably boyish. -------------------------------- So while I think this is not a very good movie, I still recommend seeing it for the really good parts suffocating to death within it. "},{"Title":"A great lot of fun for all involved--and WHAT A SOUNDTRACK!","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to confess, I was a fan of Dick Tracy comics back in the day and when word of the movie came out I went to the theater the first weekend. I was not disappointed. Relationships in the story went far deeper than the newspaper on which they were originally printed. The costumes, the gaudy colors, the hard-boiled title character and villains, all made for an unforgettable movie experience. Was this Kurosawa or Fellini? Of course not, but who cares? I had FUN at the movies, and nearly 25 years later I still enjoy it.The music gets its own paragraph (and should have its own review). The forces that came together to create this masterpiece are nothing short of miraculous. The score by Danny Elfman was spot-on deadly fun. The songs by Stephen Sondheim served not only to entertain at the club but moved and commented on the story in a way that only Sondheim could do it. The background music is performed by a rogue's gallery of singers and for the most part it works wonderfully. Frank Loesser's Two Sleepy People is given a charming treatment by Art Garfunkel. The Confidence Man is brassy, brash and bold in Patti Austin's capable hands. Even Jerry Lee Lewis gets in on the fun with an old-timey cover of it was the whiskey talking', not me. According to the liner notes on the soundtrack he liked the song so much that he recorded two versions--the one in the movie, and one up-tempo more akin to what his fans know. It is telling that a lot of music written for the film didn't make it into the final cut, but survives in the Soundtrack recording, and in a third recording made by Madonna. Check out YouTube for recordings byk.d.lang and Take 6--Riding the Rails Jerry Lee Lewis--It was the whiskey talking' Patti Austin--The Confidence Man "},{"Title":"Pulp Noir","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chester Gould's comic strip Dick Tracy brought to life in Pulp Noir a pastiche of comic strip/graphic novel, Poetic Realism, Pulp Fiction, and Film Noir. Beatty and Vittorio Storaro along with Art Direction by Harold Michelson, Set Decoration by Rick Simpson, the Buena Vista Visual Effects Group and Costume Design by Milena Canonero create an enjoyable fantasy world of late 30's early 40's Chicago in a pallet limited to the six main colors that the original comic strip appeared in red, blue, yellow, green, orange, purple, plus black and white. Beatty's Tracy is a nice good guy, always doing the right thing, tough and seemingly incorruptible, but as played by Beatty he is human, tempted determinedly by his femme fatale wanna be, Breathless Mahoney (Madonna). Glenne Headly plays Tess his long time sweetheart, the good girl. Charlie Korsmo plays tough street urchin Kid, who is taken under Tracy's wing. Madonna's Breathess is stunning, she plays is Lip's Manlis's girlfriend/torch singer working his club, when Manlis is whacked she becomes the property of Big Boy Caprise mob boss. Caprise (Pacino) is not only an over the top mobster but a closet choreographer and in a hilarious segment he joins Breathless and the chorines on stage trying to spice up their new number.Some of the best sequences are of Breathless practically showing everything she's got while trying to work her womanly charms on a stoic Tracy.The diegetic music is great, the songs sung by Madonna by Sondheim, and the soundtrack music by Danny Elfman not really that memorable, maybe they will grow on me with repeated viewings. A fun film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining.","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Warren Beatty directs and stars in the first colour live-action adaptation of the iconic comic strip. Most characters find a place in the film, some of the villains having substantial amount of screen time roles like Big Boy Caprice, Flattop, Itchy and Pruneface, while some others like Little Face and Johnny Ramm make fleeting appearances. The cast is solid all around - Beatty, Pacino, Madonna, Glen Headly, Dustin Hoffman, William Forsythe, R.G. Armstrong, Charles Durning, Seymour Cassel, Mandy Patinkin, Paul Sorvino and Dick van Dyke. James Caan shows up in a great cameo as a bitter rival of Pacino's, plus Estelle Parsons is there as well and I was surprised to see Kathy Bates in a blink-and-miss bit part.Many people dislike this one because it is 'cheesy'. I will admit that its sense of perfect good against complete evil is old-fashioned but it is based on a comic strip which originated in the crime-ridden 1930s, after all. For what it is, it is decent entertainment. The plot starts to come unravelled in the third act, since the storyline with The Blank and the twist about his identity makes little sense. A lot of footage Beatty had shot could not find its way in the theatres, maybe it contributed towards making the twist clearer. If the footage exists I would like to see a Director's cut some time. The film also features some excellent montages mostly set to songs.Beatty is alright in the role, a bit stiff, but his character is of a one-dimensional good guy so I guess he couldn't do much. Charlie Korsmo does a decent job as well, there is a very nice emotional scene with both of them towards the climax, which was a surprising change from the tongue-in-cheek mood of the film till that point. Al Pacino as Big Boy Caprice has the best role in the film, and he pantomimes his way through it in truly theatrical style. He is like a powder keg and goes completely bonkers in the end in spectacular fashion. Dustin Hoffman is also hilarious as Mumbles, I wish there were more scenes with him, his role in Big Boy's gang is not defined at all. The best appeal the film boasts of is its visual aesthetic, high on bright primary colours, impeccably framed by the Italian legend Vittorio Storaro. Madonna's poor performance and the weird final twist are the only major drawbacks. "},{"Title":"Wow!!!!","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the medium we call Film there is often a lack of visual vitality. A look that is subservient to the components that coalesce to become the Artform. Most times, at its best, these are brought together in a production using costumes, music, acting, cinematography, makeup, and script all firing together and the Movie hums like a well tuned engine.Sometimes one or more of these components can be so overwhelming and alone can create something that is a stylization of subject. Such is the off center appeal of Dick Tracy. The template, never seen before, of garish primary colors and surreal backdrops are displayed here to give this experiment a Wow inducing experience.There isn't much beneath all this excitement and the plot, what there is, moves slowly and without fanfare other than to be a slim thread to hold this incredible tapestry together. The dialog, songs, and story are acceptable, if not remarkable, but it is the eye-filling look that one remembers and it truly is unforgettable. Not before or since has there been such a singular style that had such seductive appeal on a luscious two-dimensional spread.That is more than enough to make this a triumph of Movie Magic and to this day is a wonder to behold and is a singular creation of interesting intent. A link between Comic-Strip and celluloid that is astonishing and under-appreciated. "}{"Title":"With Dick Tracey, you're always wanting more","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I was a kid, one of the big movies was Dick Tracey. I remember watching this movie all the time on TV and was just in love with it. I wanted to be Madonna because of this film. The colors were bright, the villains were terrifying to look at and the story was very cool. We couldn't get enough of the movie, comic book, cartoon or video game. Dick Tracey was the man of the early 90's. The weird thing is I never wrote a comment on the movie because when I first started writing reviews when I was 15 yeas old was because I didn't see the movie for years and it would've been unfair to give it a review without being able to remember what it really was. I bought the film a year ago when I found it in a five dollar bin flashing back to the good ol' days. I watched the film tonite wanting to be taken back to what was so magical about this movie when I was a kid and found myself criticizing it like an adult instead.At an illegal card game, a young street kid witnesses the massacre of a group of mobsters at the hands of Flattop and Itchy, two of the hoods on the payroll of Alphonse Big Boy Caprice. Big Boy's crime syndicate is aggressively taking over small businesses in the city. Detective Dick Tracy catches the kid in an act of petty theft. After rescuing him from a ruthless host, Tracy temporarily adopts him with the help of his girlfriend, Tess Truehart. Meanwhile, Big Boy coerces club owner Lips Manlis into signing over the deed to Club Ritz. He then kills Lips with a cement overcoat and steals his girlfriend, Breathless Mahoney. After Lips is reported missing, Tracy interrogates his three hired guns, Flattop, Itchy, and Mumbles, then goes to the club to arrest Big Boy for Lips' murder. Breathless is the only witness and Tracey needs her to testify in order to put Big Boy in prison once and for all.Funny thing that this being a film that all my friends and I remember watching as kids and really in some strange way this has more adult themes to it. For God's sake we see Madonna's nipple in a sheer outfit, all though I don't think there were men in this country who didn't see her bosoms. The villain's make up was actually frightening in some aspects and I remember as a kid the no face villain scared me very much. But as kids we are more resilient than adults gave us credit for. For the film, it's still very colorful and I really admire it for that. The colors are red, yellow, green, red and black and you feel like you're transferred into the comics.You can tell that Warren had a genuine love for this movie and the comics. He really captures what a comic book movie is. I also loved the whole feeling of the classic gangsters story with the tommy guns and wardrobe. I think over all the film works on the story and the actors really got into it. Though I think it could've been bigger like Batman. I don't know what it was that didn't get this film into a better status when you think of good comic book movies, maybe there were things that were off that Warren couldn't capture. Dick Tracey is an interesting character that could be explored more and given better depth. But this movie is still very fun and holds up well to this day. With fun visuals and a great cast, Dick Tracey is still the man.7/10 "},{"Title":"When do we eat....","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is one of the best police officers in the city.He is currently on the hunt for crime boss Big Boy Caprice who recently killed off former crime boss Lips Manless.Now Big Boy is rallying up all of the criminals in the city who are not only trying to make the city bow to Big Boy's wishes but to eliminate Tracy.Tracy is faced with issues, as he is trying to not only track down Big Boy, but to keep his girlfriend Tess Trueheart, take care of a nameless orphan and dodge seductive club dancer Breathless Mahoney and a mysterious gangster.....The film is beautiful to look at, and it's obvious that it really has had a lot of attention given to it regarding the sets and costumes, but it sticks to the back of ones mind knowing that this is one of the biggest vanity projects ever made.Whenever Beatty is on close up, it's as if someone is shining a torch in his face, to make him look that little more pretty, and alluring to the ladies.And this becomes the bane of the film, because you really start to lose interest in the titular character, s thank goodness for the wealth of support and great turns from Pacino and even Madonna.The story is light and so is narrative, for the majority of the film, we just see Tracey being chased by gangsters, or being chased by women, and once or twice having a musical interlude or a fight.But Kudos to Beatty for making such an entertaining and still very fresh vanity project/blockbuster. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptations of a comic!","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. Between the colors, the old cars, the treatment of the dames, it came as close to authentic as it could without being crass. Not a moment of boredom or failure. It fulfilled all the elements of a cartoon and then some.Just loved it. Warren Beatty was dreamy and Madonna sparkled. Loved it.The action was dramatic and over acted in the best way possible when it comes to cartoon action. It was over the top in many ways which made it even more lovable and fun. One of the best action movies. "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy, is a territory I'm unfamiliar with (never heard of the comic strip before), Warren Beatty, is a mysterious Hollywood honcho whom I reckon to be a legend whose fame is unceasing even though his last work TOWN & COUNTRY (2001) is a notorious catastrophe which is a perfect paradigm of failure in Hollywood film history and had prompted his retirement until now, rumor says a new film project is in development right now and aiming for a 2013 release, finger crossed!This profusely comic-influenced film is a hybrid of stylistic settings and costumes and stylized performances, dangling with a feeble script. Woefully Beatty, Pacino and Hoffman, 3 bigwigs emerging in a single film and the spark is scarce, Madonna conspicuously proves that acting is not her strong suit, while the music in it is marvelously diverting and intriguing. Then comes the Oscar winning and nominations, 3 won for Art Direction, Make-up and Original song, all are meriting, another 4 nominations, Cinematography, Costume Design, Sound and Pacino's Supporting actor, I can merely understand the first three (not a technical connoisseur myself), for me the last one just manifests at that time the Academy did whatever they could to compensate Pacino's Oscar-less status then (thanks to the belated SCENT OF A WOMAN in 1992, otherwise, maybe he would get a nomination even for Gigli in 2003). It could be a breakthrough for Pacino to star as the villain in a farce feature, but that is all, it's impossible to bare the label of best of the year.With all due respect to all the devotees, but a cartoon-prone tune within the vintage 1930s could not help to establish this film a rightful public praise (although it is a box office victor). Nonetheless the film is not less than entertaining, but among Beatty's admirable filmography, DICK TRACY's right position is a respectful trifle (maybe better than TOWN & COUNTRY, LOVE AFFAIR 1994 and Ishtar 1987). "},{"Title":"Dick has nearly came (web)","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In a Madonna's bio, I read that DT was the Disney's answer to the successful Batman. DT being not Gothic, it's also a film noir but Beatty chose to do a Technicolor cartoon adventure instead. This feast of colors is really the big attraction of this movie I don't know any other movie where all the production is based on the basic colors (yellow, red, green, blue). It's clear, simple and it really looks the panel of a old comics.With that, the movie is great with associating a good cast (Madonna is a decent femme fatal and Al is very funny playing a bigger than nature Don). The music is also top-level, as much the Madonna's songs than Danny's score (the action and love themes are worthy of his Batman).On the other hand, DT lacks a good script and maybe a better actor for DT than Beatty because he doesn't look like very motivated. He told the kid to go at the orphanage but he stayed; he kissed Madonna but didn't really help her; he loves Tess but can't commit. In other words, Beatty is better at directing than at acting. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff!","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Warren Beatty's 'Dick Tracy' is Good Stuff. It works as an entertaining, eventful film, that will appeal to the youngsters. Also, the performances, are very impressive!Based on the 1930s comic strip character of the same name created by Chester Gould, 'Dick Tracy' depicts the detective's love relationships with Breathless Mahoney and Tess Truehart, as well as his conflicts with crime boss Alphonse Big Boy Caprice. Tracy also begins his upbringing of The Kid.Warren Beatty has made a very ambitious film in 'Dick Tracy'. Right from Production, Direction, Performance & Execution, in each of these departments, Beatty's undying love for this film, reflects very sharply. Even though flawed & slightly lazy, Beatty succeeds by making an entertaining & eventful film, that will definitely appeal to the youth, to this day. Performance-Wise As mentioned, Beatty's dedication reflects in all the departments he puts himself into, and as Dick Tracy, Beatty comes across as energetic & likable. Al Pacino is mesmerizing as crime boss Alphonse Big Boy Caprice. Madonna is good. Glenne Headly is sincere, while Charlie Korsmo is supremely confident. Among the supporting cast, Dustin Hoffman & Charles Durning are noticeable. On the whole, 'Dick Tracy' isn't great, but entertaining nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Quirky and campy, but actually works","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not at all familiar with the character of Dick Tracy, but what I can gather from Warren Beatty's colorful film, he was the subject of a very campy comic strip. He was a police detective who upheld the law in any situation as he chased down criminals and became the love interest of many a dame. In the film, Warren Beatty plays Tracy as he runs around the city trying to catch Big Boy Caprice, played by Al Pacino, and bring him and his vast gang of crooks to justice. Madonna plays Breatless Mahoney, a night club singer who is involved with Big Boy and constantly vies for Tracy's love, promising him information about the gang if she gets what she wants. This plot might not seem very original, and that's because it's not. But there is something strange and unique about Dick Tracy that, in a way, actually makes it work.Like I said, I'm not familiar with the character or the comic strip he is from, but I feel like Warren Beatty was trying to capture an extremely specific look with this film. This is obvious through the camera angles and the colors which they accentuate. Also, the look of the buildings is very cartoonish and the villains of the film are exaggerated in a very cartoonish manner. There are lots of prosthetics in the film for each and every gangster that gives all of them a very specific look. I found this annoying and stupid at first, but it eventually grew on me as I saw the direction that this film was going. This is in no way a dark film. It's very upbeat and plays up a very specific cartoon atmosphere. I think that the film really did, in the end, capture the look it was going for.Now, if there's one word to describe Dick Tracy, it's campy. This film is one big tongue-in-cheek camp adventure. Again, it was something I wasn't terribly fond of at first, but it eventually grew on me and by the end of the film I was pretty amused by the way the film worked. Overall this is really just a very strange film. It shoots for a very specific atmosphere with its look, its humor, and the level of its campiness. It isn't something that I'm going to be terribly fond of and overall this film doesn't do much for me. I imagine lots of feelings of nostalgia for those who were fans of the Dick Tracy comic strip, but for me this is just a strange and entertaining little flick that is unlike most films of this time period and genre. I think the film did what it wanted to do, so for that I have to give it a lot of credit. It's not something I would watch again, but it made for a fun hour and forty five minutes. "},{"Title":"Colorfully bland.","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The long running comic strip comes to the screen with vapid results as director actor Warren Beatty removes most of the comic possibilities and Tracy's unwavering certitude with the silent indecisive signature close-ups Warren likes to employ on himself replacing it. It has an excellent Toon Town look due to the master craftsman employed to decorate ( Richard Sylbert) and lens (Vittorio Storaro) it but the result is one tedious primary color fiesta and little more.Tracy is a dick 24/7. He would like to marry Tess Trueheart but can't divorce himself from his job with the diabolical Big Boy Caprice running amok. Further complicating matters is Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) whose working him from both angles.Tracy has a fun look as it barrages you with every color of the rainbow on everything it records. The famous thugs row of mugs from the strip are excellently re-created with Dustin Hoffman in the small roll of Mumbles and especially Al Pacino as the Plato quoting Caprice giving the film the rare glimpses of humor it can muster. Much of the film however is wasted on Beatty's posing and Madonna's complete inability to once again show any acting chops (even as a comic strip character) as Tracy meanders to its predictable fireworks conclusion with little to celebrate. "},{"Title":"one of the best looking films ever made","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick tracy is based of the popular comic book strip from the 1940's. I never actually had read any of the comics before but i decided to give this 1990 film a watch. The movie stars Warren Beatty (who also directs)as the yellow coat wearing detective known as Dick Tracy. In his colorful city of his he beats the bad guys like every comic book hero. His main focus is on the crime boss Big Boy played by Al Pacino. Meanwhile he takes in a street urchin and has a romantic interest in one of Big Boy's girls played by Madonna. The movie is fantastic to look at. It's all extremely colourful and surreal. The other thing i would like to add is that the makeup is really weird (as some of the characters have strange facial features). However the look does distract from the story and the acting. The story is generally your typical comic book flick. The acting is good for the most part Al Pacino in particurlar who got nominated for an Oscar for this role. However Beatty is too old for Tracy and acts very blandly in this film Overall this is an entertaining flick "},{"Title":"Flashy amusing and memorable (despite a lack of story)","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" No 20th century motion picture feels more like a comic book than Dick Tracy. Its flashy retro approach takes us back to the jazzy 1930's when showgirls had short blonde (pre-Marylin Monroe) hair, men wore long brimmed hats, and smoked fat cigars. The movie is a lot of fun, but the end result feels like it needs something more...a better script. Warren Beatty's primary intention is to put a comic book on celluloid, investing so much into art and design that he cares too little for story. The film is a direct throwback to the age when comic books started getting adapted to other mediums. With the rise of television in the 1950's batman, spider man and others found their way into people living rooms, both as cartoons and live action (Adam West). From today's perspective those programmes are so stiff, and hokey that they have become almost laughable. Dick Tracy manages to recapture some of those dated charms, and successfully loosened it up a bit. The fight scenes are less chucky (though they still lack gusto) and There are times when the picture is self-mocking (especially whenever Al Pachino is on screen), but the scenario remains fairly shallow and artificial. Even if the film is not lovable, it is impossible not to like it even a bit. I'll raise my glass to the art department, and cinematographer Vittorio Storaro. The Urbanized Americana world in Dick Tracy is the kind of place I'd love to have a vacation in. actually, I am reminded a bit of the New York New York hotel in Las Vegas. Dick Tracy is certainly not a film to miss, it needs some work for sure. Although it seems to be headed for obscurity (in part because of it's lacking recognition and financial success) It remains pretty unique even today. "}{"Title":"Dick Tracy","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had seen a few images of the leading character for this 1940's comic book based film from director Warren Beatty, and it didn't look like much to be desired, but I decided to give it a chance. Basically police detective Dick Tracy (Beatty) has found a little urchin, calling himself Kid (Hook's Charlie Korsmo) who witnessed a crime by mob boss Big Boy Caprice (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Al Pacino) and his gang, Shoulders (Stig Eldred), Stooge (Jim Wilkey), The Rodent (Neil Summers), The Brow (Chuck Hicks) and Little Face (Lawrence Steven Meyers). Tracy is the only one tough enough to take on the don and his mobsters, while trying also to be dedicated to his girlfriend Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly). He is held back not just be the Kid and his love interest, but by the seductive Breathless Mahoney (Madonna), always by Big Boy's side, and trying to get into Tracy's head. Also in the midst is a faceless character known as The Blank killing both the people who are helping Big Boy out, and people who may be helpful in bringing him down. In the end, Big Boy is defeated by Tracy and the Kid, and The Blank is revealed as Breathless, so Tracy and Tess drive away happily, with the Kid in tow. Also starring The Princess Bride's Mandy Patinkin as 88 Keys, The Muppet Movie's Charles Durning as Chief Brandon, Paul Sorvino as Lips Manlis, William Forsythe as Flattop, Dustin Hoffman as Mumbles, James Caan as Spaldoni, Kathy Bates as Mrs. Green, Dick Van Dyke as D.A. Fletcher, Charles Fleischer as Reporter and Catherine O'Hara as Texie Garcia. The performances are alright, the songs by Sweeney Todd composer Stephen Sondheim aren't bad, and the story has its moments, so while it is a little childish and odd, it does have a few things to like. It won the Oscar for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Makeup, Best Song for Sondheim's Sooner or Later (I Always Get My Man) (also nominated the Golden Globe), it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Sound, it won the BAFTA for Best Make Up Artist and Best Production Design, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design, Best Editing, Best Sound and Best Special Visual Effects, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical and Best Original Song for Sondheim's What Can You Lose?. Good! "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The earliest memory of Dick Tracy I have is playing a video game of Dick Tracy on the old Nintendo NES, when it was as old as the Nintendo 64 is today, I guess is what I'm trying to say. I didn't really enjoy it. Hell, I hardly knew what Dick Tracy was. Just some random fictional detective that turned into a video game? Well, today, my mother showed me the DVD and I watched it on another opeating system. It was the first DVD I tried on it, hoping for it to work. Well, a test DVD turned out to be a great DVD movie. The bright, colorful scenery and the New-York classic style it gave to us was amazing, and I really loved it.Dick Tracy is what I would like to call, a modern Sherlock-Holmes. He has the mob running on their knees, he can solve a case in minutes, and he's smart, and with the help of the Kid or Dick Tracy Jr., he was able to continue solving the case of Big Boy, and beat it.This is a great movie that I hope you'll enjoy. "},{"Title":"Now that's a movie!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes please more movies of the like. Now this I call a movie. A movie that comes with something new though an old version existed in 1945 but wasn't a success like this one. I have noticed that one of the viewers criticized the colors though this thing made so much contribution to the movie. The colors were purposfully intended to make you feel that this is not the real world we are watching but we are watching Dick Tracy's world. So much like Who Framed Roger Rabbit spirit but without the animation that steals you right away from reality. The makeup was genius for many people didn't know Al Pacino or Dustin Hofman without reading their names at the end. Acting is perfect with all the great names in. And Madona! the girl was amazing in the movie and she added an exotic flavor to the movie.Dick Tracy is a classic in its way. There is and there will be no other movie with a similar taste. It will always stay so distinct. "},{"Title":"Fantastic entertainment","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The low rating here really astounds me -- 5.9/10, really, people? It is a well-paced, well-acted film with a fantastic visual sense, epically recreating the kind of comic-book noir metropolis that has simmered and fermented for so long in American mythology, from the old Dashiell Hammett/Raymond Chandler classics of The Maltese Falcon and The Big Sleep (not to mention the Dick Tracy comics themselves) to modern sci-fi and neo-noirs like Blade Runner and The Dark Knight. Here it comes to a full-flowering in all its pulpy glory -- like Roger Ebert said, It's the distillation of the idea of City - of the vast, brooding, mysterious metropolis spreading in all directions forever, concealing millions of lives and secrets. It doesn't look real...it looks magnificent.There has always been a close connection between the private eyes of hard-boiled detective fiction and the classic superheroes. The settings -- squalid, over-packed and decaying metropolises in need of redemption, the lone hero trying to do right in a corrupt world (often fighting himself), the twisted and often ideological evil of the criminals. And so much more. Dick Tracy gets that connection, making its villains so bizarre and vitriolic that they give the Joker a run for his money, and so resolutely squaring Tracy's own jaw that he could pose quite favourably beside Superman and Batman.For the most part, the casting and acting is on the money. Beatty cuts a perfect detective profile, and may be one of few men who can pull off a bright yellow trench coat. Pacino's overacting is virtually mandated by the extremity of this comic genre, and while his makeup is grotesque, it does fit the standards of the movie and his character. This story is a parable, a bit of American mythology in which those representing Good must be boldly and attractively so, and those that represent Evil must be decidedly ugly. There is nothing wrong with this -- shades of moral gray would be inappropriate for this tale. It is about archetypes, the importance of high moral ideals (or if philosophers prefer to distinguish, ethical ideals), and that it is a good thing to remind ourselves and be inspired to continue to fight for what is Good in spite of how hard it is.The one element that did not mesh well for me was the character of Breathless Mahoney, played by Madonna. She was trying too hard to evoke Marilyn Monroe and apparently forgot to create a character of her own. Her lines, both the actual dialogue and her delivery, are painfully forced, trying to twist every comment into dirty innuendo, and it simply doesn't work. Jessica Rabbit from Who Framed Roger Rabbit would've worked better in this role, and she's a cartoon!Nonetheless, this is great entertainment. Perhaps not too deep, but not without a message in the solidity of its traditional archetypes -- a Good versus Evil story of the old type which is actually rather lacking nowadays. Where the Good Guys are actually really good, and not swearing/promiscuous/brutal anti-heroes, and the Bad Guys have actually chosen evil ways and are not just poor misunderstood boys who need a big hug. We are meant to strive for being actually, truly Good, and are meant to look inward, monitoring our own thoughts and actions to keep us from the ugliness so transparent in the movie's personifications of Vice. "},{"Title":"No Special Features","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember being intrigued by this movie when it first came out (when I was young and had not seen it yet). So I bought the DVD, saw it a few times and my verdict is in. I'm impressed with the effort put into it, such as the cartoon-like cinematography, art direction, legendary music by Sondheim, and all those cool cameos in the film (check the cast listing). Al Pacino did a good job as Big Boy Caprice and his Oscar nomination for supporting actor is well deserved. Although Beatty's performance as Dick Tracy is a bit dry, I believe the part called for it, the same goes for most of the characters. There is not much character development here with only one exception. This exception being the Kid (Charlie Korsmo), who starts out as a homeless-orphan-street-thief, but ends up being taken under Tracy's wing and becoming Tracy's sidekick. Korsmo acting seemed authentic, and some of the most emotional scenes in the movie are between him and Tracy. Such as when the Kid receives an honorary badge for saving Tracy's life, and when he chooses Dick Tracy Jr. for a name. Madonna looks really beautiful (perhaps the best she has ever looked on film) and does a decent job as Breathless, but her best parts are when she sings or her one-liners (but again I think the part called for it). Also I was pleasantly surprised that Madonna actually has two roles in the film (you would have to see to find out). Overall, though I was intrigued by the movie as a youngster, I must say that despite the considerable effort put into the film, I feel that it lacks charm and intrigue. But again for the third time think the comic strip origins of the movie called for it, and because of this it may leave viewers without any afterthoughts, and what adds to this is the fact that there is no special features at all on the DVD! "},{"Title":"An Underrated Classic","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The triumph of Warren Beatty's career and one of the finest comic book movies ever made. Dick Tracy combines brilliant art direction, exquisite makeup and dazzling original songs by the great Stephen Sondheim to painstakingly recreate the look, ambiance and values of a 1940s comic strip. Viewers accustomed to the dark, gritty superhero epics of today might find the effect synthetic and campy, but anyone with a sense of nostalgia or an appreciation for America's cultural heritage will have a blast. The actors certainly seem to be inspired by the creativity and uniqueness of the material, with Beatty bringing an unexpected level of emotional depth to the title character, Pacino turning in the flashiest and funniest performance of his career as the villainous Big Boy Caprice and Glenn Headly effortlessly breaking your heart and the devoted but put-upon Tess Trueheart. And if that's not enough, you get hilarious cameos from Paul Sorvino, Dustin Hoffman, Kathy Bates, Dick Van Dyke and James Caan (what a pleasure to see him and Pacino sitting on opposite sides of a very long table fighting for control of the mob!). Heck, even the usually comatose Madonna does some decent work here. A highly underrated pleasure. "},{"Title":"Sorely Underrated Comic Book Adaptation","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With all the emphasis on the big bang CGI spectaculars of today's comic book movies, it's easy to forget what a great movie Dick Tracy is when listing the great comic book movies. While I love the eye-popping special effects as much as the next person, it's also important to have a great story...something Dick Tracy has in spades.For the uninitiated, Dick Tracy is a comic book that pre-dates even Batman and Superman, having made his debut in 1931. The cops and robbers storyline is based off of creator Chester Gould's experiences living in Chicago during the Roaring 20's. In fact, the heroic gang buster Tracy is partially based on the legendary Eliot Ness and Tracy's chief adversary, Al Big Boy Caprice, was based on the infamous Al Capone. What set the comic apart (and Warren Beatty faithfully recreates)was it's pulp crime thriller story lines with some basis in reality. Unlike Batman, Superman, and Spider-Man, Tracy rarely faced the same foe twice. As in reality, most of Tracy's villains either A. Were arrested and went to prison for life. B. Were killed in a gunfight with Tracy. OR C. Died some twisted and/or ironic death befitting their character. It's gripping tales, strange villains, and exciting pace has made it a mainstay of the Sunday morning comics.In the film, Warren Beatty stars, produces, and directs this exciting adaption of the comic. In the title role, Beatty's terrific. Channeling his inner-Humphrey Bogart, Beatty gives a dead-on portrayal of the tough and morally indestructible hero, tempering the character with the right balance of human faults to make you root for him.Since there's no clear-cut epic story in the Tracy mythos, the story plays like a recreation of 1930's gangland wars with a heightened sense of reality. Al Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) is a brutal and ambitious crime boss looking to form an organized crime syndicate with other villains from the legendary Rogues' Gallery including the trigger-happy Flattop (type-cast villain, William Forsythe), the scratch-happy Itchy (Ed O'Ross from Six Feet Under), the appropriately named Mumbles (Beatty's Ishtar co-star Dustin Hoffman), the intimidating Influence (veteran character actor Henry Silva), and the sour Pruneface (veteran R.G. Armstrong), along with others. But there's only one thing standing in his way in Big Boy's quest to control the city Dick Tracy.But Tracy has problems of his own. Despite his toughness, Tracy can't even muster the courage to propose to his sweetheart Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly). He has to look after a street urchin called The Kid (Charlie Korimso). And fend off the sexual advances of Big Boy's night club siren, Breathless Mahoney (Madonna, spoofing her Material Girl persona). Add to that a mysterious, not to mention FACELESS, foe who's helping Tracy fight the bad guys one minute and setting him up the next moment.The movie, despite the depth of plot, moves fairly quickly with an energy that never wanes one bit. From a visual standpoint, the vivid color schemes are used to give the film it's comic book feel, which a touch of film noir undertones. Danny Elfman's score (as good as anything John Williams has done) really drives the piece. And the All-star cast which also includes Paul Sorvino, James Caan, Charles Durning, Dick Van Dyke, and Bonnie & Clyde alums Michael J. Pollard and Estelle Parsons, elevate the film's integrity, making it a must see for any true comic book fan wondering what comics were like BEFORE the tidal wave of super heroes flooded the scene. "},{"Title":"A surrealistic comic book masterpiece.","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is, in many ways, an underrated masterpiece generally not recognized as being as good as it is by the public.Dick Tracy has a charm that none of the other superhero, or comic book movies have. It looks beautiful. The idea of putting partial set-pieces in with an animated background was genius. It obviously doesn't look real, but it gives this movie a wonderfully surrealistic look. This movie also probably has more prosthetic body parts than any other movie. The characters, excluding a few main ones, are all as cartoonish and ugly as can be. Whether it be a fake over-sized nose, a huge pair of lips, or an exaggeratedly huge head, they all look really good, and make this look like the material it was based on. The amazing style that Dick Tracy has still not been outdone after all these years.Style over substance is often how this movie is criticized, and while that is true, this still has a good plot with subtle character development. Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) is taking over the city, and it's up to Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) to take him down. Meanwhile Tracy finds an orphan, has trouble with his girlfriend, and is framed for murder. The plot is kind of Goodfellas meets Batman. To help along a pretty good, occasionally too reliant on montages plot, there is an amazing cast. Dustin Hoffman, Mandy Patinkan, James Caan, Kathy Bates, Dick Van Dyke, Kathy Bates, Paul Sorvino, Catherine O'Hara and many other recognizable faces show up (though some are hard to recognize behind all the makeup and prosthetics). In addition to all this, the songs by Steven Sondheim are great, and the musical score by Danny Elfman gives a superhero tint to film noir music.Overall, though it is somewhat loosely plotted, Dick Tracy looks and sounds just as great as the original comics. It's a visual masterpiece.My rating *** out of ****. PG for violence. 102 mins. "},{"Title":"Still lookin' good after all these years","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is a wonderfully realized trip into a comic strip that stars Warren Beatty as the dedicated cop in the yellow coat, but Beatty doesn't just star as the lead, he's also the film's producer and director. Dick Tracy is filled with big names like Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, Madonna, Paul Sorvino and even James Cann, Kathy Bates and Dick Van Dyke in a couple of small roles. The film was produced by Art Linson and Barrie Osbourne, who also produced such films as Heat, Fight Club, The Matrix and The Lord of the Rings and features a smashing score from Danny Elfman who previously scored Tim Burton's Batman and later scored Sam Raimi's very comic bookish Darkman. Elfman is pretty much the go-to-guy for comic book movie scores, having also done two Batman films, two Spider-Man films and The Hulk.Beatty does a good job as Tracy, but the real marvel of acting has got to be Al Pacino, covered in make-up and supporting a back hump as Big Boy Caprice. He tears into the role and really chews it up, going wildly over-the-top; constantly yelling and shouting at everybody. The tone of the film seems like a slightly revamped old school style film-noir, using traditional yet exciting scene transitions, dramatic lighting and set designs. Which reminds me, if Stanley Kubrick had ever decided to do a comic book film I think this is what it might have looked like. Visually it's a great film. It's only sixteen years old, gosh has it really been that long? Boy I'm starting to feel kind of old. The look of the city is done in what I think must have been extensive matte paintings, or possible models, but I don't think the film used that many computer effects, because in the early nineties or possibly the late eighties (when this film was probably made) CGI wasn't quite that widely used, and was only made much more popular after Terminator 2.The film is about Dick Tracy's battle to keep the streets safe from gangster thugs and Big Boy who has made a move to become the city's biggest crimelord, while at the same time a night club singer known as Breathless Mahoney (only in the movies or comics are people called such crazy names) played by Madonna, tries to seduce Tracy, but all he wants from her is to testify in court against Big Boy, who has recently taken over the club she sings at. Then things get really complicated when Tracy's girlfriend, Tess Trueheart (again, only in the movies) is kidnapped and is framed for murdering the city's District Attorney, landing the cop in the slammer.Dick Tracy is a well acted, visually glamorous and stupendous movie-going experience that's a fun throw back to old film-noirs and jazzy detective yarns filled with blazing tommy guns and screeching tires. I loved it! And I wished they'd make more movies like it, but I guess in some ways you could argue that they are making a bit of a come back, like with last year's Sin City for example, but instead of splashes of color here and there, Dick Tracy is an overwhelming tidal wave of color, and it sweeps you up off your feet and away. "},{"Title":"A few minor glitches, but otherwise superb.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At the time of writing, the rating for this film on the IMDb is 5.7 out of 10 stars. How is this possible, for a film that was nominated for 7 Oscars and won 3 - the second highest scoring film in the 1991 Oscars? There seems to have been some kind of curse placed upon Dick Tracy. Whilst it was financially successful, got several rave reviews and is generally acknowledged as one of the best looking films of all time, its' reputation seems to have decreased through the years. When telling a friend that there was news of a possible sequel, he replied a sequel to Dick Tracy? Didn't everyone hate that film? Where it's got this negative reputation from, I don't know. As far as I can see, Dick Tracy is a perfectly sound film.The acting is in all places fine, and in some places brilliant. The most often highlighted performance in Dick Tracy comes from (not-surprisingly) Al Pacino in his role as crime boss Big Boy Caprice (earning him his 6th Oscar nomination), who is obviously enjoying himself in his first real departure from complete drama. Glenne Headly makes a great addition to the cast is her role as the long-suffering girlfriend Tess Trueheart - and is highly admirable, considering this was her first blockbuster role. Whilst both Warren Beatty himself and Madonna in their respective roles might not be worthy of any awards, they certainly do not perform terribly - indeed, Warren Beatty does a good job of bringing a two dimensional cartoon character to life, considering the said character was not really treated to the same broad characterisation in his paper form as Batman, Superman, The X-Men etc. were treated to before films were made about them.The look of Dick Tracy is immense. Lighting, production-design, cinematography, costume design, make-up; all departments were near perfect. It's becoming a bit of a cliché to say that the look of Sin City is quite close to Dick Tracy, yet it is quite true; Sin City being heralded as an icon in film imagery. In particular, cinematographer Vitorio Storaro should feel aggrieved that he did not receive more recognition for his work.The music of Dick Tracy is well documented. Indeed, much effort seems to have been put into making sure the music was a success - the hiring of veteran composer Stephen Sondheim to compose the musical numbers, and an undoubtedly good singer to perform them in the form of Madonna. Yet another underrated aspect of the film is Danny Elfman's score - its Gershwinian influences immersing the audience in the 1930s. In particular, the recurring four note theme used to signify the presence of the film's amoral gangster-cum-vigilante The Blank is particularly chilling, mysterious and (to a 7 year old child, the age I first was when I saw Dick Tracy) terrifying.Perhaps the one area in which the film lacks is the writing. While I feel that the plot is suitably fun and complex, the execution of writing this plot by script-writers Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr. is a little laboured at times. The films sub-plot, leading to the film's surprise twist at the end has major problems; the two writers seem not to sure about whether they are supposed to be making said twist a surprise or blindingly obvious for the vast majority of the film.Having said that, I have seen this film countless times and have enjoyed the experience on each occasion. How Dick Tracy has secured its' dubious reputation as a film is a mystery to me. I would recommend at least giving it one try.And for God's sake, let's have more than a token DVD release, please! "}{"Title":"Totally unfaithful to Gould's creation","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  major spoilersIt was a good idea but this totally misses the mark.  The biggest problem is too many of Gould's famous villains are running around and as a result no one other than Big Boy is on the screen for too long.  Worse yet the writers forgot that it was the character as much as the appearance of Gould's villains that made them interesting and as a result the other villains are little more than cardboard props.For example the Brow and Pruneface who in the comics were suave sophisticated Master Nazi spies are reduced to a two bit gangsters with all the charm of a brick.  Flattop (a for hire hitman in the strip) is little more than a two bit hood here as is 88 keys who was a master pianist in the comics.  Influence who could hypnotize people into doing his will has nothing to do thanks to the horrid script and the mangling of Gould's villains doesn't stop there.  The Blank comes out of left field with nobody knowing who he is (in the comic only the cops didn't know - the criminals knew all to well who the Blank was) and who the Blank turns out to be this time (no its not Frank A. Redrum) around makes no sense.It was a good idea if they had stuck to one villain but to have about every famous villain Gould  created between 1938-1949 means you have characters virtually tripping over each other. The brilliant solution to that problem is to have about half the bad guys wiped out midway through the picture which requires them to have the collective IQ of brick.A true Dick Tray fan will be disappointed by this very flawed film to the point I would recommend the Dick Tray films made in the 1940's - at least they are closer to the spirit of Gould and this disfuctional mess. "},{"Title":"uplifted by great cast and crew","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is arguably the city's best detective, a hardened officer who always gets his man, though he seems to have trouble making a resounding commitment to his longtime girlfriend. With the help of a tough young homeless kid, Tracy tries to take down Big Boy Caprice, a criminal kingpin determined to bring the city to its knees after he unites his gang of fellow lowlifes. Lively comic book adaptation has a few lulls every now and again, but it's filled with nifty set design, diverse characters, broad performances, and great music that give it an imaginative feel throughout. Hoffman has an amusing supporting role, but Pacino definitely steals the show. *** "},{"Title":"too sugary","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  while watching this movie you have to understand that Batman had come out the year before and was a huge smash. The problem is though, is that the villain's aren't believeable (what's with that makeup?) and also the backgrounds are all cartoon. It's a nice little fun ride but it just doesn't have the full effect of the dark knight.  "},{"Title":"Like Watching A Comic Book","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy tries to stop a gang of hoodlums run by Big Boy Caprice.  A movie that is fun for adults and kids.  Dick Tracy is a very simple story with a massive amount of well know actors like Warren Beatty, Dick Van Dyke, Al Pacino, and Dustin Hoffman (although most are so unrecognizable due to the amazing make-up jobs in this movie).  This movie is a cool crime story that has such an artistic visual sense that it actually look like you are watching a comic book story.  Basically everything in the movie is a bright red, green, or yellow.  It is something that is very different and it actually works very well.  **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Loved the comic strip, loved the movie","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a reader of Dick Tracy growing up in the 60's and early 70's I couldn't wait to get to the theater and see this movie when it came out, and I wasn't disappointed. The colors, the makeup, and the unforgettable villains make this one of my all-time favorites. Now if they would have included Mr. Bribery and Ugly Christine in with the other villains this movie would stand alone as my all-time favorite. "},{"Title":"Should be seen by all aspiring cinematographers","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can admit this movie isn't a jewel in movie making. But there's so much beautiful cinematography and campy fun that it really is a treat. The amount of characters in this film is a plus. I just wish they could have explored more of them a bit. I thought Mr. Beatty did a fine job as the square-jawed detective. He was a bit too serious maybe, but overall he pulls it off. Madonna was born for this role. I don't think anyone could have played Breathless as convincingly as she did. Al Pacino--his rendition of Big Boy is utterly amazing. He's the villain, yet I found myself rooting for Big Boy just as much, maybe even more so, than Dick Tracy. The cinematography in this movie is simply astonishing. The way colors were used and so effectively used is really a marvel to behold. The music was perfect as well. Kudos to Mr Elfman for making the movie feel like a gangster film with a comic touch. I saw this movie in the theater when I was only 12. I can remember thinking how cool the makeup was and could only imagine how fun it must have been to be a part of making this movie. I'm very surprised this movie only gets a middle-of-the-road 5. I recommend this movie for 6 good reasons.  1-If you like Warren Beatty 2-If you enjoy a good ol' fashioned gangster movie 3-If you can appreciate good, campy fun 4-Have any appreciation for cinematography and excellent use of cameras and colors 5-Are a fan of Danny Elfman (This is one of his best scores!) 6-Are a huuuge fan of Al Pacino  Only a few things stunk about this movie The actor who played the Kid was a little annoying. And I didn't really care for Tess at all one bit.  Overall, I give this movie a very high 7. Don't expect a groundbreaking experience. But, if given a chance, I think most people will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Did Sondheim steal Sooner or Later?","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Listening to the now out of print Barbara Cook sings Disney CD of the late eighties, I was astounded to hear SOONER OR LATER.  According to the liner notes, it was copyrighted in 1943 by songwriters Charles Wolcott and Ray Gilbert and used in the 1946 Disney film, SONG OF THE SOUTH.  Either Ms. Cook and the album makers are delirious or Mr. Sondheim stole the song, lock stock and barrel for this Oscar win in DICK TRACY.  How though could such a thing happen?   It's the same song, musically and title wise - some of the lyrics may have been changed.   I'd like to hear from anyone re this. "},{"Title":"Beatty is great as usual","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beatty is a fantastic actor and has practised skill with art direction, characterization, and theme identification.  Dick Tracy is a beautifully made film, with many fine performances (some rather small) by familiar actors.  The characters of this film bring about a strong nostalgia for a time of purer ideals... even for those of us who have never known such a time.  You just can't beat Dick Tracy for upstanding street hero. "},{"Title":"He always gets his man!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A high tech funfest that pays tribute to old fashioned gangster films, comic books and Chester Gould's immortal creation without going overboard like the last two Batman films. A little something for everyone can be found here for students of film technique, fans of old films and musicals and even the kids will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A work of art.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I used to read the more modern Dick Tracy strip as a kid in the 60's.  It was the only serious Sci-Fi series available at the time.  For the transition to the big screen, the rough edges were smoothed out and the technology simplified.  The drama and excitement of a movie of the period were drawn out quite well.  I believe that the best films require a good visual feel as well as engaging theme music that is synchronized to the plot and to the action. This film fulfills these requirements and provides likable characters - both good and bad characters that you care about.  I marvelled at the elegant use of the comic strip colors and I enjoyed the music.  It was a pleasure to become absorbed in the story while enjoying this work of art.  "}{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was fun to watch. Notice how they use all primary colors! The makeup won a much-deserved Oscar, and Madonna was perfectly cast as a cartoon vamp. The makeup was one of the main hilites, I thought. Pruneface, Big Boy, Mumbles, The Rodent, etc., were great to look at.If you like cartoon movies in a real life setting (and even if you don't), you will enjoy this movie! *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I was upset to find one of my favorite movies rated so low","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of he most underated movies of all time. Warren Beatty did a perfect job, his best work in my opinion. This movie is never talked about, it is never heard of, and worst of all it is not remembered at all. Lets give credit where credit is due. This is the best comic to motion picture film i ever have seen. This is one of my top ten movie picks and to see it rated so low makes me upset. Most people i talk to about this movie really enjoyed it so i hope people vote for it more often and give it more of a flame than a spark! "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy versus Big Boy Caprice!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first thing that grabs you with this film is the amazing visuals. Warren Beatty has created a huge comic strip world, with bright colours and cartoon-like characters.  Combined with the brilliant lighting, the visuals really stand out.Another good thing is Al Pacino.  Its good to see his over-acting style put to use in this gangster film.  Warren Beatty is also good, but I'm not sure about Madonna.  I think the only reason she is in it is because she can sing, but her acting isn't really oscar material.This film is definitely worth seeing.  8/10. "},{"Title":"D is for DISSAPOINTING","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had high expectations for Dick Tracy but was let down in a big way.  The plot was thin and the acting below average.  The casting team bombed. Warren Beatty as Dick Tracy?  And what about Charlie Korsmo as the Kid? Both awful.  Al Pacino was the only actor that was able to flesh out his character.  Mandy Patinkin and Dustin Hoffman were pretty good also but hardly seen in the film for it to matter. As for Ms Madonna - try again, girl. One good thing - cinematography.  Excellent use of colors. "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy is an excellent film!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty directs and stars in what is probably the best comic-strip movie ever. I've watched this film many times and never got tired of it. The acting and set design bring this film over the top. Madonna shines as Breathless Mahoney, giving the character a very unique and charming personality. Glenne Headley gives one of the best performances in the film as Tess Trueheart, helplessly devoted to Dick Tracy but still her own independent person. Al Pacino is the perfect choice for Big Boy Caprice and deserved his Oscar nomination. There's many cameo appearances including Dustin Hoffman, Kathy Bates and Paul Sorvino. Entwined in all the action is Danny Elfman's amazing score. If you want to be entertained, look no further than Dick Tracy, a remarkably memorable film that has many qualities to brag about. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is so campy that it's great fun, especially for those of us who are old enough to have been great fans of the comic strip years ago.  The use of lighting, basic colors and obviously hokey backdrops all enhanced the comic book feeling of the movie. As in any good old-fashioned morality tale, there was never any question who were the good guys and the bad guys. And the bad guys lose, and the good guys win. "},{"Title":"A good movie. Nothing more.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a good movie. It's worth watching -but only once-, to see the different type of movie and cinematography. The whole world which Dick Tracy lives in is uniquely like a comic strip. Very well done. But If I were him I would have gone in with the criminals. It could have been better but this is it, so if you haven't seen it watch it. "},{"Title":"Colorful","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is filled with vivid images and colorful performances.  The color scheme is nothing to be found in nature but is absolutely perfect for the film.  The entire film is larger than life and the color fits it. If you can believe that such characters as Flat-Top and Mumbles exist, Gleanne Headley's character just happened to be named Tess Trueheart, and Madonna can act, than you can believe that Warren Beatty is young enough to play Dick Tracy.  That suspension of belief is necessary. It is true that Al Pacino steals the show as Big Boy even though he only did it as a favor.  However, if you aren't sharp you might miss great performances by Dustin Hoffman, Mandy Patinkin, and Dick Van Dyke.  Charlie Korsmo proves once again that he is one of our greatest child actors as the spunky Kid. The movie could hold your interest plot-wise as much as you care if Dick Tracy goes with Breathless or stays with Tess but comic book tradition already answers that question.  Instead, just sit back and enjoy the show. Also, I'm only 18 but I knew who Dick Tracy was before I saw the movie.  I remember the old cartoon being shown as well as the comic strip.  Am I the only one? "},{"Title":"The Colorful Comic Comes To Life!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While the criminals are lumped together, being untrue to the comic, the movie still thrives in many ways.  The superb makeup, special effects, and Al Pacino's performance are all reasons to see this movie.  No one is really sure why it didn't do as well as expected, however it was pretty hyped at the time of it's release riding on the success of Batman.  Fast flowing. "},{"Title":"Beatty directs and acts in this bright, colorful, worthy adaptation of the comic strip","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A great movie all around. Pacino entertains as Big Boy, Beatty as Tracy and last but not least, the wonderful Madonna as sexy Breathless Mahoney. The story is rich in detail-there are many subplots (but the visual effects and great cast make you not care), and the sets are so colorful and bright! And the soundtrack is wonderful as well. Sit back, and take it all in..you won't regret it. "}{"Title":"One of the best films, ever!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dick Tracy is THE best comic book movie ever made. For that matter, one of the best made, period. There is so much to say about this film, that it is hard to point out the best things about itThe art direction, the attention to detail, the music, the acting, the makeup, the story. I could go on and on.This is how films used to be made and it is sad that only a few films since have come close to the tongue-in-cheek style of this film (The Mummy most recently.)Al Pacino steals the film! To me, this is HIS film. And I was also impressed by Madonna and Glenne Headly.It is hard to say why most people didn't like this film. Was it not violent enough? Did they want nudity? Did they want something vulgar? Well, if so, they wont get it with this film!I give this film an A+. "},{"Title":"I miss that sharp, blocked nose...","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, I had high hopes for Dick Tracy following the incredible success of the previous year's Batman, but I was sorely disappointed.  Don't get me wrong, the film is a work of art, in its cinematography, art direction, and Danny Elfman's terrific score.  However, it falls flat in a variety ways, starting with the underdeveloped script and storyline, poor acting -- on pretty much, everyone's part, including the film's star and director, Warren Beatty, and finally, the fact that no person under the age of 30 in 1990 knew who the hell Dick Tracy was.  This syndrome also affected two other films, 1994's The Shadow and 1996's The Phantom.Beatty was much too old for the part of the ageless Tracy, and besides, his performance was really flat and lacking vitality, much like Val Kilmer's wooden Bruce Wayne in Batman Forever.  Al Pacino as the garish Big Boy Caprice was tritefully overdone, like Nicholson's Joker, and stole the show pretty much throughout the whole film.  Madonna's Breathless Mahoney was also fairly unnecessary, despite the character's permanent position in the comic strip's continuity.The true highlights of the movie are the incredible make-up effects for each and everyone of the film's protagonist's villains.  William Forsythe's uncanny portrayal of the psychotic hitman, Flattop, was dead-on, and he was completely unrecognizable.  Ed O'Ross's Itchy was also very well done. Another high point is Dustin Hoffman's Mumbles, who really puts forth the only worthwhile, albeit short, performance in the film.I don't really recommend this movie for Tracy fans, or for gangster-type film fans, but for great scenery, make-up, and the wild colors of Chester Gould's universe, I would encourage others to see it. "},{"Title":"Beatty does Burton in lightweight comic book fashion...","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty directed the 2nd entry into the comic book sweep of Hollywood around the late 80's and early 90's, starting with Tim Burton's BATMAN.  He had one singular vision to make an overblown comic book film with his best buddies from the industry.  The movie is average at best, but the incredible art direction that went into the creation of Chester Gould's animated city elevates it a step higher.  The sharp yellows, reds, and greens are as much a character in the picture as the actors.  All analysis aside, this is purely escapist entertainment.  And Beatty and co. do it with tongue planted firmly in-cheek.Is it worth seeing? Yes, mostly because of the awe-inspiring look of the city and its vibrant colors.  Turn down the volume on the set, and you won't miss a thing (except Danny Elfman's great music).  The script has the depth of a high-school term paper The enemy of the enemy is the enemy?! says Tracy.  Wow.  Is it worth seeing more than once?  Maybe twice, because you'll see things in this metropolis that will make you take a deep breath.It seems as though Beatty assembled the huge cast and told them to just go off, but many of the cameos go unnoticed.  The best is by Dustin Hoffman who plays 'Mumbles'.  I laughed out loud at least twice during his scenes. Madonna looks good and acts bad (surprise) and Pacino annoys and overacts (surprise) and was rewarded an Oscar nomination for the role of Big Boy Caprice, a sort of deformed Michael Corleone.  That's entertainment.  If you like old-fashioned flicks and grew up on comics, then you'll be entertained.  "},{"Title":"Pacino Entertains...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pacino's Big Boy is the big surprise of the film. You wouldn't think that he'd would be able to play comic book style characters, but he pulls it off perfectly. Not as well crafted as Batman, but it is entertaining for fans of Madonna and for fans of good old fashioned super heroes.   "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy is a visual masterpiece!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, I've been kidded for a long time about my love fo this movie.  I remember seeing it opening day when I was only nine.  Some people don't like it, but their reasons for this are always childish and never thought-out.This movie is so visually stunning it isn't funny.  The 30's environment it creates is unlike anything ever seen before in a movie of this genre.  Oh, and I'd like to point out that the entire film is shot in only the eight basic comic book colors.The characters are classics.  Each gangster is named for his quirk.  These colorful thugs provide endless entertainment.Dick Tracy is a masterpiece in writing, casting, visual effects and raw unique character.  "},{"Title":"Ravishing production design from Richard Sylbert, gorgeous cinematography from Vittorio Storaro, and a memorable musical score from Stephen Sondheim.","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy is a spectacular film whose technical achievements - notably the sharp editing - surely provided a gauge by which subsequent comic-strip films were judged. It's an old-fashioned good-versus-evil adventure as ace detective Dick Tracy (Warren Beatty) tangles with a mobster criminal (Al Pacino).Brilliantly realized re-creation of comic-strip cartoon and stellar cast help to compensate for predictable story lines. It's not much of a coherent film, but definitely a cinematic event. At the 63rd Academy Awards, production designer Richard Sylbert and set decorator Rick Simpson won Best Art Direction, while John Caglione, Jr. and Doug Drexler won Best Makeup. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When most people mention Dick Tracy they usually talk about style over substance. And yeah, they're right, the film is lightweight, and yes the production design and cinematography does take precedence over story and characterisation, but when the surface is as good as it is in this, I'm able to forgive the film's numerous shortcomings.What I enjoy most about Dick Tracy, rather obviously, is its visual sense. It really does capture the feeling of a comic, throwing dreary reality out of the window. And although the fabulous use of colour usually gets the most attention, I enjoy the photography more &#150; there are some absolutely wonderful deep focus shots in the film that frame the action perfectly like a live comic book. And I also love the cityscapes and the matte shots &#150; they never look remotely real, but that's not the point, they're just meant to look gorgeous&#133;which they do.Of course, with so much attention focused on the look of the film, it would be easy for the characters to get lost in the mix. And while the film never really provides us with any real meat to sink our teeth into, it does provide us with an enjoyably understated hero and a likable heroine. And the film, curiously enough, in its relationship between Tracy (Warren Beatty) and Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly), actually has quite a bit of heart. Their scenes, far from being an annoying distraction, prove to be some of the best.Far less enjoyable are the scenes between Tracy and Breathless Mahoney (Madonna). They're meant to be sexy, but Madonna can't act, so they become rather tiresome. And it's notable that of the two female characters, the supposed Plain Jane Tess Trueheart actually comes across as sexier &#150; Madonna comes across as whining Barbie doll with a bad haircut while Headly has a bit of zip to her.I also dislike some of the songs that are used in the film. A couple are integrated in a way that doesn't annoy, but there's a particularly loathsome duet between Madonna and her piano player that grates. However, there is one rather fabulous musical scene that sees Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) leading the rehearsals in the nightclub he's taken over. He sings, he dances and he abuses the singers, and just when you think he's satisfied, he tells everyone to start over from the beginning. And then when the piano player starts moaning, he slams the lid down on his fingers. It's obvious Pacino is having a lot of fun with the role. (In the same scene he also gets to slap Madonna, which must be something that a lot of people secretly wish they could do.)And Pacino is great value throughout the whole of the film. He realises that that the film isn't one that requires understatement, so we get treated to the shouty Al Pacino, the one that's turned up to 11. And although that shouty Al Pacino, rather unfortunately, has cannibalised the more understated one in recent years, here it's a complete joy.I think my favourite Pacino moment in the film has to be after he kidnaps Tess Trueheart. He talks quite calmly and then he suddenly starts shouting. I don't know why, but it really makes me laugh. And he does this a couple of times. It's not so much that I have to hurt someone, it's just&#133;don't make me do it! And then there's the bit where he says he's having a thought and the bit where he says he loves Tess (while he's preparing to kill her). Pacino is just wonderfully dumb in the role. (Another little Pacino bit that I love is the almost imperceptible jig he makes as he's trying to escape by jumping over a bridge. And I also crack up at the schizophrenic anger that bubbles to the surface when he realises he can't escape. You'll pay for this! You're gonna pay for this!) Another fun performance is from Dustin Hoffman. All he does is mumble, but like Pacino he overacts like crazy, therefore making a tiny role memorable.In light of this, and all the other grotesques that fill the film, it would be easy for Beatty to go unnoticed, but he's actually rather good in the thankless role of straightforward hero. He never makes a simple character seem bland. Part of this is because of his excellent chemistry with Glenne Headly, but part of it is because of the scenes with Madonna; sure she can't act, but knowing what a horny bastard Beatty is in real life, you half expect him to give Tess the elbow. And Beatty also injects humour into his role and, once or twice, manages to achieve some emotion &#150; the scenes with Tess are always bittersweet, but there are also a couple of nice exchanges with the Kid.And although the film isn't exactly action packed, and although the final sequence is a typical damsel in distress type deal, Beatty's film does at least feature some heavy Tommy gun action, which is always welcome (I love the way no one has to reload their guns). And speaking of action, it is at times incredibly violent. Indeed, the final shoot-out, while bloodless, is a massacre. But this isn't a criticism. The violence is exactly as cartoony as it should be.And I really think that for all its faults, Dick Tracy is one of the best comic book films out there. Sure it's shallow, but that's the point &#150; as full of colour as the film is, the morality is black and white; complexity has been eschewed in favour of fun. And I really think the film is one hell of a good time. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed its comics, enjoyed the movie as well!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can remember reading the Sunday Comics about Dick Tracy, I even saw the cartoons as well. And all the oldies, there's the Big Screen version of the movie. All of the action, all of the characters Big Boy Caprice(Al Pacino), Flattop(William Forsyth), Itchy, Pruneface, Shoulders, The Brow, The Rodent, and all the other goons Dick Tracy had to fight were here. I know most of the goons battled Dick Tracy, but just like the others, they battled each other as well. As the old saying, no honor among criminals. Warren Beatty played Dick Tracy, HANDS DOWN! The yellow hat and overcoat, the radio watch, and his hard-nosed attitude against crime is always there. The Kid(Charlie Korsmo) is very gluttonous whenever he eats, no family, no home, the streets were his ways of means. If he hadn't met Dick Tracy, he would be in bigger trouble. Madonna was fabulous at playing Breathless Mahoney, she trusted Tracy more than Caprice. Even The Blank was more of a snitch than a ally of Big Boy. The movie was excellent, and stunts were awesome. And Beatty was stoic after the explosion scene. Also to know I can draw DICK TRACY as well, and it's PERFECT! 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"Awesome Film","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved this movie because I am a big fan of Dick Tracy, Waren Beatty and all of the actors did a terrific job of acting out their characters! The only thing that I wasn't too happy about, just like the Batman movies is that most of the big villains were killed in the first movie, 5 were killed in the first 5 minutes by other villains. But my main question, if you know the answer is What kinds and makes of cars were used in filming this movie. Waren Beatty seems to do a lot of gangster-like films and used similar makes of cars, and was wondering what they were. They are really beautiful and can't tell what they are? Feel free to e-mail me if you have any information? Thank you "},{"Title":"Bloody Brilliant","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movies is the best movie to watch for comic book feel. The sets, costumes and the color are just so vivid it is just like stepping into a comic book. This is the movie I think of when the Mob is mentioned, the suits, the hats and the attitudes.Hoffman gives comic relief as Mumbles and you can't help but feel sorry for Madonna as she tries, and fails, to win Tracy over. This movie contains all the classic mob clichés - burying people in concrete, blowing up peoples cars, tieing up the good guy and attempting to blow up his girlfriends house.This movie is a classic in ever sense of the word, even camera angels cry out comic book. Its so great to be able to go back to an older movie and see that someone knew how a comic should be made into a movie after seeing such mistakes as Spawn and the Hulk. !!!YOU HAVE TO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! "}{"Title":"great entertainment, almost like Indiana Jones","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved Dick Tracy, i was about 6 or 7 when this came out and i was automatically attracted to it. I don't know what it was but you watched it and you actually believe you are in this comic book setting, from the camera angles to the extreme lighting to the colorful costumes to the colorful cars to the quick fades to other scenes, this was probably the first really great comic movie based on such a thing, right behind 'Batman' and 'Superman.' I remember going out with my brother and we would play Dick Tracy with our toys and all the things that came out at that time. Good times. It also had the cliché storyline that was the good cop had to fight the bad guy and hes the only one that can story. I like movies, i love them, this was a movie, it didn't try to put out on of those deeper meanings they put out now days. This was a highly entertaining film that had a deep impact on me when i was a kid. I am almost 21 now and still like watching it, when will it be on a special DVD??? It had some of the most talented bunch of actors in it as well Al Pacino, William Forsythe, Warren Beatty, Dustin Hoffman, Paul Sorvino People look to deep into things, saying it is 2 dimensional, but it was based off of a early comic strip that probably wasn't trying to give any inner meaning or whatever, they just wanted it to be entertaining and it was. "},{"Title":"Trueheart V. Mahoney","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Watched this again the other night and my boyfriend and I were both struck with how Glenne Headly has a subtle, simmering sexuality that seems current even now, while Madonna must have started looking dated the moment the movie was released, because she certainly looks VERY dated now.I'm disappointed as I consider myself a pretty big Madonna fan. I liked her best in her Marilyn Monroe phase, though.The rest of the movie is visually really cool. It's worst critics take in awfully, seriously, IMHO. I like Danny Elfman's score and Al Pacino as Big Boy Caprice is fun to watch. Warren Beatty is sort of blah, but with all the wacky characters around him, blah works in this context.  "},{"Title":"A DYNAMITE FILM FILLED WITH EVERYTHING WONDERFUL","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty is a genius and this film is proof of his dedication to the art and love of  filmmaking.  The cast is outrageous - a director's dream come true.  Add to that, the  talents of the late Richard Sylbert, who did win an Oscar, and the magical Vittorio  Storaro, this film will one day become the classic it really is.Film teachers should use this film in classes on architecture in film; the use ofcostumes,  colors, designs, make-up, how a simple comic strip story line can capture the  imagination of the public.  It is an example of excellence in film making.Film historians should refer to this film, as they once did, BONNIE & CLYDE as a  landmark in film making.  Oh how Storaro makes it all come alive with washes of colors  and movement.  Shadows and light.Hurray for Hollywood - Hurray for Beatty, Madonna, Patinkin, Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman,  Estelle Parsons, MJ Pollard - only Warren Beatty keeps bringing his old friends and  colleagues back to play in the world of film and art.  Thank you!!! "},{"Title":"False Comic Book","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The production design in this movie resembles an Old Gumby cartoon.  It wanted to have a Fritz Lang appearance, but we get Saturday Morning fare.  If it's going to be that cheap, just release it on the boob tube and keep it off our cinema screens.Beatty looks like Tracy, but he doesn't act like Tracy.  Madonna is a disgusting prop.  Pacino yells like he always does.  In short, this is nothing impressive.The over-reliance on makeup to turn actors into props is an extension of Burton's philosophy.Even the sound design is television quality.Overall, exceedingly dense and boring to look at, Dick Tracy is not what it wants to be.  If something can't even be marginally entertaining to the audience then it isn't worth your time.  1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"A must-see comic book film, if only for Al Pacino's performance...","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...Dick Tracy ranks up there with Batman Returns and X-Men for great comic book fun.  Don't be fooled by the 5.7 rating, Warren Beatty's comic action is great fun.  Beatty plays detective Tracy, a serious cop on the trail of the evil crimeboss Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino).  Thrown in the mix are Kid (Charlie Korsmo), Tess Trueheart (Glenn Headly) and Breathless Mahoney (Madonna).Sure, after listing Madonna's name you'd think this was immediately crappy, but believe it or not, she doesn't do all that bad.  Despite her character being utterly pointless up until the end, she manages to give a mediocre/good performance (not to mention she's a great singer).Luckily Madonna manages to be the only negative thing about Dick Tracy. Al Pacino's WAY over-the-top, comical performance as Caprice was enough to save the movie, and even get the actor an Oscar nod.  His makeup, voice, acting skills...all very entertaining.So, if there is any movie that demonstrates reasons not to trust an IMDb rating, Dick Tracy is it, 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not deserving the obscurity it has","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This came out with big fanfare in 1990---and disappeared without a trace. That's too bad...it's no masterpiece but it's not a disaster either.The plot is simple--Dick Tracys' (Warren Beatty) vast array of enemies all gang up under Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) to kill Tracy and take over the city. Along for the ride is Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) who loves Tracy. And whose side is the mysterious Blank on?The story is very simple (but then Tracy IS a comic strip) but that doesn't really matter. There are stunning sets and incredible art direction (an Academy Award winner). Everything looks like a comic book mixed with live action and filmed in blazing primary colors (red, blue, green, yellow). There's so much to look at you can forgive the simplistic plot.Sadly there are other problems. Way too many villains--they try and fit in all of Tracys' villains from the comic strip. There are too many and it amounts to overkill. Beatty is pretty bad as Tracy--stonefaced and not projecting any emotion or feeling--not good. Madonna is--of course--terrible as Breathless (but she DOES look good in those dresses and really belts out the songs). There are many great actors buried under tons of grotesque makeup (another Academy Award winner) giving their worst performances. I don't blame them--who can act with tons of makeup on your face?But there are still plenty of good things--a great, bombastic score by Danny Elfman perfectly fitting the settings; Glenne Headly gives a very good performance as Tess Trueheart; Al Pacino goes WAY over the top (and is hysterically funny) as Big Boy; there's the Academy Award winning Best Song (I Always Get My Man) and, again, the stunning settings.This is not a faithful adaptation of the comic strip--the comic strip was very violent and occasionally banned because of it. This is a family friendly version of it. The shootings are all bloodless and quick.It's hard to understand why this bombed and disappeared so quickly. Maybe it will be rediscovered someday.No great shakes but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's funny. It's romantic. It's exciting. What more can you want from a film? Warren Beatty in his best performance as detective Dick Tracy, Al Pacino is great as Big Boy, Charlie Korsmo & Glenn Headley are amazing and Madonna is...well, horrible. But this is still a movie i highly recommend for EVERYONE! "},{"Title":"A Comic Book Style","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw Dick Tracy when I was very young. I didn't know who any of the actors were, and I didn't know the movie would turn out different than the way it was previewed. I sure loved it though.Warren Beatty stars as the crime-fighting 1930's detective Dick Tracy who goes after the biggest mob bosses in the city. This time, Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) has killed a very powerful man and is out to take over the city with his singer girlfriend Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) who has her eye on Tracy. It becomes even worse because a new criminal is invading and the worst part is this criminal has no face. He or she is very unknown. Plus, the famous villians are back from the comic book collection.I thought that this movie was very colorful and creative. It was entertaining and fun to watch especially as a child. Warren Beaty was just like James Bond of the 1930's the way he played Dick Tracy.An ensemble cast of the film includes Charlie Korsmo, Glenn Headly, William Forsythe, Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, Ed O' Ross, Tommy Lee Jones, Mandy Patinkin, Charles Durning. Plus More!Dick Tracy is a movie for all ages and is a fun movie for a family to enjoy. Take my word for it. "},{"Title":"Try and spot the stars!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  That was great fun! I never read those Chester-Gould-comics but it's not necessary to know them. Maybe there were some inside jokes I didn't figure out but what the eye doesn't see the heart cannot grieve over. This is such an ironic, colourful film and the actors are good-humoured all together. The setting is similar to that in the &#132;Batman` movies, but not as dark and grey. Okay, the story is not so original but there is a plot (which is not self-evident) and a more or less surprising ending.With this movie, you could play an interesting game, if you watch it with friends. Don't watch the credits at the beginning and then look who's the fastest to find out who are the famous actors under their make-up!  "},{"Title":"Succeeds as a movie and a comic book","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty knew what he was doing with making this movie and he has some talent behind the camera to assist him with his vision.  This movie would not be what it was without the cinematographer, the set designer, the make-up artist and Steven Sondheim. All the actors are having a blast and turn in great performances.   "}{"Title":"Yes, that's Dustin Hoffman mumbling in the corner","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The story doesn't matter. The plot doesn't matter. How could we identify with these fake characters anyway? What matters here is fidelity to the comic strip and the interesting effects on our eyes as we see what a cartoon looks like come to life, so to speak. The shadow of Dick Tracy thrown large against the warehouse wall, the sharp brim of his hat, his square jaw, the drawn gun proceeding him, as Chester Gould so often drew him-this is what counts. Combining cartoon drawings, such as city streets and building facades and billboards in the background, with flesh and blood characters in the foreground makes for an interesting montage. The little shack, made small by the night sky and the big city towers, as in a Taoist drawing, is also true to a Gould frame. The intense contrasting and clashing colors, especially Tracy's yellow top coat and yellow hat, and Tess Trueheart's red, red dress and red hair-all these intense reds and greens and blues treat our eyes to something different.Problem is, who cares? Or so what? as Popeye used to say. Madonna does her one-millionth Marilyn Monroe imitation. It's okay, although I would prefer the real thing. Al Pacino, with the prodigious proboscis, aptly burlesques his character, but what's the point? Warren Beatty (did he reject a fake jaw to stay pretty?) works hard to be the square-jawed, taciturn Tracy, and that's a handicap because then there is nothing to do except swing fists and spray bullets. Glenne Headly, trying to project some heart felt emotion, comes off as terribly out of place, since how can you weep for the love of a cartoon?The gutter snipe kid befriended by Tracy, played memorably by Charlie Korsmo (Suck eggs, copper!), stands out somehow as the only one who seems real; and maybe that's right because only a kid could find involvement in such a shallow, if decorous enterprise.Sharp-eyed movie aficionados will have fun picking out the star-studded cast among the cartoon faces. "},{"Title":"Colors Colors Colors","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Dick Tracy' gives me more or less everything that I looked for and missed from 'Batman'. It looks great it is colorful and fun.Because the story remains simple, director Warren Beatty chooses to leave things that way. Big Boy Caprice is tired of Tracy bungling his criminal work and decides to rub him out. Meanwhile a stranger is running around town in a mask doing vigilante work.That's about as simple as it gets but that's okay, there is so much to soak from this six color world to take in that you don't mind it's simple-mindedness. The other stars of the show are the make-up jobs done to bring such memorable characters as Mumbles, Lips Manless, Pruneface, Flattop, Steve the Tramp to life. Each and everyone one of them is so grotesque but so fascinating to look at.The star of the show for me was the technical achievements from Vittorio Storaro's stunning cinematography (He uses basic colors to give the movie the comic strip look) to Danny Elfman's fun score to Milena Canonero wild period suits and dresses. The movie is visual feast The best performance in the movie comes from Al Pacino as Big Boy. Covered in pounds of make-up his high energy delivery goes one speed Full speed ahead. I love his delivery of such lines as 'I'm having a thought . . . I lost it'.I smiled a good bit during Dick Tracy. I don't know why so many people turned away from this film. It has a lighthearted touch that a movie like 'Batman' missed. "},{"Title":"The enemy of my enemy is my enemy","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The third of Warren Beatty's four films as director, Dick Tracy is my favorite not only of his films, but also one of my favorite movies of all time.Beatty stars as Dick Tracy, a well-respected officer of the law attempting to get notorious crime boss Big Boy Caprice arrested, but Caprice's connections keep him out of jail. After Caprice kills another gangster and takes control of his club, Tracy attempts to get the club's sultry singer Breathless Mahoney to confess to witnessing Caprice kill the club's former owner in order to get Caprice an arrest that will stick, but Breathless soon begins to take a romantic interest in Tracy, complicating things with his girlfriend Tess Trueheart. As all this goes on Tracy takes in a tough street orphan known simply as the Kid, who at first resents Tracy, but progressively admires him. Beatty is great as Dick Tracy, throughout the film as he faces various situations he always maintains a varying level of a stern look on his face, that of a cop determined to protect his city.Al Pacino's performance as Big Boy Caprice is like Tony Montana on crack, wildly entertaining and delightfully over the top. He suits the film perfectly. Playing various members of Caprice's mob, William Forsythe, Ed O'Ross, Dustin Hoffman, and Mandy Patinkin all do well, along with many other members of the supporting cast.Madonna, somebody often criticized for her acting ability (or rather, her lack of), is actually quite good in this film as Breathless Mahoney. While it is true that her character is a comic book caricature and thus not all that hard to play, the same is true for all the characters, and given that it's all intentional, I don't feel discrediting anybody's performances for that is valid. The determined cop, the nasty gangster, the seductive singer, the pure-of-heart girl, the tough orphan, I love them all.The production design is incredible, stylish and colorful, it's like being sucked right into a comic book. Danny Elfman's score compliments everything quite well, it's a fun and upbeat score that very much fits with the visuals. Lyricist Stephen Sondheim (West Side Story, Sweeney Todd) wrote five songs for this film, two of which are scored over it (Back In Business, Live Alone And Like It), and the other three are performance numbers sung by Breathless Mahoney (Sooner Or Later, What Can You Lose, More). The usage of all the songs is great, especially Sooner Or Later and More, as are the songs themselves.An all-time favorite, I highly recommend this film. A feast for the eyes and ears, it's wildly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Remember this???","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Madonna was GREAT in this film at that is why she was immortalized with this tribute SEE EBAY ITME 220794324442 Breathless Mahoney was a highlight in this film!!! and the memorabilia to go with it is AMAZING and highly collectible!! http//dallas.craigslist.org/ftw/tag/2420712958.html. These were great back then and will be forever a highly desired piece of memorabilia. I think people in general as well as comic collectors will enjoy this! I have had this item for a long time, and I would like to share the joy it brings with the next generation of Dick Tracy fans. Please have a look. I think you too will be impressed!1 "},{"Title":"its good, not perfect, but good","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw the commercial for this movie, (not the trailer) and the narrator said how it got 3 Oscars. So, i said to my self that i have to see this one. And than it started and i see 'comic strip'. Now that made me interested. Todays comic-movies are not close to Oscars, and 3 of them definitely not. So, it started and i guessed right away that one of them must be for make-up. I mean, you car really see commitment and dedication to this area of the movie. You wont even recognize many of the famous names and faces (nowadays and then). By the time the movie goes and the story develops you see all the colors that creates a real comic-feeling. And there's the Oscar for Art directing. The third, i could not figure out until the end of the movie. I sat down and thought and i just jumped to my mind that it must be Music and guess what- it is. The many names make the movie a good one, the acting is in its place and the directing is nothing new, just the good old simple way of showing the movie. Madonna kinda spoiled it for me when she stopped singing and started 'acting' believe me, she cant act. I never read the comic but for those who have and who are fans, i bet you will love it and never loose the feeling that the movie is also very like the comic (art directing).From me, a 7 because im not a fan, just a satisfied viewer "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time and destined to become a classic","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At the time I am writing this I see out of over 15,000 votes it has a 5.8 rating. Something is wrong with that picture. Personally I give it a 10. I can see a 7 at the lowest or a possible 8 if it was rated by people that see this movie for what it truly is. It is a movie based on a comic book hero. This movie won more than it's share of awards. Won 3 Oscars. Another 5 wins & 26 nominations .... right there tells me it's better than a 5.8. Some great acting from some very good actors, some great special effects and in my opinion will be if not already a classic for years to come. If you're looking for pure entertainment be sure to check out Dick Tracy. Definitely a movie you can watch more than a few times. Al Pacino is great as Big Boy Caprice. "},{"Title":"He's on his way...to a REALLY entertaining movie.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Usually, when we use the word escapist, we mean it negatively; Warren Beatty's big screen version of Dick Tracy proves that escapist can be good. This is truly one entertaining movie. As the eponymous, yellow-clad, fearless title character, Beatty creates a detective to whom we can all relate ready for action, but not without his weaknesses.From there, the rest of characters are almost a world unto themselves. Tess Truehart (Glenne Headly) is as glamorous as one would expect the hubby of any crime fighter to be; Breathless Mahoney (Madonna) is possibly the most perplexing person imaginable; Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino) is the average villain ruthless but cool. Other characters include the speech-challenged Mumbles (Dustin Hoffman), the over-musical 88 Keys (Mandy Patinkin), and The Kid (Charlie Korsmo). Charles Durning, James Caan, Dick Van Dyke, Estelle Parsons, Catherine O'Hara, Seymour Cassel, Paul Sorvino and Kathy Bates also star.Oh, wait a minute. I haven't even explained the plot! The plot involves Tracy trying - and failing so far - to find some way to nab Big Boy. Simultaneously, some very bizarre events have been going on in town, the answers to which may or may not be closer than everyone thinks.Of course, the main thing about this movie is that it's fun to watch. If Warren Beatty was having trouble acting his age, then he made good use of that here. Dick Tracy is one cool movie. "},{"Title":"Dick Tracy - What pretty colors","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Love it or loathe it, it's hard to not find Warren Beatty's take on Dick Tracy, the 1990 film adaptation of Chester Gould's famous comic strip, anything short of a genre classic. Superhero films have been coming out of the woodwork in recent years, and may soon become a genre all on its own.Beatty's film liberally uses Gould's source material to full effect, shooting in all six of the strip's primary colors, and thus giving this unique yet familiar world of trigger-happy mutant gangsters and loose, seductive women a lush visual style and tone.It can be stated that the film's strong visual aesthetics drastically short-change the characters and their acting abilities, which I don't think can be any further from the truth.Dick Tracy relishes in its look and ghastly characters, and Beatty himself, who plays the dogged and incorruptible detective of the title, is appropriately stoic and ready to bust the bad guys at any and all costs.Other than the visual treats and Oscar-winning makeup, there is a plot, and Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino, deliciously over-the-top in an Oscar-nominated performance), seeks to eliminate Tracy in one well-planned move, but also seeks to gain control of all criminal action in the city by uniting all the feuding gangs under him.Tracy, meanwhile, is juggling his relationship with Tess Trueheart (Glenne Headly), who as her name would have it, remains faithfully by his side and cares for The Kid (Charlie Korsmo), who eventually finds a father figure to look up to in our crime-busting hero. Tracy's fidelity to Tess is tested by the tempting advances of Breathless Mahoney (Madonna), who is also Big Boy's main squeeze. At the same time that all of this is going down, things become heated when a new criminal figure arrives in town, and decides to play both sides against the middle.The performances are good, as Beatty's focus on the strained and romantic relationships between each of the leads becomes the center of the material, as opposed to just concentrating on pointless action and special effects. Pacino freely chews up the scenery in a role that's truly standout from the rest.Dick Tracy is one of the best and most overlooked of the comic book movie genre. I think that if Chester Gould was still alive, he would be proud of Warren Beatty's take on his beloved crime-fighting detective.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great actors, direction, cinematography, and feel.  Too original for some.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Dick Tracy was originally a comic book created in 1931 by Chester Gould. He is a plainclothes detective who tracks down a crew of villains, ranging from all types of visually original characters such as Flattop to The Blank to Big Boy Caprice. (These villains became so popular in the 40's that Warner Bros. created their own take on the Tracy-style villains in such cartoons as Daffy Duck) Tracy's comics were known for their liberal use of gunplay and the up-to-date technology advances (notably the wristwatch communicator), which got their fair share of screen time on this excellent movie. The music was done wonderfully by Danny Elfman, and the original songs by Madonna were interesting, but they were not the high point for her career. It's weird because as you watch the film and see the suspenseful moments, the film feels so much like Batman because of Elfman's memorable sound to his pieces.I love the tough-talking kid, Pacino's acting as Big Boy Caprice (and that chin!), Madonna's take on villainy, and the cinematography and directing were impeccable. This film was very professionally made and features tons of great actors who were known as great actors for a while before this film was made (Warren Beatty, Al Pacino, William Forsythe, Dustin Hoffman, Kathy Bates, Mandy Patinkin, Catherine O'Hara, Dick Van Dyke). The film was directed by Beatty himself, which was interesting. It is almost like Beatty saw himself as Tracy in a past life or something because he really fit the part.I had to give this film an 8/10 for everything that it brought to cinema that got overlooked (for whatever reason). There have been tons of misunderstandings over the rating of this movie on IMDb, and I still don't understand why. The characters were completely original and vibrant, as was the style of the sets, wardrobe, lighting, and everything in this film. Go buy it today. You will not be sorry. "},{"Title":"Beatty almost ruined this one","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I still liked it though.  Warren Beatty is only fair as the comic book hero.  What saves this movie is the set, the incredible cast and it offshoots a mediocre script.  I really expected something more substantial in the terms of action, or plot but I got very little.  The main reason to watch this movie is to watch some of the biggest stars in Hollywood at the time in such an unusual film.  The one person who did a terrible job and did not even belong in this film was Madonna.  She did not belong in this movie and her acting job was pretty bad.  The movie at some points just stood still.  You expected something more and you got nothing.  Al Pacino plays a really bad dude and he does pretty good.  He and Beatty do make an excellent good guy and bad guy. It is also interesting to see Dustin Hoffman, and Warren Beatty in a film other than Isthar.  I did not see Ishtar but I heard bad things.  The thing about this movie is it is good, but it could have been so much better.  I liked it as a child because I thought it looked cool, and visually the movie is amazing, the sets are incredible, the writing is only fair, and with such a cast in the movie I would expect a little better anyway. SPOILERI especially thought the finale was not big enough.  It was interesting but for such a grand scale film I just thought it could have ended with a little more of a bang.  The reason to watch this movie is the atmosphere.  The movie only uses the 7 comic book colors making it all that more excellent visually anyway.The costumes and makeup were flawless as well.  The facial makeup for the villains was great.  Beatty is just not up to such a bigger than life character.  Still, this is a good movie that could have been much much more.  It is to me better than Batman, the other comic book adaptation that came out close to the same time.  Of course that movie was much bigger in terms of gross.    "}{"Title":"Fun, stylistically innovative, but sluggish and indulgent.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy is a stylistic triumph. Certainly, no one has ever quite so literally put a comic strip on screen. Vttorio Storaro's cinematography combines with strong costume and make up design for a look mesmerizes you at the same time it's distancing you from the characters.The fact the characters are cardboard cutouts with little personality (aside from the over-the-top cartoon villains) doesn't help you warm up to them, either. However, Beatty shouldn't really be criticized for this - after all, he's merely being true to the source material. A more interesting or charismatic Dick Tracy wouldn't really be Dick tracy, would he?The film's prinicpal weaknesses are it's somewhat sluggish pacing, and the over indulgence of Madonna's Breathless Mahoney character. The two elements go hand in hand Countless musical montages showcasing Madonna's mediocre vocals (this was before Evita turned her into an actual singing talent) to Stephen Sondheim's catchy songs work at times (particularly the arrest montage to Sooner or Later), but at other times slow down the action to the point of severe annoyance. Madonna's performance is by far the weakest in the film While Beatty, Pacino and the others embody their characters perfectly, Madonna is never anything but Madonna, and she's never quite as sexy or appealing as she or the movie seem to think. It's hard not to imagine what this movie might have been with the in-her-prime Michelle Pfieffer crooning Breathless' torch songs.However, it should noted that these faults keep Dick Tracy from being a great movie, but certainly don't stop it from being a good one. Beatty's direction is impressive, for the most part, and he certainly created the feel he was going for. He also assembled one of the most impressive casts ever to grace a comic book film. Most of the actors seem to be having fun, and most of the time, the viewer will, too. But the sluggish pacing, lack of wit (except for a few lines from Pacino which feel like ad libs) and the distracting prescence of Madonna keep it from equalling the very best films of the comic book genre. Beatty deserves an A for effort. "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite of mine","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With Batman (1989) being a hyped up comic book movie and the number one film of the year, why not make another big budget adaptation of a comic book? Warren Beatty is both the director and the star of the film in which he gets every aspect of the comic book right. The film has the detective going after nicknamed villains, seducing Tess Trueheart, trying to get a witness to testify against a kingpin, and having a sidekick at the same time.It's just usual work for Dick Tracy as he wears the same yellow raincoat suit day after day as he tries to go out with Tess Trueheart but is called on duty when they notify him that five gangsters have been shot and that the main person behind the mess is Big Boy Caprice (Al Pacino).In the film, we are introduced to Breathless Mahoney (Madonna), a singer and dancer who is a main squeeze to local crime boss Lips Manlis (Paul Sorvino), and Big Boy's crew kidnaps both characters when Big Boy himself wants to take over the Club Ritz that Lips owns. And he does by killing Lips and owning Breathless as his slave to teach the girls how to dance for the re-opening of the club.Also in the film, Dick Tracy takes in a young orphan called The Kid in which he considers him a son after Kid helps Tracy in a situation where the detective almost dies. He wants to keep him, but the law won't allow him to keep a local orphan without paperwork.I was surprised to see Madonna in a role where she was mysterious. But than again, she has always played the seducer in many roles with the exception of League of their Own and Evita, this is one of her best roles.Dick Tracy comes to the screen with such an animated detail that it feels as if we were inside the comic strip itself with the beautiful setback of the bright sun gazing over the Chicago sky view, what makes the film special from watching it, is that the film is not as offensive for moviegoers; there is not a shout of profanity, nor is there any kind of violence that will leave kids in shock; Dick Tracy is not only one of the best comic book adaptation, but one of the most visionary aspects I've seen on screen. "},{"Title":"I thought it was torture by boredom!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really only looked up this movie to see what others said, because ever since I saw it years ago, it has been at the top of my worst movies list! I am amazed that it even got a 5.6 rating, and that someone went through so much effort to type up a good review!  I have never been closer to getting up and walking out of a theater, out of sheer boredom, as I was when I saw Dick Tracy.  My husband hated it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary and uncalled for","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a very odd thing to do to attempt to copy the visual style of a comic. What's the point making a comic into a movie if that movie is going to look like a comic? they are completely different mediums! You adapt a comic into a movie to  give it the advantages a film has over a comic - like looking like real life. You don't then go and spoil it all by making everything look flatly coloured and 2D!Dick Tracy could have been a great crime movie BASED on the comic strip, but it just mimicks the visual style and ense up a boring movie that's nice to look at for five minutes. Clearly, no lessons were learnt from the success of the previous year's Batman (1989). Dick Tracy is a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Great Comic Adaptation Awful Story","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let me tell you one thing. If Dick Tracy movie was release today, I WILL MAKE THE top 250 IMDb movie as in Sin City. And if Sin City was shown in the 1990s the movie will fall flat on its face and received a 4.4, a much lower score than Dick Tracy. Warren Beatty was ahead of the times and that means financial failure, but a visionary of the future nevertheless.Today, we are so concerned about CGI, rendering, fidelity of comic book adaptations, more so than the story itself. There's a simple explanation most movie goers are mostly fans of the comic strips.For me when I first watched the story was bad, it was hard to follow the movie had few black holes that just makes you feel there is not much excitement. Story has far too many character. Technical excellence, terrible story.Most movies today are like that, no plot, no story, just video games. For example Doom was rated better than A Sound of Thunder. Doom has hardly any story line. In fact I can make the entire movie straight out of a shooting exercise from a computer video games.For anyone who will enjoy the story more than the effects needs a certain amount of concentration as to whether it provokes you to question, make you think, effects your thought, get you interested to look further, makes you wonder, shock you in someway having a lasting influence, and most of all, the desire to watch again and again. Seeing more to the story than the story itself. It will shake your life, change your outlook, gives you a new philosophy. Very few of the movies today does this anymore, such as of Casablanca, Gone with the Wind, Dr. Strangelove, One Who Flew Over the Coo Coos Nest, or even a fun movie like Young Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Classic comic strip character comes to the cinema.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Warren Beatty brings our favorite comic strip cop to the screen like no one before him. The vivid colors used gives it a cartoonish look that is fun to look at. Plus the hokey acting from some pretty big name stars is second only to guessing who the stars are under the heavy makeup. The plot is short of a disaster. The background score is fantastic. On a whole, the movie is take it or leave it.Beatty plays Tracy as stiff as a comic strip cop. Madonna is great to look at, but the songs are way below her standard. A few of the big names hardly recognized under the makeup are Al Pacino, Dustin Hoffman, James Caan, Charles Durning, Kathy Bates and William Forsythe. Charlie Korsmo is smart as a whip in the part of Kid. Rent for the kids and check in once in a while. It's fun! "},{"Title":"A Confused Slight to Moviegoers Young and Old","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A boldly literal interpretation of what was, at the time, sixty-year-old source material, Dick Tracy was dated before it had even commenced filming. In today's world, it's a painful reminder of what happens when badly misread cultural trends, aging showbiz producers and a full committee of writers collide on-screen. Visually it's a day-glow disaster, combining recklessly outlandish wardrobe, distractingly obvious matte-painting backdrops, startlingly grotesque makeup effects and an odd mix of kids' primary colors with ink-black noir lighting. The cast is so stale, weak and one-dimensional throughout that not even an A-list staff of Hollywood's elite is able to play life preserver Dustin Hoffman, James Caan and Al Pacino are lost amidst the flood of stilted dialog, Madonna sleepwalks through a rotten performance as, basically, herself, and Warren Beatty is so squeaky clean and unrelentingly straightforward in the leading role that it almost works on a purely satirical level. Clearly someone, somewhere, saw the runaway success of Tim Burton's Batman around the corner and chose to grant a similar treatment to a character they recalled from the funny pages of their own youth, without stopping to consider if Tracy's story was as relevant and trans-generational as Bruce Wayne's. The splashy colors and simple, hackneyed plot make it a no-sell to adults, while the abundance of sex and violence also makes it tough to buy as a kid's movie. Genuinely awful from start to finish, I had to watch in three installments because it kept putting me to sleep. "},{"Title":"Storyboard Live","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As one who has little if any time for 'technology' as opposed to 'character' led films and remain outspoken against the Matrix's of this world it is great to find a movie that DOES utilise special effects to enhance a story and create or, more accurately, re-create a mood.  This version of Dick Tracy is arguably as close to a comic-strip as it's possible to get and actually succeeds in creating not only the 'look' but also the 'feel' of its source material.  Beginning with the 'city' itself - streets with just the right suggestion of unreality bathed in red, green, etc, buildings created in bold, charcoal strokes, cars coming in every color EXCEPT black - and continuing with the characters, grotesques to a heavy with, of course, the exception of Tracy himself, Tess and the Kid, who are 'drawn' foursquare to stand out against (literally and metaphorically) the heavies, even to the exactly right touch of starbursts simulating gunfire, the film is a triumph of capturing, if only for 90 minutes, the 'lost' time of both an era and the childhoods spent there.  Like a comic book the film is full of 'static' shots - there is movement but it is introduced subtly, almost subliminally, no fluid dolly/tracking shots reminiscent of Ophuls here, thank you very much - and the close-ups are NOT full face but Profile, as they are in the comic books.  With details as good as this you almost don't need a story and if you do it doesn't really matter how OTT it is because that is part of the tacit contract between film maker and audience.  9/10 "},{"Title":"a good teen crime story","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie had a great cast and it had a good story to it.  I think that it is a unique way to look at this time period which makes it original from most movies about that time.  I thought it was an okay story but nothing spectacular.  Very comparable to some of the followup movies to Batman.  I think that it sort of has a superhero quality in a movie about crime fighting with no superhero talents.  A crime movie that fits a young teen audience very well.  Visit themoviecritique.com for more of my reviews and many other things about movies. "},{"Title":"possibly one of the worst films ever made","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As other viewers have mentioned, this film was an interesting experiment in photography. The colors are comic book bold. I think the director got carried away with his artistic vision over the look of the film instead o badly needed attention to content. Despite its stellar cast, the performances are lackluster and the story nearly incoherent. Madonna was likely cast purely as a stunt to get pre-release press. A good thing as her appearance here lent some credence to her album I'm Breathless (Music inspired by the film Dick Tracy) which was a stratospheric hit (due in large part to the inclusion of dance-hit Vogue - which is not in, nor has the slightest relation to this film). I'd guess the major portion of money from this film came from tie-ins to Madonna's I'm Breathless album.If you watch it at home, by end-titles, you'll think there's two hours out of my life I'd like to have back. Save yourself the wasted time - do not bother with this. "}{"Title":"This movie is like week old stale bread","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is stale, and misses the mark.  It is far off compared to the 89 Batman that it tries to coppy.  That women singer whats her name can not act, and we see why her film carrier died.  Notice how this film died in the box office no one see this film on tv either.  My uncle and dad were expecting Batman, and the films impression is more like Cop Rock. Not worth renting 3/10 "},{"Title":"Eat this unholy coat of darkness","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When people ask me whats the worst movie I've ever seen its this one.  Its not even close to MST3k level riffing, or midnight viewing at a theatre, or even as Disney channel late night filler.  The only time I've ever wanted to jump off a ride at Disney World (or Disney/MGM Studios in this case) was to grab Dick Tracey's jacket off the mannequin, rip it to shreds, and ram it down the tour guides throat saying Eat this!  Eat this unholy coat of darkness!!!  I've never been so mad at a movie, not even Nutty Professor II The Klumps or Flash Gordon.  You want pretty colors and cinematography?  Ain't here babe.  Reviewers keep saying oh, but its too look like a comic book, well, to me, its the color of a Gordito after several weeks in the sun.  About as enjoyable too.  Beatty wanders around this landscape jumping around and talking to his watch, himself, and occasional at the other actors, hoping someone will tell him what time the sequel will begin shooting. To be fair, I have only seen this movie once, but my pain threshold is that of a man, not a God. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to a classic comic strip.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i just saw Dick Tracy and I thought it was terrible. The paintings in the background of the cities looked awful. Also the mob characters looked too weird. Warren Beatty didn't do an awful job as Dick Tracy but it was definetely not one of his better performances. Madonna should just stick to singing. Glenne Headly did a good job in this movie. I gave this movie a 2/10 just because of the amazing acting by Al Pacino. It wasn't a high note in his career but he still did a good  job. "},{"Title":"What a load of Dick......","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films of the 1990s. When my friends & I were watching this film (being the target audience it was aimed at) we just sat & watched the first half an hour with our jaws touching the floor at how bad it really was. The rest of the time, everyone else in the theatre just started talking to each other, leaving or generally crying into their popcorn that they actually paid money they had earnt working to watch this feeble excuse for a film. It must have looked like a great idea on paper, but on film it looks like no-one in the film has a clue what is going on. Crap acting, crap costumes. I can't get across how embarrasing this is to watch. Save yourself an hour & a bit of your life......... "}]