[{"Title":"Shades of Jim Thompson","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The audience for this film stayed away because of Don Johnson. In his defense, Johnson has been in a few very good films (Melanie, A Boy & His Dog), and he is very smooth and sleazy here. Fueled by a great sound-track, provided by John Lee Hooker, Miles Davis and Jack Nitzsche, this dirty edged noir evokes a Jim Thompson like feel, and is beautifully lit and shot. Dennis Hopper directed, and he did just fine. There is so little good noir in the last 30 plus years, that fans of the genre will want to see this. And if you get the chance to see it on the big screen, it is well worth it. In an era when no 'new noir' comes close to Polanski's Chinatown, this movie is way better than Body Heat or LA Confidential. It certainly looks better, and has a much rawer sensibility and texture. "},{"Title":"A Steamy Masterpeice","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has to rate as one of the most important American films of the 90's. Dennis Hopper could be the next great American director in the 21st Century. The film was sexy without being crude. Don Johnson showed that his acting can be powerful if the right roll comes his way.Virginia Madsen steams up the show with her portral of the modern vamp.Jennifer Connelly plays it perfect with the innocent routine when she is the hottest girl in the movie. Anyone would enjoy this film on a cold night in the dead of winter with a lover on the couch next to them. A Great Watch! "},{"Title":"Good couples movie for a hot summer night","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has someone for everyone to like and almost everyone to hate. Between Don Johnson, Virginia Madsen, and Jennifer Connelly, there's a romantic interest for both you and your sweetie. I've never lived in the South so I'm not sure you'd like the portrayals if you are from there, but even without the Southern setting, the deviousness and deceit are universal. After the first viewing, the plot twists may not surprise you anymore, but you'll appreciate even more how justice and irony come into play in deciding the fate of the players.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A very good Don Johnson movie and performance. Really, it is!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are like me, you might have turned on HBO late the other night, and thought.... Damn, a Don Johnson movie. Luckily I gave this film a chance and found a real winner. Don's performance is not just good, but I think it is his best ever. Jennifer Connelly is just perfect in the role of the frail and beautiful girl next door. But Virginia Madsen steals the show. She is that woman you just love to hate, but just can't keep your hands off of. Just watch the flick to see what I mean.As the credits rolled across the screen at the end, I realized that Dennis Hopper directed this Red Rocks West like film. No wonder I enjoyed it. I give it a solid 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Southwest trash that burns out of control","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is classic southwest film noir/romance novel brought to life.  Although the plot is the standard lets kill a cuckolded, rich husband (with sex!) and take off with the new handsome stranger, the heat of this film lies in its characterizations.  Don Johnson is almost perfect as the handsome stranger/used car salesman/bank robber/arsonist/white knight in shining (but obviously tarnished) armor.  Jennifer Connelly's understated desperation at her situation is almost exactly balanced by Virginia Madsen's almost over the top vixen/gold digger. Other characters add the perfect backdrop to the action (Charles Martin Smith's nose sniff scene is absolutely classic).  The twists and turns of the plot and revelations makes this movie constantly interesting.It really doesn't get much better than this--Jennifer Connelly does a rare, for her, nude scene, as does Virginia Madsen, Don Johnson, and a bevy of strippers. "},{"Title":"An Unknown Gem and One of the Most Amoral Stories of the Cinema History","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the drifter Harry Madox (Don Johnson) reaches a small town in Texas, he gets a job as used car salesman with the dealer George Harshaw (Jerry Hardin) and settles down in a hotel room. During a fire, Harry observes that the local bank is left empty and open without any security. Sooner he plots a scheme to rob the bank, provoking a fire in his room to distract the employees. When Harry meets George's wife Dolly Harshaw (Virginia Madsen), the easy woman teases him and they have sex. Harry becomes the prime suspect of the bank heist and is arrested, but Dolly provided the necessary alibi to release him and blackmails him to have a love affair with her. However, Harry falls in love for Gloria Harper (Jennifer Connelly), who works as accountant in the dealership. He discovers that Gloria is blackmailed by the despicable Frank Sutton (William Sadler) and he decides to press Sutton. But in the end, Dolly gets what she wants. Hot Spot is an unknown gem and one of the most amoral stories of the cinema history. With the exception of the sweet Gloria Harper and the cuckold George Harshow, the other three lead characters have no moral or ethical codes and Virginia Madsen performs one of the most despicable and Machiavellian femme fatale of the cinema. This masterpiece of Dennis Hopper is certainly the best work of Don Johnson and the soundtrack is stunning and among my favorites. I have just watched Hot Spot maybe for the sixth or seventh time and this film-noir has not aged. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Hot Spot &#x96; Um Local Muito Quente (Hot Spot &#x96; A Very Hot Spot)Note On 29 October 2011, I saw this film again. "},{"Title":"A tightly crafted, sun-drenched film noir","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dennis Hopper delivers the goods in this meticulously conventional tale of a charismatic underachiever finding his level.  Harkening back to the gender and class warfare sensibilities of the Forties, The Hot Spot excels across the board, in acting, dialogue, plotting, music, and cinematography. "},{"Title":"an all around well done movie that is 30 minutes too long.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i checked out this movie just due to the fact that it was written and directed by Dennis Hopper and had the beautiful Jennifer Connelly in it as well.the movie has so many twists and double crossings that going into the plot would ruin the experience. but for once, a movie kept me guessing and the twists and turns were logical for once. it seems that a lot of movies nowadays throw a ton of curveballs even if it isn't necassary (Wild Things is an example.)all of the acting is superb and Virginia Madsen is deliciously nasty and sexy but Jennifer Connelly steals the show with a great performance. ms. connelly was the perfect choice for this role in that she embodies stunning sexuality and physical perfection as well as a sweet persona that lends itself to the role perfectly. the strong doses of sex are appropriate to the plot as well. the film's only flaw is that it is easily at least 30 minutes too long. i felt the movie should have been wrapped up a lot sooner than it was and the overlength brings it from an 8 down to a 7still, this is well worth renting for all the performances and a genuinely well told story.rating 7 "},{"Title":"A few words of praise","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is great. The atmosphere, heat, casting, setting, plot, you name it. Everyone in the film is sweating up to the eyeballs, constantly mopping their brows, with stains all over their clothes, looking very hot and tense indeed. The seeds for a necessary release are sown! And sure enough, the pressure reaches boiling point and everything erupts. I don't want to give too much away, nor can I be bothered writing a proper commentary but this film is BLEAK in it's honesty with respect to it's (secondary/primary?) plot - all ideals are shattered romance and (true?) love, freedom (whatever that really is) and so on. Some would call this a cynical work, I'll call it realistic - Sod's Law applies as heavily in the movie as it does in real life. Go on Dennis, more of this please!! "},{"Title":"An Absolute Gem","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shot in and around Austin, Texas, brilliantly written and directed by Dennis Hopper and adapted from Thompson's book, Hell Hath No Fury, this is a movie buff's movie. It is probably the best performance by Don Thompson he will ever give. It's one of those movies that put everything together to achieve a harmonic that is very very rare. Why it didn't achieve notice and a clutch of awards is one of the mysteries of the film industry. Everything in the movie meshed perfectly, including a great score. "}{"Title":"Good character study, greed and deception will always get you in trouble!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always suspected that director Dennis Hopper is a dirty old man and this movie confirms that. The Hot Spot has quite a bit of erotic nudity and not fleeting scenes, but lots of it! The full chest shot of 19-yr-old Jennifer Connelly was quite remarkable!Don Johnson plays a smart drifter who can sells cars, rob banks, and get the women. His whole life is basically a series of scams. But he meets Jennifer Connelly's character and begins to really care. However, she is being blackmailed by the local scumbag while Johnson's character is being actively chased by his boss's sultry wife! He almost gets on top of it all... almost, when his world grips him by the gonads as never before. And everybody lives unhappily ever after! -)Some have said the movie has no meaning, every one is bad. But that isn't true. Much like The Talented Mr Ripley does, this movie shows that dishonesty will ultimately be repaid, many times over, with grief.My favorite line was right before the best fight scene I think I've seen. Scumbag says to Johnson's character, So you think you're the tough guy. Johnson's character replies, No, you're the tough guy. I'm much worse than that. Then obviously trained as a fighter, proceeded to beat the living snot out of the scumbag, which was fully deserved. I had the movie on tape, so I watched that scene several times.All in all a good movie, and a credible job by director Hopper. It has become one of my guilty pleasures!Nov. 2013 edit I saw it again, on DVD, and the movie holds up very well. I enjoyed it as much as the first viewing, maybe even more. "},{"Title":"Delightful romp with Don Johnson, Virginia Madison & Jennifer Connelly","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I greatly enjoyed this film. It's pure entertainment from start to finish - with bad boy Don Johnson looking gorgeous, bad girl Virginia Madsen looking gorgeous and good girl Jennifer Connelly looking gorgeous.This film is worth watching for the eye candy alone - but as it turns out, it has a whole lot more going for it. There are twists and turns aplenty, lots of saucy dialog, an evil woman ankling around plotting, a dastardly villain doing slimy underhanded things, passionate making-out and even some topless scenes.It's hot in Texas, you can see the heat shimmering in the heavy air as Harry Maddox (Don Johnson), makes his way to a small town. Once there, he brazenly strolls over to a car lot and sells a customer, who was just about to leave, an automobile.George Harshaw (Jerry Hardin), is the owner of the car lot and he's short a salesman, so despite Harry's smart-mouthed attitude, he takes him on.Soon George's dissatisfied, loony, over-sexed and sexy, blond wife, Dolly (Virginia Madsen), is taking Harry on as well! The gal who really attracts Harry's attentions, however, is a troubled young woman, Gloria Harper (Jennifer Connelly). Jennifer Connelly's long, dark hair was to die for in this film. She looks very sweet and lovely - and has one heck of a figure! Gloria is in the slimy clutches of loser, Frank Sutton (William Sadler--who reminded me quite a lot of Jerry Reed). It's a while before Harry finds out just what Frank has on Gloria.In the meantime, Harry has plots of his own afoot - mainly robbing the town bank! The ending was especially surprising to me. Although why a woman would want to marry a man who hated her so much he'd like to kill her with his bare hands, I can't imagine, even a man as sexy and handsome as Don Johnson.8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Awesome film noir with great characters","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just wonderful.  The direction by Hopper is top shelf and the sound track, wow!   Don Johnson is excellent (believe it or not!) as the cool guy, passing through town who later decides he can easily pull off a clever bank robbery in the face of this backwards, sleepy town.  Only problem is, he can't help but get tangled up in the bizarre, twisted lives of some of the town's ladies.  Virginia Madsen gives an incredibly sexy performance and Jennifer Connelly lights up the screen with her exotic beauty.  I can't stress enough how well made this movie is and how damn terrific the sound track is, featuring some great blues artists and also Miles Davis (one of the last recordings he worked on I believe).Please see this movie. "},{"Title":"Don J. at his finest","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" HOT SPOT is what Virginia Madsen calls her loins, dear ones. Don Johnson does his best to keep them cooled them off but he has trouble keeping up with her, especially since Don has his eye on the luscious and very young Jennifer Connelly. Don plays a drifter who picks up a job at a used car lot in a small Texas town. He soon finds himself bedding the owner's absolutely insatiable wife. And he is soon working on the oh-so innocent Connelly. The lusty trio is ably supported by such veteran character actors as Jerry Hardin, Jack Nance and Barry Corbin, and this his hot-as-hell, steamy production was directed by none other than Dennis Hopper. A great film for adults. The ending is a classic. I wonder how much fun the notorious lothario Johnson had while filming this, since he spends a lot of screen time in the arms of Madsen and Connelly, both of whom are at the top of their form. "},{"Title":"Hell hath no fury","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dennis Hopper has been involved in movies for more than fifty years now. He is a man that has taken chances in his choices of roles, and as a director. The Hot Spot, based on Nona Tyson's novel, and with a screen play by Charles Williams seems to be the kind of project that would attract him. In fact, he almost succeeds in making a remarkable movie, but he should have tried some badly needed editing to tighten up this tale about crime and revenge in Texas.The Hot Spot will reward fans of Mr. Hooper. He shows he can make a bland actor like Don Johnson appear better and give a somewhat interesting performance as Henry Madox, the drifter who appears out of nowhere and who we know is up to no good.Henry's good looks is a magnet for the two women in the story. One is the beautiful, and somewhat naive Gloria Harper, who works for the used car dealer, George Harshaw. George's wife, the sultry Dolly, also has plans for the hunk now working for her husband. It's clear this triangle will get into knowing one another, in more ways than social acquaintances.What Dennis Hopper accomplished in this film was to get excellent performances from his principal actors. Virginia Madsen, notably, is seen as the vamp that knows how to get what she wants all the time. Jennifer Connelly underplays Gloria Harper. Don Johnson is likable in one of the best things he has done in films. William Sadler is perfectly creepy as the black mailer. Veterans Jerry Hardin, Barry Corbin, and Jack Nance, are also good.The moody musical score by Jack Nitzche serves the film well. Dennis Hopper achieves in presenting this moody tale with his inspired direction, if only he could have trimmed it a little bit. The Hot Spot will not disappoint to fans of the genre, although a little patience is required. "},{"Title":"Steamy film noir","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The hot shot (not to be confused with the hot spot, which is located&#x85;well, on the person of Dolly Harshaw, as you'll see) is Harry Madox (Don Johnson) who has just arrived in Podunk, Texas. What he's hot about is selling used cars and bedding floosies. He scans the small town scene to see what's available. He's a hunk with a gift of the macho and an ability to move clunkers off the lot. What he finds is the used car lot of George Harshaw (Jerry Hardin) in need of a salesman. George has a bad heart and a young and sexy wife, the aforementioned Dolly Harshaw (Virginia Madsen, who once played in a movie called Zombie High or The High School that Ate My Brain). She's a woman who always gets what she wants, and once she sets her rapacious eyes on Harry, Harry is what she wants.Harry has other plans however. There's this bank in town that he just happens into as there's a fire going down the street. The bank is wide open and there's nobody there but this blind old black guy and the bank manager. Seems that the surveillance system isn't working and what's more all the tellers are off fighting the fire because they all belong to the volunteer fire department. This gives Harry ideas.One more complication. Doing the books for George is Gloria Harper (Jennifer Connelly at 19) looking about as tasty as pie a la mode and as ripe as a peach about to fall off the tree. Harry soon discovers that she is as sweet as Tupelo honey and nearly as innocent as a small town girl can be with one strange problem. It seems that a country degenerate named Frank Sutton (William Sadler) has got some kind of hold on her.So what we have here is a setting for film noir circa 1990 done up in color with a lot of upper body and tail end nudity and plenty of steamy sex. Will Harry pull off the bank job and retire to the Caribbean? Or will he put on George's shoes and service the very serviceable Mrs. H? Or will he succumb to the charms of Gloria? Or will he end up afoul of the local law or meet foul play at the hands of Frank Sutton? Stay tuned. I know I did even though this is not exactly a masterpiece.Top three reasons to see this diversion are (1) Virginia Madsen, who is as hot as the barrel of an AK-47 as it unloads with a mind devious enough to delight the devil himself.(2) Jennifer Connelly, who is pretty enough to awaken the libido of the dead.(3) The nice twist at the end in which we learn that life has a certain perverse logic to it, proving that the hero may not get what he wants, but hey, things could be worse.I guess I should also mention the direction of Dennis Hopper who has garnered over 200 film credits in a career going back to the fifties. Can you believe he played in the classic teen angst film Rebel Without a Cause from 1955? Here he just panders shamelessly to the prurient interest of the audience while moving the action along at a spritely pace.One problem for today's sophisticated viewer beware of being overcome with a constant stream of cigarette smoke. I mean, did the tobacco industry front the cash for this?(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Faulknerian","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very hot sexy Don Johnson movie.... enjoyed it for its portrayal of small-town life and thought-provoking ending as much as the human-scaled characters that brought a refreshing set of twists to the plot. Johnson plays essentially the same character he played in Long Hot Summer, a drifter who arrives in town and immediately skyrockets to the center of the action --a likable, but flawed, character. Virginia Madsen is a devilish delight who wields an unquestionable, unceasing power over Johnson, again and again and again.... and again. Jennifer Connolly, who looks about 17 years old but is saddled with troubles that would make a woman far beyond her years turn desperate, is believable as the waif/angel who so badly needs rescuing, but struggles to overcome her past all by herself without anyone's interference or assistance. The interactions between herself and Johnson's character are exacting and intelligent, where predictable notions of male protectionism and gallantry for gallantry's sake are happily absent. Instead, their relationship proceeds with a fine edge of integrity and emotional honesty that makes you appreciate all the more the win-or-lose-everything situation in which they find themselves entwined. Dennis Hopper's directing shades the film in a vintage light that is appreciable even fifteen years after it was shot... the film seems a bit dated at first, but then it seems more like it just aged well, because the story is quite timeless. you know these people --they are recognizable as the people you see every day on the street in any southern hamlet. as i said, Faulknerian. "},{"Title":"There's only two things to do in this town. You got a TV?","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, quick, name a Don Johnson movie. No, you can't say Miami Vice or Nash bridges, as they are TV shows. Honestly, I could only think of one Tin Cup, Now, I have two burned into my memory.And, burn is the appropriate term as this movie is hot! Johnson plays a bank robber, con man, and drifter that pops into a Southern town at just the right moment. He lands smack dab in-between Virginia Madsen, who gave us one of the last views of her extremely hot body; and Jennifer Connelly, a bi-sexual beauty that was skimming from the company, and who also gave us lots to cheer about.What a choice! Johnson tends to gravitate towards Connelly, as Madsen is, after all, married to his boss, but that's a minor detail that can be taken care of in a manner that most of us would thoroughly enjoy.Yes, there is a bank robbery, and a murder thrown in, along with some blackmail and trying to stay one step ahead of the Sheriff (Barry Corbin), but it is not the reason you would watch this film.If you don't have a TV, there is only one other thing to do. Oh, Yes. "},{"Title":"Steamy  Sultry Hot Sex and Action in a Small Texas Town !!!","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hot Spot or where Testosterone meets Estrogen !!!Director Dennis Hopper lets it all hang out is this steamy action thriller of loner Harry Madox(Don Johnson), who works as a car salesman at the local dealer, and robs the bank for some quick cash. But , a victim of his own devices, becomes entangled with the Dolly Harshaw(Virginia Madsen), hot undersexed wife of Harry's boss, whose Dec.-June marital relationship is about to come to an abrupt end. Throw in Gloria Harper(Jennifer Connelly) , the innocent love interest who has her eyes on Harry, and a few interesting sub-plots, and you have one terrific film about the lives of a few corrupt people, whose hedonistic inclinations lead to a warped lifestyle, and compelling situations !!!Brilliant direction underplays the emotion which begs the viewer to become more involved !!! Plenty of sex and visual goodies for the immodest, not for the faint of heart !!! Great performances by all, Virginia Madsen steals the show as the vamp,temptress, who has all and wants more !!!It really is a 10 that works on MANY levels !!! "},{"Title":"A true beauty of our century!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have been a big fan of Jennifer Connelly ever since Hot Spot, I understand that Don Johnson had a fever throughout the making of that movie! I wish Hollywood had cast her in more movies. I just saw Once upon a time in America and Jennifer was absolutely breath taking even at a young age. I wonder where she went after Once Upon&#133;? Even with Elizabeth McGovern's beauty she could barely take over the grown up version of Deborah after Jennifer portraying the young Deborah. Being pretty is one thing but being a combination of sensual, luscious with eyes that can freeze you in mid-motion is very rare indeed! Now that Jennifer is 37 years old and still gorgeous as ever, I look forward to seeing her in more movies. Hollywood, did you hear me? "}{"Title":"Terrific modern film noir","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Johnson plays a drifter named Harry Maddox who enters a Southern ghost town and heats up the place, falls for Connelly, plays with femme fatale Madsen, robs a bank and eventually gets implicated in murder. The Hot Spot is an accurate title for the movie.A deliciously hot modern film noir very well directed by Hopper, his best effort apart from Easy Rider. It's turtle like pacing creates an irresistible and steamy atmosphere that's sinfully appealing, you almost feel the heat. The leads are excellent, particularly Johnson in a tailor made role which he pulls off with panache. He's cool as ice in a very hot film. Madsen is also incredibly attractive here and plays her dirty role to perfection. "},{"Title":"Excellent Steamy Film","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Small Southern Town... greed, money, sex, and ultimately murder!  What more could you ask for in a movie?  How about some hot nudity?  Well you got it! Jennifer Connelly and Virginia Madsen both nude.  This movie is similar to and rivals Two Moon Junction and Red Rock West.  If you liked those you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"10 years later, it's still a Hot Spot!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Caught up with this Dennis Hopper gem again, and I must admit, it's a guilty pleasure! I can't usually stomach Don Johnson's vain attempts at acting, yet find myself smiling at his every move in this one.  Virginia Madsen is perfect as the lusty, vampish seductress who is BY FAR the most clever character.  William Sadler (The Green Mile and Shawshank Redemption) is the ultimate badass scumbag blackmailer who makes only one mistake - underestimating Don Johnson.  Ahhh, Jennifer Connelly is the dreamy, innocent object of desire for Don (and all male viewers!).  My only regret with Jennifer is that she has worn entirely too much make-up in every role since.  Wonderful turn by veteran character actor Barry Corbin as the sherriff. My tidbit from this one is that Virgil Frye, Deputy Buck in the movie, is the real life dad of TV's Punky Brewster.  Also, don't miss a 14 year old Jennifer Connelly as the young role of Elizabeth McGovern's character in the marvelous Sergio Leone film, Once Upon a Time in America (full length version ONLY).   "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie was great, from the actors down to the movie plot, it has a little of everything for everyone. Don Johnson was perfect for the part and Jen Connerly shows us why she is going to be a big star. The movie has its twists of suspense, drama and sex. It also has its action to keep everyone alert. My only regret is the movie is hard to come by and is not available for sale at this time so it's hard to tell people to go and rent it. A must see. "},{"Title":"So real, I could sweat just watching it!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must start by saying that 1. I love Dennis Hoppers work, 2. I love the Don Johnson persona, 3. I just LOVE Jennifer Connelly! This movie makes me want to move to Texas, I was blown away by the settings and the character of the place. The script is lean and mean, Virginia Madsen has more lines (and delivers them very, very well) than the rest of the cast put together, Don Johnson gets his message across supremely well just with his looks and body language and Jennifer is (groan) just gorgeous as usual. A hugely underated movie, its pace is slow and sexy but it lacks for nothing because of it. At the end you realise that you have been wound up tight and I for one, would LOVE to re write the ending... "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem - great film noir","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" PItch perfect Dennis Hopper directed film noir set somewhere in Texas-like badlands curving in the heat...from the opening John Lee Hooker/Miles Davis (!) soundtrack, every actor in this flick nails it. Don Johnson's cool stranger in a hot town, Jennifer Connolly's porcelain naive waif, Virginia Madsen's femme fatale, Bill Sadler's creepy villain and even Charlie Martin Smith's perennially baffled car salesman. The small town feel of the flick is perfectly claustrophobic for the plot's setup, and none of it feels like stereotype, a testament to Hopper's sure guidance. Hasn't dated itself 22 years later. See it. You'll get swallowed up quickly and enjoy every second. "},{"Title":"complete package","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The hot spot is complete package to me,as it contains drama, thriller, romance,seduction and everything was accomplished perfectly by Director Dennis Hopper.But i don't know why the rating of this movie is so low,certainly it deserves better rating.The plan of making fire and robbing bank by Harry Madox was good, but the ultimate game planing and game playing by Dolly Harshaw made the story certainly stronger.I think Virginia Madsen was the best performer of this movie playing very seductive and bad character. Jennifer Connelly was brilliant by expressing her innocent and good image.Don Johnson did his job very well also.Director made a good point in the end that we should certainly find our level. "},{"Title":"When Harry Met Dolly","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hot Spot is an immensely entertaining modern film noir thriller which is rich in style, atmosphere and authenticity. These impressive qualities, no doubt, stem from the fact that it's directed by Dennis Hopper whose genuine affinity for this type of material is obvious and also the fact that the original screenplay (which was adapted from Charles Williams' book Hell Hath No Fury) was written by Williams and Nona Tyson back in 1962. Ueli Steiger's photography and a tremendous soundtrack featuring such luminaries as John Lee Hooker, Miles Davis and Taj Mahal also make very significant contributions to the look and mood of the piece.The movie's characters include all the familiar noir archetypes and also many of the expected themes such as murder, blackmail, double crosses and robbery. The plot takes a number of interesting twists and turns and in keeping with the time in which it was made, the sex and violence are considerably more explicit than would have been possible during the heyday of film noir. The presence of extreme heat is also a consistent feature throughout the film. Desert scenes, perspiration, two major fires in a small town and scenes where the shimmering heat rises from ground level are just some examples of how it's represented visually but the hot blooded nature of some of the characters and their steamy affairs also serve to reinforce the power of the theme.Harry Madox (Don Johnson) is a drifter who arrives in a small Texas town during sizzling hot weather and is soon attracted by the sight of a good looking young woman who he follows to a used car lot. There, he takes a job as a salesman and gradually gets to know Gloria Harper (Jennifer Connelly) who is the bookkeeper at Harshaw Motors. She appears to be rather reserved and naive but something that happens when they go together to deal with a potential repossession case convinces him that she's hiding something.Gloria isn't the only attraction in town that he finds irresistible as there's also the local bank and Dolly Harshaw (Virginia Madsen) who is his boss' wife. The bank doesn't have a functioning security system and is staffed by part-time firemen who leave the property unattended each time they get a call out. Harry sets a building on fire, robs the bank and then bravely rescues a man who's trapped in the burning building and thereby provides himself with an alibi.Harry initially tries to resist Dolly's less than subtle advances but is soon lured into a torrid and dangerous affair with her. At the same time, he continues his relationship with Gloria who's the girl he wants to settle down with permanently. He discovers that she's being blackmailed and resolves that problem violently but another problem created by Dolly proves to be insurmountable.Don Johnson gives a particularly understated performance as the deeply cynical and self serving Harry who believes that in this life, you've got to take what you want, damn sure can't stand around and wait for somebody to give it to you. He also seems bitter and agitated at times and says that life's just been a succession of jams over floozies. He immediately fell for Gloria and saw a better future for himself with her but when Harry met Dolly, what followed led him to reflect that I found my level and (now) I'm livin' it.Virginia Madsen is sensational as the sultry, shameless and seductive femme fatale who is incredibly manipulative and on one occasion, literally uses sex as a murder weapon. Jennifer Connelly's facial expressions convey her character's combination of innocence, fear and sadness very convincingly and the remainder of the cast also provide good support with some colourful and eccentric performances. The best of these come from William Sadler who plays a despicable blackmailer and Jack Nance who excels as the lecherous, heavy drinking banker. "},{"Title":"Steamy and atmospheric","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Dennis Hopper was such a charismatic actor that it's easy to forget that he was also an accomplished director. The Hot Spot is a film which seems to be almost forgotten. Yet it is an excellent piece of work.Don Johnson is a drifter who takes a car salesman job in a small town, and becomes embroiled romantically with two local women innocent secretary with a secret Jennifer Connelly, and earthy married woman with rich older husband Virginia Madsen. Within this limited scenario, quite a lot of plot takes place.Johnson has always seemed a bit lightweight to me, but he is excellent in this. And the two female leads are both excellent, giving performances which are both intense and highly sexual, in two very different ways.But it is Hopper's direction which gives the film an overpowering air of oppressiveness, sex and, yes, heat. It is not called The Hot Spot for nothing. "},{"Title":"Yow! This movie is hot!!","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yow! This movie is hot!! Everything about the setting, characters, and situations is sizzling. A drifter (played by Mr. Cool himself, Don Johnson) wanders into town with the intentions of setting up a bank robbery and moving on, but quickly gets caught in the small southern town's sticky web. The web is spun by the only two major attractions the town has to offer the blonde (Virginia Madsen) and the brunette (Jennifer Connelly). The plot gets as thick as the humid air as all the characters begin to collide. The film offers good acting by the aforementioned as well as Charles Martin Smith, Barry Corbin, and William Sadler. The score and the setting bring the movie to life on the screen as the anxiety and raw instinct reach a climax. The movie is a slow-mover at times, but is definitely worthy of recommendation. "}{"Title":"If you liked Double Indemnity and Postman Always Rings ...","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" you'll really like this.The movie is superbly unhurried, has a wonderful script, truly astonishing chemistry among Don Johnson (what a fine and terribly underrated actor he is), Virginia Madsen (amazing in this - just amazing) and Jennifer Connelly, great atmosphere, fascinating locations, you feel the heat, savor the colors, want one of those Cokes they're always drinking.Casting is so important in a movie like this - and Madsen, Connelly and Johnson are just so at home with each other - and with this place - they know these characters down to the ground.This movie is a real pleasure to see - incredibly sexy, the heat wages just seem to rise from the sidewalk, the smell of frenzy from the car seats of their convertibles.This is a real surprise to me - great credit to director Dennis Hopper and all the actors. I'd no idea what to expect - it was wonderful. "},{"Title":"Deeply satisfying Nouveau Noir","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite plenty of sunshine and the presence of 80's stalwart Don Johnson, this is quintessential film noir, a little gem that reeks of Stanwyck and Mitchum and ripples with pithy one-liners, nicely convoluted plot twists and a classic moral triangle.All the leads deliver knowing and unhurried performances, aided by a lean, laconic script and smooth direction - Jennifer Connelly is the astonishingly beautiful innocent, gradually bring dragged into a corrupt world ; Virginia Madsen simmers perfectly as the amoral and predatory manipulator ; and Don Johnson brings style and swagger to the central role, the cynical opportunist who finds a moral redemption of sorts, an outsider who finds himself both player and played in a seedy small-town intrigue.Like all the best noir, Hot Spot starts with the implicit assumption that the audience is grown-up and able to appreciate subtlety and inference, and this understated adherence to story and character is a long way from the referential post-modernism of Tarantino. And while it probably lacks some of Tarantino's flash and bravado, the dialogue drips with innuendo and irony, and I challenge anyone not to get caught up in both the ingenious narrative and the sheer enjoyment of the supporting cast, who provide plenty of visual and verbal humour. The silences and raised eyebrows at various points are a delight, we can work out the meanings for ourselves (and it's nice to be trusted to do that), and I don't think Don Johnson has been better before and or since.If you are looking for a Scorsese/Coppola-style gangster film, or an intricate ensemble piece with plenty of shooting like The Usual Suspects or Reservoir Dogs, this might not be your bag. If you think Sin City was at all challenging or subtle (or in fact that it genuinely qualifies as film noir) it's not for you either. But if your taste runs to Double Indemnity, The Big Heat or Out Of The Past, I can almost certainly guarantee that - like me - you will find The Hot Spot deeply satisfying, a storytelling treat that exemplifies the best of the genre and, unlike most of its late 80's/early 90's contemporaries, easily stands the test of time. "},{"Title":"A Drama with Romance and Sex mixed","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie puts everything together in one exiting story. Love, Romance, Drama & Sex. A perfect everyday story, could be happened anywhere. It tells you, do not play with the devil! The story also tells a man if you have a plan what needs all your attention, do not get involved with love and sex until you finished this plan. I found the last words what Don J. spoke in this movie so strong and absolutely thru, I got the level what I deserve Amazing, I saw the movie when I was on a business trip in Chicago.Accidentally I switched to the TV station where this movie started. I never before saw the movie not did I here about this movie. I got so involved in this story that I started to know the out coming of the story.I felt to the end of the movie more and more that he will end up with his bosses wife. I hope many more people can enjoy this movieWolfgang "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. The plot is great. The characters are great. The cinematography is great. The Music is great. The ending is great. Dennis Hopper should direct more movies. This film drags you in and doesn't let go. Great character arcs. Don Johnson does a fine job of playing the drifter. His character really develops over the course of the movie and you see his many different sides. Virginia Madsen is also excellent as the Hell Hath No Fury character. Last but not least Jennifer Connelly is perfect. Perfect. I bought this film and am considering the sound track purchase as well. Give it a chance, you won't be disappointed. Also check out David Lynch's Wild At Heart Same class. Happy Viewing! "},{"Title":"If you fall out of bed again the cockroaches are gonna start talking.","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hot Spot is directed by Dennis Hopper and adapted to screenplay from the Charles Williams novel, Hell Hath No Fury, by Nona Tyson and Charles Williams. It stars Don Johnson, Virginia Madsen, Jennifer Connelly, Charles Martin Smith and William Sadler. Music is by Jack Nitzsche and cinematography by Ueli Steiger.Dennis Hopper loves film noir, he has been in some bona fide classic neo-noirs, whilst also turning his hand to directing that style of film making. The Hot Spot may not be a total success as such, but it is a superb effort that lovers of all things noir can feast upon. Story pitches Johnson as drifter Harry Madox, who lands in a Southern state town, bluffs his way into a car salesman job, plots a robbery, and then finds that two local ladies - of very different qualities - are about to change his life forever...I found my level and I'm living it.Hopper turns in a honest and faithful tribute to the first wave of film noir, but armed with the fact this was his era of film making relaxations, he gets to sex things up. Blending noir with erotic thriller conventions allows Hopper to pile on plenty of sizzle, which comes in the form of Madsen, who as Dolly Harshaw gives neo-noir one of its finest femme fatales. Overtly sexual and on the surface a ditz, an easy lay, it's only when this part of noirville shows its hand - in true old school fashion - does the character become memorable still further.On the flip side is Connelly's more straight laced Gloria Harper, who Madox coverts, yet there's baggage there as well (is she virginal?), baggage which adds more potency and trickery to this smouldering hot spot hot-pot. The girls are great, but so is Johnson, he broods and has a raw masculinity most fitting for this type of role. It's a shame he didn't do more neo-noir because he has the tools for the trade. Hopper brings sweat, sweaty close ups and noirville fans, while the photography and musical accompaniments are superbly compliant to the required atmosphere.The editing is a let down, so many scenes needed to have the linger factor, but it's not enough to kill this fine slice of noir pie. A sexy guy in over his head, devious machinations from both sexes, robbery, arson, deaths, ignorance and stupidity, The Hot Spot is far from being boring! The deliberate slow burn pacing has alienated the casual crime/erotic thriller film fan, but for those who love and know their noir, the fireplace cinders approach is a joy because the pay off delivers all that we hoped. 8/10 "},{"Title":"# 58  Hoper is a better director than actor (web)","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an humble movie with a limited scope but the characters are original, interesting and are played by a strong cast  sure, they are not big names from Hollywood but they have proved their talent in Lynch movies, in Lucasfilm, in famous TV shows (« X files » and « Miami vice »). Young Jen is great as a junior girl in love, victim of blackmailing. It's the first time that I watch Don Jonhson  he has a sure class and impressive physical presence, thus he is really better than I would have imagined. To enhance the pleasure, the directing is not candid  As Hoper is also a painter, it's easy to see that he made efforts to frame the picture. Be aware that the title is accurate because in this lost small town, women sensuality is high but then, it's not outrageous or gratuitous because it's at the heart of the story. "},{"Title":"Almost hits the spot","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE HOT SPOT isn't the greatest neo-noir out there, but all credit where it's due, Dennis Hopper does nail that steamy South vibe. He doesn't get very flashy with the visuals, and the movie does feel like it's a good 30 minutes too long ... but the mood is definitely there, and it's got a pretty damn good soundtrack. Makes for a decent time at the movies.The real icing on the cake is the movie's eye candy. Between the demure Jennifer Connelly and the dangerous bombshell Virginia Madsen, these are two unbelievably attractive women. And Hopper knows it. Don Johnson, to his credit, fits right in with the out-for-trouble Harry Maddox, and it's a great distance from Sonny Crockett. It's a good performance.But he's rightly upstaged by the gorgeous ladies.6/10 "},{"Title":"Spot on","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Right from the start, The Hot Spot promises something different &#x96; it has a terrific sense of place, and we feel we already know a lot about Don Johnson's character. Although heat, sex and southern accents are nothing new to drama, they haven't often been put together in a slicker package &#x96; Dennis Hopper took film noir on a trip to Texas and came up with a polished, classy-looking movie with great lines and a few twists you don't see coming.The icing on the cake is a soundtrack featuring Miles Davis and John Lee Hooker, which punctuates the story at key points with knowing grunts and moans. The repeated refrain, Well, well, well, suggests a weary acceptance of human frailty.Johnson's character, Harry Madox, arrives in the Texas town of Landers. He is a drifter, a smart one, but his life seems to be going nowhere. One of the characters puts his finger on the problem when he says to Harry, What are you anyway &#x96; 35-36? Well, you sure as hell haven't set the world on fire so far or you wouldn't be hanging around a place like this. Yeah, replies Harry, but I've got ambition.Harry is ready for any opportunity that presents itself, and it doesn't take him long to shake things up, especially the libidos of two women &#x96; Gloria Harper and Dolly Harshaw &#x96; played by Jennifer Connelly and Virginia Madsen.Using his wits, Harry gets a job at the used car lot owned by George Harshaw where the beautiful Gloria works. Not long after, he meets Harshaw's wife Dolly, and begins an affair with her. There are only two things to do in this town, she informs him, and as he doesn't have a television set, that only leaves one thing to do. Before the film has finished, Harry and Dolly make love in Harshaw's bedroom, in a car at the used car lot, and even in a sawmill after an evening of spectacular skinny-dipping. Despite Dolly's attraction to him, Harry's interest in Gloria continues to grow, although she is only 19 to his 36.Virginia Madsen throws herself into her role as the scheming wife of a much older man with heart trouble. Her performance is showy, amusing and over-the-top. She provides the light moments in a film that might otherwise be heavy going. She is also the perfect contrast to Jennifer Connelly's detached and ethereal Gloria.Despite his preoccupations, Harry sizes up the Landers bank and pulls off a robbery. He immediately comes under suspicion from the law. After a swim with Gloria &#x96; there is a lot of swimming in this film &#x96; Harry learns she is being blackmailed by a low-life named Frank Sutton over photographs that suggest she has had a lesbian relationship. William Sadler as Sutton embraces the white trash clichés with relish and delivers a superbly repellent character. Sutton also attempts to blackmail Harry over the bank robbery. Harry's attempt to solve both blackmail problems precipitates the film's final act.The Hot Spot hits the right spot with a great script and perfect performances &#x96; it also has a twist ending to rival the best of them. It's surprising that it didn't do better when first released but it's a great little discovery for anyone who comes across it now. "},{"Title":"Soundtrack is the hottest thing since toast","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well the film's OK, classic Dennis Hopper stuff, but what is really significant about this movie is the soundtrack. As someone recently remarked in CDNow this is the only example of Miles Davis, John Lee Hooker and Taj Mahal working together, and produced by Jack Nitzsche. Jack, of course, amongst his many many credits, also produced the score for <Blue Collar>, with an astonishing track by Captain Beefheart which never appears on compilations (I think). Anyway, back to Hot Spot. The mood of this film noire is almost totally created by the soundtrack. Check it out, if you can. Also note that one of the tracks, 'Harry's Philosophy', was sampled last year by the French jazz group St. Germain. Got to rush, or would say more. "},{"Title":"In a dark world a Nice Tall Clean Cool (Beautiful) SODA known as Jennifer Connelly would be great.","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is dark movie indicating many people are faithless and totally immoral. This movie feature many evil characters doing many evil things. When the drifter Harry Madox (Don Johnson) reaches a small town in Texas, he gets a job as used car salesman with the dealer George Harshaw (Jerry Hardin) and settles down in a hotel room. During a fire, Harry observes that the local bank is left empty and open without any security. Sooner he plots a scheme to rob the bank, provoking a fire in his room to distract the employees. When Harry meets George's wife Dolly Harshaw (Virginia Madsen), the easy woman teases him and they have sex. Harry becomes the prime suspect of the bank heist and is arrested, but Dolly provided the necessary alibi to release him and blackmails him to have a love affair with her. Another evil character Frank Sutton appears in the movie and commits blackmail. There are murders and other evil events. This was filmed in dark lighting with many scenes at night. It depicts a very dark world.If this is the world you like where right is whatever you can get away with, then this is your movie. I unfortunately found this movie quite depressing. The reason I saw this movie is the one character Gloria Harper who is a nice tall clean cool character (or soda as Harry Maddox says during the movie) compared to the other evil characters. She is played by the Angelic looking Jennifer Connelly who at 18 she is the best looking woman I have ever seen in a movie. She is the reason to watch this dark ugly story, if there is a reason. "}{"Title":"Sweat Drenched Experience.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I viewed this movie was when I was a kid. At that time Virginia Madsen caught my attention with her seductive look and the put on southern accent. To avoid embarrassment I would record the movie secretly without my parents knowing, so I could watch it in my private time. It was one of those movies that generated so much curiosity within me. After countless repeated viewings this has been one of my cult favourite noir movies of the 90s. It gets better each time of watching. The sultry feeling that the movie evokes is very addictive to anyone who understands this genre of cinema.The veteran actor Dennis Hopper jumped on the directing saddle for this movie. The man has dazzled all of us with his great foray of diverse roles that he played over the years. As his number of directed projects is limited, this is clearly one of his movies that stand out of the crowd. 'Colours' was brilliant too, being his second best. Hopper's style of direction is nothing special, however he has proved that he can direct. This movie is very reminiscent of the classic 40s and 50s cinemas at the time when original thinking and creativity was on the horizon. That era has been more of an inspiration for todays filmmakers. 'The Hot Spot is a classic example of a novel adaptation by Charles William Smith, originally titled 'hell hath no fury'. I cannot compare the two as I have not read the novel.The movie has the perfect setting to tell a story of unsavoury characters who are not what they may seem. Austin, Texas provides the backdrop for so the sun drenched look provides enjoyment. It is a place where even your neighbour will keep an eye on you. Plus anything that a person would do will arouse attention.***************************SPOILERS AHEAD******************************* Don Johnson is a small time drifter who enters in to the town with an unknown background. He lures himself in to a car salesman job but finds himself attracted to the secretary Jennifer Connely. His bosses wife played by Virginia Madsen also sets her sights on him and starts laying her cards on the table from the very onset to put him in the stitch. He has intentions to rob a local bank and make money the easy way, However afterwards concealing what he done becomes difficult as certain individuals know about the robbery. Connelly herself has personal issues. She is being blackmailed and as Johnson intervenes, it makes matters worser for him. ***********************END OF SPOILERS******************************* The movie contains the right proportion of ingredients that make the perfect intriguing neo noir movie. There is mystery, twists and turns and blackmailing thrown in for good measure. While watching the movie one does get the feeling that something is not right in the atmosphere. The movie does move at a slow pace which is the downside. Therefore one does have to maintain concentration while viewing. The reason for this is because the characters are introduced in such a way. Patience is a virtue. The background score is just perfect nd does not resort to using melodramatic music. There are constant usage of heavy sounds which make a good enough impact. Three or four flaws are evident in the script.As the movie progresses the different sides to the characters are slowly uncovered. Virginia Madsen steals the show as the money hungry wife who will stop at nothing to get what she wants. She plays the role to her full potential in the realistic manner. Jennifer Connelly who looks older than a 19 year old plays her part very subtle. Her character is adorable yet innocent. Don Johnson is the character that every hot shot man envies. His charisma and personality just makes any woman ooze. Noboby else could have played the role more better than he did.You will know if this movie is for you. I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a brilliant movie. Everyone gave a brilliant performance. The usp of the movie is the plot. Since it was an adaptation, Dennis Hopper transformed it brilliantly in to a movie.The movie is over 2 hours. Howver this does not prevent it from being an enjoyable experience. Virginia Madsen plays the femme fatale vixen who lures Don Johnson in to a dead end situation. This was truly one of her best performances ever. Jennifer Connely who is quiet young here plays the secretary for Johnson's boss.There are many twists and turns to keep the viewer glued to the screen. So the noir movie fan will not be disappointed. My highlight of the movie has to be the conversation in the car between saddler and Johnson. The background score is quiet subtle. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is like going back in time to the drive in. Very good acting, a great plot, and solid directing make this movie a must see. Also it's nice to see Don Johnson at the top of his game and Jennifer Connelly is great in her role. "},{"Title":"A Different Don Johnson.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually when you see something on your T.V. screen with Don Johnson in it, you can expect him to play the cocky, loud, happy-go-lucky character who can also show some rage if things don't go his way that he brought to Miami Vice. Well, surprise, surprise!In The Hot Spot he plays someone against his type, and it's a shock. This film is the story of a drifter who comes to some little town in the U.S. South. He gets a job as a used car salesman, but he plans to rob the bank of it's money, probably because he must of seen it a million times on The Dukes Of Hazzard. While this is planned and later achieved, he gets involved with two women, one a married woman who is a bit wild and unpredictable, the other your usual sweet thing. As expected with love triangles, it'll all come to a head. Don Johnson is more subdues here, he delivers his lines in a humble, melancholy tone. He's not the cocky blowhard like in most of his work. You kind of feel sorry for the mess he's putting himself in, because he doesn't know better. Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly play their roles as the sex-addicted married woman and the innocent teen (respectively) adequately. The music is great with John Lee Hooker, Miles Davis, Taj Mahal, and other great blues/jazz artists. The setting is as steamy as Tennessee Williams could conjure. Of course, Dennis Hopper, who directed this, goes as far as he can with the R-rating as he could here without getting into the NC-17 area. Not bad, a little slow, but I need to see this one again; it's not too often you get Don Johnson-the quiet type. "},{"Title":"atmospheric but lethargic","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drifter Harry Madox (Don Johnson) hustles an used car salesman job from owner George Harshaw in a small desert oasis Texas town. Gloria Harper (Jennifer Connelly) is the secretary and a damsel in distress paying the lascivious Frank Sutton (William Sadler). George's wife Dolly (Virginia Madsen) is the flirtatious femme fatale who starts an affair with Harry. He sets a fire as a distraction to rob the local bank. He ends up as a hero rescuing a guy from the infernal and Gloria falls for him. The police suspects him as a blind customer fingers him for the robbery but Dolly provides him with a false alibi.Director Dennis Hopper is making a kind of old time pulpy sexy noir thriller. He doesn't really succeed. Johnson and Madsen have those sweaty broad performances. Connelly is absolutely alluring as the ingénue. The slow lethargic pace takes its toll. The atmospheric can only carry it so far. "},{"Title":"Over-Baked for Your Pleasure&#x85;A Fine Neo-Noir from Dennis Hopper","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Dennis Hopper Seemed to Ride This Movie's Heat Wave With an Unrestrained Irresistibility to Linger On the Lurid. It Makes the Film. Given that Two Radiant Beauties Headline the Cast, a Yin-Yang of Noir Stereotypes, There is Much to Admire and Ogle.Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly are Simply Sublime and Saturated with the Attributes Fitted for the Femme Fatale and the Innocent Lovely. While Madsen is Never Off the Over the Top and is Parody Personified, the Character is Pure Pulp and Can Never be Taken as Anything More than Annoying at Times. Connelly, On the Other Hand is Restrained and Cuddly as a Puppy Dog.Don Johnson, as the Flawed Criminal with a Good Heart and a Throbbing Libido, is Fine and Betrays Expectations with a More than Phoned In Performance. Director Hopper Frames this Neo-Noir with Beautiful and Deadly Images. The Geography is Stifled by the Heat, Looks Over Baked and Sterile. The Characters that Inhabit the Small Texan Town Go About There Unremarkable Existence Overwhelmed by the Rising Thermometer and Dirty, Dusty Architecture.The Blackmailer's Shack is Something Out of a Horror Show and the Boss's Mansion is Decadently Decorated with Stuffed Dead Animals. All of the Actors Contribute to the Jim Thompson Like Ambiance Leyden with Lurking Hustlers and Grumpy Citizens. The Bluesy Soundtrack is Forever Present and Adds Flavor to the Steamy Surroundings with an Abundance of Well, Well and Primordial Grunts and Sexual Groans. Overall, it is a Better Than Average Neo-Noir that is Well Worth a Watch for Noir Fans that Can Wallow in All of its Glory. Dennis Hopper Knows that is Why You Came and is Anything But Reluctant to Let You Wallow and Wallow. "},{"Title":"Jennifer is there in her teens, what else you need?","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an average movie without Jennifer Connelly. But her presence made it a 7 for me. Story was nice and very well directed as well. considering it below average will surely be unfair. The innocence and unbearable beauty of young Jennifer made it a very special one. Believe me she is looking hell gorgeous in this movie. The way she speaks, walks and smiles in the hot spot she will never again. When i planned to watch this the only reason was Jennifer and Jennifer did not disappointed me either. If you are a fan of Jennifer this is a piece of paradise for you, and if you are not a fan of her i bet you will after watching this. 7 out of 10 from me to movie and 11 out of 10 to Jennifer. "},{"Title":"increasing noirish film","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hot Spot admirably captures (at least in the eyes of this Brit viewer) the atmosphere of a deadbeat Texan town, though this image is reinforced by those of its inhabitants featured in the film. There's a seedy owner of a used-car lot (who at least lives in some style) and his blatantly sex-mad wife, an equally seedy bank manager whose staff leave their tills and unlocked cash drawers when nearby buildings are on fire, and a blackmailing redneck. At least the police seem reasonable guys - no suggestion of corruption, rule-bending or the aggressive approach of those appearing In the Heat of the Night - but surely they would check the fingerprints of their prime suspect against those left at the scene of crime? It's not clear whether Don Johnson's drifter is a career criminal or an opportunist, but, a nifty little car apart, he has little to show for a man of his abilities, which include hunkiness, heroics and glib sales technique.I came across the film when channel-flicking (happily just as its title came up on screen), so I had no idea what sort it was, but it didn't take long for me to become interested in where the plot was going. It became increasing noirish, the only relief being an out-of-town scene at a lake; the drifter and his other love interest - a sweet office worker, albeit one with a secret - find this pleasant setting a welcome contrast to the dusty heat of the town, and for the viewers there is a short-lived suggestion that there might be a happy end of the road for the drifter.In fact the viewer has to work hard to keep up with and understand the ending, which is the subject of debate by other members of the IMDb forum. I didn't find it too convincing. I guess Dolly must like receiving, as well as giving very rough sex. And fine stud Harry may be, but surely that would be insufficient for her to want to blackmail him into marriage, the more so as in his later thirties he's not in the first flush of youth. "},{"Title":"Great Music highlights Hit and Miss modern noir","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kept thinking of &#145;Body Heat' during this modern noir movie of a small-town bored femme fatale, a rich husband and a man who thinks with the wrong part of his body. Despite numerous shots of a thermometer hovering around 100 degrees, obligatory shots of the ineffectual fan and broken coke machine, you never see anyone sweat in this movie. Just one of the details Dennis Hopper misses. Decent script. Don Johnson, Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly give competent, if not scintillating performances. Madsen is nowhere near Cathleen Turner, but some of the sex is pretty steamy.The best part of the movie is the music, by Jack Nitzsche, with performances by Miles Davis, John Lee Hooker, and Taj Mahal, among others. It's worth a rental. Try to see it on DVD if possible. If you like blues, consider the soundtrack for your collection.   "},{"Title":"A Dennis Hooper Film","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" *SPOILERS** Driving into this small out of the way Texas town drifter Harry Madox, Don Johnson, soon makes a name for himself by showing how good he is in selling a car to an unsuspecting patron. The guy was so impressed by Harry's line of BS that he didn't even know that he's not employed at the car dealership he bought it from!The sure of himself Harry Madox makes a B-line to the owner's, of the car dealership, office George Harshaw, Jerry Hardin, who seeing what a good job he did hires him on the spot. It turns out that Harry is a lot more complicated that you would have first thought. Looking for both action as well as money Harry by the time the movie is over gets himself involved with two women Harshaw's sexy wife Dolly, Virginia Madsen, and his young and even more sexier, in a sweet and innocent way, bookkeeper Gloria Harper, Jennifer Connally. Harry is also interested in knocking off the local bank run by the overly daffy and not that on the ball Julian Ward, Jack Nance. By starting an arson fire with the sheriff, Barry Corbin, and his deputies called on the scene Harry robs the place blind and then makes like a hero saving a drunk who was trapped in the building that Harry set on fire.Trying to cover all the bases Harry didn't expected to be identified by the local blind man, James N. Harrell,who saw Harry snooping around in the bank, all alone, before the fire started. It later turns out that the blind mans eye witness testimony was thrown out when Dolly stepped in and told, in a sworn affidavit, that she saw Harry outside the inflamed building before the bank was robbed! Knowing that Dolly, whom he just looks upon as a one night stand and nothing more, got him by the you know what's Harry is now forced to put up with her in the fear that she'll change her testimony in the bank robbery which would have him put behind bars.It's Harry's attempt to get in good with Harshaw's 19 year-old bookkeeper Gloria that really gets him into a jam. It turns out that Gloria is being blackmailed by the local town sh*t-kicker Frank Suttor, William Sadler. Suttor has a number of photo's of Gloria with her clothes off, but not doing anything naughty, and is using those photos to have her embezzle her, as well as Harry's, boss George Harshaw! What's even worse is that Suttor pulled the same thing on Gloria's sister Irene, Debra Cole. Sutton was blackmailing Irene with a number of nude photos that he secretly took of her while she was skinny-dipping with Gloria in a local pond but also with the fact that she was having a lesbian affair with her art teacher! All this drove the very sensitive and emotionally fragile young woman to kill herself.Harry does get to straighten things out for Gloria by doing a number on Sutton but that number, brutal beating, only leads to Harry being blackmailed by a vengeful Sutton with the knowledge that he robbed Julian Ward's bank! How on earth did Suttor, who wasn't at the scene of both the bank robbery or fire, know that Harry robbed the place? It turns out that Suttor had an accomplice in his blackmailing scheme that in effect lead Harry to go a step farther in the crimes he committed in town; murder!**SPOILER ALERT**Harry was too smart for his own good in thinking he could get away with what he did and live, with the beautiful Goria Harper, happily ever after. The evil and manipulative Dolly Harshaw was not going to let Harry slip away from her that easily. Having gone so far as murdering her sick, from having two previous heart-attacks, husband George after a night of wild and kinky sex Dolly was more then willing to go the full nine yards in getting Harry back with her. Harry didn't realize that both Dolly and Suttor were working together for different reasons. Suttor for blackmail money and Dolly for Harry's company and companionship.When the truth finally dawned on Harry he knew that the rest of his life was both sh*t and history with him either ending up getting life behind bars or a lethal injection up his left arm. Swallowing his pride and knowing that he'll never see his beloved Gloria Harper again Harry gave into the enviable; Life with no chance of parole as Dolly Harshaw's both live-in boyfriend and, with her being the one in control, kinky sex partner. A life that even the worst kind of death would be a vast improvement on! "}{"Title":"Alright, we know why you watched it ...","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably 2/3rds of the video rentals come from horny old men who ignore the rest of the flick to surf forward and gaze at Jennifer Connelly's amazing bare teenage chest. Fair enough, Jen's probably got the best bod in Hollywood history, she doesn't disappoint, let's move on.Beyond the titillation value, there's definite appeal here. Virginia Madsen is second in her generation only to Kathleen Turner, IMHO, in the degree of sheer vampiness she can bring to the screen. While Dennis Hopper's not often in control on the screen, his portrayals are almost always *interesting*, and like Jennifer, he doesn't disappoint either. Don Johnson puts in a workmanlike job in his own right.While the film's a bit overlong for what it is and a touch too predictable, it's far from a waste of a viewing evening.6/10. "},{"Title":"A rethink on a surprisingly good film-noir; BUT, STILL........","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A while back, I commented on this film, only to later delete my comment out of frustration, because of a certain cast member's performance.I am therefore very glad to come back and have another opportunity to express myself.To begin with, I still think Virginia Madsen was miscast in the role of Dolly Harshaw, but I must concede that her performance was not as disturbing as I first thought.Of course, in 1990, this movie did push the envelope regarding sensuality, but today it seems to be rather tame, that is when you compare similar movies being made.My problem is that while Virginia did force up the thermostat, you could tell she was still new to the role of 'femme-fatale' and her body language gave away a great deal of unease.She recently said that she would want to play such a role again if the script was right, and I am willing to agree with her especially since she is older and wiser... and SEXIER.But, clearly she was not up to par here.As to the rest of the movie, this is CLASSIC FILM-NOIR !!!! However, I think it would have played better in another Southern location, like Georgia or Louisiana; someplace HUMID !!! But, from what we have here, it is a surprisingly good story.Don Johson has a chance to knock off the local bank, as well as TWO pieces of hot local talent; one of them his boss's wife.HOW AUDACIOUS !!! And between the innocence of Jennifer Conolley and the sexiness of Virginia Madsen to turn his head, it is no wonder what happens in the end.But you will find that out !!!! Depending on your point of view, it is too bad that this movie didn't get more notice in general release, but from the way the members of the cast made out, WHO CARES !!!! "},{"Title":"Gritty","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE HOT SPOT is the story of a drifter (Johnson) who lands in a desert town with his eye on the local bank. Along the way, he gets tangled up with not one but two women who couldn't be more different. Virginia Madsen, at the height of her career, is the bored and perpetually horny wife of an aging car dealer. The ravishing Jennifer Connelley is the dealer's bookkeeper, all of 19 and innocent as the day is long. And in the desert, that's a mighty long day. Both sets their sights on the devilishly handsome and taciturn Johnson, who also was at the height of his career when he shot this modestly budgeted film noir directed in arch style by Dennis Hopper. There's a decent little twist at the end, although nothing we couldn't see coming a mile off down a long and straight desert highway. The film is populated by some of Hollywood's best character actors, including Charles Martin Smith, Jerry Hardin, Jack Nance, Barry Corbin and William Sadler. Some great lines of dialog, and as serious as the theme is, THE HOT SPOT is not played entirely straight -- to its lasting benefit. Looks a little dated today, especially the lame sex scenes, but the characters and plot have a timelessness to them. The title is both the name of the local strip joint and a reference to Madsen's constantly aroused genitalia. "},{"Title":"hot hot hot .....daaaaaaaaaaaammmmmmm it was hot!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  whew , this was a hot one!....as a movie buff who watches a lot of movies i can honestly say that this is one of the hottest real movies ever brought to screen.I always liked don johnson but this was is magnum opus performance it's was levels above anything else he ever did..jennifer connely was hot but her part was quiet and low key she did extremly well with role she was given. But virginia madsen was hot as hell...you know i always liked as a actress.....but man she burned a hole in my dvd player on this one......she generated  heat  that rivaled kathleen turner......and sharon stone not even close! this girl is sexy as hell......i haven't anything this hot and steamy since the big easy.....dennis hopper great great director  "},{"Title":"Is it just me or is it hot in here?","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the sueur-noir drama B flick The Hot Spot, a handsome stranger (Johnson) with a past but no backstory wanders into a dinky town where all the men are old, ugly, or stupid and the only women are two babes including a blonde vamp (Madsen) and a demure hottie with come-hither eyes (Connelly). As the plot unfolds the ingredients spill out and not surprisingly they are greed, deceit, murder, money, sex, and sweat. Not bad for a B flick, The Hot Spot should be a nominally entertaining small screen watch for anyone into the genre who doesn't mind an ample helping of T&A with their popcorn. Those interested in a similar but much better film should check out Paul Newman's oldie The Long Hot Summer. (B-) "},{"Title":"Hot Spot/ Hot Film","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has received some so-so reviews however I recommend it highly. It has an all star cast with Don Johnson, Jennifer Connelly and Virginia Madsen. There are many other faces you will recognize in the film. It is quirky just like the director Dennis Hopper. Lots of twists and turns and plenty of sex. Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly nude scenes are worth the watch alone. It is a good story complete with Don Johnson snappy one liners and him at his height of cool. This was made during the Miami Vice days. Don Johnson is a drifter who blows into town and gets a job at a used car lot. Soon there are tales of romance, lust, crime, murder and robbery that are woven together in a manner that makes sense. It is a very entertaining film. The scenery of the locations are great too. I dig the film so much that I bought it. Cool classic cars in it too. "},{"Title":"Hot enough for you?","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don Johnson is a brazen, taciturn, suntanned stud who rolls into town like Paul Newman in The Long Hot Summer. Women melt when he appears, both the stimulus-hungry Virginia Madsen (wife of the town's rich but dim community leader) and virginal drop-dead gorgeous Jennifer Connolly (who labors behind a desk at the used car lot). To make a long story short -- and it is rather long -- Madsen throws herself on Johnson at once. A more languorous non-sexual affair develops between Johnson and Connolly. Johnson robs a bank and kills Connolly's blackmailer. Just as Johnson and Connolly are about to leave town with a bag full of legitimate cash, Madsen intervenes. She has filed a statement with her lawyer of every sin Johnson has committed, like the bank robbery, the justifiable homicide -- which statement to be released in case something happens to me. She now owns Johnson, just as she owns her mansion and her pink Caddilac. The broken-hearted Connolly goes back behind her desk for what we can only assume will be the remainder of her life.The movie reflects a very curious set of values at times. The unkempt blackmailer, Sadler, has his shack strung about with pics of nude women. Sadler and Johnson have a terrific fist fight there. Furniture is destroyed and so is the blackmailer's face. The fight ends with Johnson wrapping a couple of strings of dirty pictures around the half-conscious Sadler and muttering, You like dirty pictures, huh? And we're rooting for Johnson -- Yeah! Give it to him, the filthy pornographer! Well, the director, Dennis Hopper, means us to root for Johnson because nobody likes a cretin who collects porno. But take a closer look at Don Johnson's character. The guy we're rooting for has been adulturating somebody else's wife, has burned down an office building, endangered the life of an innocent man sleeping off a drunk, is 36 years old and putting moves on a girl who was 18 (half his age), is guilty of obstructing justice and public nudity, was an accessory after the fact to blackmailing, has outwitted a blind man, uttered foul words on screen, and probably lied to his Mom as a youth about why he was spending so much time in the bathroom. And that's all BEFORE the homicide. Some hero! That's why I was glad to see him hoodwinked by Virginia Madsen at the end. He winds up married to a murderous nymphomaniac who will betray him at every opportunity but will never let him go.I don't know why Jennifer Connolly couldn't have come to me for help instead of that miscreant. Has there ever been a more sublime set of features? Her rubescent lower lip droops and exposes a couple of over-sized, dazzling white incisors that look specifically designed for gnawing ears of corn. Can she act? In front of the answer to that question lies a Master's thesis in aesthetics.Don Johnson isn't bad. He doesn't seem to exude the kind of pheromones the part calls for but he goes with the flow, the way Kevin Costner does. Virginia Madsen CAN act. This is a sluttish figure she's playing and she comes at it swinging. Okay, it's excessive. But I'm guessing that both she and Hopper figured the stereotyped role might as well be played for amusement as much as drama. She was exactly right in a tiny role in Coppola's The Rainmaker, as a recently deinstituionalized psychotic -- just the opposite sort of character. The villain is fine as the villain. I've seen him in other roles, always as a villain.It's not clear exactly when the film is set. The late 50s, I'd imagine, judging from the mores, the cars, and the amenities. The town is Landers, Texas, but it might as well have been Glanders, Texas, because it is mentally inert, its only engine being that provided by the expression of the most libidinous drives -- sex, greed, power, corruption, and violence. We see only two ordinary citizens, a frail and elderly couple squatting on the floor, the husband reading to his wife (aloud) from the Bible. That's a nice touch, really. Hopper also must have had an inspired set designer and director of photography. Near an abandoned sawmill, out in the woods, in the middle of nowhere, there appears a sybaritic room full of candles, incense, billowing curtains, and booze. The location shooting is just fine. You can practically feel the heat. It's enough to give you restless legs syndrome. "},{"Title":"Interesting Plot, Hits the Spot","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not overly impressed by this movie, yet the plot was good, the characters and relationships developed well and there were enough plot twists to keep you guessing until the end.The four central characters were all interesting.  Don Johnson (Harry Madox) looks a little like Bret the Hitman Hart in the movie (with short hair). I never liked him in Miami Vice and don't really like him in this movie either. He does however play his character well (womaniser, good looks etc..and is the movie an ad for cigarattes because i counted at least 30 times he lit up in the movie).Virginia Madsen (Dolly Harshaw) is the manipulative schemer, psycho who once she has her claws into Madox won't let go.  She is also a good looking lady (and plenty of nude scenes for those that like the flesh in movies).  She got annoying as the movie progressed (but that is probably demonstration of how well she played her role, I think you are meant to hate her).Jennifer Connelly ( Gloria Harper), there is something about this girl. Innocence yet also the temptress ( Mulholland Falls springs to mind).  She also is not afraid to bare her skin in the movies although in this movie there is not an abundance of it.  Her character is the romantic interest of Madox.  Interestingly they don't live happily ever after even though right up to the end this is what you think will happen.William Sadler is the 4th key element.  He plays Frank Sutton who has been blackmailing young Gloria over the last 12 months.  He too becomes annoying and his demise is a happy moment in the movie.It's not the greatest movie ever made, and certainly not a DRAMA.  BUt it has a certain element of appeal that makes it worth watching. "},{"Title":"The women are hot .. the movie not so hot ..............","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll get right to the point. This movie is way too long and way too slow. It put my girlfriend to sleep, and except for some beat down violence, this really is a chick flick. Meanwhile, I kept waiting for some kind of payoff, but the conclusion is more of a cop out than a satisfactory resolution. Sure Don Johnson traps himself in a small town crime web, and there are several steamy sex scenes, but overall the film lacks impact. Charles Martin Smith is totally wasted in a car salesman role that is so unimportant, it could have been played by a no name actor. I realize some reviewers rave about this noir, but for me it wasn't worth the time invested. - MERK "},{"Title":"lukewarm at best","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reformed rebel director Dennis Hopper's neo-noir thriller is something of an anachronism a fairly typical example of the genre updated with oral sex and graphic gunshot wounds. Heartthrob Don Johnson plays the usual drifter, wandering into a small Texas town and finding himself pulled in one direction by the lovely Jennifer Connelly and pushed in another by sultry nymphomaniac Virginia Madsen. The script wants to show the age-old conflict between good and evil, but it's a hard sell, especially when even the supposedly virtuous Connelly comes across like a sexpot fashion model. Likewise the entire film adds up to little more than a lot of self-conscious posturing, and with so many plot twists borrowed from so many other (better) film noirs this example limps on at least twenty minutes too long before the anti-climactic ending. "}{"Title":"Wins your trust... then abuses it.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts off well; it quickly draws your attention with believable characters and settings and a gripping emotional situation. However, from here it goes downhill. The writer and director seem determined to turn conventional notions of how a movie should flow on its head.Normally, I find myself pleased when a movie departs from the norm and surprises me. The Hot Spot is the exception. It just left me with a bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"An average movie that could have been much better than it was","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, with a fairly good cast and decent, if not stellar, direction, suffers from the malady of idiot plot (in order for the plot to work out, various cast members have to be idiots at points in the film) and really never recovers from this illness.  The parts are so much more than the whole here.  That's sad, because it could have been s much better with a bit more work on the script before they shot one foot of film.  Worth catching for bits and pieces (William Sadler is very good here), but not a significant effort here. "},{"Title":"The boss's house is bigger than his used-car lot","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE HOT SPOT seems to take place in a town of whatever size is convenient at the moment. The town is so small that the volunteer firefighting force can't be mustered without leaving the bank unstaffed, but it's big enough to support a spacious strip joint with girls on four platforms at a time. The used car lot seems to need only one salesman, the boss, and a clerk, but it supports the boss and his wife in an enormous mansion. Oh yes, someone mentions that he's also in real estate. I wonder who his buyers are. The production looks as if it couldn't even afford enough extras to give the impression of a populace.A bigger problem, though, is the lead actors. It's hard to identify with Don Johnson in a part that should have gone to Dennis Hopper himself if only Hopper were younger. Hopper can draw our sympathy or fascination by giving his character a look of underlying fear or insanity. Don Johnson just looks smug, and so does Virginia Madsden.The best thing is the soundtrack, matching the minimalism of John Lee Hooker with the minimalism of Miles Davis. There were more black people on the soundtrack, by the way, than in the cast. "},{"Title":"Not so hot","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Often dull, filled with unsympathetic characters and with some rather ludicrous twists along the way, The Hot Spot is a big disappointment. The story revolves around Harry Madox, a mysterious loner who shows up in a small Texas town and immediately gets a job as a car salesman. Before long he's carrying on an affair with the boss' wife while simultaneously falling for the beautiful young woman who works at the car dealership. In his spare time he robs a bank and despite the fact he'll be the obvious suspect he doesn't immediately leave town. Smart enough to rob a bank, not smart enough to leave afterwards. That's just the first of what will soon be many annoying and unbelievable plot contrivances. So our hero is soon arrested but then freed for no good reason. And then things devolve even further as Madox, the two women in his life and a slimy deadbeat who lives on the outskirts of town all become tangled up in a big web of nonsense. The whole thing strains credulity and it's rather boring to boot.Playing Madox, Don Johnson gives a rather wooden performance. As the young, seemingly innocent woman whom Madox falls for Jennifer Connelly is not bad but not great either. It is obvious that as an actress she had not quite honed her craft just yet. The character of the deadbeat is a bizarre one and playing the role William Sadler comes off as almost laughable when he's supposed to be mysterious and menacing. Probably the best performance comes from Virginia Madsen as the scheming, unfaithful wife but her character is so unsympathetic it's hard to fully appreciate Madsen's work. And there's really not much else to appreciate. The plot is weak, uninteresting and at times unbelievable. The film moves so slowly at times it seems to come to a dead stop. The lead characters are, Connelly's role excepted, entirely unsympathetic. There is nothing to hold the interest and the whole thing leaves a bad taste in your mouth. Disappointing all around. "},{"Title":"Virginia Madsen and Jennifer Connelly rocks my world","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two of the most sexy actress ever are starring this little stupid film witch make no sense at all. Jennifer Connelly is one hot babe I must say. I was more than happy to see her nude for the first time. If the movie had some hardcore scenes it would have been a masterpiece. Here is the story thanks to Ed Sutton.A loner (Johnson) drives into a small Texas town and gets himself a job at the used car place. Being an opportunist, he checks out the bank for security and begins setting fires around town in order to set up an eventual heist. The boss' wife (Madsen) wishes to use him for her own purposes, and begins attempting to manipulate him. He resists, however, as he finds himself falling in love with the accountant (Connelly) at work, who has her own problem to work out.Just rent it for Jennifer Connelly alone and you will be satisfied. "},{"Title":"A truly awful movie. Film noir? More like film not.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I tried to like this movie, but I couldn't. Like a stalled car, this movie kept turning over but never seemed to catch. Don Johnson's performance was as wooden as I have seen. Virginia Madsen valiantly struggled to inject some heart into this movie but her efforts were wasted. Jennifer Connelly was gorgeous but that is about all. Minor character casting was poor, and the premise that the Jerry-Reed-wanabe (Sutton) was a photographer...come on!The directing (Dennis Hopper) was good enough but the editor apparently had a rule that no scene could last more than five seconds. "},{"Title":"Decent but overlong film noir","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Hot Spot is a very close adaptation of Charles Williams' Hell Hath No Fury, retitled  to tie in with this film. (Why they had to change the title, I don't know.)The book is marvelous, one of the best 'crime pulps' of the fifties and as good as anything Jim Thompson ever wrote. The movie is curiously bloodless, never summoning the relentless drumbeat of fate the way the book so expertly does. You can read the book in about the time you can watch the movie, and though there's really nothing wrong with the film, it just doesn't satisfy. "},{"Title":"An Awful Waste Of Perfectly Good 35mm Film","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a confusing, sweaty mess of a film, that tries to be a sexy story of southern seduction, and turns into nothing more then a tribute to the heat and humidity of the south. If not for the talent (and body) of Jennifer Connelly, this movie would be a total waste.  "},{"Title":"A sorry movie without any point whatsoever.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot imagine how anyone could possibly rate this movie above a 1 or possibly 2.  The entire thing was laden with greed and avarice with no redeeming good qualities.  Gloria was an innocent victim, and Lon was too stupid to do anything good or bad, but all the rest were busy stabbing one another in the back.  It had no relevance to either life or entertainment. A definite waste of time. "}]