[{"Title":"A misunderstood film explained","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"96 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most people didn't get this film. But each of us has a different sense of humour and depth. JVTV is a subtle, witty film with morals, not like the bash 'em and blow 'em up Hollywood films of late. Meg Ryan shows her versatility as three separate, wonderfully funny characters and Tom Hanks (think of his character in The Money Pit but amusingly depressed) as Joe Banks trapped in a dead end job and is told he has a terminal illness. He is offered the chance to live like a king, die like a man by jumping into a volcano as part of a business deal where Joe gets to spend as much money as he likes before the big deed. Along the way Joe meets many characters who awaken him to the fact that life is worth living. This film is loaded with wonderful observations, a great score and songs, and standout performances. JVTV is one of those rare films you can easily watch again and again, and always makes me smile every time I see it.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"77 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am one of the few who saw this on the big screen TWICE when it opened. This is the movie I would take to the desert island, which miraculously has electricity a big screen and a DVD player. This is one of those rare films where every single character, no matter how minor, has a major impact on the hero and the plot. This film is also rare because the Lion's share of the funny and insightful dialogue belongs to the minor characters and not the protagonists. You have to love a movie where a luggage salesman is a major plot milestone. Ossie Davis is excellent as the wise Limo driver, Lloyd Bridges is hilarious, Tom Hanks is of course everyman, and Meg Ryan, in one of her funniest roles, is actually every woman. You know, the first time I saw you I thought that I had seen you before. A witty hero is commonplace and witty cast is truly memorable.The movie is probably too allegorical for most tastes, but this is a great tale about a character afraid of life, afraid of that next step, who finds his courage and puts his foot forward again. All in all this is one of the best kinds of movies, Funny and Hopeful. "},{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Delight","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"70 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For many people, the fact that I love this movie will throw the integrity of everything else I write about into doubt.  Joe has unfairly become an industry joke, shorthand for the depths to which Tom Hanks sank before redeeming himself with Academy Awards.  This fate is horribly undeserved. Joe is an imaginative and gloriously life-affirming movie, a hysterically funny fantasy nearly on a par with the best of Terry Gilliam with a carpe diem moral that comes across with a lot more honesty and a lot less preachiness than some other movies I could mention.  Every Tom Hanks performance is virtually flawless and this one ranks near the top.  Meg Ryan's performances are warm and hilarious.  Usually it's men who play more than one role in a movie and then it's more often for ego's sake than art's. Ryan pulls off her multiple characters with remarkable grace.  More amazingly, it makes perfect sense for her to play three characters.  For the sake of argument, I am willing to concede that there are those who just aren't going to enjoy this movie's unique mixture of whimsy and genuine emotion.  But for me, it's a classic, easily one of my favorite movies of the decade. "},{"Title":"One of the most overlooked movies ever","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"82 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In complete seriousness, I can say Joe Versus The Volcano is one of the best movies ever to come out of Hollywood. Sadly, it's also one of the most overlooked movies ever made. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan both are absolutely fantastic in this movie that really is an allegory about life. The movie has a fantastic script, is directed beautifully and stands up to the test of time. Hanks is at his comedic best as the soul-sick Joe, and Ryan is fantastic in her three roles. Why this movie didn't do better (despite a lack of promotion) is beyond me. It is one seems like one of those word-of-mouth movies that just keep getting bigger. I saw it three times in the theater, watched it numerous times on video and purchased the DVD the day it came out. But it's OK, I know a hidden gem when I see it. "},{"Title":"Quirky is not a dirty word...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...yet this eccentric comedy never quite found its niche with the public, and I don't know why. It's beautifully produced and written, wonderfully acted and endlessly weird (how many films can you say that about?). When sad-sack Tom Hanks decides to give up his life for a few days of luxury, we understand because his existence may be a lot like ours glum office job with lime walls, dirty floors, unpleasant co-workers, bad coffee and fluorescent lights on the fritz. When he's out to sea, floating on his luggage, he sees shapes in the sky at night that light up his face; he may be in a precarious position, stranded on the ocean, but he's the happiest and most alive he's ever been. What a wonderful moment in a movie chock-full of smart, sneaky laugh lines and throwaway bits of business that stay with one, growing beloved in the memory. Screenwriter John Patrick Shanley, also making his directorial debut, has a fine sense of pacing and a keen eye for the absurd beauty in our midst. Only in the final reel does the construction of the plot stumble, however this is due to film studio interference. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A sweet, wonderful romantic movie!","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"46 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It starts dark and dismal. It has to. The lower it starts, the higher the climax at the end when Joe is able to release his fears and live life to the fullest. A man is told he's dying of a brain cloud and has 6 months to live. Suddenly a stranger offers him a deal live like a king for a month, die jumping into a volcano. With nothing to lose, he sets out for a tiny island. Along the way he discovers how wonderful life is. Not even a shipwreck can bring down his spirits. The ending is terrifically happy. The music is great. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are just as wonderful here as in Sleepless in Seattle. Abe Vigoda rocks. Watch for Nathan Lane as one of the islanders. But the ultimate scene stealer is the luggage salesman. All in all, a sweet, wonderful romantic movie. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt one of the greatest movies ever made.","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"58 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a very tough critic, and most movies are nothing but incredible disappointments for me. However, Joe vs. the Volcano is a movie that I can honestly say is a cinematic masterpiece. When people call this a romantic comedy, they are committing a great injustice to this film. That is not to say that there is not romantic comedy in the story, but to say that it is the point of the film is monumentally short sighted. The real story in Joe vs. the Volcano is about coming to terms with yourself, finding that spark that we spend our lives searching for. It is about discovering our humanity and what that entails. Normally, this would end up being pretentious and sophomoric crap, but because the heavy subject matter is taken so lightly, we are treated to a modern fairy tale that runs the gamut in terms of emotional impact. The performances are stellar and to this day I have never enjoyed Tom Hanks more, the direction pays tribute to classic films with cinephillic glee, and the soundtrack is simply superb. 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"My All Time Favorite","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like many others who have commented, this movie speaks to me on many different levels.  Whenever my life gets out of control, this is the movie I plug in.  Joe is a character we can all identify with, and everyone has a bit of DeeDee, Anjelica and Patricia in them as well. I just wish Warner Bros. would release this on DVD (and the soundtrack, while they're at it).  By far the best Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan movie.  I just can't believe the low grade of this movie on IMD after reading mostly positive comments.  And the few who hate it should give it another chance, and pay no attention to the silly previews that exist on some older videotapes. "},{"Title":"Great talent - but too individual for today's film audience?","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The work of highly individual artists often prompts extremereactions in moviegoers. Based on the evidence of Moonstruckand the woefully underrated Joe Versus the Volcano, writer/director John Patrick Shanley could have developed into avital film figure on the level of a Frank Capra or Woody Allen, acreator whose personal voice would have given him a distinctiveidentity - potentially his artistic and commercial strength (orundoing).Joe Versus the Volcano has its occasional shortcomings, but itssheer conceptual audacity set it apart from the film fare of its day.Now, nearly a decade and a half after its premiere, the quality ofthe dialogue alone reminds us how far our THX-ed out, Dolbyed-out, effects-obsessed movie culture has fallen.The plot combines fantasy and satire in equal proportions. Joe(Tom Hanks), a seemingly passive man who's worked at adreadful, abusive, dead-end job for years is told he has anincurable disease (authoritatively diagnosed by physician RobertStack as a brain cloud.) Joe quits his job and receives an offerthe next morning to go on an all-expenses paid journey to a tinyisland...that will culminate with his leap into a volcano! Meg Ryan portrays three separate characters, and her glee inmasking her All-American Sweetheart screen persona ispalpable, particularly in the first segment. Even the occasionalgambits that fall slightly flat (for instance, Abe Vigoda's turn as aleader of island natives obsessed with orange soda) cannotseriously mar the overall brilliance of Shanley's work.As it turned out, the box-office failure of Volcano didn't deterHanks and Ryan from reteaming for the enormously popular butcomparatively colorless Sleepless in Seattle and You've GotMail. (It's probably no accident that these were far safercommercial bets than Joe, both owing large debts to earliermovies.) On the other hand, John Patrick Stanley has returned to craftingplays for live theater, apparently for good; one hopes his finelytuned ear and immense imagination will flourish in an environment that's largely removed from the demographicpanderings of Wal-Mart Nation. His gain is our loss. Earlier, I mentioned Frank Capra as a semi-analogue to Shanley.Perhaps this comparison may help If you are one of the many whocan't abide Capra's It's a Wonderful Life, you probably shouldstay away from Joe Versus the Volcano as though you had theplague...or even a brain cloud.9/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good, Unfortunately overlooked","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hanks has made many movies, most of which are very funny, emotional, and heartwarming. This movies is different from all his other movies it is a work of art. Every scene has its own idiosyncrasies. Ordinary characters and settings have subtle emotional undertones that tug at the heartstrings. Dan Hedaya and Sam Waterstone's performances, though humorous, have a tone that is more than the sum of its parts. Color and scenery also have a hidden beauty, such as in the scene with Joe's glowing warm in his cold, blue office, or the scene with the dog and child as he exits the doctor's office, or the scene with him all alone at his table at the hotel. I first saw the movie when I was 11 years old, even then, its beauty struck me. That beauty was well capped off by the montage during the end credits. Apparently, John Patrick Shanley, or someone, put alot of work in an otherwise ordinary movie. Imagine if Stanley Kuprick had directed You've Got mail. I'm surprised that the movie is not better known, especially that it is a big turning point in Tom Hanks career. Admittedly, his screen presence compensates for Meg Ryan's lackluster acting at times. She was best as a brunette and redhead than acting as herself. Nevertheless, a good movie, one to own and not just rent. "}{"Title":"A Nice, Uplifiting Film","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Consistently horrible reviews made me reluctant to watch this over a decade ago but when I did, I thought it was pretty good. I actually enjoyed it for the most part. Of course, I usually enjoy films starring Tom Hanks. However, I almost always hate every film Meg Ryan is in, so it balances out.Maybe I just liked Hank's role of a hypochondriac who is thinking of killing himself after he learns he's dying. No, I don't advocate that, but it's actually credible and darkly humorous.The film turns out to be a life-affirming, inspiring story in many ways because Hanks meets various people who change his outlook, from one of probable suicide to life is worth living. Maybe a positive message is the big reason the national critics didn't like it, as they tend to gravitate toward darkness, not light.If you're looking for a cute, lightweight feel-good film for the evening, I'd recommend renting this one. "},{"Title":"Delightful movie","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am delighted to find there are indeed folks who like JVV. I thought I was the only one. It is a delightful movie that can be watched for fun (I burst out laughing when the island chief made an appearance! great casting) or for deeper meaning. And the moon scene is beautiful.My only gripe is (spoiler alert!) when the yacht goes down taking the crew with it. I liked the crew and their watery deaths disturb me. If I were to remake this film (starring myself, of course, in the Ryan role) I have the crew pop up from the water, each clinging to one of the magic suitcases.thanks to everyone for sharing their thoughts... T.WJ "},{"Title":"Romantic, witty, smart and deep.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first and best of Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan's films together.  On the surface, a romantic screwball comedy about a guy hired to jump into a volcano to save an island tribe, but at the core of this wonderful movie (a 10 in my opinion) is the story of two complicated people who fall in love, while doing some major soul searching.  Hanks' character is a sad hypochondriac who becomes happy, charismatic and impulsive AFTER being diagnosed with a terminal disease (brain cloud).  He becomes involved with three quirky women (all played by Ryan, who uses her three acting styles with the characters--airhead, snobby and adorable) before making the leap.  Never dreary in tone (despite the premise), the movie is a deep, beautiful fairy tale for audiences (young and old) who like to think. "},{"Title":"Finding the Courage to Live Fully","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" -looks to be an esoteric message released into popular culture a la Gurdjieff. Joe is full of hints and symbols pointing to it's inner message of the wisdom of truly living. e.gDear God, whose name I do not know, thank you for my life. I forgot how big . . . thank you for my life My father says almost the whole world's asleep. Everybody you know, everybody you see, everybody you talk to. He says only a few people are awake. And they live in a state of constant, total amazement -Brought to mind Shakespeare's 'Tempest' (the 3 Megs=Caliban, Ariel & Miranda!) -Clearly related to Kurosawa's 'Ikiru' which might be remade by Spielberg & Hanks "},{"Title":"overlooked, bad-mouthed and misunderstood","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love to say this is my favorite movie of all time (of course not really, that has to be The Godfather on anyone's list). But I think this box-office bomb just gets an undeserved bad wrap. Quirky, funny and straight to the point, I think the story of Joe Banks probably hits too close to home for most Americans. To quote Tyler Durden in fight club we work jobs we hate to buy @*&?!! we don't need. The absolute drudgery of the work environment is out of sight. There is a whole monologue about fluorescent lighting sucking the very life out of the common worker. Meg Ryan is adorable playing 3 different characters, and Tom Hank's character gives the take this job and shove it speech of a lifetime. Worth a look if you've never seen it, and especially if you enjoyed early Tom Hanks comedies. At least that's my opinion. "},{"Title":"Big fan of the brain cloud","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I take a lot of flak from friends who say this movie is trash, but it is one of my all-time favorites. It's so kitschy and a classic example of the Hanks/Ryan chemistry. Favorite scenes include Mr. Waturi's I am not arguing that with you rant and when Joe and Patricia are floating on their makeshift boat and Joe sees the moon rise. The late Lloyd Bridges also turns in a stellar performances as Patricia and DeDe's dad Samuel Graynamore.It's one of those films I watch when I feel depressed, and inevitably, it lifts my spirits. My advice to critics of the movie is to view it as it is intended ... pure cinematic cotton candy. Don't expect to see an Academy Award winner, by any means.And ultimately, who - at one time or another - has not experienced a brain cloud? "},{"Title":"Cult following","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You might not get this movie if you see it just once or see it casually. But once you get past the initial confusion (because the movie is very different), and start to see all of the symbolism, then you'll get it. This movie has dozens of blogs devoted to it where people speculate about every meaning and symbol. I just found that out. I thought I was alone. I've seen this movie 15 times and to me it's a true masterpiece, nearly perfect in every frame, like Casablanca or Citizen Kane.Practically every name, line and visual image has multiple meanings. Many repeat throughout the movie, such as the lightning bolt, the dogs, the ducks. There are so many lines that will stick with you.Before you see the movie, check out some of the blogs and they'll point you in the right direction so you can get the most of the experience. "},{"Title":"A classic fable","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a highly underrated movie, that tells the story of one mans quest to find himself, and his soul.Tom Hanks, before the Oscars, gives as good a performance as anyone has on screen. The scenes of him at the factory in the beginning are priceless.Meg Ryan is also wonderful in several flashy roles.  She is able to create different characters, all with the same basic undercurrent of sadness and desire.Many wonderful cameos and short scenes with Lloyd Bridges standing out as the man who sends Joe Banks on his quest.This fantasy film is a great barometer of those that get it' and those that don't.  To me, it was perfect, and I wish they made more movies like this today.A ten out of ten.  Easily. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is absolutely brilliant. It is a comedy of immense proportions and also manages to be heart warming and touching.It follows a man through a journey of self discovery and along the way introduces us to the absurdities of daily living as embodied in the odd group of supporting characters.Meg Ryan plays three different characters, each one personifying a quirk of personality that we all possess. Tom's Joe goes through as many changes, yet all in the same character. This is how we track his growth.Some of the most effective scenes are the no or little dialogue scenes which exemplify Joe's journey, not just to the volcano, but to his self awareness.Along with the beautiful message, we are treated to some of the most clever visual comedy images ever filmed. Add to the mix a superb script and wonderful acting and you have a romantic comedy that I feel is a must see. "},{"Title":"Woefully Underappreciated...","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've never understood why this movie wasn't more popular. I just don't get it- great acting by Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan (in three very different roles), Ossie Davis and Dan Hedaya, among others. Terrific, quirky direction and an excellent script. This movie is just so much fun to watch. It should have been hailed as an instant classic. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Intelligent and inventively funny film, but also just plain weird","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For lack of better words, Joe Versus the Volcano is a romantic comedy. But then again, it's not even close to a romantic comedy. It has none of the formulaic standard elements that all romantic comedies seem to have. It has none of the formulaic standard elements of fantasy films. It also doesn't seem to have much of the slow, dry aspects of character dramas. And yet, Joe Versus the Volcano is a comedic film about Joe who finds romance, mostly set in a fantasy world.The highlight of the film is the comedy. It is laugh-out-loud funny in a very intelligent and inventive way. Tom Hanks as Joe is great at subtle comedy and Meg Ryan is great at over-the-top comedy. I enjoyed Hanks' character, an average Joe suffering from hypochondria, and I enjoyed Ryan's characters, weird at times, but ultimately cute and sweet.Written and directed by the genius playwright John Patrick Shanley, this is his first feature film. It has his trademark dialogue with quick wit, but it's also just plain weird. It's a very simple story which he tells too slowly at times, and the ending gets way too cheesy. But then again, that's probably on purpose, which makes it funny.If you're looking for a Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan movie which is not a romantic comedy, then Joe Versus the Volcano is your choice. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Quirky, and Wise","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, this movie isn't for everyone... but if you've ever worked a monotonous waste-of-life job like Joe Banks, or entertained semi-embarrassing notions of heroism and romance, you might like this.Personally, I loved it. Behind the campy humor (which is campy on purpose) is some real commentary on the half-awake/half-asleep state that most people live in. The most memorable part of this movie is definitely the sequence of Tom Hanks on the ocean before (and during) the moonrise, which is exquisite and simply beautiful. In fact, that sequence is quite possibly the finest acting Tom Hanks has ever done (we'll avoid mentioning his lamentation of mutilated soccer balls).Also, the soundtrack (by George Delerue) is at times funny, at other times lonesome, but is always elegant, simple, and masterful. The before-mentioned moonrise scene, for example, contains probably the most beautiful piece of music I've ever heard in a movie. Overall, this is a quirky but wise film, the likes of which--sadly--will probably never come 'round again.  "},{"Title":"This was a wonderful movie - one of those that you least expect.","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am one of the rare folks who liked this movie from beginning to end.  I wasn't aware of all of the references being made to other great films - I happened upon the movie almost by accident.  The other films had sold out so we went to this movie and I am very happy that we did.I found it very entertaining - I worked in a place just like Joe did at the beginning of the film - I was laughing enough that I actually disturbed other viewers.  I loved the crazy cracked symbol they kept using - it was fun trying to count the usages of it during the movie.I liked all of the characters and found the Limousine driver an absolute gem!  Some of my favorite quotes were from the driver.I liked Joe's transformation after he knows he has little time to live. It comes on quite fast but then it would if you knew your were going to die from a `Brain Cloud' ;-)When I first saw the film I was somewhat removed from it when they had the funky artsy sets every now and then but now I like them too.I found this to be a very enjoyable film and time well spent.  I must agree though with another person in that the best way to see this film is the Widescreen presentation.  In my humble opinion Pan and Scan stinks.  No they shouldn't ban it because there are many folks who don't `get' it but this movie is much better in it's original Widescreen presentation!If you didn't like it you're trying to take it too seriously - lighten up -)  "},{"Title":"Amazingly creative","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An amazingly creative and wonderfully unconventional film full of symbolism and philosophy (reflecting ideas of Kierkegaard and Jung in particular). Some people resonate with Joe Versus the Volcano (JVtV) in such an amazing way that it becomes one their alltime favorite films. Others just don't seem to get it.  JVtV is a fable, rich in symbolism and recurring philsophical themes (e.g., one's soul, life's crooked paths,  love, making a leap of faith, god/goddess within). The music includes original compositions and arrangements that seem perfect for each scene and would make a wonderful soundtrack albumn -- unfortunately  not separately available.JVtV is told as a funny imaginative story, but it depicts a profound experience -- a transformation from slave to a warrior.  We first see Joe as a slave to a dehumanizing environment, only half-awake, and loosing his sole/soul.  Then through courage, the help of others, and the miracle of  love, Joe awakens and is transformed.  This resonates with concepts expressed in Robert S. de Ropp's THE WARRIOR'S WAY  A Warrior is the master of his fate.  No matter what fate throws at him, fame or infamy, health or sickness, poverty or riches, he uses the situation for his own inner development.  He takes his motto from Nietzsche  That which does not destroy me strengthens me.  The slave, on the other hand, is completely at the mercy of external events.  If fortune smiles on him, he struts and boasts and attributes her favors to his own power and wisdom--which, as often as not, had nothing to do with it.  If fortune frowns, he whines and weeps and grovels, putting the blame for his sufferings on everything and everybody except himself.    "},{"Title":"A film for the dreamers","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember casually watching Joe Versus the Volcano when it has been on TV several times over the years without taking any notice of it really. It looked rather silly and wish washy. One afternoon i had just lost my job and it was raining outside so I was feeling crappy and then this movie came on the television. With nothing better to do I watched it and totally fell in love. Its a story about life, love and regret. Tom Hanks plays Joe Banks, we first encounter Joe walking into work with his colleagues as they stagger almost zombie like to their mundane jobs. Joe is constantly feeling ill and goes to the doctor who proceeds to tell him he has a 'brain cloud' and only has a short time left to live. Joes first reaction is to tell his horrible boss to shove his job and asks the girl he has always fancied out on a date - I mean why not? whats the worst that could happen? And so we find the beginnings to the moral of the story. Joe is then offered a chance by a millionaire to live like a king, all expenses paid, do anything he wants and then jump into a volcano to appease a community of natives he needs minerals off to sell his product. So Joe sets off on his Odyssey of discovery, meeting a variety of weird and wonderful people (including the fantastic Meg Ryan in 3 different roles) and experiencing 'life'. What makes Joe Versus the Volcano so great is a mixture of all the elements. The characters he runs into are interesting, quirky and funny. The direction is sublime including running themes which you only notice upon multiple viewings. The music is beautiful, just beautiful complimenting the imagery perfectly. What all great films need are stand out scenes. Scenes you remember long after the film finishes. JVtV has a load. The moment Joe finds out he has a brain cloud and stands outside for ages as the world passes him by, the musical montage after his date with his work colleague, the moment Joe sits on the beach and watches the sun rise, the luggage man, the montage on the raft and especially the moment he sees the moon rise and Joe thanks god for his life. Its just such a wonderful film that deserves more recognition. I don't think this is a film for cynics but for romantics and dreamers like me. If you think you are one too watch this movie its stunning. "},{"Title":"A classic and beautiful movie, more visual literature than simple story","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of my personal top 10 movies of all time. It deals with great themes of humanity the influence of fear, courage and compromise on the destiny of a single person. Those who don't get it probably only see a simple story about the life of one boring, ordinary man. It is sad that so many people miss, or are oblivious to, its deep beauty. This movie is the rarest of delights; it is visual literature, performed with heart and beauty rarely seen in our modern age.Joe is a long-suffering factory worker that leads a life of quiet despair. One day opportunity finds him, one so overwhelming it allows him to break out of this hateful life and live a new, amazing one, even if it is only to be short-lived. This opportunity comes to Joe in the form of a wealthy businessman, who wants to reward him handsomely for jumping into a volcano, in exchange for which the businessman will get land right in a primitive island for a rare material he needs for his superconductors. Joe then learns he has a fatal disease that will soon take his life; so in typical victim of life style, he simply goes along with the idea. Yet behind his decision we can see that Joe realises that this will be his last chance to break free from his sad life, and like the strange businessman said, go out in a blaze of glory. As Joe steps into his new life, he finds himself emboldened to chase after what he desires, true love, because he knows his time is short. But he is rejected by the object of his affection (the office worker Meg Ryan) and is rocked by the experience. Now, totally alone and with so little time to live, he faces a roller coaster ride of self discovery. The little steps in Joe's growth are wonderfully portrayed and occur with the support of some wonderful characters. Yet at each stage of his growth, Joe encounters fate in and around Meg Ryan characters &#x96; symbolising his lost desire, temptation and the elusive true love. The rebirth of Joe into his new life is probably the key theme of the story. In eventually getting to the volcano and facing his greatest fear, Joe gives up his life as he promised he would &#x96; proving the depths of his honourable character. But out of certain death Joe receives a miraculous reprieve - all at once Joe conquers all the events of his life that conspired to make him ordinary, and in giving himself up to this honourable death, he is rewarded with a miraculous survival and everything he could ever want for a truly happy life. He is reborn into a new man! The implication of the new life, though, is not that of a fairytale, but rather a gift of new knowledge and experience that is only achieved after his remarkable sacrifice. Joe is gifted with a mind-expanding awareness and experience of exhilaration. It all works as an effective allusion to the fundamental truth in life that every major achievement derives from sacrifice, and the reward is a new set of privileges and challenges. Wonderful.The fact that such deep truisms of life are so effectively intertwined with a simple story of an ordinary man is one I love a lot. I get totally absorbed into Joe - all externalities are almost non-existent in this movie - the movie is about a single reality, that of the life of Joe. This is a truly rare achievement, as most movies use actors as vehicles for external, rather than internal action. But this movie is all about the growth and change in Joe, one he does not even fully appreciate is happening. Hanks' genuine portrayal of innocent and kind spirit makes the experience desirable and the conclusion genuinely surprising and worthwhile. Meg Ryan and all supporting cast members are also brilliantly effective. This movie is a mountain brought to life from a molehill by the breath and breadth of acting talent, direction, editing and writing skill.To view this movie without perceiving its deeper meaning would be to ignore its true value and hence make it easy to dismiss. Yet the humble observer who can accept the influence of things greater than themselves will perceive the true nature of this remarkable movie, and as a result engage in a truly beautiful, emotional and thought provoking experience. "},{"Title":"A complete movie I think","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Short and sweet. I think this movie was a delight. I saw it as a child, and catch it every time it comes on. It captures the hopelessness and drudgery of corporate life, and with imagination expands on how far an individual will go to escape it. Living like a king for a few days then facing death is preferable to continuing your current existence...and yet finding meaning to life in the process. And it's done in a comedic way. I love it. It is simple yet with a obvious meaning as it's backbone. It's a fun feel good movie with subtle dark undertones and uplifting positive consequences. It's so quirky and silly, while being about depression and death that I guess I've always found it charming. Also Tom Hanks is easily one of the best actors in the past 30 years.This movie is just good ol fashion fun and should be given a shot. "},{"Title":"why this film is so panned..","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" we are all asleep and cynical. We have forgotten our sweetness to ourselves especially. Joe is a simple man that gets lost in the quagmire of life, as we all do, as I do. But, he still believes in his self and in his place in the world. In this day of self-indulgence, greed, promotion of decadence, and getting' tha benjamins'. The importance of sacrifice is lost, in fact one who does, is considered a dupe. Joe is unconscious of his simplicity and his ability to love and receive it. Thelack of arrogance. How rare a gift. But, he makes the choice. Choice! The choice to give and love and live and the rest be dammed. I know this all probably cheesy and sophmorically romantic. But, Joe made the tough decisions and he came out fine. so do yourselves all a favor, buy good luggage, avoid orange cola, and take a chance. "},{"Title":"specific perfection...love it or hate it but  find out for yourself first","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of all time. I hope it becomes one of yours. LOOK AT THE RANGE OF PASSIONATE OPINIONS ON THIS FILM......they tell the story of it's unique qualities that some see and love and others simply miss or disregard. It speaks on so many levels to me and other fans yet look at the many negative reviews calling it empty and awful. There is lot's to see in this film that even after dozens of viewings I still am surprised. I have also known people to refuse to watch it to the end as they saw nothing at all in it. Now can you imagine that? .......Watch it alone or close to it........and put on your listening ears. "},{"Title":"Early Tom Hanks charmer.","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Versus the Volcano is a bizarre little romantic comedy that is about as unexpected as you can imagine. By now, early 2008, we have come to expect great things from him, and even here, in this outlandish little black sheep of a film, he shows us that early Hanks charm for which he is so known and loved. The scene when he is dancing by himself on top of the makeshift raft is a classic, for sure! Meg Ryan, on the other hand, another hugely talented actor, mostly shows here why she doesn't do accents. She also, of course, has charm and presence, but she is very much overshadowed by Tom's. The important thing here is that they both exist in a terrible world ruled by the 40 Hour Work Week, presided over by the Terrible Boss and the cripplingly depressing atmosphere. Joe (Hanks), for example, believes that the fluorescent lights in his depressing office are slowly driving him crazy.He goes to see a doctor, who tells him that he has something called a brain cloud, which will kill him in six months but won't affect him physically until then. Of course, this diagnosis is the perfect reason to quit his job and tell off his boss, so Hanks gets a telling-off scene that is so good that you may wonder why Julia Roberts was ever allowed to do it in just about ever movie she ever made after Pretty Woman. Why didn't it become a staple in Hanks' films? At any rate, Joe decides to leave his stifling job and live his life to the fullest, which of course leads in the most bizarre direction possible, to him being hired to become sacrifice himself to the volcano gods. The movie is, of course, at its most zanily creative with this idea, and yet the natives inhabiting the island are one of the only gags that just don't work. Lloyd Bridges is classic as the natives' chief, but a group of religious native islanders that worship orange soda? Come on Mr. Shanley, you can't use even the horrendous January Man as an excuse for THAT one...Nevertheless, the movie is a curious romp into the imagination, and still has the presence of mind to make suggestions about life, reminding us once again of that all important rule of never giving in to the intolerable seriousness of it all... "}{"Title":"Ridiculously underrated","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" That this film is running at a 5.2 is a shocking and sad indictment on the IMDb voters quite frankly. OK, maybe its not for everyone - fair enough. But it is a quirky, whimsical and occasionally startlingly beautiful piece of film-making with some powerful messages... I guess it's true - most people are walking around asleep... OK - apparently I have to write some more lines - 1) It has a magnificent cast, 2) It has some truly laugh-out-loud funny moments, 3) it touches on some serious issues and addresses them with great sensitivity, 4) It has a sharp script, and 5) who can't relate to a dead-end job, crap boss and the fear of stepping out into the unknown? I didn't watch it when it first came out and I'm kinda glad - it might have ruined it for me this time around had I not appreciated it originally. Wake up and give this movie another try - it might surprise you. "},{"Title":"A film with more below the surface than the iceberg that sank the Titanic","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To dismiss this film as a romantic comedy would be huge injustice. The more you watch the more you realise the wealth it contains. There is way to much to pick up on a single viewing.The soundtrack is superbly chosen with a plethora of well placed tracks. The acting is fine, and certain shots truly cinematic. The picture of a sultry Meg Ryan standing on deck waiting for the storm is wonderful. The Metropolis like factory at the start follows a symbolism of zigzags that continues throughout the film.The luggage choosing and using simply exquisite. There has been real thought in this movie and only the real shallow minded viewer will dismiss it as a simplistic comedy.I realise that everyone has their own views about what makes a movie good, but I feel that the merits of this completely unsung and overlooked movie place it very high indeed on the list of cult movie watching. It's not for everyone, but those who find their selves captivated by it, will treasure it for ever. "},{"Title":"Catherine Cederquist","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hi Cat, Just wondering how you're doing these days. So sorry to hear about your mom and dad. Warmest regards, Vinny vinny72xx@gmail.com now for ten lines of blatant plagiarism Most people didn't get this film. But each of us has a different sense of humor and depth. JVTV is a subtle, witty film with morals, not like the bash 'em and blow 'em up Hollywood films of late. Meg Ryan shows her versatility as three separate, wonderfully funny characters and Tom Hanks (think of his character in The Money Pit but amusingly depressed) as Joe Banks trapped in a dead end job and is told he has a terminal illness. He is offered the chance to live like a king, die like a man by jumping into a volcano as part of a business deal where Joe gets to spend as much money as he likes before the big deed. Along the way Joe meets many characters who awaken him to the fact that life is worth living. This film is loaded with wonderful observations, a great score and songs, and standout performances. JVTV is one of those rare films you can easily watch again and again, and always makes me smile every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Quirky Comedy Great for those who get it","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not for everyone, but it's one of my favorite comedy films. Great performances by a diverse cast (Dan Hedaya is great) and some amusing cameos (Carol Kane with a one-word role and an almost unrecognizable Nathan Lane). Some minor missteps, like the shark in the fishing scene and the taxi ride from LAX to downtown that takes the rural coast highway, but nothing to mar the overall mix of whimsy, and existential uplift. The soundtrack is also well used, from the opening 16-Tons to I Cover the Waterfront. Don't expect great production values, some of the effects are a little cheesy. But the script is great, with lots of memorable lines. And don't forget the luggage. "},{"Title":"A Superb, Light-Hearted, Yet Insightful Comedy","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an under-rated movie if there ever was one.First, it was, appropriately, a film of some notable firsts. Before Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail, future superstars Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks first practiced their romantic magic in this film. The cinematic structure of pairing emotive visual scenes with modern musical classics that was so successfully employed in Sleepless saw it's first rendering here. And the story showcased Meg Ryan's versatility, giving her a vehicle in which she could play three distinctly different characters with her characteristic energy and charm. Second, the film shares a warm insight into the character of uptown Manhattan (and a bit of the downside of the other boroughs) that allows you to get a sense of why people of all walks of life love -- and occasionally hate -- to live there. We learn that, contrary to Hollywood's perception, The Plaza was a fine hotel, certainly, but (as one who has been to both) it is NOT The Pierre. We see that shopping on Fifth Avenue is often a passion not only for the purchaser but the vendor as well. And we discover that the REAL average New Yorker is wise, knowledgeable, talented, and compassionate.Third, it is imbued with a light-hearted, sometimes wacky sense of humor that still manages to carry a moral thread and -- all too rare anymore -- a happy ending. Yes, in spite of the exploitive plans of powerful people, in spite of the fears and neuroses induced by sophisticated society, in spite of the chaos and cataclysms of capricious Nature, the guileless, persistent, and romantic couple with hope in their hearts can still overcome it all. In other words, your kids can enjoy this, and you can too.In a skit on Saturday Night Live long ago, singer/composer Paul Simon chided Tom Hanks for appearing in this movie. Apparently genteel entertainers of Paul's caliber (at least in those olden days) aren't supposed to lower themselves to such roles... especially those that lampoon Hollywood's hollow plasticity. No matter. I, for one, usually take such pretentious dissuasion as a recommendation. When it comes to Joe vs. the Volcano, I suggest you and your family do, too. "},{"Title":"A movie with heart","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's hard to believe that any major studio would put their money behind a movie like this nowadays, just a short decade and a half after it was made. But that's the reality of Hollywood in the early 21st century. It's a lot different now than it was then.What it looks like to the average observer is that John Patrick Shanley, fresh off the success of Moonstruck, decided to indulge himself a little bit here and write something a little campier, a lot stranger, and totally off the path of his Oscar-winning masterpiece. The story is like the intersection of a typical hero film, a typical romance, a typical local-boy-and-downtrodden-good-guy comes through in the end, and a cartoon.But the most surprising thing about this movie is that it actually works.What makes it work is Tom Hanks, just about the only actor with the sensitivity and the sense of humor to pull off the role. Nobody in the last 20 years infuses a quirky character with loveability the way Hanks does - Jim Carrey comes close in The Truman Show, but that's about all. Hanks carries this movie the way he carried Punchline and Big, both of which were also incredibly underrated comedies.Watch the way he stands on the deck of the Tweedledee and hesitates before he throws his expensive hat into the ocean - a subtle gesture laden with shockingly deep layers of complexity and character. It's such a stupid detail maybe, but there's so much more to it than that.The second most surprising thing about this movie is that Meg Ryan is actually good. Right before she plunged her entire acting career into the trite, cutie-pie, puppy dog schlock of her cookie-cutter mid-90s romantic comedies, she actually managed to project depth in this movie, not to mention range. She may come off as cartoonish, but she plays three characters differently enough that you actually think they're three different people, right before you laugh at how ridiculous the entire thing is.What I remember most about this movie, though, are the scenes with Joe on the floating luggage raft, where he seems to divide his time equally between the totally silly and the utterly spiritual. Hanks manages to convey this beautifully, whether he's making up superfluous cowboy tunes on a ukulele or bowing to the moon in solemn reverence and thanking God for his life. Despite its numerous contrivances (the bottled water, the world-band radio, the floating luggage itself), it's powerful.All of it is dressed up with some very vivid and inviting details and some top-notch dialog, which is the perfect ribbon for the gift that is this movie.On its surface, any summary of this movie makes it sound ridiculous. But the beauty here is how it's actually done. It's contrived, but it never pretends to be anything other than contrived. Its message is simple and predictable, but its simplicity and predictability do nothing to sabotage its power. Right at the start, the music box and the once upon a time give away that it's a fairy tale, and why should there be anything wrong with that? What emerges at the end (or more likely, somewhere in the middle) is a movie with a heart. So don't feel ridiculous if you liked this movie, or even if you loved it. We all know how fairy tales end, and more to the point, how they're told. And this one is told exceptionally well. What's not to love? "},{"Title":"Dance in the moonlight and drink orange soda.","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I tell friends this is one of my favorite movies, they think I'm crazy, but it is. Yes, it is sometimes very corny and even ridiculous. Isn't life like that? I like the allegory and the light handed handling of major life issues, I like the symbolic bits threaded throughout, I like it's affirmation of choosing life and of making hard choices rather than staying stuck. Little things, even corny things all added together to make a small miracle of a movie. If you are so sophisticated that you can't like this, then I think you are trying way too hard to be a grown-up. In Tarot the Fool is the card for those who can set out on a ridiculous and un-adult journey into the unknown. Joe teaches us to be a perfect fool, to dance in the moonlight like a lunatic, to set out on that journey of self discovery. Laugh, let go, drink an orange soda and take a leap of faith. "},{"Title":"Wonderful...","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It sticks with me, such and original idea and likable characters. If you appreciate the craft of acting you'll like this movie, there is a whole range of emotions expressed but with the exception of Joe, you get only a slice of the others, but that slice is like a fine piece of cheesecake with a scandalous hint of strawberry stuff on it.It, the movie, feels like real life when you feel like your day is being directed by fate, it feels like that weird sensation when syncronicity happens, something is said that you remember later and it suddenly doesn't sound random any more.Definitely the best romantic movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Just great!","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The music, the gags, the acting... and the plot is very original. May not be a perfect movie but is different to any comedy I ever seen so far and while you watching it you'll never know what's next. Watching this movie is like discovering a secret treasure buried deep in the oblivion, covered by many other successful (but not always good) movies. Talking about the HANKS/RYAN trilogy, though I liked even Sleepless in Seattle and You got mail I wouldn't watch them again and again once is enough. Joe versus Volcano instead it's worth watching over and over just because it's so filled with hidden signs that there's always something new to notice. Worth watching especially if you miss the Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan funny characters of the old days! "},{"Title":"A very overlooked movie","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to say that JVTV is one of the most overlooked movies of the 90's. I saw this movie 3 times in the theater when it came out. I think it really connected to me on a deep personal level. I know some people like to laugh when I say how good the film is or make fun of it. I remember when it failed at the box office the Saturday Night Live show poked fun at Hanks saying..and that Volcano movie didn't help you either ( with his career ). I just think most people didn't get the film! For one it is a modern day fairy tale, so if some parts of the film seem somewhat unbelievable or over the top..that is why. The movie was a wake up call to me ( and I'm sure others ) who were existing but not living. As the movie states most of the world is asleep and those few who are awake live in a state of constant amazement. "}{"Title":"Hanks and Ryan snubbed","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's a scene early in Joe Versus The Volcano where Joe (Tom Hanks) tells DeDe (one of Meg Ryan's three parts) that he felt like he had seen her before. This line ends up being very important; he says it again to Patricia (also Meg Ryan), and even though he doesn't say it to Angelica (ALSO Meg Ryan), Patricia's sister, it's clear that he's thinking it.Yes, welcome to the oddly metaphysical world of Joe Versus The Volcano.The plot, in a nutshell Joe Banks has about the most depressing job in the most depressing place ever, finds out he has less than 6 months to live, quits his job, and is offered the opportunity by an eccentric millionaire (played by Lloyd Bridges, one of many terrific smaller parts in this movie) to go on a spending spree and a South Seas cruise, but only if he's willing to jump into a volcano on the island of Wapani Woo, in order to help him keep doing business with them. He does it, and ends up falling in love.Tom Hanks puts in a brilliant understated performance; in fact there's much about this movie that's understated. It looks so lightweight, but nonetheless, much of the dialogue is philosophical discussion. Hanks deserved an Oscar nod. And John Patrick Shanley deserved an Oscar nod for the screenplay; it's full of irony, and as I just said, the movie looked so simple, but was actually so complex. But the real snub was Meg Ryan. Playing three different parts with three different personalities, this is the best and most entertaining Ryan has ever been. Her performance is a work of genius, but because this movie was overlooked, her performance was too. The complexity of Joe's relationship with these three women is almost a sidebar to the movie's central theme (the long, winding road of life, as it says elsewhere on this site), but it seems to be implied that he's met her many times before finally getting it right with Patricia. It's this idea of the soulmate (the soul is another recurring theme) that really resonated with me.This was before Hanks started getting the attention he always deserved, with Philadelphia and Forrest Gump. Philadelphia was a fine serious role, and Forrest Gump was good, but I'll take Joe Versus the Volcano over them any day. The movie was just so well-done, with entertaining performances all around (Also appearing are Robert Stack, Ossie Davis, Dan Hedaya, Amanda Plummer, Abe Vigoda, and Carol Kane as a hairdresser- blink and you'll miss her!). In short, Joe Versus The Volcano is a fine little comedy with a big heart and big themes that deserved better treatment than it got the first time around. "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie ...","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The scenery was a bit cheesy and some of the characters a bit far-fetched, and but this movie has a heart of pure gold. Tom Hanks plays Joe Banks, a former firefighter who after suffering a close call carrying a man out of a burning building leaves the danger and excitement of firefighting to become an advertising librarian in a medical supply company. He lives in a dingy one bedroom apartment on Staten Island, works for an evil boss in a drab ugly office complete with flickering fluorescent lights and other members of the living dead, all essentially waiting to die instead of living. Not surprisingly, he is a hypochondriac and during one of his constant doctor visits, he is told by a doctor that he has a 'brain cloud' and only 6 months to live. He leaves the doctors office, stunned, and not only stops to pet a dog being walked by a passerby but stops to hug the passerby as well. He returns to work and after another of his bosses tirades, he summons the courage tell off his evil boss, quit his job, and embark on an adventure that just days before he could have barely imagined.This film reminds me much of American Beauty but a bit more cartoonish and lighthearted. Joe Banks, as Lester Burnham, finds himself in an unbearable situations and only lack the catalyst to overcome their fear of the unknown to arrive at a place where they are much happier in their lives.This movie isn't just entertaining, it is soul-affirming. I cannot imagine I was the only person who saw far too many parallels between Tom Hanks character and their own lives to not take action and strive to arrive at a happier place. If you are discontented in your life and career and feel you are dying one day at a time, RENT THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Versatility","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just a fantastic movie, Tom Hanks is my all time favorite actor because he has such range and he shows it in this movie. The story hearkens from the odyssey and other classic tales. Frought with symbolism with a terrfic love story this is one of the most underrated movies that Tom Hanks has done. But for as serious it is, it is drop dead hilarious. A pantheon of famous actors accompany Joe on his trip. Ozzie Davis, as a trans formative Merlin-esquire character, equipping Joe for his journey. Lloyd Bridges putting Joe on the path to his new life. Meg Ryan as his companion, in her many guises. If you have a chance when you are in the video store and see it don't pass it up, take a chance.Not every movie is Oscar worthy, doesn't mean it is not good Hope this helped, Josh "},{"Title":"A film for all","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anyone who has seen this film and thought that it lacked in interest and appeal must live a life of complete adventure. This film is for all those people who have yearned to break away from the ordinary, same old same old, day to day routine. I saw so much of myself in this film (like probably many other people) and it kept me glued to the screen to possibly give me an answer to my own hum-drum life. I was drawn to the utter bleakness of Joe's life. An unforgiven boss, an eye sore of a work place,and the knowledge of his own demise compels Joe to take chances, speak his mind, and quit his job...sounds like what we all would want to do. This film was so wonderfully done and Tom Hanks really brought out the person we all wish we could be. It may not be an Oscar winner but it has all the elements that the every day Joe (no pun intended) needs to enjoy a great film. "},{"Title":"Inspired and Very Underrated","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It is very funny, with some inspired characters and quotable lines. It has a terrific message about living your life without fear. Few other people I have met liked it, and I can think of two reasons. One, they don't want to admit that they like a Tom Hanks-Meg Ryan movie, even though this one ismore idiosyncratic than the others. Two, the film was not what they wereexpecting, which is another saccharine romance like _Sleepless In Seattle_ or _You Got Mail_. Read the message boards, and you will find plenty of peoplewho greatly enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Quirky study of the human condition","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a fun movie. It pokes fun at us and invites us to laugh along with.The other two reviews just don't get it. It doesn't take a long time to set up - the movie is the set up. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are wonderful together. She uses her wonderful talent to play several women in the movie - always someone joe admires, notices, likes. he is (as always) perfect. i am gushing i know, but i feel so badly that the only two reviews for this were so negative. i really, really, like this movie. this movie combines subtle and in-your-face humor while spinning a fanciful story. you have to just let go and have fun with it and remember that it is poking fun and joking with you with two very talented actors.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating Romantic Comedy That Holds Up 13 Years Later","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe versus The Volcano originally struck me as a one of a kind movie. The premise is so beyond the pale that I wondered how it was ever pitched. Nevermind, this quirkly comedy by John Patrick Shanley holds up even nearly a decade and a half after its original release. This is a film about imagery and humanity. The opening in the world of quiet desperation (the factory) is bathed in the green white light of flourescence. Dan Hedaya as the hectoring boss is superb. The scenes on the yacht take me back to my own days exploring the South Pacific and are as lush as the little green worlds that populate that part of the world. The ending is a little twitchy, but the message of the film sticks in your mind. Tom Hanks, as usual, gives a wonderful performance with a bit a childlike view of the world. Meg Ryan gives three outstanding performances, all different, all nuanced. The musical score is wonderful. The only negative is that the hybrid tribe on the Island never plays up to its comedic potential, although using Abe Vigoda as the tribal chief was miraculous casting. Basically, I enjoyed watching a home video version as much as the original film. For a movie with spectacle that means the visuals never obliterate the message, and that, my friends, is film making! 8/10 "},{"Title":"An honest and insightful film that touches on truth through a fairy tale setting.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's understandable that some don't like this movie. If you like predictable plots, generic scenes and cookie cutter characters you'll despise this movie.John Patrick Shanley created real fairy tale characters in the old sense of the term and crafts a story of a modern man's struggles within it. If you can watch the film with fresh eyes I believe you'll find it oddly humorous, challenging and just plain fun to watch.I'm in no way calling this the best film of all time, but it should hold a high place within its genre and be enjoyed for what it is. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  joe is a movie for people who love movies and movie trivia.  the amount of homage paid to the greats in here is, well, I still don't know all of it, I'm sure.  The citizen kane opening, treasure island with the luggage, moses near the beginning too - it is literally chalk-full of film references. and the film itself is simple, nothing more than what it is - set among greatness.  is it marxist - I suppose, in a simplistic way.  it is a comment on (as everyone offers) faith, existentialism, and philosophy in general - but it can also be interpreted as good film making.  shanley manipulates the viewer to feel dull and decomposed by the office lighting and droning workers - revitalized by the classic, over-used, city-scape shots (which, noteably, are not in favor of Los Angeles as the promise land so many other film makers have toasted) that make the audience comfortable that this movie will be neither overly original nor completely out-of-reach for the simple folk - and then embraces lampoon and absudity, unlikely circumstance without apology - to complete a craftly constructed fairy tale.  and that's all it is.  stop looking for more and just realize that if you stopped the movie an hour in and felt short-changed, under-entertained and uninspired - that that is how you are SUPPOSED to feel.  shanley made a story you need to view to the end to really enjoy.  this movie was a victim of its audience not being able to hang on and be retrospective.  there is something there for everyone.     "},{"Title":"An Overlooked gem... (or most people just don't get it.)","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stylistically wonderful. The lighting and Decor in the office at the beginning was enough to make ME crazy, just from watching on TV. This movie shows the best of the chemistry between Hanks and Ryan. It's cinematography is fantastic, and there are many memorable scenes.Many of the scenes are tounge in cheek. This plus the intentionally overdone lighting effects add a surreality to the movie. However, the overall story comes across as refreshingly genuine. It is easy to sympathize with the characters.One of the best of the Romantic Comedies 8/10 "}{"Title":"Better than Moonstruck","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although it gets labeled a romantic comedy, this film is more a philosophical treatise about living life to the fullest. Joe Banks (Tom Hanks) just doesn't feel good. And it's no wonder he works a soulless job in a depressing building with artificial lights. Finally, his physician levels with him - he has a brain cloud and is going to die in six months. Joe returns to his job, quits and prepares to wait for the end. Then a man appears at his door. He'll help Joe enjoy his last few months on earth if, in return, he will jump into the Big Woo, a volcano. Joe agrees and thus begins his great journey of finding the meaning of life and his role in it. There's something so liberating about what Joe discovers. He is going to die. Everyone is. So why waste what he has? Why hide from life? Joe Vs the Volcano is the kind of film I've watched over and over and never tire of, because it's so simple and yet so profound. Writer/Director John Patrick Shanley creates such a masterpiece with this film. It's funny, subtle, quirky and heartwarming. But not in the calculated Disney magic kind of way. Hanks is brilliant as the hypochondriac trapped in a sort of 9 to 5 purgatory. And no matter how many times I see it, the scene where he unsteadily rises to gaze at the enormous moon always gets me. The tears just flow. I also love the moment where he gets out of his car and hugs the old woman with a Great Dane. Many moments such as these exist in this film and most don't have dialogue bogging them down. Just music over a little vignette. Meg Ryan is good too, playing three versions of the same woman. (I particularly like the redhead who recites the poem to a much bewildered Hanks.) Dan Hedaya is brilliant as the obnoxious Mr. Waturi I'm not arguing with you; as are Ossie Davis as the limo driver and Barry McGovern as the luggage salesman. (I love the luggage!) The music, too, is fantastic and I wish someone had released the soundtrack. The opening song 16 Tons is great as is Hank's Cowboy Song.Whenever I'm feeling like life is a real crapper, all I have to do is put this film in and I'm good again; everything's right with the world. This is an underrated gem of a film. (Shanley should be a bit more prodigious.) "},{"Title":"Great Saturday night flick","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV, and the beginning was really confusing at first. It seems weird, gets weirder, and at the end it all makes sense.  Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks definitely have chemistry.  It's a great performance for both of them.  This is not really a spoiler, if you've read the cast list Meg Ryan plays 3 different characters which makes for a great twist.  It's definitely funny, definitely crazy, and it tricks you into thinking it's half serious until the very end.  Overall, it's fun, and I'd definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you sit up and pay attention!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are two types of people in this world those who Get It and those who Don't Get It.  The people who bash or ignore this precious gem of a movie are those people who Don't Get It.  I've never seen a movie that made such a beautiful, subtle statement about living your life to the fullest without pandering to any of the typical Beating The Dead Horse melodrama that Hollywood normally subjects us to.  The music, the dialogue, the sets, the colors, and the performances are all just perfect.  I usually don't go more than a month or so without popping it into the VCR (and now FINALLY it's on DVD - YAY!) and just smiling the entire way through this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"my life philosophy comes from Joe","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  most people hate this movie. however, if you're the kind who enjoys movies with more to them (a la harold and maude), see this movie. it starts slow, but there's something in every scene to pick up. to get you started in the middle of the movie, patricia graynamore (meg ryan) quotes her father my father says that almost the whole world is asleep. everybody you see, everybody you know, everybody you talk to. he says that only a few people are awake, and they live in a state of constant, total, amazement. in that sense, this movie is a movie about a man waking up. enjoy. "},{"Title":"Subtle and metaphoric","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A lot of the negative reviews here involve the word 'slow'. Slow to get to the point, slow to get started. That is an important clue to deciding whether or not to see this movie, and how you feel about it afterward.This film doesn't have a plot so much as it has a journey. Like all 'journey' movies (no, not the 80s band, eeew), if the path the characters are taking doesn't resonate with you, the film will seem to drag on and on.The metaphors and path of JVtV (for me) center around the idea of belonging and believing. Joe neither belongs nor believes in his life at the beginning of the movie. The terminal illness gives him something to believe in (his life will soon end) and Lloyd Bridges' proposal gives him to belong to (the quest to jump in the volcano). By the end of the movie, he belives his life is worthwhile and he belongs to himself.I think this is the best of the Hanks-Ryan movies (You've Got Mail being the worst) because it lets them be themselves and not just a cutesy couple. Hanks was still principally a comic actor at this point, and his sardonic persona, especially turned on himself (Whenever I start to talk about myself I get bored.) and Meg Ryan's self-involved detachment (I have no response to that.) are what made them an appealing pairing in the first place.Anyway, if you get a chance, give it a chance. One note - I think you're more likely to enjoy this movie if you watch it alone. The metaphors are easier to see and appreciate without another presence to distract you. "},{"Title":"what a film is","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Here is a test for you  watch Joe Versus the Volcano.  About thirty seconds into the film you will come across a film image.  What you will see is a man who has given up on life, asking the sky why with only his body language, while everyone around him does not care, but rather continues on the path he's walking.  The path is not just a road, as the camera shows us; it is a unique and troubling crooked road.  If you have come to this part in the film and you are not thoroughly engrossed in this man's life, then you should immediately postpone watching the film for another couple of years until you are ready to witness an experience that may change your life.This film is indeed not for everyone.  The humour is sophomoric, the plot simple, but for those who love and understand film, who stay up late at night and try to wonder just what is out there in the stars, for those who do not even try to describe the wonder of the moon.  This is film poetry. You might not be ready for the experience, but if you are in the right mind, at the right time, the adventures of this average Joe will touch you.Rewind it, listen to the music again, try to understand the re-occurring image of the duck, but don't just skip through this film.  It is a lost gem. And it's rarity makes it that much more precious.  I'm glad that it's lost. We can appreciate it more. I hope this helps people make a decision.  "},{"Title":"Makes you pay attention to the details","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like some other reviewers on this site, I don't understand why this film doesn't get better press.  It's quirky and it's challenging; you have to pay attention in order to understand everything that's being thrown at you. There are some great performances here; my favorite (with apologies to the Luggage Salesman) is from Ossie Davis as the limousine driver/philosopher. He struck just the right note in a role that could have easily been a throwaway.Meg Ryan was great in two out of the three roles in this movie; I thought the first was a little too one-dimensional.  Hanks is great as a former hero-turned-hypochondriac whose environment is draining the life out of him. You can see where Hanks is beginning to make the transition from manic comic to mature, understated actor.  His bathing scene (intercut with a corresponding balletic bathing scene for Meg Ryan) is a great satirical sequence.  And my favorite line from the movie is Hanks (may not be exact) I love you.  It's great!  It's wonderful! ... but the timing stinks.** Possible mild SPOILER **Other memorable performances include Dan Hedaya as a plant manager for a company that makes vaguely defined (but ominous) medical devices; Robert Stack as the doctor who tells Hanks he only has a short time left to live; the Luggage Salesman; Nathan Lane and Abe Vigoda as natives of Wapani Wu, the island where Hanks plans on throwing himself into the Big Wu, the volcano at the center of the island.If you're looking for something creative and different, where a few ideas don't work but most do, then JVTV is a great way to spend a couple of hours. You'll get a chance to see both Hanks and Ryan try their hand at something outside of formula.  Just PAY ATTENTION TO THE DETAILS and you'll be in for a treat.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Honest, Artful and Heartwarming","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't seem very popular, this film. Why could that be? I see a beautifully made film, brimming with iconic imagery, recurring themes and foreshadowing. Joe Banks is a character with whom I think we can all identify, and his adventure is one we wish we had the guts to attempt.Maybe it's just too different from other Hanks/Ryan movies. Maybe there weren't enough gags or orgasm scenes.I think you should see it once, just to see if it's your kind of movie. If it is, you'll carry it with you for a long time. "},{"Title":"One of the *best* comedy movies of all time!","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is incredibly fun, yet full of meaning and symbolism. In the beginning, Joe is stuck in a rut and afraid of living and dying at the same time. A terrible thing had to happen before he could really start living and loving life and others around him. Great performances by Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.There are so many hilarious parts in this movie that I can't even begin to mention them all. I could watch the scenes where he quits his job a million times. My own favorite deduction of this movie was to say that he was &#145;blessed' by the luggage salesman when he buys his four Premier Steamer Trunks, (explaining the ending). Notice how the store looks similar to a cathedral inside and a heavenly light shines through the stained glass windows.I also loved all of the great words and phrases in this movie. I use `Brain Cloud' and `I have no response to that' all the time. Most of the people that have said they don't like this movie just don't get it. Relax and enjoy this goofy and sweet movie.  "},{"Title":"An unseen magic--definitely worth multiple viewings.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A regular guy finds the Good Life.Upon first viewing, this movie may seem like a mediocre comedy.  Joe vs the Volcano differs from most Tom Hanks-Meg Ryan movies--it is so much more than a romantic comedy.  It shows a wisdom only found in the face of death.  One should watch this movie again and again until they begin to grasp its magic. "}{"Title":"The meg ryan/tom hanks 'magic' began with this cinematic masterpiece","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A breath of fresh air, this movie comes at you from every possible angle, including symbollism, method-acting, character development, and incredibly dark/dank humor.  Meg Ryan plays all 3 of her roles to perfection, successfully developing each one as if she were unique to only that part. Tom Hanks obviously carries the film as the only linear glue keeping the whole film from foundering, and who better to have righting the ship? Cameos are brilliantly delivered by the likes of Dan Hedaya, Amanda Plummer, Abe Vigoda, Lloyd Bridges, and Carol Kane.  I can't emphasize enough the originality and peripheral ideolgy that makes this a classic, a masterpiece, and quite possibly my top choice as personal favorite.  Say what you may, this movie just struck a chord with me. "},{"Title":"A film for romantics of all ages","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a cult film.  In the same vein as many other cult films, you will either get it or you will not.  I suspect that if you enjoy this film, you are a highly romantic individual, capable of dreaming, wondering, and at the same time, not taking yourself too seriously.   To put it directly, this movie is a tragicomedy about life and our attitude towards it, particularly in difficult times.Joe Versus the Volcano showcases Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan as actors that have really come into their own.  It is a marriage of writing and acting that is rarely seen on the silver screen.  True, there are bits and pieces that are a bit rough, and a few things I would have edited out in the final take.  On the whole, however, it is spectacularly rich film with scenes  that you will want to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Surreal, kooky, and deep . . .","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, not everyone will like this movie.  It's one of those odd quirky flicks that requires you to look beyond the rather obvious story line and search for deeper meaning and truth.  For those who think Sleepless in Seattle was the first film for Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan, you might be surprised to see the chemistry between them in this earlier outing, in which Meg plays three different (VERY different) characters.I fell in love with this movie the first time I saw it.  Everytime I watch it, I see something new.  The pattern made by the sidewalk leading up to the dismal factory, which matches the pattern of the crack in Joe's dingy apartment wall, which matches the lightening bolt, which matches the path up the crater to the mouth of the volcano -- this is just one example of the visual themes that appear and re-appear in this film.  Would that more people were as satisfied with their occupations as the luggage salesman!Beautifully photographed, with a strange play of dark and light, dim and bright, shadow and sun.  This one's on my 10 Best ... list. "},{"Title":"Charming, funny, and badly named","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree strongly that this is an undiscovered gem and much wrongly maligned film.There is a superficial veneer of a B-quality comedic and action movie accounting for the unfortunate name.  What lies underneath is a charming and subtle movie rich in symbolism and replete with commentary on the human psyche.  The music and scenes are well integrated following man's struggle to find meaning in his life and to face his fate with dignity and courage. Along the way, he finds love and inner peace.The movie is truly funny with even the lesser characters having charm, depth and humor.  My favorite scenes have to do with Joe's workplace and boss. The luggage salesman is hilarious.I love the music and its integration into the scenes.  Like another commentator, I would love to have a copy of the music from the film.This is one of my favorite movies to watch that elevates my mood. Groundhog day is another movie in the same category, combining humor and deep commentary on the human condition.Don't let the title fool you.  Watch several times as you will pick up subtleties.Ranking a 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated....as a luggage problem.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time.  Mainly because Shanley's script is very original and one of the best written screenplays of all time. Unfortunately, the uneven direction makes this a less than perfect movie, although it does have some very special moments that are quite striking. Hanks and Ryan are perfectly cast and play their parts to a T.My favorite scene is the short scene where Joe is buying luggage from a man who says that luggage is the central pre-occupation of his life, and that his journey is very interesting...as a luggage problem.Indeed.I urge anyone out there curious about this movie to give it a try, or a second one if you didn't like it the first time.  If you really think about all this movie has to say and pay attention to the little details, you just might come away with some insights about your own journey and help you find out what your own volcano is. "},{"Title":"Orange Soda and Human Life","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At first glance the movie appears to be nothing more than a silly romance (Sleepless in Seattle).  However, on closer inspection one will discover a world of rich hidden meaning and powerful commentary on human life.  ALL of the performances are brilliant and creative.  Meg Ryan delivers 3 great characters and even minor performances captivate and entertain.  Multiple viewings are hard to resist and you will find yourself quoting from this movie for the rest of your life.  The movie's use of colors, songs, images, and theme repetition create a philosophically powerful, often humorous, and enchantingly romantic view into the human sole...  "},{"Title":"Combines a life-affirming message with in-jokes for movie lovers.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite film for a number of reasons.  One reason is that it includes _homages_ to many classic films.  For instance, the very first shot of the factory immediately brings to mind Chaplin's _Modern Times_ and Lang's _Metropolis_.  The first minutes of the film, until Joe is called into the doctor's office, are filmed almost in black and white.  The tones are all grey, black, or taupe, with some glaring whites.  Then the door to the doctor's office opens to show warm leather, paneling, and firelight, and it's a sudden reminder of _The Wizard of Oz_, when Dorothy opens the door into Oz and the movie changes from black and white to color.I also look for the crooked path, which shows up four times at different parts of the movie.  When Joe says, We've come a long way on a crooked path, we know exactly what he's referring to!I could go on with these details for pages, but I don't want to leave out the main reason this is my favorite film.  It is one of the most life-affirming movies I have ever seen.  When I had received devastatingly bad news about my health, this is the movie I watched, and it helped get me over the hump and start integrating the condition into my life.Movies like this are one of the reasons for having movies at all, and I will continue watching it, as I return again and again to favorite books, for the rest of my life. "},{"Title":"Agree with previous comments","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is about near-death experiences. They teach you something - about the immediacy of life. About forgetting the rat race and enjoying. It all becomes clear when you've been on the edge. When things appear in stark contrasts. When there is only black and white - light and dark. To see the sun shining though a window. To gaze upon a loved one and just watch them breathe. I have seen this movie over 1,000 times and it still feeds my soul. "},{"Title":"A good movie with a great message.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater, and I hated it.  I then rented it, and enjoyed it.  Now I own it and love it.This movie is an excellent story with a fabulous message about how to live your life.  As a typical Hollywood comedy it fails (thank god), but if your life outlook needs a little kick in the  pants - this is the movie.There is a ton of whack-you-over-the-head obvious symbolism, and some a little more subtle.As with everyone else, the moon scene is fabulous.  However, the scene overlooking LA is probably my favorite.  Joe's line about choosing between killing yourself and doing something you're afraid of is perfect.  I think that every teenager should see this movie.This is fabulous "},{"Title":"Destined to become a cult classic....","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you didn't like Joe Versus the Volcano, you didn't get it.  It's a modern day fairy tale, a live-action cartoon, stylistically filmed, and well-played by consummate actors Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.  A sweet, humorous, gentle and romantic fantasy, it's message is simple and universal.  I found it delightful...one of my all-time favorites.  I wouldn't be at all surprised if this little jewel of a film is re-discovered in years to come.  It has all the makings of a cult classic.  "}{"Title":"A wonderful fairytale","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very few tales get me... even less love stories, I do enjoy a good comedy and romance, but this one goes beyond that. It creates a fantasy suburban world, some kind of parallel universe. It jumps right into the heart of the tale, shakes your thoughts and shows you a little lesson - an old and important one... in a funny, simple, lovely way. "},{"Title":"Your Emotional Baggage Will Sustain You","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rather than view this movie as just a film, I wondered whether it was more an inside joke about the psychology of being human. Joe's luggage is more than just a prop that he takes with him on his life's journey - it's a literal representation of everything that we carry with us as we struggle through our lives. We're very fond of referring to our emotional baggage and we're encouraged to ditch it at every opportunity in our quest to become better individuals.Yet not once, but twice, Joe's luggage proves to be his life-saver. The first time is after the sailing boat sinks, and he and Patricia are cast adrift on the salvaged suitcases. Inside the suitcases, Joe finds everything he needs to survive, to save Patricia's life, and indeed to amuse himself.And, in the end, when Joe and Patricia take that leap of faith into the vast unknown (life as it really is when you take a risk from which there can be no turning back) and are spewed out into the ocean... it is again that unsinkable baggage that rescues them from certain drowning.So our emotional baggage can sometimes become the life-sustaining force that prevents us from faltering and failing. "},{"Title":"Great endearing film!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No one understood this delightful film with Tom Hanks and Lloyd Bridges.Joe Versus the Volcanao allows the romantic to believe that love still heals the broken-heart, creates hope and fulfills dreams in an age of disillusionment and despair.' Volcano' embellishes this fundamental truth. It is a subtle reminder that no matter how desperate our situation may be and regardless, how painful it becomes to us, love conquers all. This delightful, romantic comedy has no hidden surprises. You know precisely what is going to happen. But who cares? It is a good family film. Rent the DVD and buy a box of chips, the girls will no doubt shed tears over this one. Well, are you ready to be erupting with lava after watching it tonight? "},{"Title":"a philosophical fable","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this is one of my favorite good time reflective movies of all time. there are other movies i love for their reflective value .. donnie darko comes to mind .. but this one is so light it lifts the viewer, has memorable characters(Lloyd Bridges anyone? ) and a profound personal and societal message on many levels .. yet is delivered with a velvet glove and charm to spare. my whole family fell in love with this movie on many levels. it is nice that most people don't know about it and that it did not go so well at the box office - it keeps it special. i have heard meg ryan speak about the film with affection and the good natured performance by tom hanks screams 'i am loving this!' .. so if you happen to stumble on this IMDb item, and happen to read this comment, sneak down to your video store (the one that still has tapes 'cause you will struggle to find the DVD)sit back with a few cans of sunkist orange soda, tune your headspace into la la land and enjoy .. soon you too will walk up to a complete stranger and ask 'are you joe?' blank stare ... 'are you joe banks?' ..... "},{"Title":"Real Sleeper","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This whole movie is a metaphor about the reflective nature of romantic love and falling in love in general. Notice as Joe raises his state of consciousness, the women he becomes involved with become more evolved. The first woman was timid and afraid (like he was), the second flaky and scattered (like he was), and finally as Joe grows and evolves, he finds a lovely woman to love. Also, the leap into the volcano is a perfect metaphor for taking the leap into marriage (terrifying to many) And finally, even tho we grow and evolve, we still will have remnants of our basic self. Notice when they are floating on Joe's luggage and she is so happy to be alive, Joe wants and whines about being alone in the middle of nowhere and Meg Ryan says  It's always going to be something with you This movie delights and amazes!! I could watch it over and over And still find more meaning every time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Watch this if... ()you are an angry person ()you hate your job ()you know someone who is going to die ()you have given up on life ()you think you are too good for anyone ()you think anyone is too good for you. This is a movie about sudden awakening, about carpe diem, about not giving in. If you ever needed inspiration for standing up to your tiresome bothersome boss(if you have one) then watch this too. It teaches you more than what ever your expectations of how much a movie can give. Personally i saw no value in movies until one day when i was on duty at my job and it was night time during a holiday the only thing on TV that was in English and wasn't a rerun to me was Joe VS The Volcano, so i watched. Definitely boring the first 10-15mins after that something magical happens... "},{"Title":"I've loved this movie for years!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was so fortunate to see this movie when it first came out. PLEASE don't watch it in the Formatted to Fit your Screen version. It really needs to be seen in letterbox format to catch all the visual fun and puns. I also think this is a movie for people who like thoughtful movies but don't like to have their noses rubbed in it. Having seen this movie at least 15 times in the past 15 years (I watch it whenever I think I'm straying off course again) I'm convinced it's a modern retelling of the Divine Comedy. Tom starts out in Hell, moves to Purgatory, and ends up in Paradise. Meg Ryan (in her three roles) is his guide (of sorts) through this pilgrimage.There really are too many WONDERFUL lines and sights to list them all, but it is SO good the dialog now serves as the soundtrack for the way I see the world I know he can GET the job, Harry, but can he DO the job? I'm not arguing that wid' you Harry! -- You BLEW this job; I intended to put you in charge of all THIS! (an empty industrial library) and those are only a couple of the gems from Hell. The lines from Purgatory and Paradise will absolutely wring your heart.But PLEASE don't think that this is a heavy pretentious movie. It's not. It's a pure joy. Wonderful family film entertaining on SO many levels. Kids will LOVE the nuttiness, teens will love the Thumb your nose at convention tone, and we graybeards will love the fact that it is possible to make an entertaining movie that actually tries to help the viewer survive their own brain cloud.See it and you'll be another one of us who buy the DVD so we can watch it over and over. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece of modern cinema","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe vs. the Volcano is an often maligned and more-often misunderstood masterpiece of late twentieth century cinema. The movie was one of the few truly great movies produced during the late 20th century (1990) in America. Definitely not a romantic comedy, not really a comedy at all. Rather, a dark tale, and a fairy tale all rolled into one.A metaphor for modern life in some ways not un-like Orwell's 1984...if you watch this movie, it might just make you think.Zen perfection, pure and simple.This movie does not relate to the later careers of either Tom Hanks nor Meg Ryan. For some reason, neither really discusses this movie anymore. Too bad, it's the best movie either was EVER involved with.Sometimes, the best movies pass right over the audiences head and are never really popular in any way. This movie is like that. In 100 years, cinema classes will re-discover this long-lost 20th-century masterpiece. Joe vs. the Volcano and He Who Gets Slapped will both be on the same future syllabus. "},{"Title":"If you dig Groundhog Day this movie is similar...","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is similar to Groundhog Day in that the underlying understanding is we can change our lives any time we choose to...that every day is the same no matter who we are, and it is up to us to change how we live. I dig this movie much so...sure, there are a couple of corny situations in the movie (but aren't our lives corny sometimes too?), but you won't find a movie of this sort that tells the truth in such a tricky, yet blunt manner. You have to pay close attention to the symbolism because it's everywhere, yet superbly hidden in every line and practically every shot. You need to stay in a flexible frame of mind to view this movie properly...of course, one cannot be flexible in a frame, so you'll have to figure that out for yourself. Oh, and this is a good movie to see with someone you love, not really a first date flick...too existential. be well, jack "},{"Title":"It's a fairy tale...enjoy it","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel sorry for the people who don't understand this movie. It starts out with Once upon a time... and ends with Tom and Meg living happily ever after. It's not complicated. A Fairy Tale,just to show us that being alive is a miracle not to be taken for granted. And that you just need to jump and see what happens. And the jump is even better when the right someone makes the leap with you. It's a mistake to look for more. If you're too jaded or cold to enjoy Joe's simple story, or would rather watch a horror flick, then I really do feel sorry for you.I have watched this movie many, many times and I will never get tired of it. Some of my favorite movie characters and lines are in this little movie.If you haven't seen it then I DO recommend it highly to everyone to see it at least once, but know this in advance - it's NOT a story about REAL people or true life situations. Just relax and enjoy great performances from start to finish. Starting with Dan Hedaya as Mr Waturi, you're going to be introduced to some characters that you may never forget even though they may appear quite briefly. Robert Stack and Lloyd Bridges are perfect. Ossie Davis deserved a Best Supporting Actor. The luggage salesman, what can I say? Meg has a real challenge and she does a great job. Marvel at Tom Hanks, especially the wonderful scenes on the raft.Accept it for what it is, understand how well this little movie was crafted to be just what it is, and you'll be glad you watched it and look forward to seeing it again and again.On the other hand, if you're a dedicated pessimist, then maybe you shouldn't watch it, because you just won't get it. Too bad for you.  "}{"Title":"Secret Gem","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I nearly walked out of the theater the first time I saw this. The next time I saw it was three years later on cable. I still wasn't impressed. It must have been a cheap run, because they aired it endlessly that summer. Somehow, I finally got it.Advertising this movie as a light-hearted romantic comedy is criminal. It's poetry, a fairy tale in mythic grandeur. It's an eternal story about a transformation that we all must go through. It's about a human being coming to terms with death. What do we do when we realize that we all are cursed with an incurable disease?Joe - I'm not sick except for this terminal disease?Doctor(nods) - Which has no symptoms, that's right. ...Joe - What AM I going to do?Doctor - You have some time left. You have some life left. My advice to you is Live it well.There is much to discover in this movie. The trick is to actually listen to what's being said. Listen to what this movie has to say about life, death, loneliness and love. The dialogue is nothing at all like the way people actually speak. The lines come in speeches and poetry more like Shakespeare that what we're used to seeing in movies.Give this one another chance. Or, if you haven't seen it, watch it with patience and wonder. You won't regret it. This is Shanley's best work, even better, in my opinion, than his much more successful Moonstruck.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood work of Genius","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people didn't like this movie because they misunderstood what it was. This movie is a modernization of early French and German expressionist films.Unless you've studied film history, this movie will likely go way over your head. But what John Patrick Shanley has done is truly unique. He has created a modern motion picture in the style of Cinema's early years. This movie was basically made asking the question, What would the early filmmakers do if they made movies today?.The beginning of this film is done as German expressionism, specifically referencing Fritz Lang's Metropolis. If you've seen the first five minutes of Metropolis, you'll recognize it instantly. Once they get out on the ocean, you start to get wisps of George Melies' storybook films (moons were really big with him). This trend continues until the famous, hauntingly beautiful moonrise scene, which would make Melies himself very proud.The early stylings rub off on other parts as well, specifically it's use of unreal lighting. Various colored lights are used throughout the movie, giving them a very artistic look. Another early style mimicked here is film tinting. This happens in one scene in particular. When Joe and Patricia are on the deck of the boat before the typhoon hits, the entire image is tinted green. Early filmmakers in the silent era did this all the time to give specific scenes a certain feel before color film existed.I have to give credit to George Delerue for giving this movie one of the most beautiful, exquisite, and awesome musical scores I have ever heard on a movie. I always watch this movie LOUD because I love the music so much.Joe Versus the Volcano is a modern classic and one of my all-time favorite films. DO NOT watch this movie in Pan & Scan. This film is strictly Widescreen-only.10/10. Perfect. "},{"Title":"A film which seems to polarise opinions, a small number love it, most don't get it.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When this film was showing in Sydney, one of the local critics liked it as much as me. He was sitting through it for the third time, when one of the ushers came up to him and said You and I must be the only people in the whole of Sydney that like this film!Not quite true, because I thought it was extraordinary. An eclectic mix of characters in a somewhat surreal version of contemporary society, it is blessed with some great performances and stand out sequences. If for nothing else, this film is worth it for just one particularly amazing scene. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are shipwrecked and are floating on his luggage - the scene where the moon rises over the empty ocean is one of the most startling, touching and memorable pieces of cinema I've ever seen.Most people who love the film will almost always draw your attention to this scene. It's truly a gem. "},{"Title":"feel good","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Since i saw this quite some time ago, i'm vague on the details but i intend to rent it this weekend. What i do remember is that this movie was immensely melancholic and yet extremely uplifting. I can say that this one is one of the purest Hollywood films to ever come out, in form and in concept. It's simple, and innocent. Its entertaining, and is full of substance without being sentimentally cheesy.The expressionistic style, and over-the-top, literal, dry illustration of a unique storyline makes this film very different to your usual dosage of feature films. Some people might even compare it to Tim Burton's films which evoke similar expressions and emotions, but in my opinion it is even purer than that.And even though i cant remember much, it had a massive impact on me i remember i smiled, and it was a great feeling - and i'm a cynic. "},{"Title":"love it","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Now here's a movie that, by the sound of it, I never ever thought I would like. Tom Hanks? Meg Ryan?! Puh-leeze! I've never seen any of their romantic films, nor am I fans of theirs. I did like Hanks in Private Ryan though... Anyhoo, I digress-This movie is special. I can't say it better than has already been said in the other comments that get it, but whenever this movie is on I can't help but watching it. Meg Ryan is great in her three roles. I have no response to that. I use that line in real life quite frequently since seeing this movie...Yeah it's kind of goofy, but there is so much to like. The beginning section at the factory is just superb. Might be the best part. I know he can GET the job, but can he DO the job?. Just great.Anyway, I'm rambling. I think you either get this movie or you don't. I would definitely put this on the list of may favorite films. Maybe in the top 25. Certainly in the top 50 I think. Good day. EOM. "},{"Title":"Can he DO the job?....","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe is diagnosed with an incurable disease, quits his dehumanising job, and accepts an offer to briefly live like a king, die like a man.But to fulfill his agreement, he must willingly jump into a live volcano on the island of Waponi Woo in order to appease the volcano god. On the way to the island, Joe meets a series of interesting characters, then boards a yacht, captained by Patricia Graynamore. During the voyage Joe and Patricia survive disaster, fall in love, and finally arrive at the island where they face their destiny.......On repeat viewings, its clear to see why this failed at the box office, it was pitched as some goofy romantic comedy, but its more than that. It's a fairy tale, a fable about mans destiny and goals, and how very few of us actually chase them.Plus, it's very dark to boot. You'd be forgiven if you thought you were watching a Tim Burton, even Fritz Lang film to begin with, and it's this first part of the film that makes or breaks the rest.Joe's workplace is a heady mix of Brazil and Metropolis, and its a cold, bleak depiction of an unwanted job. If you can appreciate the jet black humour in this, the rest of the film is more lighter, more of a relief, which is ironic as we are following Joe to his most certain demise.Ryan plays three characters in this, and I believe she is a subliminal narrative arc, depicting Joes different stages of character, as each character Ryan plays becomes more confident, more stronger than the last, much like Joes metamorphosis during the film.Hanks is as reliable as he ever was in his kooky stage, and the fantastic chemistry is evident between the two. It's certainly an acquired taste, it can be pretty bleak in parts, but it has been unfairly overlooked. "},{"Title":"Good message, decent movie, albeit really odd","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" That pretty much sums up this 1990 film starring Tom Hanks as a miserable man stuck in an uninspiring job. After learning he's going to die in six months, he accepts an offer to live it up for a couple of weeks and sacrifice himself in a volcano on some nondescript Pacific island.Right off the bat, the movie tips off that it's more fantasy than reality. There's a great message about not selling your life -- your dreams -- for whatever pathetic wage they're offering at the local factory or whatever the case. But the final act fizzles out in Giligan's Island cartooniness.Meg Ryan co-stars in a three-pronged role.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Patricia Too","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Patrick Shanley both wrote and directed this quirky comedy that stars Tom Hanks as put-upon worker Joe Banks, who finally quits his depressing dead-end job after being told he has a brain cloud by Dr. Ellison(played by Robert Stack) Despondent, Joe ponders suicide but is interrupted by multi-millionaire Mr. Graynamore(played by Lloyd Bridges) who offers Joe a deal he will live like a king before jumping into the volcano of a Pacific island to appease the tribal chief, with whom he has dealings. Joe agrees, and meets three different women(all played by Meg Ryan) until the last, Patricia, with whom he falls in love, as they make the fateful sailing journey together... Delightful film is decidedly different and odd, but also charming and unpredictable, with two appealing lead performances and many funny scenes. Becomes more of a life-affirming fable than a straight narrative story, explaining credibility issues, with a sweet ending. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie probably 8-10 times. I am drawn to it, lock on to it, can't resist it. From the opening scenes to the end, I love this movie. I love that Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan were brave enough to make it. Yes, it was pretty much trashed by the critics, but movies are funny; they are completely subjective, so one person's swallop is another's caviar. So who is Joe? He's a miserable man trapped in a rotten life and all his options have long faded away. But a weird proposition comes to him and being so miserable, he accepts. So begins his journey to the volcano. In the telling of the tale, we see why Joe is so miserable (he does have reasons)and why the offer given to him was accepted. He meets new people on the way, discarding his old life completely. His life becomes a roller coaster of new experiences, some good, some not so much. But all through it, he seems to keep his balance, unfortunately because he expects to receive nothing and is pleased and surprised when something great happens. Meg Ryan plays three different characters and they all interact with Joe on a different level. If you watched this movie before, give it another try, if for nothing less than to see Joe dancing on his luggage in the middle of the open sea. "},{"Title":"Ignore the Ratings","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the most shocked I have ever been by an IMDb rating. Particularly when I first watched JVTV a decade ago, it struck me as a wonderful, fun film that I was sure people loved; now, having found out differently, I am reminded of just how subjective these things are.I don't really think that the film was difficult to understand or too complex or not capable of striking some chords, but it's an interesting thing here... The story is SO understandable and, at times, clichd, that it turns itself from an actual story into an allegory of a story. There's some pretentiousness, certainly, but the simple-mindedness of it should be forgiven by just how entertaining it is. The characters are fantastic and well played (my favorite is the luggage guy, and when I tell people may you live to be a thousand years old, sir they never get it. their loss) and I thought the pacing and dialog were great. It's funny, light in the best ways with just a few of those moments where Joe takes stock and says what people need to hear a relatable character say.Some of the parody might be too in-your-face, like the office scene. But the thing is, that's a great scene, hilarious and very satisfying. Meg Ryan is good here, and I usually don't think she's a great actress. Tom Hanks is, well, Tom Hanks, the perfectly-manufactured everyman. I'm a cynical bastard today, and this isn't my normal kind of film. I like darker movies, and usually shrug off pap. But I still enjoy JVTV, so I'd recommend that those who haven't seen it give the film a chance. It's not for everyone, but if you are one of the people who enjoys it, then you will REALLY enjoy it. "}{"Title":"An Eccentric, Rewarding Twist on Life, Love and Human Sacrifice","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I see the words Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan and romantic comedy all together in a film's description, it's usually back on the shelf before I can read another word. I had good memories of this one, though, so I chanced it and came away happy. Hanks, still early into his burgeoning film career, hits two wildly exaggerated extremes in his portrayal of Joe, the hopeless working stiff who learns he's got roughly six months to live and rediscovers the miracles of spontaneity. Behind the film's absurd premise and a few witty, hilarious caricatures lies a pointed, layered look at the trappings of modern society and the gray fog we spew around ourselves to cope with our dull nine-to-five schedule. It's an original take on the message, and one which is constantly reinforced by a quirky, distinct visual style and playful personality. Hanks is as eccentric as ever, flying around the screen like a kid chasing a superball, while Ryan stretches herself with three wildly different roles. Loads of fun, even if the ending flies a bit over the top. "},{"Title":"A fable that grows on you. Watch it again.","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An early Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan pairing. The story is simple Joe works for a dreadful company. He is depressed with his life, which is going nowhere. The company doctor tells Joe he has a brain cloud and will die soon. Joe decides to end it all on a tropical island populated by zany natives that drink orange soda pop; to sacrifice himself to their volcanic god. Sounds like a Hope-Crosby Road picture, right? Well it could have been. Strangely written and directed, it should have been funnier. I get it that this is social commentary about big companies and pointless jobs. The movie is somewhat depressing, especially at first. The only thing that saves this film is Meg Ryan's acting (She plays three different characters) and Tom Hanks' likable nature. Cast includes Robert Stack, Lloyd Bridges, with Abe Vigoda and Nathan Lane (as natives). More enjoyable the second time through, however. Kind of a shaggy-dog unique story. Remember, luggage is everything. "},{"Title":"Joe - A Man Who Finds Himself","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" All,This post contains spoilers, so read ahead only if you've already seen the movie.This story of soul-sick people who find themselves is a fun, cute movie full of pineapples that left me in tears...wonderful!!This is probably one of the absolute best movies I have ever seen. Meg Ryan is tremendous in her roles and Tom Hanks is at his best. The plot is cute, and I have NO idea why the bolt on Joe's decrepit wall, the Jewish greeting song, the, Are you...Joe Banks?, When Johnny comes marching home, smacking Joe with fishes... would not make this movie a real treat for anyone. Why it got bad marks is beyond me.It's okay for kids. Challenge them to find the lightning bolts...Tom (Hanks)...if you are reading this, thanks for this movie. It is one of my absolute favorites!! I love it! You cut a heroic figure!ojd "},{"Title":"a modern fairy tale","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK,So here's another one. I am detecting a pattern in my film preferences. Honestly, I don't just like it because no one else does...This is a fairy tale. DO NOT go into it expecting any more. It's silly and irreverent at times, but it really makes you think about the value of life and the time we spend and how we (mis) spend it.Tom Hanks is outstanding as Joe Banks and exercises all elements of his comedic repertoire. Meg Ryan plays multiple roles and does all with aplomb. And you can't make a bad film with Abe Vigoda (who, at the time of this comment is NOT dead)!Again, don't rely on what your Fellini and Bergman loving friends told you. Try it for yourself, and see if it doesn't just affirm something for you. "},{"Title":"philosophical joe","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Can't believe the ratings on this one. Timing. Is all I can think of.When Goodfellas, Hunt for Red October, Home Alone, Ghost, Total Recall all came out that year. You know something is not right. Even worst was Dances with Wolves won Best Oscar. And Kevin for Director. If there was a time when best director should not same as best picture /. this year was it. And No, I can't do better but Miller's Crossing should have.Ghost got the romantic main stream. Home Alone got the comedy main stream. And boy, were they main stream. So main stream that probably a musical is coming up soon, even for Home Alone.Joe is different. It is a philosophical romantic comedy, with it can separate the romance with the comedy bit too !!! And not a lot of us can house those 3 ingredients inside AND enjoy their coexistence at the same time. Firstly the romantics would not get why meg Ryan played 3 characters. The heavy thinkers would not know the i'm not arguing with you Joe bit, so on .. .. and so on.I first saw this in theatre.. then it never left my mind until video.. yes. back then.. it was tape. Are they coming out with a 3 disc special DVD edition yet ? Wait... it's Blueray now ... right ???? "},{"Title":"This movie is better with Age","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie on the big screen when I was in high school. Walking out I thought it was a waste of money. Now with a few more years under my belt, I love this movie. I really didn't get it way back when, but I can really appreciate it now.Never mind the low ratings, if you are a movie buff and looking for something that can poke fun at itself and offer some food for thought at the same time, this is a movie for you. If you appreciate cinema, and can suspend disbelief, you will appreciate this overlooked gem.If you watch it and hate it, come back a few years later. That is what it took for me to get this movie. "},{"Title":"Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan shine in an otherwise silly movie.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS -- Hanks is a down-and-out office worker for a medical devices company. Lousy boss (Dan Hedaya), lousy working conditions, muddy parking lot, poor lighting, Joe always feels bad.  We would probably diagnose it as depression, but Joe is told he has a brain cloud and only a short time to live. Suspiciously coincidentally, a wealthy businessman shows up to make him a great proposition - an all-expenses cruise to a tropical island, all he has to do is agree to jump into the volcano for the required sacrifice.  After all, he's going to die anyway so why not go out with a bit of enjoyment and excitement?Of course the business man (Lloyd Bridges) and the doctor (Robert Stack) are in cahoots, and are trying to use Joe to perpetuate the lucrative soda business they are doing with the Waponi Islanders. Joe actually jumps into the volcano, holding hands with his sweetheart, but a steam eruption at the same time propels them into the ocean and they survive. Those four oversize pieces of luggage make a perfect raft! Abe Vagoda is great in a small role as the Waponi's Chief. Meg Ryan actually does the best job, playing 3 different characters. First, she is the mousy, half-witted secretary in Joe's workplace. Next, she is the rich, aloof daughter of the businessman, helping him get set up for his trip. And finally, she is the perfect twin sister who accompanies Joe on the cruise, and becomes his love interest. There is of course nothing plausible about this movie, it is just a silly romantic comedy.  Quite entertaining in parts, I rate it 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"My theory on Joe vs. the Volcano","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Versus the Volcano has some strange connection to me. I think it is the 'I know he can get the job, but can he do the job' scene. I really do think that movie is better than most people say it is. I have always seen it as a study in loneliness. If you look at his lamp in his office, the whole events of the movie are on there in summary- the travel on over the ocean on a ship, the big volcano on a little island, even the colors from the lampshade are the same colors used in the movie.My theory on this and why Meg Ryan keeps showing up in different roles? Joe never leaves the office. His sickness is not a 'brain cloud.' He really has cancer and, while staring at the lamp in his office, he dreams of a different life where he escapes the sickness and trivialities of his daily life. The only real Meg is the one in the office. She is the only female Joe has been around on a regular basis for a long time and because of this he has idolized her. Things do not go well with her in his imagination because it is Joe telling himself 'I can do better than this,' so he dreams up the idealized image of the 'California Girl,' who also falls short when Joe decides the he could do even better than that.Look for the theme of lamps in the movie. Joe hates the lights of the office. He has the Hawaiian lamp. The doctor's office has a ton of lamps, and a light on the desk that looks like a lamp bulb. Almost every image until they get to the boat is filled with lamps.Also, look at the colors at the start of the movie and in the office. Everything is drab. Bright color is not introduced, other than through the lamp, until Joe finds out that he is going to die. Even after this, when Joe goes back to the office and quits, the color is not as drab as it was until he found out that he is going to die.Why?Because everything after the initial scenes in the office are part of Joe's imagination. He dreams a of a different version of his real visit to the doctor. One in which he is diagnosed with a sickness that is not real, and is escape-able, unlike his real sickness.These are just some thoughts to consider next time you watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Like rocks skipping over water.","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I believe it may just be possible that the people who don't appreciate this film may be the ones who go through life like a rock skips over water. I gently suggest to those people to go back and watch it again. Watch for the subtle suggestions that we can get too complacent in our everyday lives. Watch for the suggestion that we have a humanity in us that we sometimes forget or don't even know is there. And watch for the many metaphors the writer and director have included to give the film a far greater depth than it initially appears to have. Lastly watch for exaggerated dialog and scenery to keep us from falling into that same complacency the film strives to advise against.I don't have more than a handful of movies in my collection; Play It Again Sam, Freaks, Harold and Maude and a few more... and this one... Joe Versus the Volcano. "},{"Title":"Top shelf cinema- terribly neglected","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was in the Army on a plane flying to Germany- I half slept through it and figured it was a typical Tom Hanks vehicle. The second time they played it (it was a long flight) I was wide awake and followed the story. Being 19 years old, scared of going to a foreign country, and alone, I quickly related to Joe adrift on the ocean in awe of a full moon. Once I got to Germany, the post theater in the processing center was playing the film-so that was my only form of recreation. I must've seen the movie every night for a week. Inadvertently, I learned a lot about my own soul and my own life while Joe learned about his. Nearly 20 years later it is still one of my top 10 films. I think Hanks fantastic performance (along with solid writing, touching soundtrack, and plot) made this film a much deeper and personal experience than just another comedy. "}{"Title":"I'm glad to be one of those awake enough to love this movie","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From the other comments posted here about this movie, it seems that people either love it or hate it. Well, put me down in the love it category. This is easily one of Tom Hanks' best early movies. As others have said here, this is much more than another romantic comedy. There's a great line in it that goes, My father says that almost the whole world is asleep. Everybody you know. Everybody you see. Everybody you talk to. He says that only a few people are awake and they live in a state of constant total amazement. I think that anyone who doesn't get this movie is one of those who are not only asleep, but REFUSE to wake up. This movie is just so rich in metaphor and symbolic visual images, it's nothing short of a masterpiece. The best way to describe this movie is to call it a modern day existentialist romantic fairy tale. I'm one of those people who watch some movies all the way through just to get to a scene where the principal character or someone else says something meaningful, or especially funny. A couple of examples are The scene in The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly where Clint Eastwood's character says, I never saw so many men wasted so badly. the other is in The Outlaw Josey Wales, where Josey goes to the Comanche chief Ten Bears and makes peace with his words of death/ words of life speech. This movie is full of such moments, like the line I quoted above. But, especially for anyone who's been or felt stuck in a dead-end job that they hated, it has to be the scene where Joe Banks (Tom Hanks) gives one of the best Take This Job and Shove It speeches ever put in a movie. I'm not going to quote the whole thing here, just the line where he tells his scrofulous toad of a boss, Mr. Waturi, (Dan Hedaya), You look like a bag of s#%t stuffed in a cheap suit. The rest of it is just laugh out loud HILARIOUS. I also love all three of Meg Ryan's characterizations. I wonder if part of her reason for doing it was as an homage to Peter Sellers. I saw a comment from one of those who didn't seem to get it to the effect that there's nothing funny about a terminal illness. If it were a real one, I could agree. But when it's a FAKE one, then it IS funny. I mean, come on, lighten up! How could anyone BUT a hypochondriac take something called a brain cloud seriously? I also thought it was great that even as Dr. Ellison, (Robert Stack) is giving Joe this fake diagnosis, he is also giving him a TRUE one. You'll have to watch the movie to see what I mean. I could go on and on, but I'm running out of room. Just watch for Marshall the limo driver, (Ossie Davis), and the luggage salesman, (Barry McGovern), in a couple of stellar small roles. About the only thing I can think of to complain about is that there's no explanation of how the Waponi either got hooked on orange soda, or where they get it. But that's small potatoes indeed when everything else about the movie is so great. I LOVE IT! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Only the best story ever told","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is vastly underrated and deserves it's due! On the other hand, I don't see how the majority of people could possibly wrap their heads around it. It's worth it every time. Every time I need it, I pop it in the player and it makes me feel really, really good.I haven't liked a single Tom & Meg movie since this, and I don't think that I ever will. They both deserve special recognition for doing this movie, and major spankings for doing You've Got Mail.If you see this movie and you end up NOT wanting to have a Brain Cloud, then you are suffering from a diagnosis far more dire.See it.... SEE IT. "},{"Title":"Great Movie full of metaphors","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe Versus the Volcano is one of the greatest movies ever made.It is full of metaphors and symbols. It is a poetic narrative that ages well.  It is not to appreciated by left brain analysis but with a right brain intuitive sense of balance. Joe is average man who has settled for a life not worth living. There is a provocation in his life to get out of what he has settled into. Joe wakes up and goes on a great adventure to do something with his life. Joe meets many potential partners but finds the one for him. He finishes his quest and is restored to a better life. That's the plot but the movie unrolls like a vivid but strange dream. Little symbols and patterns repeat them selves through out the movie.  "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whenever this flick appears on the small screen, I end up watching at least some of it. Maybe it's the cast that's so appealing. When I first watched this film, I had no idea that Meg Ryan was even in it, never mind playing three different roles. I didn't even recognize her as the mousy De De! Dan Hedaya is Tom Hank's overbearing boss. Lloyd Bridges and Robert Stack almost reprise their roles from Airplane!, but with a more serious overtone. The great Ossie Davis is perfect as the classy limo driver. Watch for Carol Kane's ten seconds - Shazzam! Abe Vigoda is a hoot as the Jewish-Polynesian Waponis tribe chief. Also watch for Nathan Lane as Abe Vigoda's assistant.A young Tom Hanks is perfectly cast as the naive hero. One quickly realizes the early chemistry with Ryan, which led to a couple of very successful Nora Ephron films.Joe Versus the Volcano is an endearing sleeper that plays on the strength of it's wonderful cast versus it's script or structure. If nothing else the movie gave us the rare, but fatal affliction called Brain Cloud. Perhaps that's what those Imdb associates who commented negatively on this film suffer from. "},{"Title":"Rates between Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Imagine an oddball romantic comedy packed with the visual imagination of Spielberg.  This movie is almost-great.  There are three or four visuals that are worth the price of admission by themselves.  Meg Ryan plays three terrific characters, and pulls it off very well.  In fact, this movie is full of weird characters, most of which stay on this side of believability. Hanks is great, as usual, but I think Ryan outshines him.  He has not yet reached his prime, as in Sleepless, and is far from the disinterested sleepwalk he does in You've Got Mail.  The film features one of my all-time favorite response to an impassioned speech  I have no response to that. Lloyd Bridges obviously enjoys his out-of-water role.  Abe Vigoda is, well, Abe Vigoda.  This movie is a delight in so many ways, from its comment on corporate cubicles to the undying spirit of Ryan's final character.  I have only two complaints  the island people make it hard to suspend disbelief, and there is a painfully cavalier attitude toward the loss of life.  If you can get past those two issues, this will be a favorite film. "},{"Title":"Great film worth seeing again and again!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Possible Spoilers here In reading other comments, I am not surprised that folks either love this movie or hate it.  It is definitely a wacky film and not meant to be taken simply at face value.  There are indeed many allusions to other films here; two I have not seen mentioned are The Wizard of Oz when Hanks and Ryan are pampered when they first arrive on the island (Dorothy and friends received similar treatment when they got to Emerald City) and the way the final few minutes of JVtV recall the final scenes of African Queen.Ossie Davis is great as the limousine driver/guru, and I love Ryan's three roles (I had to watch the film about three times before I was sure the first one was really her).  The scene with the huge moon is remarkable. My favorite bit of dialogue comes on the boat before the storm when Hanks asks Ryan if she believes in God.  She offers an I believe in myself credo, and Hanks basically says that when he thinks too much about himself, he gets bored out of his mind.  The chemistry between the two is wonderful. Best single line in the movie (which gets used a lot around our house) I have no response to that! You owe it to yourself to give this film a second look.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of All time.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the best comedies of all time. This movie is so relevant to our everyday lives. How many of us feel trapped in monotonous jobs for the sole purpose of income. How many of us actually say f*** it and take a risk, and abandon our so-called secure lives such as Joe did?  "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films. It starts off with one of the most nightmarish representations of working life committed to celluloid &#150; and I hate to admit it, but I could relate to some of it (I think most of us can)!Tom Hanks plays Joe, a man diagnosed with having a &#145;brain-cloud'. He is given six months to live and this spurs him to quit the dead-end job he hates and to start assessing his life. Before he can do much, a crazy old Tycoon comes to visit him and offers him a once in a lifetime chance &#150; he can have all the luxuries and money that he wants as long as he agrees to jump into a volcano at the end of a trip.Sounds crazy? It is &#150; and that's half it's charm. This is a very easy going, watchable and charming movie with some great performances and a relaxed atmosphere. The transformation of Hanks from a down on his luck loser to a man about town is quite a liberating one and great fun to watch.One for all the family.  "},{"Title":"What  a joy!!!!!!!  no violence!!!!!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm watching this movie again after I'd recorded it on FAMILY channel the other evening.......if for no other reason,  watch it with your sweetie,,,it's slow in spots,  but the music  alone  is worth watching it.....now I  can't get the melody out of my widdle bitty head!!!!!!!!   -)          rainbow from ohio "},{"Title":"The best of the Hanks/Ryan romantic comedies is the first","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  JOE VERSUS THE VOLCANO (1990) *** Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan, Lloyd Bridges, Dan Hedaya, Ossie Davis, Robert Stack, Abe Vigoda, Amanda Plummer.  John Patrick Shanley wrote and made his directorial debut in this screwball comedy about doomed Hanks making a journey to a tropical island to be a volcano sacrifice and winds up falling in love with Ryan (in three humdinger roles) along the way.  Silly but warm at times.  Look sharp for Nathan Lane as a native.  Best scene  Hanks hugging a Great Dane. "}{"Title":"Works on three levels","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is entertaining, funny, and moving....for those who understand that it's more than a comedy. Joe is a shy guy living a sad and lonely life until he's hit with some shocking news and a strange proposition.  No movie is for all tastes, but if you can relate to Joe this will be one of your all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"How can anyone not like this movie?","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read the comments and am surprised at the number of negative comments. This is really a fine, entertaining film.  Actors, story, music, freshness, cinematography, this film has it all. It's The Princess Bride all over again. Someday it will be recognized, kind of like It's a Wonderful Life.  "},{"Title":"Funny movie, cute, worth it","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movies is very funny, and loaded with great actors.  I especially love Abe Vigoda as the Waponis chief.  Classic.  Tom Hanks asks him what is the little dopey idol that he wears around his neck, and he responds, My soul, and Hanks says, I hope you don't lose it, and Abe responds, So do I. You had to be there  "},{"Title":"What Is That...A Teddy Bear?","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this film mostly because of the absurd humour which, being from the UK, is part of my psyche. Like the part on the Waponis Island when the guys swing into the gongs and are rapidly removed on stretchers. There are so many great lines from everyone (especially the Luggage Salesman) and a lot of first class deadpan acting not to mention a splendid (Marty Feldman) inspired Lloyd Bridges. The Music is another reason I love this film. Like the hauntingly memorable Theme track that pops up throughout most of the film, from the downbeat soulful to the upbeat Calypso like feel of the other tracks that trace the transformation of Joe Banks the Schmuck to Joe Banks the fairly righteous dude. As for Meg Ryan (another reason to see the film Hubba-Hubba), there's three of her in here, Yowsa! And they all lived happily ever after....   "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies ever!   Meg and Tom are fabulous in this movie! Thank goodness they finally released this on DVD! Now if only they'd release the soundtrack!  "},{"Title":"Deeper than it appears","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What becomes clear on reading the many and varied opinions of this film is that a great many people, even some who like it, have misread it, and failed to see it for what it is.  Joe vs the Volcano has more in common with Groundhog Day than with the average romantic comedy.  This isn't a film about falling in love.  It's about how much of our lives is spent wasting time on things we don't care about.  The film has a serious philosophical underpinning that many people (most particularly the majority of the critics in 1990, Roger Ebert being a notable exception, as is often the case) somehow missed in their haste to label it as a romantic comedy, a screwball comedy, or a fill-in-name-of-label comedy.  If you're the kind of viewer who is able to look below the surface of a film, you may find something you'll appreciate here.  If not, there's always You've Got Mail, which has the same actors, and none of that pesky philosophical uncertainty. "},{"Title":"A marvelous film for those with a certain sensitivity","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most people fail to appreciate the deep psychological and symbolic aspects of Joe Versus the Volcano.  However many viewers with a certain sensitivity find this film to be one of their all time favorites, worthy of repeated viewing, contemplation, and cogitation. It may help to be aware of one's own (as well as collective humanity's) soul sickness to fully appreciate the marvelous aspects of this story, disguised as a superficially absurd fairy tale, but with few peers in deeper meaning, perception, and romanticism. "},{"Title":"Great movie about waking up and living life to it's fullest!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really identified with Tom Hanks's character.  Anyone who has ever gone through the what's wrong with me?s and came out fine on the other end can appreciate this film.  I didn't really love Meg Ryan's performance, but she did a good job with the different roles.One line that I picked up from the movie was Brain Cloud - that's hilarious!  To this day, my family still uses Brain Cloud to describe any kind of ailment.  Another one of my favorite all-time scenes is the one where Dan Hedaya's character (Mr.Frank Watori) is having a phone conversation in which he keeps saying I'm not arguing that with you!! over and over again.The other characters in the movie, played by Lloyd Bridges, Robert Stack, Abe Vigoda and Carol Kane are all top notch character performances.I found the movie encouraging and uplifting while at the same time original and totally entertaining.  I really don't understand why most people didn't like it?  "},{"Title":"A must see for any Meg Ryan or Tom Hanks fan","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was only 14 the first time I saw this movie and quite frankly it made me want to barf. The only thing that kept me from losing my lunch happened to be every 14-year-old's favorite actress, Meg Ryan (she's still my favorite). I'm so glad she was in this movie because I never would have watched it a second time. And I never would have discovered what a gem this film is. The range of imagry in this movie is so vast. I can't think of any other movie that has as much contrast in different scenes; from the beginning of the movie's office scenes where you almost feel the incandescent lights sucking the life out on Joe's eyes to the luggage-raft scene where Joe is strumming his ukulele in the middle of the Pacific, it just keeps getting better. It almost makes a brain cloud sound appealing so you could live without anything holding you back and go where Joe went. It's masterfully written and directed. Tom Hanks' and Meg Ryan's chemistry is just icing on the cake as are the last two lines of the movie Patricia I wonder where we'll end up Joe Somewhere away from the things of man, my love, somewhere away from the things of man. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the most underrated movie on Tom Hanks' resume.  Many people dismissed it as a generic romantic comedy without looking into the deeper meaning of the symbolism within the film.  The twisted path and the memorable quotes throughout make this film a must for any fan of finding a movie's deeper meaning.  Meg Ryan does a great job, as do many other actors in cameo appearances. "}{"Title":"Cult classic","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movies cult-movie feel, with its myriad of details and references. Tom Hanks plays a man out of touch with his soul, trapped in a meaningless existence, who is given an opportunity to change his life. Meg Ryan, beautiful, beautiful Meg Ryan plays three characters, each mirroring Tom Hanks' changing outlook on life.Some find this movie a bit dark and on the gloomy side, and to those people I say You just don't get it! I laughed through the whole thing.To sum it up Meg Ryan is beautiful. Oh, and Tom Hanks is excellent, but then he always is. Not to imply that Meg Ryan isn't always beautiful, because she is, although I haven't actually seen her in every conceivable situation, but safe to say, she will make even the worst of times seem like not so bad after all. Actually quite great. I mean, it's Meg Ryan! "},{"Title":"I Have No Response To That","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are three types of people in this world.  1. Those who LOVE Joe Vs. The Volcano.2. Those who HATE Joe Vs. The Volcano.3. Those who haven't seen Joe Vs. The Volcano.It's to this third group that I would like to address.  Those of you who hated it already have your minds made up and anything I say won't change it.Before Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan starred in a romantic comedy called Joe Vs. The Volcano.  It only made about $40,000,000 (most of it by my group of friends), but it must've inspired director Nora Ephron to put Hanks/Ryan in both Sleepless and Mail.  The chemistry between Tom & all three of Meg's characters is wonderful.  I won't bore you with a play-by-play of the movie, but let's just say that it's a creative love story and actually teaches a great moral by the end.  How many movies can you say that about now-a-days?Before we talk about Tom & Meg, let's look at the supporting cast.  Lloyd Bridges, Robert Stack, Abe Vigoda, Dan Hedaya, Amanda Plummer, Ossie Davis, Carol Kane.  Granted, most of them are cameo-like appearances, but most of them are great roles, especially Dan Hedaya as Joe's boss.Now, this is technically Tom's final comedy (not including Toy Story), and he's in fine form, paving the way for his Academy Award performances.  As for Meg, she hasn't matched the acting ability that she showed in this movie.Another great thing about Joe is the music.  Just look at the soundtrack listing...Eric Burdon, Ray Charles, Elvis Presley and the wonderful theme Marooned Without You by director Shanley and Georges Delerue.Yes, Joe Vs. The Volcano is a weird movie, and some of it is downright hokey, but it's a wonderful trip to take when you get sick of seeing Forrest Gump. "},{"Title":"My Number One Movie!!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Simply the bravest, cleverest and most heart-warming movie ever made... Simply the bravest, cleverest and most heart-warming movie ever made... Simply the bravest, cleverest and most heart-warming movie ever made... Simply the bravest, cleverest and most heart-warming movie ever made... this bulletin board requires at least 4 lines -) "},{"Title":"Don't take it too seriously.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie.  It's funny.  It's supposed to be.  Don't take it too seriously.  Don't watch it expecting too see a couple of funny scenes and then see two people fall madly in love with each other.  The love can be funny too.  The first time I watched this I expected a comedy.  From the preview I had seen I could tell that it wasn't a serious movie.  *Possible Spoiler* It showed the scene where Joe and Patricia declare their love to each other.  Even before Hanks' first line it had made me chuckle quite a few times.  Once upon a time there was a man with a very lousy job.  The opening song, I owe my soul to the company store.  A mass of drably dressed people dragging themselves on to work.  Panascope, Home of the Rectal Probe  Joe's Why me? expression.  The crushed flower.  The one-sided telephone conversation I am NOT arguing that with you.  It goes on from there. Hanks and Ryan light up the screen (of course).  If you saw it once and didn't like it give it another chance.  An extremely enjoyable movie that I would recommend to nearly anyone. "},{"Title":"Underrated, lovely fable","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (some very mild spoilers)I don't really understand the low rating. This movie has always charmed me, since I first saw it years ago. The visual symbolism is a bit heavy-handed, but there's some subtle stuff at work here too. When Carol Kane (as the hairdresser) comments on Joe's new haircut by  saying Shazaam, it reminded me of the superhero who'd change from his alter-ego to his hero form by saying that (this superhero's name escapes me). Also, that lightning bolt symbol was used by this superhero as well. When you later hear Joe talk about his wanting to be a hero, you can see how he's changed from *his* mild-mannered alter-ego.Hanks being in this role is very appropriate, since his best roles are always those of everyman. In this film, he is everyman, but the everyman who gets to live out his hero wishes.Meg Ryan is delightful in her 3 roles, especially those of the 2 sisters. Some very nice cameos, including Amanda Plummer.My advice hang in past the first half-hour or so, and you won't be disappointed. And then you'll rewind to see what foreshadowing you missed! "},{"Title":"Great start, slips at the end","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that caught me off guard.  I really like Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan, and sure enough they did fine.  Meg Ryan was especially enjoyable playing three different roles, each one quite different and unique.   I especially enjoyed the numerous references to one's soul, and believe the theme of the movie was summed up in one line (uttered on the sail boat by the last Meg Ryan character), which was similar to Most people go through life asleep, and those who don't are in a state of constant amazement.  This, in my opinion, is one of life's foundations if we don't truly live the moment, our lives will fly by without us ever living it.  Pretty heavy stuff, but true.  And this film does a great job of presenting it.   Yet once the couple lands on their destination island, things get a bit too slapstick.  The silly orange soda references, the goofy islanders, etc., were too over-the-top, and took away from what really is an important message.   Until the island scenes, the film did a nice job of riding the line between somber commentary and humorous moments.   It's unfortunate that balance couldn't be kept though the end.   Bottom line - if you like Hanks and Ryan, you'll probably like this movie.  Otherwise, enjoy the first two-thirds because the last third drops the ball. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is very underrated. It is a darker comedy and a bit of a sleeper, but the writing is hilarious. I think the first time I saw this, I dismissed the humor. But today its a million times fresher than most of the stuff out there. Meg Ryan is a good actress and this is the one movie that shows her stuff. Tom Hanks is great and original. Conceptually casting Meg as all  three women was brilliant, I think its part of the charm, seeing Meg stretch. If this movie was rereleased would it do well, on video I think it would! "},{"Title":"Marooned without an audience...","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With all of the excitement of Sleepless In Seattle (watchable) and You've Got Mail (I've Got Better Things To Do), you would think that more people would rent this flick out of curiosity and, hopefully, get some of the symbolism. But maybe the darkness of the first half hour turned everyone off (and possibly hits a little too close to home)...anyways, this film is by far the best of the 3 Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan films. It's smart, it's witty, and it has something to say about the way we live our lives and how only we can make our lives better.This is the role that put Tom Hanks on the way to greatness. It is never spoken of (it's right up there with Bonfire of the Vanities to most critics), but if you ever really watch this film, it is truly delightful in so many ways. From the opening scene and the jagged road, to the final scene when the main characters are adrift at sea and at peace with one another, this little film is definately a gem that shouldn't be missed. Watch it more than once to catch all of the symbolism (notice which shoe steps on the flower?) and catch all of the great cameos. It's a must own...on DVD PLEASE! "},{"Title":"A movie that gets better every time you watch it","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Originally when I saw this movie I was relatively unimpressed.  It received rather poor reviews and it really clouded my judgement.  A couple years ago I was on a movie-buying binge and saw it cheap at a local store and thought why not give it another shot.  I popped it in and discovered how much fun the movie is.  Incredible acting by two of todays top stars in Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks, as well as a thoroughly ridiculous plot and dialogue make for a wonderful movie.  I can't say enough about this movie, from Meg Ryan's distinctly different parts to Joe talking to and staring at the hallucinary gigantic moon.  The film teaches two important things, always live your life, and always take with you a good set of luggage. "},{"Title":"Sweet and funny with lots of 60's music. A classic!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Plenty of Tom Hanks style romance and humor with some craziness thrown in. He's lead to believe that he only has a short time to live, so he's given an offer to get everything he's ever wanted if he will.......I've seen this movie about 10 times and I never get tired of it. It's up there with my other all-time favorites. "}{"Title":"One Man Faces His Fears","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An under-rated film, but one of my personal favorites. JVTV has a great collection of actors playing memorable roles. The chief (Abe Vigoda) is hilarious! But Marshall (Ossie Davis) is someone I would like to meet someday. The film has a rich, varied look from the industrial grime of the opening to the depressing advertising office, to the lush romantic dinner, to the upscale shopping in New York City, to the overview of LA at night, to the storm, to the MOON, and finally to the colorful volcanic island of Waponi-Woo. The best part of the movie, and the part that too many people miss is the insight that most people go through their life just going through the motions. They are not truly aware. Joe, living a depressing life, gets a chance to live life to the fullest. All he needs is courage! Cowardly Lions from The Wizard of OZ take note! By facing his fears, he is able to overcome them. Most of the things holding us back are truly between our own two ears. What is your Volcano? Are you able to jump in?? Joe faces his fears, and is a better person for it. There are many symbols in this movie, which unfortunately, some people don't get right away. Are you losing your sole? What lightning bolt in your life is warning you of danger? What people do you deal with? Dede/grungy, Angelica/waspish, or Patricia/delectable? All three are played perfectly by Meg Ryan. (Some people complain about that one actress is needed to play all three. But they are all different sides of people's personalities. Using one actress carries this symbolism.) Great scenery, great songs and great dialog! I own a copy, and try to watch it at least once a year. It makes me laugh, and also make me wonder what volcanoes lurk in my life. "},{"Title":"Great Movie full of quirky humor that I didn't get until my second time watching it.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theater when I was younger. The humor is sophisticatedly simple, so that I hadn't aged well enough then to appreciate it. For a long time I thought it was really dumb, until a friend of mine made me watch it again.Now it is one of my all-time favorties. It has some unbeatable humor, and is decidedly dark from a stylistic stand point. This is a movie you'll probably love or hate, depending on whether or not you get it. But, you've got to see it to know... "},{"Title":"10 out of 10...but not for everyone","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved Joe vs. the Volcano from the first time I saw it in the theater as a fifteen-year-old who had been a Tom Hanks fan since his Bosom Buddies days. But not everyone is going to appreciate it. If you are the type of person who goes for obvious, in-your-face humor, then you will probably think this movie sucks. If you are willing to look for the subtleties and think about what you are seeing, then you will be rewarded by JvtV. Having the soul of an idealist helps when watching this one, as well as a healthy sense of the absurd . Yeah, the ending is wildly unrealistic, to put it mildly, but then so is the whole movie! It's a fairy tale, a fantasy, that just happens to be set in modern times. Sweet, funny, charming, goofy, and *clever*.  "},{"Title":"don't forget metaphors are important","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have spoken to many in my life about Joe V. The Volcano, and most say the same thing, It was ridiculous, they should have died in the end!.  All I can do in response to that is shake my head and hope someday that they, as moviegoers, will look deeper into the screen, and see more than just pretty moving pictures. Joe V. the Volcano is a story of a man who felt he had lost himself. The breaks were not going his way and it took an eccentric millionaire to break him out of the funk.Joe did not buy himself happiness. He bought himself luggage, and he bought himself a much needed haircut, but he did not buy himself a new life, and a new love. Joe found both of those things on his own. It is no mistake that the movie takes very strange and crazy turns. It is no mistake that Joe truly feels the strength of his spiritual self while stranded on a boat, and it is not a mistake that Joe realizes what is important in life by the end of the movie.Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks combine to give this movie, which may not have been excellent without the acting, a much deserved brilliant cast.  Ossie Davis' sureheaded and fiery cab driver give the movie another very interesting kick.  When watching this movie, all I can do is ask to ignore what you heard, look for the transformation Joe puts on, and see how masterfully Tom Hanks handles the script. The darkness of the beginning of the movie, and the score to go along with it make Joe V. the Volcano one of the most brilliantly written and hope inspiring messages you will see in film. "},{"Title":"It's easy to criticize this movie when you miss the point.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is good on so many levels it's not funny...At the shallowest levels it allowed our first glimpse of the funny yet romantic chemistry between Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks.  The rest of the cast is amazing and funny as well.  Abe Vigoda as the half Jewish, half Polynesian chieftain, Dan Hedaya as the mindless and oppressive boss, Lloyd Bridges and Robert Stack and of course Amanda Plummer in yet another totally bizarre roll as the enigmatic Dagmar.If you look even deeper the movie shows us that our self actualization should not be based on some slavish work-a-day existence.  The whole movie is one big metaphor.  The volcano represents the system in which healthy, productive and basically good people are sacrificed in the name of keeping that status quo.  Joe and DeDe show that with their love and faith in each other (and in a good set of steamer trunks) they survive being sacrificed to the system and are in turn rejected by it.If you want to get scary deep you might even derive an anti-semitic message from the movie given that the Waponies are half Jewish and sacrifice people to the system (but offer up no sacrifices themselves).  I hope this is not the true message of the movie since it's actually one of my favorites but that's just the way my mind works. "},{"Title":"terrific fantasy","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe vs volcano is a great, imaginative fantasy. The fantasy in this film really takes you away to a different kind of world, it's escapism. The first part of the movie is the closest part to ugly reality with Joe (Tom Hanks) working in a dismal factory with soul crushed workers and a miserable boss. Joe even makes a pun related to this. Deedee (Meg Ryan) asks Joe why he looks so unhappy. Joe, who has just pulled off his shoe, looks at the sole of his shoe coming off and says I'm losing my sole (soul). Losing his soul is just what seems to be happening to him, he's lost his spirit and his smile. Joe's also a hypochondriac who keeps going to doctors. One day, in a doctor's office, the doctor (Robert Stack) tells Joe he has a  Brain cloud, a very rare, life threatening, incurable illness in his brain. He tells Joe he has only six months to live, and that there's nothing anyone can do to change that.After that is when the movie really changes. He quits his job and tells his boss where to shove it. Then, he takes Deedee on a date, totally wowing her with his new found spirit. This is where we get the if there's no tomorrow, I can do whatever the hell I want theme. Bill Murray did the same thing in Groundhog day when he suddenly started running over mailboxes and driving on the train tracks cause he realized, no tomorrow, no consequences. The next morning, Joe gets a visit from Loyd Bridges (a very rich man) giving Joe the offer of a lifetime. Well, an offer for the rest of his lifetime. Joe finds out that he will totally and completely live it up for three weeks, followed by him having to jump into a volcano. Bridges says that the volcano island tribe people won't give him a rare mineral needed for his super conductors unless he sends someone to the island to jump into their volcano. As you can see, the fantasy part of the movie is starting now. Bridges tells Joe live like a king! die like a man!. We see then Joe being given several of Bridges' credit cards being told  you've got no spending limit. Then we see Joe going shopping for new suits, luggage, etc., Joe staying at the Pierre in New York, him flying first class to LA, going out to a fancy restaurant in NY and in LA, then traveling a pleasure yaht slowly towards the volcano island of the South Pacific. Along the way he meets a pretty girl in LA (Angelica) and then another pretty girl (Angelica's sister Patricia) who joins Joe on the yaht. Both girls are played by Meg Ryan. The days and nights on the yaht, and on a sort of a life raft (made of Joe's large suitcases tied together) after a storm tears the ship apart. That's the period of time where the fantasy wonders of the world, and of life really come to wake. Patricia tells Joe, most of the world is asleep, only a few of us are really awake and we're in a constant state of amazement. Patricia's statement comes at a time where what she says relates to the happening circumstances. All alone surrounded only by things of God, away from the cities, the rat race, the stresses, pushes and hustles. There are some almost magical, surreal types of visions seen in the sky. It is like their whole world anymore is just them and an endless stretch of surrounding ocean. I can understand how then the sky can almost take on a mystical life of its own. Look at Joe's face while looking at the moon. Its almost as if he's not just seeing the moon, but he's seeing the light, cause he's on the brink of dying from hunger and thirst, having little hope of ever reaching any land. But it's at that moment I believe Joe's really found God. It's really mystifying. So not to spoil the plot, I'll stop here. All I'll say is that there IS a twist. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye and underrated","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I wasn't going to review this film because it's already been reviewed by well over 100 posters. But, I'm changing my mind because I think there's more to this film than is immediately apparent.Superficially it's just another comedy. And, that seeming superficiality is accentuated by the title -- Joe Versus The Volcano; it even sounds shallow.What sets this above the average comedy is that it's all about humor WITHIN RELATIONSHIPS. And not just permanent relationships, but how we relate to everyday people we may only come across by accident. We start off in a work setting this is devoid of human relationships -- Joe (Tom Hanks) works in an environment where his boss (Dan Hedaya) smothers any humanity, thus clamping down on any human interaction between Joe and DeDe (Meg Ryan). Then, Joe is diagnosed with a brain cloud by a doctor (Robert Stack). He is then approached by a businessman (Lloyd Bridges) who wants Joe to jump into a volcano as a human sacrifice so that the islanders will give Bridges the rights to a very rare mineral for his business. Joe meets the two daughters of Bridges (both also played by Meg Ryan), one who is weird and suicidal, the other of whom is lively and free.But what is key here is that Joe, when not under his brain cloud develops relationships with each of them. Each relationship is unique and begins to teach Joe than the world is not as sterile as his job led him to believe. He even develops a short, but meaningful relationship with a limousine driver (Ossie Davis).And while there is a thread of humor running throughout the story, it's not just a bunch of gags. It's mostly gags based on some aspect of sensitivity.What's interesting here is that this is Tom Hanks before we discovered what a fine dramatic actor he was...and yet, the hints are there is this film through a portrayal sensitively acted. Oddly enough, there's sort of a preview here -- Joe is adrift in the ocean at one point during the story; shades of Cast Away some 10 years later.There's also some funny casting here -- Abe Vigoda as the island chief and Nathan Lane as one of the islanders.As I've indicated, Tom Hanks is quite sensitive in this comedy film. Meg Ryan shows ads flair for humor, and is interesting because she plays 3 characters totally different in their personalities.Now, before you think I've praised this movie too much, I should tell you that once Joe gets to the island, things get a bit silly. Good silly, but still silly. But that's okay...it's a comedy.I maintain this film is more than meets the eye and underrated. "},{"Title":"good surrealism","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Bank (Tom Hanks) has a depressing job in the Advertising Dept of American Panascope in Long Island City, New York. They make rectal probes. He suffers under his supervisor Mr. Waturi (Dan Hedaya). He's diagnosed with terminal brain cloud with six months to live. He quits and asks out his co-worker DeDe (Meg Ryan). Wealthy businessman Samuel Graynamore (Lloyd Bridges) needs to placate locals on an island to mine a rare mineral. He hires Joe to jump into the volcano to appease their god. Joe hires limo driver Marshall (Ossie Davis) to help him spend the money. Samuel's flighty daughter Angelica (Meg Ryan) picks him up at the airport in L.A. Angelica's half-sister Patricia (Meg Ray) captains the yacht that brings him to the island.I like his surrealistic work life. It reminds me of Brazil. The movie does get uneven at times. After getting the credit cards, Joe goes back into the real world. I expected more surrealism. After that, the surrealism returns with Meg Ryan playing another character. It makes shopping in Manhattan out of step.The 3 Meg Ryan performances are a little jarring at first. I enjoy DeDe as a little wacky and a little darker than her usual fare. Angelica is not as enjoyable. She seems to be trying to hard with her voice. She should pull back a little with the crazy voice and she could replace Ossie Davis on his shopping trips. Patricia is classic Meg and shows their easy chemistry once again. Overall, this may be uneven at times but there are plenty of interesting imaginative concepts. "},{"Title":"Worth revisiting","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can fully understand why this movie currently has a 5.7 average rating. The first time I saw it, I didn't like it at all. It wasn't until years later that a co-worker's constant quoting of I know he can get the job, but can he DO the job? combined with finding the DVD in a cut-out bin for $5 prompted me to watch it again.Part of the problem is that the promotional trailer sold the film as a colorful, screwball, romantic comedy. But it starts out looking about a bleak as you'll ever find in a major studio comedy. It's not until a third of the way into the film that Hanks' character starts living his life and color starts seeping into the movie. It's not until nearly two thirds of the way into the film that the main romantic couple finally meet. After that, the movie eventually becomes that colorful screwball comedy that the trailer promised, but by then it had probably lost half its audience.You won't find too many other major Hollywood productions complete with big name actors that come close to the surreal, symbolic fable quality of Joe Verses the Volcano. The movie's moral seems to be that you should really live your life, doing the things you want to do with the people you want to be with. Don't waste your life slaving away at a dead-end job that you don't even like. Of course, that's easy to say when you think you're dying and some multi-billionaire gives you an unlimited credit card in return for jumping into a volcano.Overall, there are enough funny bits and quotable lines to make this movie worth watching, and it might actually make you think a bit and reflect on life in general. Meg Ryan is pretty amazing playing three very different roles, with Patricia at the end of the film being about as adorable as Ryan gets. Tom Hanks on the other hand - to be honest, I've never been a big fan of his, and he seems kind of miscast in this movie. For some reason while I was watching it, I kept thinking that Joe would have been a good role for Dudley Moore. "},{"Title":"A Sparkling Box-Office Flop","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes, the failure of a film is the fault of the audience, not the movie itself. If one goes into the theater with a particular sort of expectation, that expectation sits and waits to be fulfilled &#x97; if it isn't, the audience member eventually decides that they simply didn't like the movie. It has nothing to do with the film, necessarily it has to do with the thoughts and feelings in the pre-stages of viewership. Take for instance, 1959's Some Like It Hot. The American Film Institute considers it to be the funniest movie ever made. With that knowledge, one expects a film so hilarious that they will be gasping for air even more than they did the first time they saw Airplane. But if the end result isn't asphyxiation, the impression will not be I loved Some Like It Hot &#x97; it will be What did you think of Some Like it Hot?, the response coming in the form of It was good, but not as good as Airplane. Do you see where I'm going with this?When Joe Versus the Volcano came out in 1990, it was a colossal failure; most thought of it as a disaster in Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan's skyrocketing personas, a nail in the career coffin of rising talent John Patrick Shanley, who wrote Norman Jewison's Moonstruck. Audiences didn't much enjoy it, Entertainment Weekly gave it an F, and it lost enough money to put itself in the Hall of Infamy (an awful place that I just made up). Watching Joe Versus the Volcano now, it's apparent that it is not a bomb, rather a movie everyone expected to be a typical Hanks/Ryan romantic comedy and got the film equivalent of your quirky neighbor down the lane. It is such a strange picture that preconceived notions really do have the power to ruin one's judgment &#x97; imagine paying to see something cute and ending up with a Jean-Luc Godard directed, existential art fantasy scripted by Nora Ephron. But as it ages, slowly completing the design of its silver lining as a cult film, Joe Versus the Volcano comes closer to reaching the two most powerful words in the history of movie critiquing hidden &#x97; gasp &#x97; gem. (Those may not be the most powerful but they sure do make a movie sound marvelous.) Joe Banks (Tom Hanks) is so depressed that he may as well star as the before picture in a depression medication ad. An ex-firefighter who has since stepped down into the confines of a soul-sucking office cubicle job, Joe is convinced that the fluorescent lights hanging above him are making him sick and that there is something seriously wrong with his well-being. He goes to the doctor (Robert Stack) and sure enough &#x97; he is diagnosed with a brain cloud, a terminal condition that is rapidly spreading throughout his head. He is given six months to live. Where most would react in a functional Susan Hayward freakout, Joe looks at the prognosis as a new, if extremely temporary, chapter in his life. He quits his job, takes his office crush, DeDe (Meg Ryan) out to dinner, and starts to think for himself.Not long after is he approached by a millionaire, Samuel Graynamore (Lloyd Bridges), who offers a deal. He owns a small island, known as Waponi Woo, and its natives are facing a crisis. According to legend, a sacrifice must be made every 100 years to the island's central volcano &#x97; if not, it will explode, destroying everything in sight. Graynamore, a thinker, figures that Joe would be an ideal sacrifice (what does he have to lose?), offering him unlimited wealth in exchange for a literally life changing jump. Joe agrees without skipping a beat, developing relationships with Graynamore's daughters, Angelica and Patricia (both portrayed by Ryan), along the way.Joe Versus the Volcano is the eccentric you didn't play with during your childhood years, sitting in the corner of the room and zoning out to the pitter-patters of their imagination. With its Dick Tracy meets Pedro Almodvar set design and baroque scenes of dialogue, there is nothing like it and there probably never will be. It is a romantic comedy, but not of the Sleepless in Seattle caliber. It is almost a fantasy, landing in a bizarre world in which every love interest is played by Ryan (in assorted wigs) and remote islands are inhabited by exotic Jews that only drink orange soda. Most importantly, though, it details characters that feel real (despite the reverie that stalks the camera); Hanks isn't his usual charismatic self, instead a guy whose social skills are just creaky enough to render him as nicely quirky as he is love-sick. All three of Ryan's portrayals offer something vital and zany to the film; the screenplay, and Hanks, are added flavors that mix in attractively to Ryan's dominance. Joe Versus the Volcano is goofy, sure, but it breathes crisp, new air while the other romantic comedies of the 1990s sat around and idled insignificantly. "}{"Title":"Quirky comedy mostly for the stars","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Versus the Volcano is a mixed bag of comedy, romance, fantasy and adventure. The comedy is a little on the dark side initially, but then brings in some outlandish stuff for laughs toward the end, including some hilarious history. One suspects, however, that many modern viewers (i.e., younger) may not catch that. For instance, Patricia (one of three characters that Meg Ryan plays very well) reads the history of Waponi Woo, the fictitious Pacific Island they are sailing toward. It was settled 1,800 years ago after a Roman galley with a crew of druids and Jews was caught in a huge storm off Carthage (in the Mediterranean Sea off North Africa). They were swept a thousand miles off course and wound up on the wrong side of the horn of Africa (in the Indian Ocean). Thinking they were returning to Rome, they sailed deep into the South Pacific and finally ended up colonizing a lightly populated Polynesian Island. No wonder the Waponi's were known to lack a sense of direction. But, as outlandish as the storm is that carried them more than a couple thousand miles away, the crew makeup is even more hilarious. The Romans had just conquered the druid areas of England in the first century, and by the second century, the druids had all but disappeared. While the Bible tells us of the fishermen on the Sea of Galilee, the ancient Jews were not a seafaring nation So, a Roman galley with a crew of druids and Jews would be a truly hilarious fictitious arrangement. Then, as Joe (played by Tom Hanks) and Patricia come ashore, the natives are singing a song to the tune of Hava Nagila. (Let Us Rejoice), a modern Jewish festival song. Patricia concluded reading the background on the island and people, Thus was born the Waponi culture, a mixture of Polynesian, Celtic, Hebrew and Latin influences.The story is quirky and the parts of the plot don't seem to blend together well. The writing is weak and the direction and editing aren't quite in sync. The best thing of the movie is the cast and the performances of all. It's especially a good vehicle for the talents of Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. Ryan steals the scenes she is in as DeDe and Angelica, because we know that that's Meg Ryan under the quirky makeup. The movie is fun to watch once, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"A true Meg Ryan's Carnival showcase ... allegory film, multiple facets, Colorful, something as Tropical mood","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You know when you're bored, tired of everything, and passes those unbearable days? In a different time of 102 minutes of your life you see color, fun, fantasy, fable drama and comedy? I can not explain, but I am the victim of sdrome of bipolar disorder but this film which is composed of bubbly and bright imagination and magic of Meg Ryan in 3 roles it. just awesome! no mawkishness, progressive, steady, have spent days so hard in my life that seems to be a difficult challenge to live every day ... miraculously watch this movie'm infected by optimism magic by Meg Ryan she looks like a '' Prozac '' in my life or Meg have the potential 500 times more effectiveness of any anti-depressant or a psychedelic drug in seconds factors you can see life as colorful as this film is characterized both the stereotypes presented by both Meg and Tom. I think of Tom Hanks one hour be depressed and hypochondriac and other excited hour, then gets into trouble so much, that 'an volcano shall become least problem' '. And Meg Ryan is obviously three-phase characters in Hanks' character's life. two characters very allegorical costumes, and the last naturally and charming Meg. But everything has color here, it seems a party of typical Brazilian carnival, tropical climate, scenes picturesquely paradisiac, summer nuances. It looks like a fairy tale that you have wanted to give wings to freedom and live intensely. This film is a peculiarity of Hollywood cinema, there is a flavor very Brazil into ''those Meg Ryans '' As they The brunette '' DeeDee '' A '' Angelica '' with her red hair and Blondie '' Patricia '' There many colors in this movie looks sweet and psychedelic.IS WATER,IS MOONLIGHT, IS SUN. IS EARTH, IS FIRE, iS PARADISE ... IT 'S MEG RYAN!ARE ENDLESS SUMMER NIGHTS OF DREAMS, THAT MEG RENDERED ME BY ALL THOSE YEARS.Meg Ryan gives her certificate really what is to be the Immortal America's Sweetheart.Hmmmm ... looks like a Brazilian carnivalesque will remember this movie and will using Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan as Samba plot theme in a few years. Being it, Meg dead or alive .. It is a film that conveys rejoicing. "},{"Title":"80s art takes on the dawn of the 90s","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" --WARNING There may be some spoilers ahead for those who haven't seen the film, so just a heads up. In order to accurately review this film, it may be necessary to talk about some key moments.--This was an easy movie to want to like. There is plenty unique artistry for it's time to make repeat viewings fresh, and it's a no-brainer to admire it's boldness of design choice and decision to cast Meg Ryan in three separate roles; something few films have successfully done. However, the sad truth is that while Joe Versus the Volcano is not a bad movie, it is far more interesting in it's concept than execution.Joe quits his job after being lead to believe that he has a 'brain cloud' which leaves him with mere months to live. Afterwards he enters into a bizarre business agreement with a wealthy tycoon in which Joe agrees to plummet into a live volcano, which in turns would appease local natives whom inhabit a small island in Hawaii in exchange for a rare material. Joe embarks on a series of short and humorous events leading up to this climactic encounter. Now I found myself finding each event Joe was going through to be so interesting, that each occurrence could've merited a film itself. The limousine driver, his female co- worker, his love interest, her sister the self described 'fliberty jibbet'; all of these characters were too fleeting as no reappearances were to be found after they were conveniently worked off screen thanks to frequent location changes. To the films defense, it was a rare treat to find so many charming and interesting characters in a film of this nature more than the usual annoying and testy ones.This movie is more a part of the less serious and more risk taking Steven Spielberg 'executive producer' era of films along side The Money Pit and Batteries Not Included, which to me are just as defining of their time period as their peers. However, Joe came out in 1990, and apparently still reeling from the last decade since it feels overwhelmingly like an 80s movie, something that saw a quick death at the hands of the 'Reality Bites' time period that was rapidly approaching. So it can be felt in the heart of this film that it wasn't of any benefit that it was released when it was, and even thinking of it as a nostalgic slice of the 80s, seeing as it was most likely filmed during part of 89', helped (at least for me) to enhance the quality of it's wacky and surreal approach during viewing. By the end though, the movie felt like it had just started, and its brief 100 min run time didn't aid it's cause. On the upside, this movie had little to no filler because of it, and it's writing is far better than it is worse even at it's most kooky. The almost a Monty-Python like dry and zanny world being portrayed, but all that aside, it's way too short and feels like it's existence was a forced out as a last entry into a dead decade of film style. Maybe that's just me, but Joe Versus the Volcano feels like a product of bad timing and poor movie practices that saw it's potential left with just enough personality to keep it around today; even if teetering on the brink of being forgotten; rather than a fully realized artistic comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Good Clean Fun!","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I give this film a 8/10 - because it is a hidden gem and in a way I think an 8 is a lot more accurate than the current score it has.As many other user comments suggest, the masses do not readily accept this film as being on par with the blockbuster system that governs movie grading.It is important to realize that Joe versus the Volcano was written and directed by a playwright and so, if you don't like it when your movie looks a little cheesy and the effects aren't state-of-the-art cgi quality, we get it - you hate it. However, for fans of the film, it is just those elements that define the experience - the fairytale mood, the obviously fake shark, a huge moon, the strangest luggage shop and subtly placed over-sized dogs.From an artistic perspective, some of the sets, as low-budget as they may have been, were absolutely brilliant - could the office have been more miserable - the perfect environment in which to triumphantly put your boss in his place.In a way Joe versus the Volcano reminds you of when you were a kid reading your favorite story about a voyage or adventure - your imagination was half the experience. When you were a kid you noticed things like big dogs. This movie is about Joe's waking up and returning to that mindset of absorbing the wonderful things that surround you, sharing experiences with others and, 'living in constant amazement'. "},{"Title":"My favourite movie so far...","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...and I've watched a few.There is so much going on in this movie and I am not sure that Hanks and Ryan understood exactly what they were a part of, but then that is also a message we can take from it - who really understands life?Other messages; we are all in danger of losing our soul; life is a crooked path; clothes maketh the man; once you are a grown up no-one feels good (implying that we should not allow that to happen); embrace your destiny no matter how bad it might lookAnd the above are just a small subset. Symbolism is rife, the sets are a clever mixture of real and surreal, the script is tight, the storyline flies along, and the entire event is a sparkling jewel. Of course you might not agree with any of this, its not in IMDb's top 500, but it takes someone special to jump into a volcano. "},{"Title":"'To Volcano ->'","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The film has lots of fun details (the raft, for instance) and you can tell there's been put some loving work into it, but that's about it. The character Joe is at times poorly played by Hanks, though it must be said he didn't get a lot to work with. The same goes for Ryan and her characters, and for the 'chemistry / romance' between the leads. I am sorry to say.In the beginning there's a lot of bleakness, the settings are pretty neat and there is hope for an okay storyline. That hope diminishes by the minute when Joe gets to go shopping with a big wallet and subsequently gets into all kinds of incoherent boredom along the way. And no, there is no fight between Joe and the volcano...I can appreciate the fact that director Joe Dante wanted to put in some sarcastic observations on some mind-numbing aspects of industrial society that are finally overcome by hope and a sense of life around us, maybe even on the field of medicine / psychiatry, but it's still a straight up flop for the greater part. Again, I'm sorry to say.A (very) small 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It grows on you","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I got bored, thought it too silly for words, and turned it off halfway through.It came on a premium channel again. I said to myself, Oh, what the heck. It really can't be that bad. After all, it's Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan! So I tried it again. That's when I suddenly realized that this is a funny, great movie. It has amazing silliness, a ridiculous plot, some very bad dialogue, a volcano filled with dyed oatmeal ... and great heart.It was the moon that caught me. Joe kneeling on that stupid raft made of his steamer trunks, realizing that his life has been precious while the heroine of the story (Meg Ryan in one of the several roles she plays in the film) is in a coma. If you're looking for a serious film that shows Hanks at the height of his acting career, this isn't for you. But if you want to smile and maybe chuckle, take it out of its hiding place and watch it. It may grow on you, too. "},{"Title":"I erupted with laughter!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Banks has a lousy job, an evil boss and a run down apartment. One day he finds out that he is dying and that is when a mysterious man tells him that he will pay Joe to jump into a volcano and so Joe accepts the offer.This movie reminded me of Brazil because of the office setting and plus I liked this movie for the theme in it. It has to do with living life and not getting buried in it. Seeing things and not taking life for granted are two things that I could take with me after watching this movie.It was funny also. I liked the part where Joe was playing golf on the luggage and the wind blew his golf game away. I laughed so hard that lava came out my nose. "},{"Title":"Just my overvalued two cents worth...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Quick recap of the movie...This is an introspective into the life (or what's left of it) of Joe Banks. Joe, played by Tom Hanks, is a hypochondriac who's diagnosed with a life threatening 'Brain Cloud' and is only left with a short time to live. Immediately after this discovery he is approached with the request to sacrifice himself by jumping into a Volcano in order to help a businessman retain the rights to a rare mining operation on a tropical island.  In return for this, Joe is given the opportunity to live out his final days in a very grand fashion.  However, during preparation for the journey, and the travel itself Joe goes through some highly enlightening of self-discovery as he is helped along by his newly appointed chauffer and a few incarnations of Meg Ryan.My take on the movie...This is not necessarily for those who fell in love with 'Sleepless in Seattle'.  The original screenplay was written in a very dark and cynical (but somehow still very uplifting) way; however the movie was shot in a little brighter light.  For anyone who is seeking a meaning to their existence or for those who have found it; this is an extremely wonderful movie.  It may take several replays to catch all of the humor and insight that this movie has to offer.  Some of the humor in the movie is IMO the best Tom Hanks has ever done.  It seems to be growing in cult status; which only insures that it may never be the mainstream hit that I feel it deserves to be.  To sum things up, this is the typical movie that most everyone will consider to be one of the best or worst movies they have ever seen.Favorite seen...Would most likely be when Joe is finally given the opportunity to quit his job after the discovery of his fatal illness.  Off course this could be due to my personal history of horrible jobs and how I would have liked to done the same things.  I don't think that any other movie would ever feature a Hollywood superstar wailing a prosthetic arm around, knocking a pair of prosthetic testicles off of their boss's desk.  Also, I have never felt more connected to a character until I saw Hanks explain to everyone in the office how the fluorescent lights suck the life right out of him.Personal Rating  10 "},{"Title":"Always a great movie;is there any way to get the soundtrack?","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A truly inspiring movie; Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in wonderful performances. Best Line .....95 percent of people are asleep, the other 5 percent live in a state of constant, total amazement.. The soundtrack is so wonderful, I wonder if there's a way to get it?  "}{"Title":"Great Learning Situations","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film has several areas that when really looked at offer many positive examples of life and how to live it. This film takes you from the melancholy of everyday life, our own fears, and into real love and caring relationships. It helps us to look within ourselves if you really absorb the underlying message it contains. "},{"Title":"A modern fairy tale, and a good time.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe is your average disenchanted worker, who is given the proverbial chance to make a difference in the world.  But is it all as it seems?Follow Joe on his quest to take on the Volcano, and meet the interesting characters that populate this film.This is one of my all time favorite movies, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie you're probably still sleeping","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So, Joe Versus the Volcano is now to be released on DVD. It's taken far too long and I can't wait to finally own it. It's a movie that touched me deeply on first viewing and has been at the top of my 'best 100 movies' ever since.Technically it's not a great film (apart from some wonderful cinematography which has been hidden from view in the pan-and-scan VHS release) and Tom Hanks has been better, but those who criticize these things are missing the point.This is a movie that touches the heart of those who are ready to receive its many messages. If you're one of the many people in this world who are asleep you'll dismiss this film (as the very poor IMDB rating shows). But if you are awake, or about to wake from a lifetime of sleep, this movie will speak more clearly to you than any movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"A quirky, off-beat romantic comedy--what's not to like?","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this film at the movie theatre on a double date. I was too young to get any of it. Besides, how serious can you get about any film when you're 12-years-old and worrying about making a move on that nervous girl with the sweaty palm you've been holding halfway into the picture.Seeing it again as an adult, it has become one of my all time favorite movies. In the vein of the cult and underrated comedies of the past (1941, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure), Joe has been slain by audiences who expect to see something else, and hate to be surprised.I have no sympathy for people who hate surprises so much it ruins their experiences at the movies. The people who really hate movies like Joe need to lighten up. Take a vacation to Waponi-Woo or something. Drink some orange soda. And quick!This movie is clever, and yet doesn't take itself too seriously. It has moments of romantic, thought-provoking dialogue with wonderful supporting actors (Meg RyanX3 and Ossie Davis as the limo driver), awesome cartoonish production design by Bo Welch of Beetlejuice fame, and of course great music (both original scoring by the writer-director Shanley and a treasure chest of choice golden oldies).JVTV has Meg Ryan starring in three different roles which--by the film's end--brings a kind of poignancy to the cliche bar come-on line by Tom Hank's Joe to Ryan's characters Did I ever tell you that the first time I met you, I felt like I'd seen you before?This movie has an obvious message but it doesn't kill the fun along the way. This is a fairytale for adults. When compared to the recent efforts of the `Carpe Diem' message-movie (Zemeckis' Cast Away), it surpasses with wit and subtlety. JVTV brings a serious message to the screen but doesn't make you swallow it whole. Cast Away and so many others feel as subtle as a sledgehammer and almost painfully laughable when they take themselves too seriously to get the same point across.This movie is a test to see if there's anything romantic and passionate left in your too serious grown-up body.If you pass the test, you'll love this movie for what it is a unique, imperfect fable that went over a lot of cynical heads. "},{"Title":"A delightful bedtime story","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The conflict of self is so seldom addressed in film in such a plain and simple manor. And Joe VS the Volcano does just that. On the surface, we have a ridiculous and unbelievable tale of a man on a journey to throw himself into a volcano. The real story, however, is a bit more complex.Joe is really on a journey to find his soul again--a soul he's lost, being an anonymous drone in the corporate world for $300 lousy bucks a week. It's a struggle of modern life and one that I think most can relate to on some level. What's the purpose of our individual existences? When you lose sight of your reason for being, you end up like Joe. And it's nice to watch him find his way back to the living.Unfortunately, I think most people will miss the charm of this film because of the mediocre acting and directing. But it's well worth another look.   "},{"Title":"Great 30 minutes","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a dance between boredom and genius, between philosophy and triviality. The first thirty minutes of this movie are great. I love the opening scene and the scene when Joe quits his job. The pictures during the first thirty minutes are a piece of art (like a hopper painting), the soundtrack fits perfect and the actors are doing a great job. The dinner with his colleague is also well done. The rest of the movie is OK, but nothing special. It started with the promise of a great movie and ended as a weak romance with a ridiculous ending. If there would be just the first thirty minutes, this movie would have deserved 10/10. "},{"Title":"Free to be free!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe versus the volcano is a very special film. It is a reminder that film, like any other artistic medium can be about just about any thing under the sun. And for that reason, if none other, we must all watch it.Joe is a guy like you and me, except that he is a movie character and a bit exaggerated. He lives a mundane tubelit existence, doing the dullest job in the universe, surrounded by nothing but shadows, in a place where nothing ever happens. And then something happens that sends him off on an unreal, surrealistic adventure that teaches him a thing or two about life. And death.On the one hand this film is about some pretty big subjects the meaning of life, taking chances, love, passion, fun, adventure, and all those things we of the great middle class only dream of, or occasionally enjoy, on paid for, organised trips 'around the world'.But on the other hand it is about nothing at all. The narrative itself is an adventure, about taking off into the unknown (even if the reason is not entirely one's own choice). However, the story choices are at some level all very arbitrary and the plot if you examine it is very linear and minimal. The point is that the film's content/events are so absurd, random and arbitrary, that the film seems to be revelling in the arbitrariness of nature itself. In the process, it is more about randomness and what they call 'hazard', rather than the actual events themselves. And it is hence about nothing at all.Frank Zappa's music has that quality, it seems to get up and walk around just because it wants to, because it is free, and in doing so Zappa has for me always asserted the right to the freedom of expression, the freedom to 'be'. Joe Versus is not in the same league as ole Frank, but it does walk around in the same area.It is in a sense a movie about the imagination - about the right to imagine, and in that sense it is perhaps, a movie about the movie making process. The character in a sense is imagining his life, living in a dream - and the movie is doing the same.Stylistically though, the director 'indulges' himself with several scoops of 'exaggeration' - the dull office environment, Meg Ryan's character, the big suitcase, the plot line itself, and the entire treatment of the film. Joe Versus treats its subject matter very lightly. It is, genre-wise, a comedy, and it stays true to the genre all through. And like many comedies it is about the moment, the gag, the expression, the little trick - Enjoy.Tom Hanks as is often the case with him, is cast as 'himself' - the nice guy who is wandering around in this magical world amazed at its goings on. In that sense he is perfect. Meg Ryan is adorable and surprisingly witty in some parts - watch out for when she introduces herself saying Hi, I am a flibbertigibbet. Just one thing though. At times, one can't help wondering how this film would have fared in the hands of someone like the Coen brothers. Cinematic ally, the film does seem occasionally to be short on ideas, and one wishes there was more exaggeration, more fun, more style. But all the same it is a must see. "},{"Title":"A film rich with metaphor if you can suspend your disbelief","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a favorite movie in the light-fare category. Being far-fetched, it may not have enjoyed such good reviews, but some stories are just supposed to be far-fetched. Beyond that, the movie is rich with charm and metaphor of life. Tom Hanks is his lovable self and this may be the funniest work Meg Ryan has done. "},{"Title":"Man...you just don't get it","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie again and it's love all over again.  I really am amazed by some of the negative reviews by the reviewers on here supposed people who love film and find nothing interesting about this film.  There is not one thing here that goes over looked.  The music, the dialog, the imagery...they all have a meaning and a place.  I wish I could say the same about 80% off all the fodder Hollywood pumps out.  A  great social comedy about the listlessness of our society.  At it's least it's a cute love story.  It does fall prey to some of the tired axioms...Getting sick makes you a better person.  You're not happy unless you are in love.   But for the laughs and the deeper themes it's a great film...And now back to my projectorI know he can get the job...but can he do the job? "},{"Title":"An awful movie.  I LOVE IT.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel like this movie was judged on the fact that it is a Hanks/Ryan vehicle, and for that reason it got panned.  (As it should...as a Hanks/Ryan flick)I give it much more credit as a complex, funny, poetic yarn played out in amazing figurative language. There is no way Hollywood could have made this film a success.  It exists better as a fable, to develop in our minds rather than on screen.It is perfectly flawed.P.S. I don't blame Hanks or Ryan who both could have played these parts very well (without the $$$ hanging overhead). They both teetered between brilliance and berryberrybad. "}{"Title":"On a scale of one to Casablanca, this film is a Superman Returns (2006)","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ReviewI always had a sense that this movie existed, sort of in the same way I know there are other islands in the Pacific Ocean that aren't Hawaii. But with those islands, I still like to lump 'em with Hawaii. In my mind, Joe Versus the Volcano has been lumped with Turner and Hooch (1989) and Sleepless in Seattle (1993);pretty much the Tom Hanks movies that bridge his mainly comedic work of the '80s to his more serious roles of the '90s.And so, what do I think about a unique film like Joe Versus the Volcano. Well, I'll start by saying it is a pretty unique film, a rare example of early '90s American expressionism. It looks like no other Tom Hanks film I have ever seen, including Forest Gump (1994) and Cast Away (2000) and its plot is also singularly odd in the Tom Hanks filmography, including Splash (1984) and The Man with One Red Shoe (1985). Joe (Tom Hanks) is an Advertising Librarian for a medical supplies company in New York. His office is a hellish place that makes the bathroom setting in Saw (2004) look like a spa at club med. It is an office filled with flickering florescent lights and a man who endlessly repeats the same phrases again and again. One day Joe feels sickly and decides to go to the doctor who promptly informs him he has a brain cloud. As to what a brain cloud is exactly, we never find out, but we are informed it will kill Joe within six months. The next morning a spastic businessman, Samuel Graynamore (played hilariously by Lloyd Bridges) comes knocking at Joe's door. He has a proposition for Joe. There's a little known volcanic island in the pacific that has a special element Graynamore needs to make superconductors. The tribe on the island will allow Graynamore to take as much of the element as he pleases if he can find them a willing participant to jump into the island's volcano to appease the volcano gods. Graynamore believes Joe is his man and Joe, seeing he has nothing to lose, agrees to do it. The majority of the film follows Joe as he travels to the island. He buys a new wardrobe of clothes, hires limousines and travels luxuriously by air and by sea, all on Graynamore's dime. Along the way Joe meets Graynamore's daughters Angelica and Patricia (both played by Meg Ryan) and learns the value of truly living. I appreciated some parts of this movie very much. For instance, a scene in which Joe beholds a giant moon at sea and begins to pray is very powerful. But on the whole, Joe Versus the Volcano is uneven. If writer-director John Patrick Shanley had presented a more consistent vision I would have liked this film a better. The surrealistic edge to Joe is great, but too often it flips over into scenes that look realistic and lack stylization. It makes for a choppy film going experience.I also wasn't impressed by the romance between Joe and Patricia. It seems to me the sister Angelica was frivolous to the plot and Patricia, who becomes Joe's love interest, could have easily subsumed her role. When Patricia confesses her love to Joe it seems rushed and undeveloped. I didn't buy it. Joes Versus the Volcano is ultimately an oddity and if you're a Tom Hanks fan its worth checking out. But when I consider what this film is versus what it could have been, I wish what it could have been had won. RatingOn a scale of one to Casablanca, this film is a Superman Returns (2006)RationalizationWhat it is versus what it could have been says it all. I really wanted Superman Returns to be awesome, but let's face it, Superman Returns is a disappointment. If you give Lois Lane a husband and a kid, you really can't root for Superman to get the girl in the end without also making him into a super-dick. And no hand to hand face-off with Lex Luthor? That's just a shame. There's one scene where Luthor's goons kick the crap out of Superman and that sets up tension that should have been released by Superman's vengeance. But no. No vengeance. Apparently it didn't get personal for Superman even though it was clearly personal. Some people would say superman is not a vengeful creature, but he is. Remember in the Max Fleischer cartoons how Superman could just pick up a villain and throw him in jail without due process? In my mind, that is real vengeance and real power. But no. In Superman Returns he just chose to be boring. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit that I didn't see about the first ten to fifteen minutes of this movie when I caught it on cable but I saw the rest and it was enough.  Before winning his academy award for Philadelphia, Tom Hanks described himself as a lonely, lonely guy.  He obviously meant movies like this as his reason why.  Joe Versus the Volcano is a ridiculous, unfunny comedy that's utterly predictable and completely corny.  It is a movie that should have been cute and charming but misses the mark badly.  Never before have Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks been given such drivel to work with, and that's saying something for all the bad movies Hanks was subjected to in the 1980's.  The plot is about Hanks being diagnosed with a brain cloud and given six months to live.  He's propositioned by Lloyd Bridges to go out in style by throwing himself into a volcano on a tropical island in order to appease some spirits or some such nonsense.  No one really seems to care, especially the island chief played by Abe Vigoda who acts like, well, Abe Vigoda.  Meg Ryan falls in love with Hanks' character, mostly because she's a crazy neurotic and not for anything Hanks has done.  I'll try not to spoil the plot other then saying that just about every plot point and moment in general after Hanks and Ryan throw themselves into the volcano are as inane, predictable and stupid as you can get.  The ocean background shots are also some of the most obviously fake studio shots I've ever seen and the effects are very less then special.  This movie was bad, bad, bad and that's a shame because it could have been very charming.2.5/10   "},{"Title":"Smart and dumb","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very smart idea for this movie in it's spiritual attempts to connect with the audience and at times it succeeds although too much uncalled for zaniness destroys whatever connecton is made.The director should have looked for a more sophisticated style of humor for this movie to flow better with.Philosophical value is there, but orange soda drinking cartoon Polynesians?Dumb.Still a fair effort for most fans of Hanks and Ryan......  "},{"Title":"The first half alone is worth rental price","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe Versus the Volcano presents a truly hilarious vision of one man's hellish life.  Many of us will recognize elements of Joe's life-sucking workplace all too well. Unfortunately, the latter part of the film does not live up to its own early promise.  The humor degenerates from clever to banal.  Once Joe departs for the volcano, we are given a made-for-TV conclusion unworthy of this film's potential.  An entertaining movie rental, but not a classic. "},{"Title":"What would you risk?","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Do you have a brain cloud? Does your tribe get off on Orange soda? What would you ever do with unsinkable luggage? Which is Meg Ryan?  The Brunette?  The Blond?  The Redhead?Like Ishtar and many other misunderstood films, Joe Versus the Volcano deserves more than one look.  First, it shows that Meg Ryan can act.  Which may be one of the few films you can say that about.  Second, the atmosphere created for this film is wonderful.  It is a three act play captured on film.  The Reality, The Fantasy, and the Transcendence.Tom Hanks putting on his island of luggage is an image that is only bested by the moon over the ocean.  Never has the semi-planet looked so large.If you remember films like Lord Love a Duck, if you could see that Ishtar wasn't ever intended to be a comedy; then you will take the effort to understand Joe, the Volcano and whichever Meg you prefer.  When you've done that you can dissipate your own brain cloud'. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awful","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What's up with all the rave reviews here? This movie is terrible. The plot is laughable with gigantic holes in it, dialogue is horrific, acting awful(Meg Ryan), production embarrassing. A whole lot of stuff going on that makes no sense whatsoever. I had to check with my girlfriend whether I was having a psychotic episode or whether it really was that bad. It was.Hanks must've been low on cash to do this one. If you have any critical thinking going on when watching movies, skip this one, it'll annoy the hell out of you.2/10 "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the first film I've seen in a while in which I really didn't know what to think of it. I admit that I did laugh at a few things throughout Joe Versus the Volcano, such as some wisecracks made by some characters and the boss's constant repetitions of the same things on the phone in the office at the beginning. I admit the film felt romantic for a minute before Joe (Tom Hanks) was about to jump into the volcano. Also, the film has a good concept in terms of Joe learning he is going to die and deciding to live the rest of his life to the fullest and also deciding to die like a man. Nevertheless, I couldn't completely enjoy this film mostly due to it's overly bizarre nature. Most characters do not seem as though they are really into their roles. Half the time, Tom Hanks seems to be feeling too sorry for himself and just comes off as boring to the audience. Also, I ordinarily love Meg Ryan, but none of her three characters in this film appeal to me. She is best at playing a simple, ordinary person with feelings that we can care for, and here she just comes off as annoying in the ways she plays her roles. All in all, not one of the worst films I've seen, but rarely am I torn this much in terms of how to rate a movie. Partially funny, but mostly bizarre and not too much fun to watch.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"THIS IS NICE ONE!!!!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so very nice. Meg Brian, here she play 5 mistresses, and all of them attraction. Tom Kanks only play one, maybe he should play more in this one, I think this one is the kind. Is about a man who told he will die from sickness, so he want to live more like life, more like fun, so he is told he can if he jumps into volcane. Why he is told this I don't understand, to jump in volcane does not sound fun. I cannot say anymore or will give away the ending (which is nice). In this one, Tom Kanks is less serious than in later films, like the Big, and Sleepness in Seattle (WHICH ALSO STARS MEG BRIAN!). I think, maybe, if you want to see people playing with fun, having nice time, and you like volcanes, you should rent this one. "},{"Title":"Very nice intro","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The intro was great, the music was great, the actors were great, but the story of the movie wasn't that great nor captivating. As a matter of fact I think I fell asleep near the end and woke up just in time to see Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan being shot from the volcano, and right after that, I fell asleep again.  The End.  Pretty much self-explanatory.ARAF/Crimson Guard "},{"Title":"boring and bad","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    This was a dissapointment movie. When I rented it I thought this was going to be really good. It had an ok start but trashy end. It had ok acting. It is about a guy Joe played by Tom Hanks that doesn't like his job and wants to quit. But his boss won't let him. He meets a girl Angelica played by Meg Ryan which also stard in You've Got Mail with Tom Hanks. But he meets her and they go in a boat and while they go they get stuck on an island of people that are like indians and there is a volcanoe on the island. Other things happen but it would give a little bit away. Anyway this was a boring bad dissapointing trashy movie. I don't think you should see this one. "}{"Title":"What the Heck Was THAT?","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I tried to hang in there...I really did.  I wanted to like this movie, but how many courteous laughs can one person give out?I understand it was supposed to be over-the-top and silly and unrealistic and dark ...yeah yeah, I get it.But I kept waiting for the story to pick up, develop and go somewhere. Hmph.SPOILERS** Guy hates his job. Finds out he has 6 months to live (i KNEW RIGHT THEN AND THERE IT WAS A SET-UP TOTALLY PREDICTABLE. i know i know...it's supposed to BE FUNNY.) quits his jobs, gets an offer he can't refuse to spend a rich man's money and then attempt kill himself on an island to appease their foreign gods. Since he's terminal...why not...yada yada yada...been there, seen that.The orange soda thing was kinda funny. Sometimes this movie felt indie, and sometimes big budget...and it goes back and forth. It's like the director just couldn't make up his mind.And then BAM IT'S OVER. I couldn't believe it. It ended so abruptly and I repeat myself now....WHAT THE HECK WAS THAT?  Thanks for all the cliched and predictable lessons on life....Live Life to the fullest, in case you might die....zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzthe end "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the greatest movies ever made.  The music and cinematography are amazing, and once again, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan play a fabulous duo.  The movie is exciting, funny...one of the best romantic comedies ever.  This movie rates close to number one on my top ten favorites! "},{"Title":"maybe you won't erupt with laughter, but it's still worth seeing","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've read that the period from about 1989-1991 has usually been known as the nadir of Tom Hanks's career, as his movies bombed during those years. Joe Versus the Volcano was one of them. When I saw the movie many years later, I actually didn't find it so bad. Hanks plays Joe Banks, whose life is going nowhere. When he learns that he's dying, he agrees to jump into a volcano in the south Pacific to appease it. In the process, he gets to see a whole new part of life.I will say that the movie would have been better without Meg Ryan. But otherwise, JVTV is a perceptive look at things. Also starring Dan Hedaya, Robert Stack, Lloyd Bridges and Abe Vigoda. "},{"Title":"One of the unsung greats.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the film I have watched the most times. An amazingly creative effort.  By the way isn't Lisa Le Blanc really Carol Kane? "},{"Title":"Its a pretty good movie but.......","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that people keep saying you either love or hate. I like this movie a lot, I think it has lots of good points, and I have watched it several times, but thats about it. I don't LOVE it, I don't see it, as some have said, as a litmus test of whether I will like a person or not by how they feel about this movie, nor do I think it deserves to be burned and the people who made it shot. Its a fun movie, with some truths about life, some falsehoods, and a lot of just movie stuff. Like I say, I like it a lot, and would recommend it as a fun movie to watch along with several other Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan pairings. But no more than that. You won't learn anything you didn't already know by watching the movie, and it won't cure you of terminal depression or anything else, but it will certainly while away a couple of happy hours basking in the glow of romance and happy feelings. "},{"Title":"Most annoying!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie provides the irrefutable evidence that some people would watch absolutely ANYTHING, regardless of how stupid, that stars the 'Cute epitomized' combination of Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.I saw this film in the theaters when it was released almost ten years ago-- long before Sleepless in Seattle or You've Got Mail confirmed the Hanks/Ryan pairing as quite possibly the most ingratiating money-making device that Hollywood has ever seen. And I rented it just recently, hoping that it would have somehow gotten better with age.Unfortunately, JVtV is just as cloying as it was the first time around.The humor, when it exists at all, is sophomoric and ill-timed, and both Hanks and Ryan are FAR from their best performances here. When the plot and dialogue aren't lulling the viewer to sleep, the whiny, one-note performance by Ryan is inducing cringe after cringe. I wanted to like this movie (especially after having read some of the other remarks here at imdb), but it's just too superficially cutesy and annoying.Rating 3 out of 10. Despite its bountiful flaws, there IS a nice message to JVtV, which prevents the film from ranking among the most select 'gems' that earn a 1 from me. But not even its attempts at symbolism-- which are far-too-often marred by the choppy direction and uneven performances-- can ultimately save Joe. "},{"Title":"Confusing but Enjoyable","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie a little while back and was expecting a good Tom Hanks film that I would be able to understand. But after seeing Joe Vs. the Volcano, I've just become confused with it.Joe Banks (Tom Hanks) is a normal man living New York. After he goes to a new doctor he is diagnosed with a terminal illness called a brain cloud. Joe goes on living but knows he'll die in a few months when he is confronted by a man with an incredible offer. Samuel Harvey Graynamore (Lloyd Bridges) offers Joe the once in a lifetime offer. He'll receive an expense paid trip. A first-class flight to LA, a cruise and than spend a few nights on an island. But there's a catch, Joe has to jump in a volcano to preserve an ancient custom of the natives performed once a century. Seeing that he'll die anyway he does it and gets new clothes, new luggage and than flies to LA. In LA he meets one of Sam's daughters, a troubled artist named Angelica (Meg Ryna). She takes him to his 'luxury liner', a small boat captained by Sam's other daughter, Patricia (Meg Ryan). At sea Joe is nearly bitten by a shark, becomes sea-sick and soon finds himself floating adrift with Patricia on his expensive luggage. The film takes an awkward turn with the natives of the island. I hoped for a little more from this film but didn't get it. hanks proves to have a comedy side in this and Meg Ryan is just funny seeing her play three different characters. The plot is actually a little complex and silly and I wouldn't give any awards to the special effects manager. Terminal illness is not something that should be used in comedy films and this is the only movie I've seen that used it that way. However, hanks gives a comical sketch to what it would be like to live with a life-taking illness with nothing to loose. This surely wasn't one of Hanks breakthrough movies but if your a fan of his old stuff than you mite want to see this.Joe Versus the Volcano. Starring Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan, Lloyd Bridges, and Robert Stack.2 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Complete garbage, best forgotten","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Seriously lacking in comic timing, humor and anything resembling acting, this is definitely a flick for those who enjoyed Hanks in The 'Burbs.  Meg Ryan somehow wrangles a one-note performance out of a script that calls for three roles, and the movie often resorts to cheap, tired sight gags (well, they had to fill 90 minutes SOMEHOW).  In fact, Hanks himself even seemed embarrassed to have been associated with this film, as he and Paul Simon mocked it together on a Saturday Night Live episode two years after this disaster came out.   "},{"Title":"The Creators 4000 year plus messages back through time","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joe Versus The Volcano is a good comedy. I really like Tom Hanks movies. It seems strange that the character of Joe would accept an offer to be thrown into a volcano. The nations that the Care Rank Ki aliens have supported are chronologically Egypt, Israel, Rome, England, the States (stands for United States of America) This spells Eires the other name for Ireland. This joke proves that the Care Rank Ki Aliens can send messages back through time thousands of years. Eire is Irish I may, Northern Ireland is Irish I might, and Jack Kennedys America 1961 to present is Have the wish Irish tonight. Meg ryan looks cute in this movie and her acting is okay too. Thank you to the Care Rank Ki Alien Creators of Humans for giving my Daughter Julia and I Artificial Intelligence Computers of ourselves on Moon 168 and the Planet Coaltrain, the Home World of the Creators. The other movies of Tom Hanks are worth watching as well. "},{"Title":"i was kinda rooting for the volcano","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The writer of the over-rated Moonstruck, is back with this first pairing of many for Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. Hanks is a hypochondriac who has a dreary job working at a industrial plant. When he learns that he's deadly ill from a brain cloud and has 6 months to live, he decides to commit suicide via volcano. This film really belongs to the minor players. Actors like Lloyd Bridges, Robert Stack, and most of all Ossie Davis, are all more interesting then the main characters and therein lies the rub. When those three mentioned actors arn't on-screen I found myself less intrigued about Hanks exploits. Furthermore, when he arrives in LA, the film takes a huge nosedive in quality. The film isn't a total washout, just not as good as Tom's other early comedies.My Grade C- DVD Extras a useless 4 minute behind the scenes piece; cast and crew filmographies; music video; Theatrical Trailer "}{"Title":"Average","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hanks makes a bad b film into and average film.  The story is nothing special, but I understand the concept of the daily depressing grind, I feel like throwing myself into a volcano somethimes too.  This film is not that bad that I would throw myself into one or so funny it would prevent me from doing so.  There is humorious bits, but it never took off.  Whoever heard of brain clouds? 6/10 "},{"Title":"Just plain bad!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps one of the worst movies of the decade, JVtV is a sophomoric comedy that was never meant to be one. The story begins rather slow and then spirals into complete stupidity. With their performances, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan remind us that they once made _Bachelor Party _ and _Innerspace_. One highlight is Meg Ryan who supposedly plays three different women yet seems to never change her character. This is not the dynamic duo's finest hour! If you're looking for romance, re-rent _Sleepless_. This one has all the charm of McDonald's and the Drive-In. "},{"Title":"Please for the love of god don't watch this!!!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe versus the volcanoIt could have been good,I mean the plot was good to start off with,And Tom Hanks is in the film!BUT... It turns out to be a weird,stupid,confusing and ultimately BAD movie. Why I hear you cry?Well.. The Plot is badly used making everything fell like its been rushed,the acting is very average,some components of the movie are useless and make it worse(IeThe Rubber very fake looking Hammerheadshark that looks like something from the muppets).The score is good,except for the cheap knock off of twoby two by the indians that just feels stupid. In shortCoulda been great,but,is the opposite;crap. Worth watching just for the shark scene,due to its hilarious stupidity.2outta10  "},{"Title":"Please for the love of god don't watch this!!!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Joe versus the volcanoIt could have been good,I mean the plot was good to start off with,And Tom Hanks is in the film!BUT... It turns out to be a weird,stupid,confusing and ultimately BAD movie. Why I hear you cry?Well.. The Plot is badly used making everything fell like its been rushed,the acting is very average,some components of the movie are useless and make it worse(IeThe Rubber very fake looking Hammerheadshark that looks like something from the muppets).The score is good,except for the cheap knock off of twoby two by the indians that just feels stupid. In shortCoulda been great,but,is the opposite;crap. Worth watching just for the shark scene,due to its hilarious stupidity.2outta10  "},{"Title":"Sacrificial Ham","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" During this movie, Tom Hanks' head took out a restraining order on his hairstyle. His head won the case, which is why halfway through the film, Hanks sports a halfway decent 'do &#150; the old hairstyle finding a home on Whitney Houston's head, of which Houston is still unaware. Meg Ryan has three different hairstyles, playing three separate characters; though it alludes to her talent, each character is only a variation on the ingratiating coquette persona we have all grown to grimace over.Diagnosed with a brain cloud which leaves him only months to live, Hanks is conned into leaping into a volcano to appease an island god. Under this surface premise, there is political intrigue and other such overwhelmingly inane minutiae &#150; purely McGuffin, as the film stabs at philosophizing over Life itself. I'm afraid I might have fallen asleep, but I'm more afraid that I might have been awake and only *thought* I was asleep. Philosophy, I can appreciate; quirky, I can appreciate &#150; add romance to the mix and skew everything with irrationality over repressing bodily fluids.Long before Cast Away, Hanks here finds himself adrift on an endless ocean with nothing but a mindless entity for companionship &#150; Meg Ryan.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Takes forever to get interesting, and the waiting period is hell to sit through","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	I'm not really sure how anyone could enjoy this movie. Up to the climax, it's extremely tedious, boring and never funny. What takes an hour and a half to transpire could've taken twenty minutes, and it gets annoying finding out which Meg Ryan character Tom Hanks' Joe is currently with. The movie demands a huge amount of concentration dedicated to it, which you just don't want to give out, as it is not very well done or the least bit enjoyable. For whatever reason it was well received, as all major aspects of it, particularly the special effects, are very weak. Why a major studio would decide to distribute it, no one knows.	The only bright spot here is the terrific chemistry between Hanks and Ryan (that's probably why there were two other films made with them in the leads), but of the three movies with them together, 'Joe Versus the Volcano' is easily the worst one. It takes a terribly long time to get to the point, and when it does, it's over in a couple of minutes. Rent it only if you're desperate for something with the two together, otherwise avoid like the plague. If you skip this advice, I can almost completely guarantee that you'll be disappointed, I know I was. Skip it and watch 'Sleepless in Seattle' or 'You've Got Mail' again.3/10 "},{"Title":"Hanks' and Ryan's talent shines through dismal plot","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main lesson I learned from Joe Versus the Volcano is that highly talented people can make some pretty bad movies.  Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan do their best, which is considerable, to put some life into a plot that reminds me of a high school skit (or maybe Saturday Night Live!)  There's no character development, and most of the situations are not funny, or even believable.  Except for the joy of watching Hanks and Ryan together, this is one to miss. "},{"Title":"Pretty much the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought with Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan, this would be a pretty good movie, boy what a bad assumption ! I made it through about the first 45 minutes, and then I couldn't take it any more. Everything about this movie was bad.  "},{"Title":"Spielberg Schmaltz","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I checked through the reviews here as soon as I finished watching the movie just to get an idea whether anyone liked it or not. Much to my surprise, most of the reviews aren't just good they are glowing. And, no, I don't understand why.The film cries Straight To Video! It is off-beat and quirky without ever really feeling like an auteur movie. Themeatically, it is simply one of those hokey American fairy tales about the little guy triumphing in the face of adversity. A Cinderella man. Schmaltz by any other name.The leads perform their job adequately, the production values are fine and it is not without integrity but it still doesn't add up to a satisfactory movie. I suspect it's down to Spielberg's involvement. It's just too saccharine to be palatable. "},{"Title":"Turn It Off After They Get to the Island...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan star in a pre-Sleepless in Seattle romantic-comedy, which is brilliantly directed and acted, but otherwise flawed. Tom Hanks plays a man diagnosed with a rare brain disease that will kill him within days (or was it weeks?). Meg Ryan plays two parts that I won't get into soley because it is not that important to what I am telling you of the movie. Basically, the great parts of this dark comedy are the first forty-five to sixty minutes, where Tom Hanks' office area is explored and recorded amazingly. The dark atmosphere is excellent. Then, the whole shopping-spree thing is very nice. But once they get to the boat, I turn off the film, because the rest of it is very stupid and boring. So, basically, watch this movie, but just turn it off once they leave their homeland.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed with this movie - I have been watching trailers for it since it first came out, but I never got a chance to see it until last year.  I was disappointed by the length of the dark dismal part of it - it just dragged on and on!  The trailers showed only the scenes on the island, therefore I was expecting it to be upbeat and lighthearted.  I came away from it feeling depressed, I felt like the ending was far too abrupt. The only part I enjoyed was the fact that Meg Ryan played 3 different characters, all of which she did an excellent job of (my favorite was the flibbertyjibbet). "},{"Title":"Glad it has a low score","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I give this film a 2/10 - not because it is awful but because it is a hidden gem and in a way I think a 2 is more applicable. As many other user comments suggest, the masses do not readily accept this film as being on par with the blockbuster system that governs movie grading.It is important to realize that Joe versus the Volcano was written and directed by a playwright and so, if you don't like it when your movie looks a little cheezy and the effects aren't state-of-the-art cgi quality, we get it - you hate it. However, for fans of the film, it is just those elements that define the experience - the fairytale mood, the obviously fake shark, a huge moon, the strangest luggage shop and subtly placed over-sized dogs.From an artistic perspective, some of the sets, as low-budget as they may have been, were absolutely brilliant - could the office have been more miserable - the perfect environment in which to triumphantly put your boss in his place.In a way Joe versus the Volcano reminds you of when you were a kid reading your favorite story about a voyage or adventure - your imagination was half the experience. When you were a kid you noticed things like big dogs. This movie is about Joe's waking up and returning to that mindset of absorbing the wonderful things that surround you, sharing experiences with others and, 'living in constant amazement'. "},{"Title":"Better than a documentary on dental hygiene","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" We rented this because my wife likes Meg Ryan movies and Tom Hanks is usually good but we couldn't believe they are in this movie. Anyone giving it more than 2 stars must be their friends and relatives. It is the most depressing, boring, predictable movie we could imagine. The first part is just depressing and sad and makes you wish you were somewhere else and the end is just fake and predictable and hokey and makes you long for a real movie. I haven't checked the dates to see if it was the first movie they made, but we just assumed they took this when nothing else was available. If you like Meg Ryan then try ANY OTHER movie she made but not this one. We wanted to shut if off early but it was late and we didn't have any other movies rented so we suffered through the whole sad thing.... I don't really have any more to say about how bad this was but they say a review must be 10 lines so I'll just add this it is really, REALLY bad, REALLY. "},{"Title":"Stupidest, weirdest movie!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the stupidest, weirdest movies ever made!  I don't know why I watched it all the way through!  There were some bad words and scenes that I didn't like, too.  Mostly it was just weird and stupid.  A guy goes to throw himself in a volcano and on the way there a boat splits in two from lightning, he dances on 4 steamer trunks that are used together as a raft, etc.  Don't waste your time on it like I did! "},{"Title":"I've never seen a movie as bad as this one.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie because of the release of you've got mail in Holland. A little history of the Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan films. I really liked Sleepless in Seattle. But this movie is really bad. It starts with a nondescript image of some factory. The complete mistake the director made is from the first second explicit. I think he wanted to make an art-movie, but looked for a compromise between art and money. Now it's neither art nor a blockbluster. I had a very bad evening. The average vote of 6.2 amazed me. Yargh! "},{"Title":"Worst film I have ever seen","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe anyone liked this film. It was just dreadful. Nearly 20 years later I can still recall the silence as my friends and I left the cinema without words to fully describe what we had seen. Even after all this time it rates as the worst ever film that I have paid to see (the Day After Tomorrow was at least funny bad - for example where do you get those yellow tents that can protect you against the cold when nothing else can?!) and possibly the worst film I have ever seen. Quirky can only be used as a description if you were either drunk or on drugs - it was TERRIBLE. There is a reason that no one talks about it. If I could have given this 0 I would have done. There can never be an excuse to release a film this bad. "},{"Title":"Painfully bad","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Weak and nauseating. It's a relief to see that Hanks has come such a long way. I am surprised at how badly I disliked this movie. I wish I had never seen it. "}]