[{"Title":"A Brainy Horror Movie... not for everyone","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"92 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most people go to horror movies for the emotional thrill, the gore and/or the adrenaline high of having things pop out and yell boo! Make no mistake you won't find much of that here. So if you're looking for a movie that will make you spill your popcorn, you might wanna move on.But if you're looking for a true psychological thriller (psychological = appealing to the intellect, not the viscera), this will be one hell of a treat for you. The dialogue is fantastic. The acting is superb (Brad Dourif & George C. Scott on the same screen. What could be better?). The philosophy is provocative. And the mood is as thick as it gets. Much of the movie is composed of a series of dialogues between two people in a dark room. If you liked the second half of APOCALYPSE NOW, you will enjoy this immensely.I rank this movie as one of my all time English language faves with the likes of AMADEUS, 2001, Alfred Hitchcock's ROPE, PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY, and CITIZEN KANE. I'm serious; it's that good. Unfortunately, it was marketed to the wrong audience, and that's why it received such low ratings. Let me repeat this is not a spooky movie. It's actually a very intellectual story with a lot of big words, literary overtones and powerful acting, and it's one of the few movies which I consider superior to the book (but of course writer Blatty directed this, so I'd expect no less).Now don't get me wrong; it's anything but dull. There is one scene in particular that will scare the living crap out of you! It's a long scene done with one still camera, no music, no sound, hardly any action... but egads it's probably the most suspenseful/frightening thing I've ever seen in any movie.In the style of the classic thrillers, so much is left to the imagination of the viewer--and oh there is PLENTY of disturbing, shocking stuff to imagine. In one conversation you'll hear about a murder so vile that you'll never want to hear the word catheter again. And the beauty is that you never see a thing. If this subtle style appeals to you, then you certainly won't be disappointed.10/10. And I don't give 10s very often. "},{"Title":"Legion Exorcist III","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"86 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Exorcist III (1990) was the follow up to the classic Exorcist. Despite the number three next to the title, this was the true sequel to the first film. Writer/ Director William Peter Blatty wanted to simply call the movie Legion like the name of his novel. But the producers wanted to cash in on the Exorcist name so he caved into pressure. In Europe it's called Legion Exorcist III. This wasn't going to be the first or the last conflict Blatty would have with the producers. The novel was a straight forward mystery/ thriller. The producer wanted some gore and exorcism thrown into the mix. Blatty wanted to make an atmospheric horror film, the producers wanted a prototypical 80's horror film. The producers wanted Jason Miller and an exorcism! Who won out?The film follows the friendship between Father Dyer and Detective Kinderman. Meanwhile a serial killer is running around Georgetown gruesomely murdering the city's residents. Kinderman is called into duty and is puzzled by the brutal slayings. That is until he follows the clues and they lead him to a very unlikely place. Kinderman's faith in man is tested as he continues on through out this bizarre and seemingly never ending case.George C. Scott is excellent as Kinderman. he plays the role of the detective as if he was tailored made for the part. Ed Flanders co-stars as Father Dyer. Nicol Williamson has a guest star spot as a Father Merrin type priest (his scenes seemed to have been added during post production because they don't fit in with the rest of the movie). The ending felt rushed and it has post production stamped on it. Word has it that the film was indeed tampered with during the post production. I think so to because the book's ending was far different than what was put out on the silver screen.Is the movie worth watching? Yes it is because it's a worthy follow up to the Exorcist. Even though it was fiddled around with during the final phase of production, scenes seem to have been added and the ever presence of the producers looking over the director's shoulder, it's still a great film. I'm probably one of the few people who are actually satisfied with the movie. I wished Blatty could have the original version of this film restored. I enjoyed the book and the movie as well.Highly recommended!A majority of people hate intellectual horror films. What's wrong with having to think once in a while? "},{"Title":"Flawed though it is, I have a soft spot for this film for its intelligent, non-ironic journey into darkness.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  William Peter Blatty can really write. Prose and dialogue. No argument. But can he direct a movie? On the strength of 'Exorcist III,' yes he can. This isn't to say that the film doesn't have its problems. On the contrary, its biggest problem, the out-of-character 'crowd-pleasing' SFX climax stops it from being one of the greats. So why do I have a soft spot for this film? If, like me, you appreciate horror films that are both scary and made for grown-ups, 'Exorcist III' is refreshing and memorable for its intelligent, non-ironic journey into darkness and for its refusal (bar that ending) to dumb down for the kids. If 'Scream' is your idea of a great horror movie, this isn't one for you! The cast is not nearly young and attractive enough, there are nowhere near enough gags (though Blatty's dry, sardonic wit is happily in evidence) and the film has no pretensions at being an autopsy of the genre, therefore somehow lifting it above the films it purports to comment on. 'Exorcist III' is literary beyond 'Scream's' self-referential trivia-chasing (I would love to hear Detective Kinderman critiquing that movie!) Read 'Legion' and you'll have an idea of how good the film should have been. Flaws acknowledged and accepted, don't miss out on Brad Dourif's best performance since 'Cuckoo's Nest,' scene-stealing turns by Ed Flanders and Nancy Fish, or the superlative production design, photography and sound. More than anything else, it's the atmosphere of the film that stays with me. I can recall very few films that have a better sense of the power of stillness and silence. So much of the violence is communicated only in dialogue; your mind reluctantly does the rest.  "},{"Title":"Comically underrated and overlooked.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is possibly the most overlooked and underrated movie in the entire history of Western cinema. Sure, there are some unnecessary bits in it (particularly a scene involving Father Morning stuck to a ceiling with his limbs falling off one by one. It's supposed to be scary, but it's the funniest scene in the entire film), but overall, what we have here is, essentially, a trip into the mind of a psycho, a la Silence Of The Lambs, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, etc. Okay, so inhabiting this mind happens to be the same demon as in the original film, but also there is the spirit of a dead serial killer. The body they are inhabiting is that of Damien Karras, and this spurns a curious Lieutenant Kinderman to find out as much as possible about him, which leads him into discovering exactly what happened to Karras after the night of the fall.But as I was saying, it's underrated. A golden raspberry for worst actor? Comical. George C Scott's performance here might not be as memorable as that in Patton, but it's still an excellent performance.And Brad Dourif, sharing duties with Jason Miller as the sinister 'Patient X' is a much more effective demon here than in the 'Child's Play' series.The only complaint I'd have on the actors front, is that the brilliant Nicol Williamson is underused as Father Morning, but the character was added in at the last minute by producers.There are plenty of comic moments, too, notably a scene in the open psychiatric ward involving a man in a wheelchair flashing at the charge nurse. (Trust me, you have to see it, really).Sadly, it's probably due to the risible 'Exorcist II' that this film was so overlooked, and instantly assumed to be awful. But then again, whether people like movies or not is down to taste, I suppose.Try it. You might like it.  "},{"Title":"Words can't explain","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"65 out of 105 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Funny how unorthodox arrangement and scenarios incite unspeakably talented film-making. I can't think of another movie which has an author adapting his own novel into a screenplay AND directing a movie. The exorcist III is by far the best horror/thriller of all time and I don't see it being topped at anytime. It is so much better than the first, the sole reason why they decided to add footage to the original containing elements from the third installment. IF the original exorcist WERE better than the exorcist III, why would they edit the original using the very same elements used in the Third? I can't explain that, but some believe it. I believe many have not seen the Exorcist III, and even after watching it they simply do not understand it to be frightened by it. The exorcist III combines true character development with crime drama, horror, and suspense, utterly perfect movie making. Jtown  "},{"Title":"I believe...","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first 'true' and so far best sequel to the amazing 1974 original sees George C. Scott stepping into the role of Detective Kinderman (played by the late Lee J. Cobb in the original) who is investigating a series of homicides in Georgetown. The homicides, grisly in nature, follow the M.O. of the Gemini killer, a man convicted and sent to death in the electric chair 15 years ago. Several characters return this time around from the original film including Kinderman, Father Dyer (Ed Flanders) and Damian Karras again played by Jason Miller. First up I'll talk about the acting. The cast did a bloody good job in their roles. Scott gives a tour de force performance where he mixes grandfatherly likability with someone who is clearly struggling with demons of his own. It is clear why this man is one of the best character actors of the silver screen. The few scenes that he shared with Father Dyer were played so well you really thought they had been lifelong friends. The other acting coup was getting Brad Dourif to play the Gemini killer. He proves here that he will always be more than the voice of our favorite pint-sized plastic doll from hell. His character spends the film being shackled in a cell but yet is able to convey a sense of menace few can provide with the help of other actors, props and settings. Jason Miller returns also as the 'body' of Father Karras and swaps back and forth the role with Dourif. The Kinderman / Karras / Gemini scenes are the highlight of the film. The actors go full bore at each other and turn what could have become boring exposition scenes into film highlights. William Peter Blatty stepped up to the plate and directs this time around. He took a book he wrote, Legion and tweaked it into the screenplay for part 3. I believe, but am not positive, that the exorcism at the end of the film in not in the book. Unfortunately I haven't read it since just before the movie came out and can't remember. The direction here is done very well for his second film. He sets up a chilly atmosphere when needed the most and steps aside to let the actors do their thing. Fairly straight-forward he lets the story role without flashy visuals getting in the way, signs of a true writer. The story is character driven with a few creepy moments but I had wished the atmosphere had been a little denser with scares at the end though. This effort comes closest to the original.The music score is a bit light with many of the better scenes given over strictly to audio effects. A little bit disappointing but doesn't affect things too badly.In the end you have a good sequel with a character driven script and a bunch of top notch actors ripping it up. Unfortunately I thought the ending was a bit rushed with the inclusion of the exorcism is just a little out of place. What for most of the film seems like a classic example of the walk-in of an 'old soul' suddenly becomes a possession story. But you got to give the distributors what they want I guess. "},{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With a title like 'Excorcist 3', one doesn't hope for much. But in fact, this film is really only so titled to exploit the value attached with the name, and although it was written (and also directed) by the writer of the original film, it's actually a stand-alone movie in it's own right. And while William Blatty may be hard pushed to rival the efforts of the original's director, William Friedkin, he doesn't do too bad a job he's a little over-reliant on abrupt cutting to achieve his shocks, and the budget for the special effects was obviously inadequate, but this is a suspenseful and chilling thriller. All supernatural movies suffer from a degree of innate silliness, and satanic movies perhaps especially so, but this film is constructed as if it was a conventional serial killer thriller, albeit an exceptionally dark and creepy one. As the signs of actual devilry begin to increase, the detective leading the case (played brilliantly by George Scott) starts to wonder if he's going mad. Only when the film is forced, near its conclusion, to represent the nightmare literally, does it inevitably become a little daft (but that charge could even be levied at 'The Excorcist' itself). I'm not generally a huge fan of horror movies, but this one is definitely above average, for its skill in modulating the tension and in restraining from excess until its final scenes. In conclusion, ignore the title, and watch. "},{"Title":"Great movie; bogged down a bit by producer interference.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Taking a much different approach than the first two EXORCIST films will either infuriate or please viewers depending on their expectations, and there's just no use arguing with people on the merits of this film, because something can be said for those who love it AND those who hate it. However, I have huge admiration for the nerve it took William Peter Blatty to bring his distinct vision to the screen and take big chances with this film. The end result is never boring and it refuses to be stupid, even when it threatens to fall apart from all the overly-complicated plot weirdness. There's loads of subtext here, it's not nearly as dependent on FX and gore than the first film, it has creepy atmosphere to burn and delivers a few great shocks (including a now-legendary hospital corridor scene; though some of the most horrible things in this film are implied, not shown). The writing is very good, and there's smart dialogue and three-dimensional characters played by some first-rate actors. George C. Scott is wonderful (when isn't he?) in the lead, with Jason Miller, Brad Dourif (one of the most underrated actors ever), Ed Flanders, Scott Wilson and everyone else contributing heavily.I heard the senseless exorcism climax (featuring Nicol Williamson) was added to the film later against Blatty's wishes so audiences wouldn't be confused, which basically means the studio who financed it take the general viewing public as idiots.Make sure to also check out Blatty's great THE NINTH CONFIGURATION (AKA TWINKLE, TWINKLE, KILLER KANE), also a pretty underrated movie. I noticed he hasn't returned to scripting/directing film since this was made, probably because it wasn't well received at the time, but it's nice to read other comments and see I'm not the only one who really enjoyed this film.Score 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"should be called LEGION","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the best horror films in the last twenty years. I once heard it remarked that director William Peter Blatty directs like David Lynch--but with a tighter pace! Not a bad estimation, I'd say. I have a theory this film would actually have had a chance to be a hit if it had been allowed to go out to theaters under its proper title LEGION, just like the novel its taken from. But some genius at the studios must've insisted that by tying it to the Exorcist label it would draw an audience; well, we all know how that turned out( for those of you who don't this film tanked at the BO and quickly disappeared, to be completely eclipsed by the far inferior SILENCE OF THE LAMBS a scant 8 months later!) People who went to this didn't expect a supernatural serial killer mystery--indeed this was the best of the executed killers return from the grave to wreak destruction movies that popped up suddenly in the late 80's with films like SHOCKER and THE FIRST POWER(something that would turn up with even more regularity a few yrs later on the X-files, Brad Dourif even plays an almost identical character in the episode BEyond the SEA as he plays here in Exocist III) but in 1990 people who went to see Exorcist III were probably expecting something else;as far as i can tell, though, this movie is a pretty decent piece of work. It's sad to think that almost all of the actor's who were in this film--GEorge C Scott, Ed Flanders, Jason Miller-- are no longer with us. but at least we've still got Brad Dourif!! "},{"Title":"The best Exorcist sequel","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have heard mixed reviews of this film. Some saying its the best Exorcist sequel and some saying its utter crap. Well to the people who say it's utter crap you have no idea what your talking about. This is by far the best Exorcist sequel, probably because it was actually written by William Peter Blatty (Writer of the first Exorcist). I think this should really be the Exorcist II because it begins where the first one finishes, and also because The Heretic was a joke.One of the reasons why I love this film is because it is essentially a mystery film (which I'm not usually to keen on) but it also has the major horror elements that make a horror film. The hallway scene at the hospital is one of the best horror scenes I have seen. Just the tension and the fact you don't know whats going on and the silence, then suddenly... well I wont give anything away. Its definitely different to the original so if your looking for another The Exorcist then look elsewhere, but this will probably still scare the daylights out of you.Overall, fantastic film and I'm glad that Father Karras is in this film because I loved his character in the original. 9/10 "}{"Title":"I cannot say enough about this exceptional movie. A must for any horror collection!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director/Script(From his novel Legion) William Peter Blatty, Cast George C. Scott (William Kinderman), Ed Flanders (Father Joseph K. Dyer), Nancy Fish (Nurse Allerton), Jason Miller (Patient X aka. Father Damien Karras), Brad Dourif (Gemini Killer/James Venamun), Scott Wilson (Dr. Temple), Nicol Williamson (Father Paul Morning)This is the 1990 film adaption of Blatty's novel Legion. Ignoring the lousy 'Exorcist 2' this film takes place fifteen years after the events of the first film. This is the true sequel to The Exorcist. Three of the characters from the first film are also in this one. Detective Kinderman (played by Lee Cobb in the original now played by George C Scott), Father Dyer (Played by Rev. William O. Malley in the original now played by Ed Flanders), and Father Damien Karras (Jason Miller).At the end of the original film, Father Karras 'dies' by either jumping or being forced out the window and down the stars after assisting with the exorcism of Reagan. As it turns out, he didn't actually die. During what should have been his death, his body becomes possessed by the spirit of the Gemini Killer as a way for Satan to seek torment on Father Karras for performing the exorcism on Reagan. This movie starts out with Dective Kinderman meting Father Dyer on the 15th anniversary of Father Karras's death(He is presumed dead) for a showing of It's a Wonderful Life. Kinderman is investigating a series of deaths that horrifically resemble the work of the Gemini Killer who had been executed fifteen years earlier. The victims are decapitated and their heads replaced with one from a statue of Christ. Sometimes entire organs are removed and replaced with religious artifacts such as rosaries. What is troubling is that the murders are being executed in ways only the Gemini Killer would have known. Dective Kinderman is eventually to discover that is old friend Father Karras is in a psychiatric ward and appearers to be possessed by the Genini Killer.This film represents one of those rare cases where a sequel is equal or even better than the original film. The problem with so many sequels especially with horror movies is that it is hard to create the same kind of atmosphere the second time around. This is not at all the case here. Blatty was able to create the same gloomy atmosphere. Like the original, this movie is filmed in the Georgetown section of Washington, DC. The characterization is also excellent in this film. As good as in the first. I like George C. Scott and Lee Cobb about equally well as Detectve Kinderman. This movie is more plot driven and less special effects driven than the original. The first film relied too much on sensationalism at times to get it point across. This film is an 'intellictual' horror film. One had to follow the story to be scared by it. But what an effect it has! Especially if you believe in heaven and hell, good and evil. I sure do.William Peter Blatty wanted this film to be called Legion after his novel and this film was to have no exorcisms in it. Unfortunately, the studio made him include an exorcism and call the film 'The Exorcist 3' to cash in on the Exorcist name. The exorcism at the end of the film was a weak point in the film and I will tell you why. To do an exorcism once again uses it too casually. In reality, the Catholic church really performs exorcisms. Few priests are even qualified to do it. Exorcism are only performed under extremely rare circumstances and they have to be approved by at least the bishop. A priest cannot routinely perform an exorcism. That aside, it just added unnecessary sensationalism to the film. Otherwise this is a great film and one of my all time favorite horror films. This is a truly underrated work. I am really hoping for a special edition directors cut of this to come out. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie of all time!","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are a lot of things in Excorcist 3 that seem to not be explained. Can anyone tell me if any character in the film was the one who burst open the church doors at the beginning of the movie?Also what person in the movie was supposed to be in the white uniform who killed the nurse in the hallway?I think the Excorsit 3 was the most terrifying of all the 3 movies,or now of the five. George C Scott adds great power as his role as detective Kinderman. The old ladies in the film were creepy in and of themselves which added more terror. The music played was critical too,the 4th and fifth Excorcist movies recently made were not as terrifying with their soundtracks. I think Excorcist 3 is the most terrifying movie ever made. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Under-appreciated Horror Films of Our Era","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe it's because we have been conditioned to dismiss sequels as half-baked attempts at making money on the back of an fantastic original, or maybe it is just the back seat that the horror genre takes to dramas and comedies, but The Exorcist III is a terrific stand on its own thriller. Maybe not quite a top ten or even top twenty horror film of all time although it is one of mine, it is easily one of the most underrated and under-appreciated horror films ever! Part of the interest is the plethora of cameos, including ex-Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, Larry King, John Thompson and Patrick Ewing. But the real attraction comes in its many scary sequences. As if the dream sequence isn't enough, it gets better with the classic hospital scene where the camera sits still for what seems like hours of anticipation before you are made to jump out of your seat. Compared to the rest of the movie, the ending was a disappointment, but possibly still the best horror sequel ever and certainly a quality film even if you never saw the original. "},{"Title":"Give me cerebral over visceral anyday.","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is something very unsettling about The Exorcist IIILegion. From the dreamlike opening sequence dabbed with disquieting images of Catholic Iconography, the menacing underscored acoustics and Director William Peter Blatty's unconventional cerebral style this is a sequel which compliments the original extremely well. Fifteen years after the original events a Psychopath is haunting Georgetown, slaying its victims using Satanic like rituals. The M.O is identical to the long dead Gemini Killer who was executed moments before Fr. Karras (Jason Miller) died from his injuries received during the 1973 Exorcism of Regan MacNeil. When Lt. Kinderman a character from The Exorcist (Played here to perfection by the late George C. Scott) is called in to investigate the killings his discoveries lead him to a room in a dark Asylum where a man who looks like Fr. Karras (Miller) but sounds like The Gemini Killer (Brad Dourif) admits in detail to all the ritualistic killings and also claims to be possessed by the legion of demons who once possessed the MacNeil child. But if this is the man responsible for the Georgetown murders how is he leaving the maximum security Asylum. When I saw this movie in 1990 I was only fifteen. I didn't appreciate back then its powerful use of intellect and dialogue over the other visceral movies I had been accustomed to like A Nightmare on Elm Street and even the original The Exorcist. What Blatty gives to us here is a Film that respects the structure and elements of the 1973 classic and is wise enough to not copy its inimitable terrifying sequences. This movie has its own unique and disturbing images. Moving religious statues, standout murder set-pieces, brilliant demonic performances from Jason Miller and Brad Dourif and a powerfully executed Exorcism finale that although not as powerful as its originator still stands up well to anything that we've been offered cinematically since. "},{"Title":"Brilliant mix of police procedural and supernatural thriller","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George C. Scott is amazing as the main character of this film. He once said, in terms of reviewing other actors, he looked for joy of performance. Here, he shows all the joy you're ever likely to see in a movie! Also good is Durif as the personification of Evil, and the dream sequence with James Burgess, Ed Flanders and Patrick Ewing (?!) are particularly striking. Filled with moments of insight, poignancy and surprising terror, this film is my favorite in the Exorcist trilogy. The scenes between his police colleagues and his priest friends shine in particular. Watching this makes me long for a George C. Scott police series that never was.... "},{"Title":"I was expecting a movie I could fall to sleep to... So much the opposite","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am one of the many Americans who has gained weight over the years. I'm not fat, just a bit chubby. In an effort to correct this, I have been walking more. Every morning, rain or shine, before sunrise, I take a mile-long walk. The only time I miss it is when I'm sick. I've been doing this consistently for about a year.The morning after I watched this movie, I did not go on my walk. Instead, I was curled up on the couch, watching crappy family sitcoms, just trying to get the chill off my spine.When I first purchased this movie, I, like so many others, thought I was buying the original The Exorcist. I had never seen it before, so I did not know what the cover should look like, and I missed the little 'III' in the 'O.' So when I got home, I discovered my blunder. I had never even heard of this movie. I had never even heard of the Exorcist II! Naturally, I was expecting it to suck. You know... 'If I've never even heard of it, it can't be very big, and if it was good, it'd be big.' And then I watched it. There was not a single moment where I was not enveloped in suspense. The nurse's station scene is a MASTERPIECE. Period. Not only did it scare me more than any other scene in any other movie I have ever watched, but it was just so finely crafted. The camera never moves. It's like it's just edging you on, warning you that something huge is going to happen. And, if you're anything like me, your eyes start playing tricks on you. Because it was so still, I kept looking for things that were moving, and I kept thinking the door was opening slightly, or that something was twitching. Every time she left the screen, I held my breath, and every time she returned, I sighed in relief. Then, when she returned for her last time... well, I swear I would have screamed if I wasn't petrified into stillness.And the astonishing thing is, they manage to pull all of this off with very little gore! This is not a slasher horror. It is a psychological thriller. If you watch it and are not terrified, in my estimation, you are simply not attentive enough to get it.I have not seen the original so I cannot compare the two, but I can say that this movie scared me more than any other movie I have ever watched. Period. "},{"Title":"A cop investigates cruel murders committed by a supernatural killer who has been dead for many years ago","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Effective chiller about a strange possessed murderer that causes creepy goings-on at a mental facility and church . Suspense , mystery , shocks and grisly horror is this classic terror film . It deals with a police lieutenant (George C. Scott) in Georgetown mourns the anniversary of a priest's death as a serial killer strikes ; he bears remarkable resemblance to ¨Gemini Killer¨ , who has been dead for fifteen years . The brutal and gruesome serial killer is at large and carries out a criminal spree . Meanwhile , the Police Inspector is investigating the weird events . And the cop suffering incredible risks trying to unravel mystery of demon living inside a nutty man (Brad Dourif).This is a fairly suspenseful and horrifying story full of thrills , chills , intrigue and supernatural events . The film contains restless terror , gore , blood and usual poltergeists phenomenon and ghastly shenanigans . Top-notch picture , thanks to fine acting , tight pacing, well mounted edition and skillful special effects with magnificent make-up . This is a terrifying and startling story about possession with some moments developed in slow-moving and complex situations . It is produced with acceptable budget by James G. Robinson and Joe Roth , being well recreated with high grade special effects that are frightening and horrifying to spectator . The script is awesome , the acting excellent and the direction by William Peter Blatty plenty of good pace and conviction . This 1990 picture titled ¨The Exorcist III¨ by William Peter Blatty displays a magnificent cast such as George C Scott, Brad Dourif, Ed Flanders , Nicol Williamson and Jason Miller again Father Karras . And a good support cast as Lee Patterson , Viveca Lindfords , Scott Wilson , George DiCenzo , Don Gordon , Harry Carey Jr and uncredited Samuel L. Jackson as a Dream Blind Man . Dark cinematography in sinister and mysterious atmosphere by Gerry Fisher. Frightening and atmospheric musical score by Barry DeVorzon adding Mike Oldfield's soundtrack at main titles . The tale is classified ¨R¨ for graphic violence and profanity but contains gore and guts.The original ¨Exorcist¨ (by William Friedkin) was an excellent flick in which died some actors at the time finished the movie and added a legend about Exorcist's curse . It spawned a wave of demonic possession movies that continues unabated today as ¨Changeling¨ (by Peter Medak), ¨Amytiville ¨(by Stuart Rosemberg) , ¨Darkness¨ (by Jaume Balaguero) are three further examples of this sub-genre . And followed by two sequels and numerous imitations , in 1977 ¨the Heretic¨ by John Boorman with Richard Burton, Linda Blair , deemed awful and this ¨Exorcist 3¨ . Furthermore, spawned two prequels starred by a young Father Merrin (Stellan Skarsgard)  Paul Schrader's Exorcist The Original Prequel and ¨Exorcist , The beginning¨ and set in Africa , both of them directed by Paul Schrader and Renny Harlin respectively . Exorcist III is one the highest earning horror picture of the 90s with 6,5 rating . It is a rare film not for squeamish and is better than ¨Beginning¨ , ¨The original sequel¨ and the worst ¨Exorcist II¨ . "},{"Title":"Save your prayers. God is not here with us now.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you pull out a gun, and shoot someone in the head, does it really matter if you truly believe in Exorcism? Did Blatty help our unbelief, or was he proficiently mocking religion? Or maybe both? It is not enough to be a spirit. There's no magic. It's the body, the touch. Even serial killers need it. (Btw, this movie was Jeffrey Dahmer's favorite. Plus, he was also a Gemini.) The whole world is a homicide victim. That's the thriLL of it. No motive. That's the fun.The movie goes beyond religion, capturing medicine, psychiatry, philosophy, even poetry (we are really talking to an artist)! A brilliant mix of all these. A genuine journey into the sickest, darkest mind you could possibly imagine. Into the mind of no one... many. This is DEATH. And it hurts. It is cold, and rotten. Who needs to actually see mutilated corpses, when you can feel and smell them through a monster's fantasy? Or a nightmare. I have almost never seen a movie so psychologically disturbing (to say the least), a movie that crept through my pores right to the core of my being, like that 3-foot catheter.The sound. It's the devil breathing heavily, humming inside your skull. The echo that awakens every possible ugliness! buried in your mind.But still, very sterile and neat. I am fascinated by frivolous minds around here that find this movie to be boring (The dead should shut up unless there's something to say. Or go and watch House of 1000 corpses since their imagination was obviously surgically removed). I watch this movie once in a while... Perhaps it gives me the idea that after it, there's nothing left to be afraid of. But since there always is, I just chuckle, and it really keeps me going. Makes me forget whether I am in heaven, or I have just been flung into the depths of heLL. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Parts I and III of this series have just been shown on UK TV, confirming what I've long suspected  this is a *criminally* under-rated movie, streets ahead of the original in just about every way you can imagine. It's better written, better acted, and better directed. I honestly can't think of a scarier movie - the hallway scene gets me every time !What a shame it gets such a low score in the user ratings - the original deserves a 5, surely this is at least a 7 ? "},{"Title":"The scariest and most underrated horror flick ever!!!!","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is without a doubt the best and scariest horror flick ever made and also far ahead of it's time as a psychological horror flick. Most people expected to see scenes with a vomiting and head turning little girl but instead he evolved the horror from visual horror to horror of the human psyche.Which in my humble opinion is more scarier!!!! The writer of the original exorcist has both written and directed this priceless gem. Unfortunately we haven't heard much of him ever since, I think he only did the sublime Twinkle twinkle killer kane (Ninth configuration) and he directed a twilight zone episode.If you watched it a while ago and din't like it then please give it another chance now and watch it (again) You'll thank me later. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly really really good","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being a gigantic fan of the original Exorcist and having read the review of this film and having seen the horrible Exorcist 2, I was very weary. So one night I rented this movie and was blown away. It's written and directed by William Peter Blatty, who wrote the original book and this book. He does an amazing thing with taking the lore of the original and having a murder mystery about the Gemini killer and joining them with a perfect balance. Acting is top notch and there are some very very creepy moments. I say that if you liked the original you will most likely like this, as long as you keep your mind open and don't expect a carbon copy of the original. "},{"Title":"Beauty","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  William Peter Blatty's The Exorcist III Legion is one of the most beautiful films ever made.  Magnificent performances and a truly mesmerizing continuation of the original story make this one of my top films.  George C. Scott did an excellent job taking over Lee J. Cobb's Lt. Kinderman.  His portrayal fits the book precisely, and his character is never doubted for a moment.  Ed Flanders was a riot, and his friendship with Kinderman seemed more sincere than most performances by `A' movie actors like Val Kilmer and Jim Carrey could only dream about.  The other standout performance is the ever reliable Brad Dourif, a true actor.  He is once again perfectly cast, and delivers his best of his typecast possessed characters.  The film itself manages to both stand alone, and pick up where the first left off, ignoring John Boorman's inept Exorcist II The Heretic, a monument to putridity.  Ultimately this is one of the rare cases where the film is actually more enjoyable than the book, as the changes to the end were definitely for the better.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most underrated film I can think of","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Blatty's directorial/writing masterpiece stands as a testament to the power of the unified artistic vision.  Both Scott and Flanders give deep performances of characters joined in media res and give what could have been a mediocre film a wonderful dimension.  The Douriff/Miller co-portrayal of Patient X (The Gemini Killer/Fr. Damien Karras) is powerful and convincing in its dramatic cohesiveness.  Truly underappreciated, especially having to follow The Exorcist II The Heretic, this film is visually and dramatically one of the most interesting and covertly meaningful films I can recommend. "},{"Title":"Scariest Movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Without repeating everyone before me...this IS the scariest movie I have ever seen.  If you watch it at home...turn up the volume (it will add a lot to the experience)!!!  While the first movie was good, the 3rd movie (the real sequel to The Exorcist written by William Peter Blatty) is completely different and much more mysterious. "},{"Title":"Whole lot of greatness","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is absolutely beautiful.  I can not describe to you how awesome this movie is.  Well, let me try.  This movie is an Exorcist sequel, however, you do not need to see The Exorcist to understand what is happening.  It is an awesome movie on its own, and when stood by The Exorcist, another great film, it breaks the Law of Sequel Performance.  I feel that this is one of the few sequels that outshines the original. William Peter Blatty also does an awesome job in setting the mood.  The shots are beautiful, almost enough to move me to tears.  The dialogues in the movie are fantastic, there are so many awesome quotes that I am at a lack of words to describe this movie, thus I will make up a word...Trampulescent.  The Exorcist III is Trampulescent. "},{"Title":"A horrific masterpiece","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ever since I watched this movie by myself at around midnight one night, I have been a big fan and promoter of this movie. One scene (I won't give it away but others who have seen the movie know what I'm talking about) LITERALLY made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. I enjoy watching this movie with friends who haven't seen it and watching their reactions.It's exceptional filmaking when you can turn what must have been a simple scene on the screenplay's page into a frightening experience. An overall sense of dread permeates this film and here's a warning many jaded, shallow genX-er's  won't be able to fathom it. They are too ignorant of the religious implications and de-sensitized to violence. They would perhaps prefer something along the lines of Peter Jackson's Dead Alive.(another, albeit different, horror masterpiece.) "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First and foremost I must say that I have watched this film more often than the original one with Max von Sydow. Why? I have asked myself that many a times. Why watch a sequel more often than the original one? I cannot explain it to myself. I absolutely adore the first Exorcist film, but there was something about The Exorcist III that kept me coming back to it over and over again.For the first, the story is very solid. This is a direct sequel to the first Exorcist film as W. P. Blatty intended with his novel Legion (1983). Blatty is also the director of this adaptation for the screen which became The Exorcist III. I will not discuss here The Exorcist II The Heretic since due to the story's continuity it might as well have not been made. What we have here is a work of love, love from the writer towards his characters that he has fleshed in his previous book, as well as an innermost desire to make sense of all the questions that were left unanswered in the first The Exorcist.We have the always brilliant George C. Scott in the role of lieutenant Kinderman that is torn between new murders that resemble the profile of an old serial killer. On the other side of the spectrum we have Brad Dourif as the Gemini Killer, that does the role of a lifetime if I may so romantically put it. I have seen many films with Dourif and he never quite trumps his performance in this film (with the possible exception of his role in Deadwood, which closest comes on par).So why have I, in the end seen this one more times than the first Exorcist? I have to say that it is due to W. P. Blatty's strong story as well as surprisingly coherent and well done direction, but also due to the main characters of George C. Scott and Brad Dourif and their interaction with each other. But also for Ed Flanders' role as Father Dyer who seemed to have an entertaining and charming love/hate relationship with George C. Scott's character.The make up and horror scenes are there as well, but for me I will always regard this as one of the best sequells made for a film/book that was already perfect. "},{"Title":"A near perfect masterpiece","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can imagine a lot of people were surprised when they heard the announcement that another 'Exorcist' sequel was on the way. The first sequel had been such a failure that it seemed to ruin the future of the series. Then a few years after it's release William Peter Blatty, the man who started it all, wrote his novel 'Legion,' the true sequel to the original story. It would be another several years before production would start on a feature film adaptation, written and directed by Blatty himself. The novel was a best seller, so how could this film miss? I'm sure people who saw 'The Heretic' must have been thinking that it couldn't possibly be any worse than that film. And according to many it's not only better than that sequel, which it ignores, but like the original it too is a masterpiece. Too bad about that ending though.Pros Intelligently written and directed. Excellent performances from everyone involved. Very nicely photographed. Some really unsettling scenes and images. Perfectly paced. The score, what little there is, is quite good and there's an effective use of sound effects like rumbling. Spectacular effects. Suspenseful and riveting.Cons The final scenes in the padded room don't fit with the rest of the film. They're over-the-top and weren't needed.Final thoughts In this reviewer's opinion the first sequel isn't as bad as it's said to be, but it's certainly not something to be proud of either. However this one more than makes up for that and is actually almost as good as the original film. Unfortunately some people who should have backed off had to interfere and the film ended up different than originally intended. It doesn't ruin the film, which is brilliant, but it does leave a mark that can probably never been erased.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" By far the best of series. There is nothing better than an intellectual horror movie. Excellent screenplay adapted from a great book called Legion. What I enjoyed most about the film is that, most horror films use music to enhance scary moments. This film uses complete silence. Careful camera angles, lighting and excellent character development also enhance the films creepy feel. Watch for a scene where a nurse is working a night shift....Alone. One of the most chilling scenes I've ever seen in a horror film. Let's also remember you also have one of the most celebrated actors in history (George C. Scott)playing the pivotal role of Lt. Kinderman. I remember seeing the film in the theater when it opened and I remember the only reason I went to see it was because George C Scott was in the film. This gave the film its credibility. Highly recommended...if you enjoy great writing. "},{"Title":"A strong film which should have been called Legion for the name of the novel","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know why the film had to marketed with this title, but I wish it had been appended as a subtitle, second to the title of the novel on which it's based, Legion. I'm afraid the other reviews for this film have assumed the stance of the mob in thinking this is some successor to Exorcist II, which was inane.Exorcist III is the REAL sequel to the Exorcist, however this script (III) is much smarter and more profound than the original. Due to the fact the writer and the director are the same man - William Peter Blatty, simultaneously among the world's most under-appreciated writers and directors - it makes the real point of the original novel. The real point of the novel The Exorcist was that Regan (and thus, Karras) was infested with the dark energy of the world. Its central assertion was that our despair and disbelief undermine our higher intentions.The Exorcist III carries out that theme in a manner common to many Blatty movies and novels...the great act of decency crawling from the darkness and reaching toward heaven. Blatty usually has a Christ figure (as with Kane in The Ninth Configuration) and this film is no exception. Damian Karras finishes the job he began in the first film, in a last act of selflessness in one of the film's final and most effective scenes.As with most of Blatty's movies, this is a film that must be seen from the beginning...entering into the whole mental and emotional context.Sadly, all the main actors from this film are gone now - George C. Scott, Ed Flanders, and Jason Miller. "}{"Title":"Creepy, smart, and well-crafted...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was shocked to see that this movie was not scored higher on IMDB. Marvelous acting, particularly by the venerable (and late) George C. Scott, fantastic writing (the dialogue is intelligent and snappy), and the directing is phenomenal.  I actually enjoy this movie much more than the original Exorcist.  This movie is well-worth seeing, and has quite a few scares tucked within it. "},{"Title":"The only REAL sequel to the Exorcist","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With a poor attempt by someone to make an Exorcist sequel...a failed attempt in part 2 by the way...William Peter Blatty stepped back in to make the real sequel to the original Exorcist. After seeing part 1 and hearing that this movie was done by the original creator I knew that it had to be good. Guess what? It was better than good. This movie is directly tied to the first one but it doesn't feel anything like a repeat. It's totally different yet the storylines are all connected. You'll see if you see them both. Brad Douriff does an excellent job in the movie. You may remember Brad as the voice of Chucky from the Childs Play movies and a brief human form appearance in the original Childs Play. He is very creepy in this movie and pops up out of nowhere. You will recognize the voice if nothing else. Don't feel completely fullfilled by the original Exorcist? Want more? Jump over The Exorcist II and check out part III. You shouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"One good scare surrounded by heavy handed mumbo jumbo","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" William Peter Blatty adapts his own sequel to THE EXORCIST (the book was titled LEGION), completely ignoring THE HERETIC. Ironically, EXORCIST III is, in many ways, an inferior movie. Homicide detective Kinderman (George C. Scott, replacing Lee J. Cobb) is in the middle of a bizarre investigation involving priests and children being brutally murdered in the method used by a serial killer executed fifteen years earlier. The investigation leads to a psychiatric ward where a straight-jacket-bound man claims to be the killer--and bears a striking resemblance to the late Father Karras (Jason Miller), who lept to his death from the possessed girl's bedroom window in the original EXORCIST. This intriguing premise has potential, but Blatty piles on so much overwrought mumbo-jumbo that the plot collapses under its own weight. There are some good moments (a nurse being stalked and killed during the night shift stands as one of the scariest sequences in modern horror cinema), but Blatty over directs relentlessly, and even the simplest of scenes are headache-inducing. His screenplay is also a mess, with some mind-bogglingly awful dialog (the fish in the bathtub speech is one of the most bewildering and pointless examples of exposition I've ever heard) and glaring inconsistencies with the original film (and book). A couple of examples are the fact that Karras and Kinderman barely knew each other in THE EXORCIST, yet here they apparently were best friends; and in a bit of contrived dialog, a connection is made between one of young victims and the original possession, by saying that the kid's mother is the one who figured out that the demon was speaking in English in reverse. This is wrong, as in the original movie (and book) a male friend of Karras is the one who figured that out.Scott chews the scenery like a champ, Brad Dourif is effectively bizarre as the killer's ghost and Viveca Lindfors has a creepy little part as a catatonic mental patient. Zorha Lambert, on the other hand, as Kinderman's wife, gives a howlingly bad performance. The working title was LEGION, and initially it was going to be an unrelated thriller until studio execs thought it would do more business as a direct sequel. Therefore, the title was changed and some awkward (and fairly incoherent) footage was added, including scenes with Nicol Williamson as a priest who eventually performs an exorcism at the film's conclusion. The result is a jumbled train wreck of a movie, though it's developed a loyal cult following. "},{"Title":"Damn good, and scary too. George C. Scott is excellent!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From the eerie opening dream sequence, I was drawn into this film by William Peter Blatty's great screenplay (based on his book, Legion) and confident directing. He deftly blends elements of mystery and horror together to create an atmosphere of evil that is both subtle at times and shocking at others. And just as William Friedkin did in the original Exorcist, the employment of auditory stimuli are used in a way that get under your skin and stay there. The plot revolves around Detective Bill Kinderman--played this time by the great George C. Scott--trying to solve a series of gruesome murders that seem to somehow be related to the exorcism of Regan MacNeil 17 years ago. The story is allowed to develop at a relaxed pace, and will keep you guessing as to what's happening and why. But as it continues to unfold, Kinderman's faith in God, which he admits that he doesn't have much of, and his own sanity are tested by an ungodly force that he can't begin to comprehend. Blatty takes all the things we believe in and comfort us--faith in God, religious symbols, and Good over Evil--and tries to eradicate them right in front of our eyes and make us question our own comfortable reality. Overall, there are many scenes that will bring you right out of your seat because they are so damn scary. The few parts with Kinderman interrogating the Gemini killer (Brad Dourif) are also very intense, and are a rare glimpse into the mind of a sick killer. One problem I had with the film is that the ending seemed a little too predictable and rushed, but in conclusion does not detract from the overall strength of the film that much. If you appreciate intelligent horror films (yes, there are some of them around), you should see this well-made film. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric, disturbing thriller; burdened by expectations of the original.","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this film in a theater, I must say I was disappointed. I was ready for the shock and power of the original EXORCIST. However, upon re-examination, I discovered that (removed from the first film's staggering reputation) EXORCIST 3 is really an intelligent, thoughtful thriller. A supernatural police procedural that only happens to use/reference characters from the original film. The story follows Lt. Kinderman (richly recast with George C. Scott; Lee J. Cobb played him in the original) on the trail of a serial killer who uses the same, secret MO of a murderer executed 15 yrs. earlier. A man known as the Gemini killer (veiled nod to the real-life Zodiac killer). On a lead, Kinderman interviews a man in a psychiatric ward who not only bears intimate knowledge of the killings, but also appears to occupy the body of Kinderman's late friend (from the first film) Father Damien Karras (played by both Jason Miller AND Brad Douriff in a blood curdling performance!). That brings to mind one of the few issues I had upon my re-examination of the film (which gets better on repeat viewings); just HOW did Kinderman and Karras become such close friends given the short time they knew each other in the first EXORCIST film? It's never really resolved; chalk it up to the magic of off-screen time! Moving on, now... EXORCIST 3 is heavy on mood, atmosphere and philosophically challenging dialog, with a few good scares as well(the white-sheeted figure with scissors being the best jump-out moment!). It wisely jettisons any reference to the botched Exorcist 2. THAT film was an utter failure, on EVERY level. Another issue I did have with this film however, is the rather tacked-on, lukewarm exorcism (which reeks of re-shoot). I agree with author/director William Peter Blatty in that the film should've simply been called LEGION, as was the book it was based on. The name EXORCIST brings a high capacity for both great expectations and great disappointment. This film is really NOT about an exorcism; but it does involve a crisis of the spirit. And while anemic on shock value, it satisfies in many other ways; character, suspense and great performances (again...kudos to Brad Douriff; his monologues make your skin crawl). Even my wife, who despises horror films, likes to watch this one. In short, I still believe the first film was/is the scariest damned movie of all time. PERIOD. But, there are still many other horror films (LEGIONS of them in fact! Ha,ha!) that work very well. EXORCIST 3 LEGION (that's better!) is one such film. Just ignore part 2 and the boring, hack-job prequel EXORCIST 4; The Beginning (I hope not!). Part 3 is radically different from the other EXORCIST films; but in tone, mood, suspense and character, it is in a class by itself. "},{"Title":"The ONLY true inheritor to the mantle!","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After having seen this movie countless times, I finally felt obligated to write a bit about it. I've no idea how many horror fans -- and thus fans of 'The Exorcist' -- I've talked to who saw 'Exorcist II' and were so dispirited by it that they never bothered to see this one! This is so completely regrettable as this third installment is superb. Out of the three sequels to the original, this is the sole one worthy of having been made. Perhaps not coincidentally, it is also the only sequel Blatty (the authour of the book the first one was based on) wrote as a novel...and he wrote and directed this film! The story picks up 15 years after the original (and rightly ignores whatever happened in the second film). The cop Kinderman from the first movie returns, now portrayed by the fantastically intense George C. Scott. He is our lead character this time, as the story is more like a serial-killer mystery than the straight demonic-possession of the first two. Several gruesome murders have occurred in Georgetown, and Kinderman's investigating. He finds all the murders share MO not only with each other, but with a series of killings from around the time of the first story...the perpetrator of which was caught and executed. Events lead Kinderman to a local hospital, where he's shocked by what he finds. After a handful more scares to keep you watching, everything eventually builds to a suitably horror-y (if somehow disappointing) climax that's considerably less nasty than the first, and in totally different ways. This film is dominated by Scott, of course, as his presence is always overwhelming. Brad Dourif is his typically riveting self, and serves as a perfect equal and balance to Scott (though the peculiar and seemingly random pitch-shifting of his voice is a little distracting). Jason Miller returns as Father Karras, surprisingly enough, and is just as perfect in the role as he was over 15 years earlier. There is another exorcist this time 'round, but Nicol Williamson (perhaps best remembered as Merlin from 'Excalibur') is no Max Von Sydow. (I could swear there's a little Mercedes McCambridge voice cameo over the first little old lady, but have no way to confirm this...) And on top of all this are bizarre cameos from C. Everett Koop, Larry King, Samuel L. Jackson and FABIO, among others! All that said, this is not a perfect movie. There are some noticeable discrepancies between this and the first (though I must assume they're truer to the book, considering the source), the most obvious of which is the playing up of Kinderman's relationship with Karras. In the first movie, they met only once, I believe, before the latter died on those infamous stairs. In this film, however, it's repeatedly established that they were bosom companions. In addition to this are some problems with the crime mystery angle, mostly concerning police work, but nothing to spoil the movie. It's clear Blatty learned a great deal from Friedkin, as the latter's stylistic fingerprints are all over this. Granted, there are a couple directorial stumbles but for his second film (the first the very solid 'Ninth Configuration,' based on another of his novels) it's a decidedly decent effort. From the scene-establishing montage shots to the agonising attention paid to the sound engineering, this is a perfectly crafted sequel to the first film. Skip the second one (and the fourth, for that matter), and just make this THE 'Exorcist' sequel you love. "},{"Title":"One great film...............","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This, imo, is a VERY creepy film and should be seen by anyone who is into Horror films. It ALWAYS makes my list when it comes to the creepiest movies and I wish it were re-released to theaters but just under the title Legion and take out the stuff with Father Karras.....its really not needed but at the time they wanted to have some connection to the series. George C Scott is amazing, as usual. SPOILERS BELOW(Please don't read until you see the film...its worth it)The scene in the hospital where the killer, in a white sheet, goes after the nurse with a pair of shears has got to be one of my favorite unnerving scenes ever. It takes so long to happen BUT when it does, WOW!!!!!!!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Amazingly shot and scripted sequel to a classic film.","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember when this first came out, I had just turned 17 and the movie was sold out. While we were deciding if we wanted to catch a later show, I overheard a group of G.I.'s talking to the ticket booth girl and trying to get her to sell them a ticket. One said, I'm getting ready to go over to the middle-east and I need to watch something that will confirm my belief in God before I go. . . I remember being so intrigued that somebody would make a statement like that about a movie. We saw a later show and were amazed by the film, because it was intelligent, entertaining, scary and had witty humor in the right places. Though the ending did not seem to fit with this film, we still discussed how this movie had so much in it that made it great; including, oddly enough, one of the best jump scares that 80 years of Hollywood had set the audience up to be completely unprepared for because it went against all the conventions. The whole theater jumped and then applauded, taking a minute to settle down. My response to this film got me to revisit the original which again amazed me at the content and writing. Both films inspired me to write and I recognized William Peter Blatty as a great author and filmmaker. Great dialogue and scenes are created with his work. This was and is the type of respectability the horror genre needs more of. Unfortunately, the 3rd Exorcist did not get anywhere near the credit that the original did with audiences, critics or nominations/awards. It is still a great film, just not the original remade in any way. Most people who are fans and have read the book would prefer the film to have been called Legion, as would William Peter Blatty. "},{"Title":"Flat out scary.","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know everyone says that the original Exorcist was supposedly scary. I don't know if it's the numbing exposure of today's television programs or movies, but I barely found it troubling. However, if you are looking for a great late-night movie to make you look over you shoulder and check the lock before bed, the Exorcist III is the way to go.Besides the brilliant work of William Peter Blatty in Legion, the screen writers and casting directors have created an all star ensemble. George C. Scott is stoically brilliant in his performance. Especially the movie scene when he discusses 'the fish'.If you truly like scary movies, then this should be your choice. This Halloween sit down at midnight and begin the Exorcist III completely engaged in your viewing. Don't drink, don't smoke, don't inhibit your senses in any way, otherwise you'll find it as mediocre as the other voters on this site.*SPOILER*By far my favorite scene in the movie is the hospital. It begins with a chop of the Jesus or Mary statue decapitated and leads to a hauntingly silent decapitation of a nurse. Great stuff.The only problems I have with the movie is the 'fantastic' ending. While we all know there should be a confrontation, it is difficult to take the fairly believable first three-quarters of the story and substitute it with a supernatural ending. Although comparably, that is how the original ended&#133;  "},{"Title":"Very Underrated and very Scary","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have been a horror movie my entire life. I can remember the glory (gory) days of horror movies in the early 80s. I have never found one that truly gave me the chills. I was not scared by any movie I saw...including the first Exorcist. I love the genre....I think that it offers more than any other....but there are no movies out there that can truly scare a horror movie afficionado. The only 2 movies that have gave me the chills is Exorcist 3 and The Believers. There is just something about them that is really creepy and makes you remember. I think that it is a very underrated movie!!! "}{"Title":"Absolutely intriguing!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the one of the best horror films ever made, notably much better the the first 2 Exorcist movies. This movie is more of a mystery/detective movie than a horror movie. Lt. Kinderman (Goerge C. Scott) gives a wonderful performance as a detective investigating murders wich have been committed by different people who appear to be elderly hospital patients rather than serial killers. He uncovers a plot to avenge the exorcism from the original. This film has intriguing characters, some comedy, and good work by the detective which make this a very good film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel","Date":"5 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A police lieutenant uncovers more than he bargained for as his investigation of a series of murders, which have all the hallmarks of the deceased 'Gemini' serial killer, lead him to question the patients of a psychiatric ward.Although I actually enjoyed the second Exorcist film, most people consider it a stinker and like to pretend it never happened. For those people, this is the right film to watch. A great tale of possession, that follows rather directly (though belatedly) from the original.George C. Scott adds a certain weight to any film. Just as he did for The Changeling, he makes what could be a forgettable horror film into something really worthwhile. He is a vastly underrated actor. "},{"Title":"An above average sequel that succumbs to conflict.","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You know you're in trouble when the box-art for the movie in your hands doesn't bare any rave-review quotes or snippets. Far be it from the discriminating viewer to judge a book (or DVD) by its cover, though, because while The Exorcist III looks like a subpar sequel to a classic film, the fact of the matter is that there is more to it than meets the eye. A film that is notorious for tinkering by the producers, despite being in the hands of The Exorcist creator William Peter Blatty, this third entry in the saga has more brains than the average 80's horror film and more weight than any sequel within the genre is ever expected to hold.George C. Scott plays police lieutenant Kinderman (a character seen briefly in the first film), hardened but human, who is on the trail of a mysterious, sadistic and methodical killer who takes after the famed Gemini Killer (a take on the real-life Zodiac Killer), despite the fact that he has been dead for fifteen years. When a longtime friend in Father Dyer (Ed Flanders) emerges as the next victim, a chain of events unfolds that brings back a familiar face from the past in Father Karras (Jason Miller reprising his role from the first film). Bit by bit, what Kinderman unearths turns out to be bigger than himself and threatens his very existence.Scott is reliable and likable as always in the role of Kinderman, and while Jason Miller isn't given much to do here, it's a pleasure to see him again. Brad Dourif, best known as Chucky in the Child's Play series, is the wild-card of the film and nearly threatens to steal the show in one of his most intense performances. The script, based off the Blatty's novel, Legion, is hardly a re-hash of the first film, and compared to other sequels from its era, is quite a refreshing change of pace as an intelligent and classy picture in its own right. The gore and special effects are kept to a minimum, as the movie is just as much about its characters and dialogue as it is about its horrors. The film's not without its faults, of course. Take the tacked-on ending that reeks of studio interference, for example. Blatty's battles with producer James G. Robinson (who had nothing to do with the original film in the first place) result in an intelligent horror movie/sequel that simply doesn't know how to end itself. It's as if someone was standing there saying This is fine and all, but we need an exorcism scene! and voila! While it results in a rather gruesome and exciting special effects opportunity, the man-sticking-to-the-ceiling bit feels out of place with the tone of the rest of the film, which for the most part, keeps things cerebral and tasteful. This little bit felt like something you'd see in a Hellraiser flick, not that there's anything wrong with that. As for Patrick Ewing playing the Angel of Death in a dream sequence? Don't even get me started. Heck, even an appearance by Fabio seems bound and determined to rain on a decent parade.In the end, The Exorcist III is a solid sequel that falls short of greatness. Its creativity and inventiveness is undermined by the insistence on re-introducing elements from the original film for nothing other than keeping with the namesake. Fans who felt themselves left in the cold by The Exorcist II will find this a treat, as will anyone else who loves an intelligent horror/thriller. Despite its flaws and the fact that it effectively killed off the franchise (was it ever meant to be?) The Exorcist III is as close to greatness as any of the sequels or prequels gets to the original. "},{"Title":"Solid sequel","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The only real sequel to The Exorcist finds Ltd. Kinderman faced with a nasty serial killer whose modus operandi resembles a killer who was executed the same night as the original exorcism of Regan took place. A mental patient claiming to be the murderer is a dead-on lookalike to Father Damien Karras, the priest who fell to his death on that fateful night.Mood and atmosphere best describe the William Peter Blatty directed Exorcist III. The horror is hinted at (and explained in long speeches) but very little is shown. The brooding mood is slowly built and maintained until a silly (and rushed) conclusion involving an exorcism (which producer's deemed necessary because of the film's title).Blatty's script is intelligent and philosophical, not unlike the original where the power of suggestion works far better than on screen mayhem. Brad Dourif's monologues are downright creepy at times and the scenes between him and Scott are very impressive.Despite it's bloodless nature the film has at least two outstanding seat jumpers (white figure and scissors anyone!). If it wasn't for the disappointing final 10 minutes or so the film would be awesome. As is, it's a fine horror film with some definite highlights, intelligently written but misses the bull's eye. "},{"Title":"Unusually strong sequel","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Exorcist III has a strong anchor in George C. Scott (as Det. Kinderman, played by Lee J. Cobb in the original Exorcist), an actor who gives a better performance than this type of film deserves. He is given good support by Ed Flanders (as Father Dyer), Brad Dourif (as the reincarnated Gemini Killer) and Jason Miller, as Dourif's incarcerated 'host.' William Peter Blatty, author of the original novel, takes the screen writing and directing credit, producing a film that is shockingly effective in its subtlety--this is not a horror film of jump-scares and slit throats, but of atmosphere, mood, and contemplative discussion. While this adaptation of Blatty's unrelated novel Legion crams in the exorcism angle to questionable effect, he creates a tight, suspenseful tale with a dash of surrealism (what is up with that heaven sequence with Fabio?)--Exorcist III is a strong film and a fine franchise entry (especially after John Boorman's lamentable Exorcist II The Heretic), but don't expect projectile vomiting, crucifix masturbation, and the other shock effects of its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Black and White","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have found this film is much more enjoyable if you set your TV to black and white. play with the controls until you get it looking like an old classic from the 40's and Its so much creepier and atmospheric!! "},{"Title":"Perfect! The Scariest Movie In Ages!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I notice many people have given this movie bad reviews, because it's boring. Well, they don't know what horror is. Yes, there is a lot of dialouge, but it only serves to make this movie more horrorfying, more shocking than it is. Dourif is great as the Gemini, the soul of a serial killer trapped in the body of Damien Karras, the priest from the first Exorcist, and is truly wonderful. The scene where he follows a nurse out of a locked room... horrorfying and breathtaking at the same time. I wish that the people who produce the crap horror movies nowadays would set back and watch this film.Rent this, and not the horrid part 2. If you're a fan of the New Jersey Hacksaw Murders Part Eight type movies, don't waste your time. But, if you're a true horror movie fan, set back with a bag of popcorn, the lights turned down low, the sound all the way up, and your girlfriend cuddled next to you and prepare yourself for the horror that is...THE EXORCIST III LEGION "},{"Title":"This is what happens when the devil's not through with you....","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Weak points Some actors' voices seem louder than those around them. (Is this something deliberate that Blatty, as the director, is asking for?) George C. Scott overacts in some scenes. (Again, it could be Blatty's directing.) Nurse Allerton (Nancy Fish) horribly delivers her lines in the first interview between her and Scott. Strong points Brad Dourif at his best and most frightening. Jason Miller makes me feel for him all over again as the tortured priest. And Ed Flanders. ) The hallway scene (as some other reviewer referred to it) is very scary. The old woman's voice in the confessional is creepy. And Mrs. Clalia speeding along on the ummm... floor is bizarre. There's much more to this film than I've mentioned and it truly is worth watching if you're a horror movie fan. (I watch it every fall around Halloween.) ) "},{"Title":"I have dreams of a rose...and of falling down a long flight of stairs","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie ranks right with the original in my opinion. It was 100x better than the 2nd movie, and brought new things to the table. Lt. Kinderman returns as the main character of this film, and he's very good. Father Dyer is now pretty much the second main character and Kinderman's best friend, he is also very well played. The storyline in this movie is very unique. A killer named The Gemini Killer was supposedly killed 15 years before, the same time as Father Karras. And they have both reappeared in a dementia ward at a hospital...as one person. Soon murders begin to occur in The Gemini Killer's style, and Kinderman is left to find out how its possible if he's in the ward. Brad Dourif (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Child's Play, Mississippi Burning) gives yet another great, evil performance as James Venamun/The Gemini Killer. Jason Miller returns as Patient X/Damien Karras. Only one exorcism in this film to speak of, performed by Father Paul Morning (Nicol Williamson). Recommend this movie to fans of the original, 9/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good thriller","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first 6/8 of Exorcist III are very good indeed. Please, for God's sake, skip Exorcist II, the catastrophe that nearly killed the good name of The Exorcist. III has some of the most genuinely creepy moments captured on film--some even surpass the original (particularly the things that go bump in the night sequence in the hospital). Noteworthy are the many moments (sometimes almost out of our view) of dissonant images or behaviors that make watching Exorcist III a most uncomfortable experience. And I mean that in the best possible way.Unfortunately, something odd happens in the final moments of this film--all hell breaks loose. Literally. And then Exorsist III moves from psychological horror into Devil made me do it bedlam. Pity, because this film is really quite good. Brad Dourif does a fine job, and how nice to see Jason Miller again. And Nancy Fish as Nurse Allerton nearly steals the film. Though George C. Scott chews the scenery as the film progresses, Blatty appears to have done a fine job of reigning in the ham factor early on, and it's a better film for his efforts.By all means, check this overlooked gem out. But you might need to leave the lights on while you do. And don't watch it if there's a hospital stay in your immediate future! "}{"Title":"Whoa... underrated!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first noticed this film on YouTube in a series of videos that list scariest movie moments. One of the scenes selected was from this movie and since it sent a chill down my spine so I decided to give the rest of the film a chance. That's when my blood damn near froze.Seeing that Exorcist III is a third entry in a franchise in which the second film has a very low reputation and the fourth didn't exactly draw much noise probably gets many people to overlook this film. The fact is that it is the Exorcist label that works against it. This is not really an exorcist movie as the original source novel was similar in theme, but not a sequel to Blatty's The Exorcist. The exorcism scene was added in the middle of production and it feels slightly out of place with the rest of the film.However, it also provides an eerie element as the re-shot scenes has Jason Miller and the originally shot scenes had Brad Dourif and the final product cuts back between the two. It works in a creepy way, just watch and you'll understand. Though the film's best part is the incredible atmosphere. It is really something. Haunting music, dream sequences, and good mixture of the classic jump scare along with some brilliant quiet scares for lack of better word. The scene that drew me to this film is an almost update of the infamous spider-walk from the first Exorcist. It is a terrifically designed scene, among many I might add, so you begin to wonder why Blatty didn't direct more films? I am almost itching to see what else he could come up with on screen.This is a thoroughly enjoyable and smart horror film with above average acting, writing, directing, and design as well as everything else. And it is best thought of as separate from the Exorcist series, just like the book was, even if it does include an exorcism. --- 8/10Rated R for violent content/terror. Ages 13+ "},{"Title":"Intelligent, scary horror.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror movies recently have lost their way. The film-makers seem to think violent, bloody horror is the way to go. However as was proved by Ringu you can scare the hell out of people without resorting to this. And if more proof was needed they need only look at The Exorcist III. It's simply one of the scariest movies I've ever seen.Made by William Peter Blatty and based on his novel Leigon, it follows Detective Kinderman hunting down a serial killer in Georgetown, and how it ties in with an Exorcism carried out years earlier, and may find the truth in a patient locked up in a mental ward..one that looks familiar......The performances are all first rate, but special mention had to be made of George C Scott as Kinderman trying to comprehend the horror unfolding in the city, Jason Miller who appears as patient X in a small role, but especially Brad Dourif as a man claiming to be a killer who supposedly died years before. The scenes in the asylum cell between Kinderman and the Dourif Gemini killer character are stunning. The unsettling atmosphere throughout the movie is really evident here, and the scene where Gemini unleashes his anger at Kinderman is brilliant.This is a movie that has a genuinely creepy atmosphere running through it, both in small scenes like a character running down a dark hall.. watch the statue figure here. It's creepy! But if you want shocking and scary, then one scene stands out. I won't go into detail for those that have yet to see it, but the hospital corridor sequence is absolutely brilliant. No music, long shots, no dialogue and little sounds pay off with a scary as hell sequence. When I saw this when it first came out there were screams in the audience, and even now this scene still shocks. It goes to show if done right, horror movies don't need to show gore and violence.In fact in this movie most of the violence takes place off-screen. It's either implied or described but not shown, which makes it even more unsettling.There is a lot of criticism about the actual exorcism in the movie. The scenes with Nicol Williamson do seem tacked on as an afterthought (his character doesn't even interact with anyone else till the end). And some parts of the scene don't work, like the snakes and the figures coming through the floor, but on the whole I was okay with it. I've read that the producers insisted on adding an exorcism to the movie, whereas the book and original cut of the movie (so I've heard) didn't have one. You do get that feeling watching it, but it doesn't totally unbalance the movie, and you do get a wonderful speech from Kinderman during the scene about belief.Overall though this movie stands above the crowd of horror movies as both a brilliant follow-up to The Exorcist (it ignores Exorcist II-The Heretic altogether) and being genuinely frightening. Personally I like it more that the original.After recent debacles on the horror genre it's been wonderful to go back and revisit this movie again and get scared again. "},{"Title":"Read the book, of course it's even better.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This, as you'll probably realise by now is the film adaptation of William Peter Blatty's DIRECT sequel to 'The Exorcist'. (Ignore Exorcist II as an irrelevance, furthermore avoid seeing it) The book in question was entitled 'Legion', in reference to Christ's biblical conversation with a person reputedly possessed of a demon. When Christ faced the possessed person and asked their name, the response was 'My name is legion, for we are many'. Christ then allegedly cast the demon's evil spirit out into some pigs, who then promptly threw themselves down some steps in the Georgetown area of D.C....ooops, I meant over a cliff. Over a cliff...thats right.Whilst this film is a wonderous piece of cinema, as I mention in my summary... The book is even better. This is owing to the grand expanse of it's scope and elemental content.I'll just mention one element that is described more thoroughly in the book 'Legion' and this is namely the background story to Doctor Amfortas, the 'Travelling man's' unwilling assistant in this diabolic jamboree.Having waxed lyrical about the book, this film is still an outstanding achievement, best watched in a dark smokey atmosphere with great surround sound. George C Scott outdoes his previous outing into the paranormal (The Changelling) with wry aplomb.My only piffling gripes would concern dodgy contact lenses and Father Morning's wood....I mean wooden counternance. But as I love this fil so much I simply won't add any more. Oh and there is slight concern that in the originalfilm 'Exorcist', Kinderman did'nt seem to be so very close to the priest Damien.This film is for the ages.......I must go, mother India is calling. "},{"Title":"People need to give this movie a break.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No, this is not the best film ever made.  Okay, not even close, but there are some fine actors here George C. Scott, Ed Flanders, Jason Miller, Scott Wilson, Brad Dourif, Lee Richardson and Nicol Williamson.  All their performances are are good, given what the performers have to work with.I have a hard time blaming William Peter Blatty for the inadequacy of the finished film.  I am only presuming, of course, but it looks like it was one of those situations where studio heads were not comfortable with the director's vision made a cut of the picture on their own leaving the narrative a confusing clutter of somewhat incomprehensible scenes.But I still can't help being drawn to this movie.  I saw it again tonight and, unexpectedly, sat through duration without regret.  The first time I saw it was back in '91 or '92 when it was first released on cable.  I was fifteen or sixteen at the time.  I was not oblivious to its flaws but at the same time was reassured by the fact that I was not sitting in an uncomfortable theater or had payed seven dollars for a bad movie, and could leave or change the channel anytime I wanted.  But I found I did not have to do that, as I was satisfied with the good things the film had to offer me.  It also made me an avid fan of the late Mr. George C. Scott.  Now nearly ten years later, at twenty-six, I found the film had even more to offer me.  I was particularly intrigued by the dialogue between Scott and the late, great character actor, Ed Flanders.  Though the screen time is short, I think it leaves the most redeeming mark of the film's integrity, and Brad Dourif is wonderful as the Gemini Killer.  It was also interesting to see Jason Miller after so many years.If anyone's negative feeling about this movie has allowed them to color their perceptions of William Peter Blatty as a director, please see his 1979 film, The Ninth Configuration, starring Stacy Keach, and also with Flanders, Wilson and Miller.   "},{"Title":"Gripping thriller. By far the best in the series.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist III is incomparably better that the first two entries in the series. It's so much better that calling it simply an Exorcist sequel doesn't do it justice. Unlike the pretty laughable original, it depends on a strong story and its creepy atmosphere to build its effects. It's the first time in this series that the heroes come off as genuine human beings; there is even a welcome amount of humor. Compelling performances by Scott and Dourif. A gripping, not very scary but never campy thriller. "},{"Title":"A Classy, Endlessly Quotable, Frightening and Genuinely Funny Horror Film","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Much has been made of the studio imposed decisions writer/producer/director William Peter Blatty was forced to adhere to while crafting The Exorcist III to make it more of a traditional Hollywood sequel than a more honest translation of the novel; Legion, on which it's based. Blatty especially felt the movie suffered at the box office following on the heels of the notoriously bad Exorcist II The Heretic while stars George C. Scott and Brad Bourif felt the climactic exorcism which was filmed at the studio's insistence damaged the movie and undermined it's intent. Clearly, The Exorcist III was subject to studio tampering but Blatty overcomes these obstacles with a fine cast working perfectly drawn characters. It's very easy to forget these are actors we're watching while savoring the clever, razor sharp dialogue they speak. The Exorcist III may disappoint fans expecting more of the same pea soup spitting and head spinning action that set the standard for horror back in 1973. The Exorcist III is often referred to as part of the 'trilogy of faith' which includes The Exorcist and The Ninth Configuration. That seems apt because as genuinely frightening as the movie is, ultimately it's about a philosophical journey towards understanding the nature of good and evil. The Exorcist III is by no means perfect but it's highly recommended. "},{"Title":"OK . . . so three of the stars go to George C. Scott.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sooo . . . first let me be honest that I thought I was buying a DVD of 'The Exorcist'; you know that movie with Linda Blair.  Somehow I missed the Roman Numeral 'III' stuck in the middle of the 'O' in Exorcist on the cover.  Took me about twenty minutes to realize something was drastically wrong with this movie, or at least my expectations of it.  You see, I'd never seen the first Exorcist, still haven't, but I knew there was supposed to be this rather gifted child star.  Nope, not in this one.  And some really outstanding special effects, especially for 1973.  Nope, there are some reasonably passable gore scenes, but nothing like a spinning head, and, considering it was 1990 when this one was released . . . what a disappointment.Now, I have always had a lot of respect for Mr. Scott. . in fact his 1971 black comedy The Hospital still ranks as one of my favorite movies.  But what drives a gifted, principled actor to sign on to a project like this?  I really hope he thought it would turn out far better than it did.  "},{"Title":"Better than EXORCIST II","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of course, a two-hour film of paint drying would be better than EXORCIST II. EXORCIST III is better than a two-hour film of paint drying...marginally.There are a few nice moments; the carp stuff is cute, and there are a couple of good eerie shots in the hospital. But ultimately, the movie collapses under the weight of a ludicrous and muddled plot, fairly awful performances (for which I blame the director; Scott would surely have done better if left to himself), and poor dialogue (notably Dourif's interminable monologue about how he possessed Karras's body, which could have been cut down to about five lines and been much more effective).And speaking of Dourif, he should have been fired. Not for anything he did, but because once the studio had made its last-second decision to bring back Jason Miller, Dourif was superfluous. The character has Karras's body, it looks like Karras, why do we keep switching back and forth from Dourif to Miller to Dourif? Instead of rewriting the script, Blatty should have reshot all of Dourif's scenes with Miller in the role.But I'm not sure how clearly Blatty was thinking while making this film (having never read LEGION, I'm not sure whether this logical slip occurs in the novel). Blatty uses the old trick of having the cops give out false details about crimes in order to distinguish a real confession from a false one. Kinderman comes to believe that current murders are being committed by the dead Gemini Killer because the killings have the look of the real Gemini murders, not the fake details which were printed in the papers.However, we have already been informed that the Gemini Killer was executed. So the real details of the killings (which involve the mutilation of the bodies) would have come out in the trial. Remember the coroner in the OJ Simpson trial testifying in detail as to the condition of the bodies? Same deal.So all a copycat killer would have had to do is read the trial transcripts--or even the news reports about the trial.Blatty's final mistake (apart from making this film at all, of course) was to abandon the traditional, coherent Catholic theology which gave the original EXORCIST its extraordinary depth and power for a weird plot about one dead person possessing the body of another dead person (who apparently wasn't quite dead, because his soul is still inside his body, but who was dead enough that it took the first dead person the one possessing, not the one possessed fifteen years to repair the damage to his the possessed person's brain).I am not looking forward to EXORCIST IV.4/10 "},{"Title":"The Exorcist III (7/10)","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III is simply one of those underrated gyms that get overlooked because of the abundant amount of sequels pumped out from money grabbing movie makers. So what is the primary reason why the Exorcist III surpassed the second installment by far? It's all because William Peter Blatty wrote and directed a film sequel to his original novel made into a screenplay. The film brought back the hard hitting grotesque dialogue and most importantly the scare factor. Blatty shot the film to tend towards the psychological horror aspects but he added a scare factor that brought tense, jumpy scenes. The film is often accredited to having one of the scariest movie moments that absolutely no one saw coming.Along with the phenomenal writing, direction and filmmaking there were some great characters portrayed with adequate acting. George C. Scott as the main protagonist did a good job and Brad Dourif was a nice touch, however parts of the supporting cast weren't all that great. The cameo list is impressive and very odd, I won't spoil a couple of them but to show how strange some are to the film, an example is Patrick Ewing as The Angel of Death. There are some other curious, questionable aspects about Exorcist III but it stands out to being a formidable entry the possession genre and an excellent crime thriller. "},{"Title":"Exceeded my expectations","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nowadays, sequels are terribly frowned upon. They're infamous for being cheaply made only with the intent to grab money from people with the promise that it'll be just as good as the original. I had purposely skipped The Exorcist II because I had heard that it was laughably bad and not worth watching whatsoever. And initially, I wasn't even going to see this one. But I'm sure glad I did.George C. Scott plays the protagonist a detective who's investigating a string of murders that are uncannily similar to the Gemini Killer case; a serial murderer who's victims are killed in grotesque and sinister ways. But there's only one problem The Gemini killer was supposedly sentenced to death 15 years earlier, so he's left to figure out how he's able to kill again. Without giving anything away about the plot, I will tell you that the Gemini Killer is played by a phenomenal actor who I'm personally a fan of. Brad Dourif appears in only two scenes in this entire film, but damn do they stand out. He is absolutely enthralling. Dourif is able to invoke such rage, ferocity and insanity without coming off as completely over-the-top. He subtly creates a tragic yet terrifying complex of personality traits embodied into a mesmerizing performance. It was an absolutely delight to watch him in the film.Thankfully there are other things to like about this film aside from Dourif's amazing performance. There are several well shot scenes that are just as disturbing as they are compelling. The last act in particular had me on the edge of my seat it's the most tense I've ever been while watching a film in a long time. So with that said, I wouldn't exactly classify it as a horror film so much as a suspense/crime drama. But it still has some fairly creepy moments.However, one thing that disappointed me was George C. Scott's acting in the lead role. Being such a seasoned and well experienced actor at this point in his career, you'd think that he could never give a bad performance. But unfortunately, he does in The Exorcist III. If you looked up chewing the scenery in the urban dictionary, I'm almost positive you would find his name there. Scott poorly delivered so many lines that I would actually find myself laughing. Which is not good at all considering that this is supposed to be a serious horror film.Now to be fair, this may be the fault of William Peter Blatty who at best, was an amateur behind the camera and clearly was better at writing than he was at directing. He may have given Scott unclear or vague instructions which caused Scott to become confused and just wing it as best he could. Also I should mention that not all of Scott's scenes are bad, but had a more experienced director been on set, things might have been a lot different. Scott's less than par acting in this film is the reason why I won't give it a higher rating than a 7.But overall, it's a great film that really exceeded my expectations, especially in the last two acts. It's as good as sequels come and I would recommend it to fans of the original film because it actually ties into it rather well. Honestly, I think it's worth watching for Brad Dourif alone, but there's some additional scenes in the film that are also worth checking out. It's not everyone's cup of tea, but if you keep an open mind this film will definitely shock you. "}{"Title":"Startling, Unnerving Sights","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the disastrous reception that greeted Exorcist II The Heretic, you would expect no further attempts to franchise The Exorcist brand name. Why not let a classic film stand on its' own? That was the general belief until original series creator William Peter Blatty had an idea. In the mid-eighties, Blatty thought a concept for an Exorcist sequel, revolving around Kinderman, the detective from the original story. Published as the novel Legion, the box was a best seller. Naturally, Hollywood demanded a film adaptation, expanding the Exorcist series into a trilogy. After William Friedkin and John Carpenter passed on directing the film, Blatty himself took up the job. The Exorcist III had a troubled production and mediocre box office but has developed a cult following over the year.The Exorcist III does not go for the bold shock value of the original film. Instead, it is more interested in creating a creeping sense of unease. The film begins with an extraordinary dream sequence, a point-of-view shot walking down a street, passing the first murder victim. The door of a church blows open, accompanied by diabolic cackling on the soundtrack, forcing the eyes of a crucifix open. The camera then crash-cuts to Karras rolling down the stairs. There are many moments of slow-building dread. A confession at a church begins calmly enough before escalating to screaming, murdered priest. Sometimes, the film punctuates these sequences with a strong jump scare. Kinderman wanders a dark, suddenly foreboding church. The face on a statue of a saint is suddenly replaced with a sadistic grin. Suddenly, a girl bumps into the detective, deflating the tension. The most famous moment, probably, in Exorcist III involves a long shot of a nurse doing her nightly duties which ends suddenly with a killer, clad in white and carrying a giant pair of sheers, entering to decapitate her. Moreover, the movie is just creepy, with a fabulously sinister sound design, frequently powered by unearthly growls. The image of an old woman scurrying across the ceiling or a sudden, near decapitation are startling, unnerving sights.Centering The Exorcist III is a powerful performance from George C. Scott. Lee J. Cobb, who played Kinderman in the original movie, had passed away, forcing recasting. It's just as well because Scott's Kinderman is practically a different character. The whimsical Kinderman who digs information out of people with double-talk isn't seen much here. Instead, Kinderman has suffered many losses and will suffer more before this is over. Blatty retcons his own work a little. In The Exorcist, Karras and Kinderman only knew each other a short while. In this film, the two are characterized as best friends. This change, however, allows the character to be far more invested in the story. George C. Scott gives a fantastic performance. His face is world-weary and his words are usually blustery. He's a man who has experienced a lot so, when he breaks down in tears at one point, you know it's serious. Scott gets two fabulous monologues to himself. The first describes his wife keeping a carp in their bathtub, a bizarre bit of quasi-comic dialogue only Blatty could have written. The second one is a powerful speech near the end of the film where Kinderman establishes his belief in evil. That is the true climax of the film and a great moment.Much of The Exorcist III is devoted to Kinderman's discussion with the mysterious man in Cell 31. He is credited only as Patient X. A really interesting choice has two actors playing the part. Sometimes, Jason Miller plays the part, confirming the character as the revived corpse of Damian Karras. Other times, more frequently, Brad Dourif plays the madman. Dourif brings the strangled, coldly sadistic, slightly refined, and deeply unhinged style to the part that we expect from him. Even then, Dourif's voice constantly changes, rising and falling in pitch. The demon truly is legion, a multitude of wicked personalities always shifting around inside. The film's supporting cast is generally great. Ed Flanders has fine chemistry with Scott as the recast Father Dyer and Zohra Lampert and Nicol Williamson feel out the supporting case.The original Exorcist was a story about faith and guilt. The third film continues in a similar pattern but with a slightly different approach. Kinderman's guilt comes from loosing dear friends, from the thought that he failed them. His faith has wavered because of how much evil he has seen. The gruesome details of the murders weigh heavily on him. The story revolves these issues through two ways. By acknowledging the existence of the demon, of supernatural evil, it justifies the existence of a higher power, of supernatural goodness. Secondly, Kinderman is able to literally resolve his friend's untimely passing. He has to confront Karras' death and viscerally move pass it at one time. The final image of The Exorcist III is the cop standing above his dear friend's grave, finally at rest. Though not as powerful as the themes addressed in the first film, the movie handles its own ideas with a similar complexity and skill.The Exorcist III was originally an even more low-key production before Morgan Creek demanded reshoots. Specifically, they were convinced an Exorcist movie couldn't happen with an exorcism. So a new subplot, about a priest going to exorcise Patient X, was hastily added. The sequence also contains most of the gore and special effects seen in the film. They are mildly effective but obviously last minute additions. William Peter Blaty has expressed a desire to create a director's cut but Morgan Creek hasn't been interested in cooperating. Perhaps his vision of the film would be a smoother affair. Even in its theatrical cut, The Exorcist III is still a pretty good movie. It doesn't attempt to recreate the shocks of the original, instead doing something very different, providing some worthy chills of its own. "},{"Title":"Very Strong, but Very Long","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I agree with miss thing's comment on this title- you all simply aren't staying awake long enough- you're not being patient enough to catch all of the surprise endings in here.The biggest dramatic area and scariest part of this film, to me, is the final exorcism performed. All of the loose ends of the first film, (and second, in some ways), are completely wrapped up, thankfully by the EXACT same director/writer as the original Exorcist.This film DOES take a while to get up and running, but if you've seen the first film(s), you should've seen that coming and should've probably taken some energy gum to help yourself with handling that.Anyway, this puts a terrific ending to the trilogy, and will also be one of the scariest, most memorable films that William Petter Blatty has ever made. "},{"Title":"A true sequel","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An officer investigating a baffling series of murders finds that they have the hallmarks of a deceased serial killer.The Exorcist film which spawned sequels and Prequels is a landmark horror film. William Peter Blatty, writer of the Exorcist novel, directs this intriguing and underrated 3rd film. Blatty ignores the messy sequel and injects some realism, horror and suspense in The Exorcist 3.Good news for fans Jason Miller, Father Damien Karras, makes a surprise appearance. In addition to Karras the character 'Bill' Kinderman (of the original) played by Lee J. Cobb who died in 1976 is played excellently by George C. Scott. The film mostly consists of a serial killer hunt. The script is very natural and the witty rapport between Bill and the priest is fantastic, there is also a very good dream sequence.William Blatty, considering being an inexperienced director uses some thoughtful and interesting camera angles and creates an unnerving atmosphere. This film maybe not be as shocking as other horror films but for me it has the better story line of all the series of films and is certainly worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, but unfortunately tampered with","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Surprisingly good second sequel, especially given the quality of Exorcist II. Blatty is a pretty good director, as some of the shots are stunning in their patience and composition (the hallway scene especially). The visuals are impressive and effective, and not overused. Unfortunately, the story doesn't quite measure up. It's an interesting blend of the first Exorcist and the real-life Zodiac killings, but it doesn't work as well as it should, and sometimes loses the viewer to confusion. The ending doesn't fit at all, either, along with the whole subplot with Father Morning, though I know that's not Blatty's fault. Still, it takes away from the film, which doesn't need an exorcism at the end to remain effectively scary. All in all, it's a good film that unfortunately suffers from studio pressure. "},{"Title":"Improvement Upon Exorcist II.","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist, hailed one of the scariest and best horror films of all time, wasn't done justice with the sequel Exorcist II The Heretic. So, I was (as many people probably were) skeptical as to whether or not this film was worth watching. But I'm glad I did. The film centers around Georgetown, Washington D.C., the same place where the events in the previous films occurred. George C. Scott (The Changeling) plays Detective Kinderman, who finds himself immersed in a mystery that is haunting the town. A serial killer is brutally murdering people around the city, including a Catholic priest who is found dead in his confessional booth. The murderer is branded the name The Gemini Killer. But, is it possible that these serial killings have a disturbing link to the past exorcism? If you're expecting a film about an exorcism like the original movie, then you will be disappointed in this, because this film actually has very little do with exorcism, but more to do with the serial killings and the investigation. The plot for this film is much more than that, and I appreciated the way they went about making this sequel - rather than relying on the exorcism part of the story, they focused more on the serial killings and how the two events related to each other. George C. Scott, who blew me away with his performance in The Changeling, does great in this film as well. Jason Miller returns as a disturbed patient who is actually Father Karras, and does excellent here as well, and Brad Dourif (who does the voice over for Chucky in the Child's Play films) plays the Gemini killer and is very creepy.This movie was shot very well, written and directed by William Peter Blatty, who wrote the original novel The Exorcist which the first film was based upon. For a directing debut, this movie is amazing. There is plenty of creepy imagery throughout the film, and it boasts some really surreal, dream-like sequences that are genuinely frightening.Bottom line - The Exorcist III is an excellent sequel that rises high above Exorcist II The Heretic, which was reviled by both critics and audiences back in '77. This movie is well-written, well-acted, and is really spooky. Probably the best of the Exorcist sequels. 7/10. "},{"Title":"The true original","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I happen to have read Blatty's original script for the Exorcist (it came out in paperback in 1974, titled William Peter Blatty on The Exorcist, From Novel to Film). It is an excellent explanation of why he would choose to direct Exorcist III himself. In Exorcist III, he incorporates many elements that were part of his script for The Exorcist that were rejected; especially the warm relationship that develops between the cop and the priest. In fact, in my reading the entire focus revolved around this relationship, with the Regan/possession story serving to bring these two characters together. Blatty gives this lost part of The Exorcist a new life in III, which really makes the film work (George C. Scott making a worthy Kinderman in the sad absence of Lee J. Cobb). Another element which is used to greater effect in III, is the quick glimpses and cut-aways of the evil doings and sacrilegious elements, which William Friedkin barely explored in I. All in all, I really like Exorcist III much better than either of its predecessors (II is tedious), with the exception of the special effects driven ending sequences (Scott is still able to hold his own, regardless). It easily stands on its own (despite the label III), with interesting plot details, good pacing and fine acting. George C. Scott's telling of the fish story is worth repeated viewing on its own! "},{"Title":"Slightly muddled near-masterpiece","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the few movies that genuinely scared me. Exorcist author Blatty assumes the director's chair to helm the film adaptation of his sequel Legion. The results are vicious, thought-provoking, and original. A serial killer is loose in Georgetown and the evidence leads Lt. Kinderman (George C. Scott, at his best) to a mental institution and all manner of, to use an over-worked phrase, unimaginable horrors. A lot of the novel's philosophical and theological mediations are inevitably lost but enough remain on screen to qualify this as one of the most thoughtful chillers out there. And at the same time it will rock the unwary out of their seats. The infamous corridor scene is a shot by shot masterwork of suspense that clocks in at an astonishing eight minutes plus. When was the last time a major film in the music video era dared do something like that? That's the most infamous shock but the death of Father Dyer, the ceiling walks, the early suggestions that something is very wrong with the patients, and the brilliant piece of understatement that is the scene introducing us to Father Morning (who would have thought gently billowing drapes on bright day could make you shudder?) all get an honorable mention. There's a pervasive sense of dread about this film that is hard to shake. It's masterfully directed, intelligently written and full of powerful performances. The climax, alas, is confused, confusing, doesn't fit the tone, and was largely the result of studio meddling. One is left wondering what a director's cut would have looked like. "},{"Title":"Scariest movie ever made -- period.","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" how this movie is so overlooked boggles my mind. i saw it in the theater back in 1990, and i screamed my head off, along with the rest of the sold out theater. this is a film -- no, let me rephrase this is cinematic art, meticulously crafted to TERRORIZE, to seep into the crevices of your mind, seed, root and forever flower as deliciously horrifying nightmares for the rest of your natural life. i was a mere teenager when i saw it in 1990; i'm now a somewhat middle-aged adult who still cannot watch this film alone, and i still have trouble sleeping for several nights after viewing it. THAT is a horror movie folks. this sucker picks, prods and bleeds your brain dry. like Silence of the Lambs? Se7en? a fan of horror films where the recipe calls for equal measurements of intellectualism and psychological torture, a few cups of haunted house-type BOO! scares and generous dashes of of gore? then consider Exorcist III your perfectly baked Halloween treat. eat up and enjoy. once you digest this flick, it stays with you for the rest of your days. absolutely in my top 3 all-time favorite horror movies ever, and i'm a horror aficionado (i even teach a class on the subject at FSU and Univ of Tampa).WARNING do NOT watch alone. seriously. i showed this flick to my college buddies in our 20s and those dudes flipped OUT. (and yes, they were sober.) you've been warned.****************************SPOILER WARNING************************** best scene ever in a horror film the serious hair-cut one Nurse Keating plays victim to. Jee-zus, what a beautiful piece of celluloid that scene is. or should i say beautifuLL?? ;) "},{"Title":"Influential & Ahead Of It's Time?","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Often referred to as underrated, THE EXORCIST III is indeed a stylish if slightly flawed thriller. Based on the director's own novel LEGION it should be noted as proving quite influential on many successful serial killer thrillers that followed after 1990, especially in my view SE7EN. Much of the Gemini killers gruesome modus operandi appears to have inspired a lot of John Doe's handy work in Andrew Kevin Walker's 1995 thriller. For example, witness the discovery and aftermath of Father Dyer's hospital bedside murder. The clinical and thorough procedure carried out by the Gemini killer here bears a stark resemblance to various scenes in SE7EN. And again in this scene, the discovery of It's A Wonderful Life on the wall has echoes of similar discoveries by the detectives in SE7EN. This is not a criticism of that later film though, far from it. It just merely emphasises what a shame it was that William Peter Blatty's film was so ignored simply for being slightly ahead of it's time. Both films remain thoroughly well acted and entertaining thrillers and truth be told SE7EN is the overall better film given it's brilliant climax, an area where EXORCIST III fails somewhat. As many have noted it appears the producers tacked on the exorcism scene, it certainly plays and feels that way. However, the concluding minutes of the film do deliver some nice shocks. The catatonic nurse certainly knows how to liven up a house visit.For me this film succeeds in it's brilliantly paced set pieces and not so much in it's sum parts. The scenes with George C. Scott and Ed Flanders are superbly played as are Scott's encounters with Nancy Fish's Nurse Allerton. The atmosphere, in no small way aided by the Georgetown setting, is suitably eerie as was very much the case in the original film THE EXORCIST. This is heightened early on in the confessional scene where we are privy to an unseen strangers confession to the serial killings. All we see here are interior shots of the confessional booth but on the priests side only. It's the chilling dialogue from the other side that drives the scene.The much talked about corridor scene during the nurse's night shift is a master class in suspense and spine tingling shock play. You never forget the first time you watch that scene. Even on repeated viewings, you know what's coming but the pay off hit's the button every time. It makes Ben Gardiner's eye popping head shock in Jaws seem like child's play and far more effective than the modern trend in horror films today of stabbing a orchestral hit to punctuate a false shock every few minutes. In fact there is little score in this film and many scenes feature periods of total silence. This perhaps is a technique Blatty picked up from Friedkin's directorship of the 1973 original. That film also benefited from sharp juxtapositions of sound against periods of silence. Certainly, given the expertise these sort of tricks are employed with, it's a shame Blatty hasn't directed more.Mention should also go to Brad Dourif whose scenes with Scott are engaging. Jason Miller's brief appearances are also good, again posing the question why he didn't show up in other good roles after the original film? As I say, the obviously bolted on exorcism scenes only serve to disappoint shifting what could have been an excellent thriller into a no man's land of horror hokum. As it is I rate THE EXORCIST III as very good example of a well acted suspense thriller that undoubtedly influenced other film makers and writers. Without the aforementioned flaws it could have rated as first class. Well worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"An excellent Horror movie with clever writing, great acting and direction.","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Exorcist III is an underrated sequel and deserves more credit. It's an excellent Horror Thriller based on a serial killer, plus it mixes those elements with the occult. You can't get a better plot than this.The acting is another strong point. George C. Scott delivers a solid performance. Ed Flanders is good in his role. But it is Brad Dourif who steals the show. Nobody else can play a psycho like him. I dug his character. I really liked the way he performed as a serial killer but also a demon possessed man with a clever mind. The dialogues between Lt. Kinderman and The Gemini Killer are simply great, excellent.This movie relies more on the information side than on the visuals. I really liked how the movie creates Horror by description of horrible situations that are in fact, important for the movie. You need to pay attention closely to every line in this movie because it helps you understand the perfect ending.The visuals are extremely good. There's good gore, excellent make-up and some bone chilling scenes involving a catatonic possessed old lady crawling like a spider, and a diabolical nun that takes the audience by surprise in one of the most chilling scenes in recent Horror.The direction is perfect. The darkness of the plot makes this an unsettling movie with a creepy atmosphere. This is the real sequel to the original masterpiece.Watch Exorcist III if you like smart, scary Horror movies. It won't disappoint you on the scare or shocking factor. If you are more into visuals you may not enjoy this movie, and that's why I recommend it to everyone who likes good Horror. There is a lot of suspense, mystery, and true chilling dialogues. "}{"Title":"Not bad ... much better than Exorcist II.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What's best about The Exorcist III is that although it's a sequel of William Friedkin's masterpiece, it isn't much connected to the plot of the original movie. It works OK as a terror movie involving a serial killer. It's pretty entertaining and bad-tempered George C. Scott plays his role just brilliantly.If you think that The exorcist III must be nothing but rubbish just because The exorcist II was, forget it. It's much better than the second part 'cause, as I said before, it doesn't mess around with Regan's exorcism.*My rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"A decent sequel to the original (Ignore Exorcist 2)","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's hard to categorize this film into any of the sub-genres of horror movies. While it centers on a police hunt for a serial killer, the movie is almost entirely devoid of gore. And, while it does indeed have an exorcism performed, it's almost as an afterthought.A killer is loose in Georgetown 15 years after the events of the first movie. And, it may be the infamous Gemini Killer doing it. Only, the Gemini Killer was caught and executed years before. Put in an appearance by Father Karras from the original film, and things get a little less muddy, but still this movie tries to cover to much ground in too short a time. Plot holes you could drive a truck through, and dialog that is stilted at times, bring this down a notch, also.The acting is bad at times, and George C. Scott only manages to be a believable actor in a few scenes. Brad Dourif positively chews the scenery in a role that seems content to be a mere caricature of a serial killer and makes no attempt to humanize him in the slightest (ala Silence of the Lambs). Ed Flanders plays the same character he did in every single piece of work he has done, and yet the periphery characters seem to really make the film work.So, with all the negative, why did I rate this an 8? It has some brilliantly twisted, slightly bizarre, and truly creepy moments. Blatty (the director and writer) seemed truly inspired to get at least a few more of his creative ideas onto the silver screen, and they work because they deliver when you least expect it. One scene in the hospital, involving the off-screen beheading of a nurse actually made me jump and shocked me with its swiftness and supposed brutality.You see, the horrors of the Gemini Killer's deeds are more profoundly expressed through the reactions of those who witness them than by buckets of blood. Rather, some bizarre and unsettling imagery delivers a different kind of scare that sticks in your head far longer than watching teens get mutilated in a slasher film.Ultimately, the Exorcist III is a film that despite it's many flaws, manages to come out as an above average horror film mainly because of Blatty's ability to find horror where we are not used to seeing it. Most of the film takes place in locales where you should feel overly protected, and most of the victimized are innocents caught up in what amounts to 'sour grapes' by the devil for getting kicked out of it's host in the first movie. If you can get past the flaws, and simply enjoy the little nuggets of macabre brilliance as they are spoon-fed to you, then you may enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"A GOOD Exorcist sequel","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's amazing what gems you'll find in the 5.50 bin at Wal-mart. Also, if you haven't seen the original Exorcist, this plot for this one alone is loaded with spoilers, so don't say I didn't warn you. The Joe Cool Review For The Exorcist III(1990)Starring George C Scott as Lt. William Kinderman, Ed Flanders as Father Joseph Dyer, Brad Dourif as The Gemini Killer and Jason Miller as Patient X(Father Damien Karras)Plot Fifteen years after the original Exorcist, Kinderman and Dyer are still saddened over the loss of their friend Father Karras. Apparently The Gemini Killer was caught and executed the same night as that exorcism. And now fifteen years later, it appears as though The Gemini Killer is back, and a patient who has been locked up is claiming to not only be the killer, but the demon that was exorcised in the original.Opener You never hear about any of the sequels to the Exorcist talked about for some reason. We always talk about the original, and that alone. Well, I'm sure in some cases(Exorcist The Beginning) it's probably a good thing to forget. But this movie is a decent enough film that seems lost in the shuffle. It was written and directed by the author of the original, and has some plot from the original thrown in to connect the two. All in all it gives someone hope when they sit down to watch this movie. But did it pay off in the end?The Good Brad Dourif. That's all you need to know. He gives one of the best performances of his career here. He plays the Gemini Killer with an attitude so sinister and convincing that you think the dude is crazy. I was engrossed by his performance here and he stole the show whenever he was on screen. Too much praise cannot be given for what he did in this movie. I also liked the fact that apart from one scene at the end where a guy is peeled off the ceiling and some random shots of blood, this movie had no gore. It didn't need it, especially when it came down to the kills. They were all off-screen, mostly. That's really good. The reason it is good, and the reason we didn't need gore, is because this movie uses our imagination. In order to tell others what happened to the dead people, each death is described in detail. They leave your imagination to do the rest and depending on how gruesome your own mind can be is how gory each death becomes. Also, I liked the connections to the original, as well as the return of Jason Miller as Damien Karras.The Bad George C Scott is a good actor, and for most parts of this movie he does well. But in some parts, and especially the end, he overacts to the point it's laughable. I didn't enjoy it and was thrown off. The end itself also felt like it was held on with duct tape. It was a big light show exorcism that just didn't fit the plot line. I'm guessing the ending was different(in fact I've read that it was) originally, but studio execs said, hey, the movie is called 'The Exorcist III', put an exorcism in there! And make it fancy!. And of course the filmmakers obliged and the movie ends on a sour note for me. The Ugly Towards the middle of the movie, Kinderman has a dream. In this dream he sees a distorted version of Heaven where he can not only see people that are dead(I'm sorry you were murdered Thomas, I miss you!) but see the angels as well. And apparently, Heaven is that type of place where the angels form a big instrumental band. Also, Fabio is there. Yes. Fabio. As an angel. He doesn't talk, he doesn't do much of anything, but he's there. I saw what they were going for by having him play the role of an angel, but when I'm trying to get into a movie, seeing Fabio is just going to completely throw me off. Final Verdict The Exorcist III is a flawed, but very enjoyable movie experience. It pulls off almost everything it sets out to do, and is certainly closer to the level of the original than any of the other sequels have even thought about being. It gets tossed aside because it IS a sequel and in this case we shouldn't judge the book by it's cover.Rating ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Flawed but grounded sequel","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The thing I appreciate about Exorcist III is that it doesn't feel obligated to up the stakes. Exorcist 2 took the Georgetown incident, the skyrocketed it into the ultimate final conflict over Good and Evil with all of mankind hanging in the balance. Life goes on in Exorcist 3. Real life. Kinderman is still a detective who is deceptively perceptive; Dyer is still a priest with a great personality and an addiction to lemon drops, and we're fifteen years after the events of the first film.In the spirit of the original Exorcist, Blatty hands the majority of the running time to character development of the key players and to exposition (a bit too much exposition, in my book.) My favorite character without a doubt has to be Father Joseph Dyer, and I was delighted to see him return in this film (albeit, in small doses again.) I grinned every time he and Lieutenant Kinderman appeared in the same scene to ultimately banter back and forth with some slick and entertaining dialogue. Blatty nailed the writing, and Scott and Flanders played the scenes beautifully. I really responded to the friendship these two characters shared, and I feel it rings more true in a more sophisticated fashion than many film's attempt at on screen friendships.Listen to their dialogue, and Kinderman and Dyer are at each other's throat constantly, but underneath lay a deep respect and admiration for one another &#150; a conviction that these two truly have known each other for fifteen years. Kinderman visits Dyer in the hospital and brings him a stuffed animal and fast food. Is that for me? Dyer asks. Kinderman replies, I found it in the street. As the plot unfolds and brings out the Gemini killer, I observed that Exorcist III makes a truly daring and potentially costly move &#150; and I'm not referring to using two different actors playing the same man (although that moment effectively disorients me even when I know it's coming). Exorcist III dares to deliver pages upon pages upon pages of exposition and dialogue from within the confines of a limited setting. One room.The technical side of film-making and acting carry these scenes &#150; the camera angles, the lighting, the performances of Scott and Dourif. In the hands of the wrong director and the wrong actors a scene like this would evolve from boring to unbearable in a matter of seconds. Exorcist III, unfortunately, doesn't quite hit its mark; however, the film does sustain these scenes for awhile with some exquisite lighting and shot composition. George C. Scott and Brad Dourif are seated opposite each other on either side of the frame. Ominous light pours in symmetrically from the two windows above them, faintly echoing the cover art of the first film.Who are you? Kinderman demands, to which the psychopath answers, I am no one. Again, echoing the first film. Dourif explodes then recedes into long winded, seemingly random rambles with loud high peaks and low quiet valleys &#150; breaking up the exposition into irrelevant anecdotes, songs, and animal noises that truly paint the Gemini in the colors of a psychopath.As stated previously, the scene does not quite hit its mark; but it fairs far better than I would have expected. And it did, after all, set that mark pretty high.The film's finale, however, has no ambition and fails. The ending breaks dramatically from the novel, opting for a punched up Exorcism-inclusive ending written solely for the screen featuring a character not in book &#150; a character barely developed for the movie. It feels rushed. It feels written in to pander to the expectations of its audience. It might have worked had Blatty better integrated its elements, namely Father Morning's character, into the storyline. And I don't think the novel's downplayed ending would have worked very well for the film either.I find it curious and quite bothersome, though, that some inconsistencies popped up in a sequel helmed by the author of the original novel/film. Kinderman has a picture of himself with Karras, and later describes Karras as his best friend &#150; in the original Exorcist (both the film and the novel) they interacted, yes, and we could see the seeds of a fruitful friendship planted . . . but did it really have time to manifest before Karras' death? Granted Kinderman is a quirky man, known for speaking his mind and saying things out of the blue, but still I don't think Kinderman's fondness for Karras would have been diminished at all if left at, He was a great guy. Told me I looked like Paul Newman. I would have liked to have known him better. Bought him coffee. Talked about movies. Especially with how Kinderman's friendship with Father Dyer somewhat mirrors what could have been had Karras survived.Oh well, so Exorcist III doesn't hit a grand slam like the first film, but it also doesn't strike out like Heretic. I appreciate this film for going in a completely different direction from the original film in its narrative, in its tone, and in its agenda. Gone is the bedroom with a little girl possessed by a demon, and Exorcist III never looks back. Blatty understands that a sequel can continue in the spirit of the original while striking entirely new territory.Initially, I truly enjoyed this film; however, upon watching it a second time I realized that I had originally watched it back-to-back with Heretic. Any film juxtapose to Heretic will feel like a great movie. I still like Exorcist III &#150; it's a decent movie &#150; I just think it's flawed. Possessed by a few bad decisions, if you will. "},{"Title":"intelligent horror","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the shambles that was the Exorcist 2 ,this film recaptured the form of the first Exorcist movie.While this may not be the best horror film ever it is certainly one of the most intelligent. Detective Kinderman,George C Scott,is on the trail of a killer who is using the MO of another killer called the Gemini killer.The problem facing detective Kinderman,and the audience,is that the original killer had been caught and executed 15 years earlier.While being a detective film this is also a movie about Kindermans attempt to regain his faith in the face of the horrors he encounters in his job. This isn't your typical horror film as all the murders are done off screen and you never see the victims.The closest you get to the brutality of the murders is a message written in blood on the wall above the bed of one the victims. Nicol Williamsons role is the only thing that seems out of place in this movie as it does appear to have been added as an afterthought but hey I digress. The ending of this film hits you like a sledgehammer and will have you on the edge of your seat.Avoid the second Exorcist movie but watch this one as I personally think it is even better than the original.8/10 "},{"Title":"This underrated film is worth seeing and worth re-discovering.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Set 15 years later... after the original 1973 film. The film's plot is There's a series of brutal deaths from a copycat killer. Who have been killing off citizens of Georgetown by the name of the Gemini Killer. When a tough detective (Played by the late Oscar-WinnerGeorge C. Scott) is investigating the series of murders. When his best friend, who is also a priest (Played by the late Ed Flanders) is murder inside the hospital. But in that hospital has also a Psychatrict Wing, where a mystery man by the name of James Venamun (Brad Dourif), who is possessed by the souls of Gemini Killer and Father Kerris (The late Jason Miller) in the same body. But the spirit of the Gemini Killer could enter the body of any human to continue his rampage. It is only the detective could stop the Gemini Killer and destroying his soul by having faith in God.Directed by Oscar-WinnerWilliam Peter Blatty (The Ninth Configuration) made a well done different sequel to The Exorcist. Which Blatty written the screenplay for the screen. Which his novel is titled Legion. Although the film is flawed in places, Nicol Williamson's character brief appearance as a Priest seems out of place with the rest of the film. But Blatty's sharp dialogue (Especially the scenes between actorsScott, Flanders, Dourif and Miller) highlighted this film.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD only extra is the original theatrical trailer. This film wasn't a big hit as the original Exorcist was but this film stands out as it's own. Scott replaces the late Lee J. Cobb from the original film. Flanders replaces the real-life priest from the original also. Watch for Samuel L. Jackson, Fabio, Pro Basketball's Patrick Ewing and the late Viveca Lindfors. Scott Wilson and Ian Richardson appears in small supporting roles. This is a scary, off-beat sequel. Don't miss this extremely well director film that is truly a underrated supernatural thriller. The voice of Satan in the film is the late Colleen Deuhurst (Scott's real life ex-wife) is uncredited. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Not the best around but still one of the most interesting","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had seen this movie before and did not liked it. After many years, I bought The Exorcist and really liked it. So I had to watch Legion once again. Okay, the flow is really slow and all events are predictable but still, you can't stop watching to learn more about the characters....SPOILERS ALERT.....The best part of this movie is probably when the Gemeni speaks. The dialogue is very well written and he gives just enough information to make you understand what's going to happen next but no more. And for once, the killer explains how he works, why he continue is work and frankly, I like the idea of the Gemeni being an artist of killing to the eyes of the demon Pazuzu. I don't know if it was written as so but that's what I thought seeing this movie.I give it 7.5 for the link between the Gemini, Pazuzu and Damien Karras. Directing wise, the camera position is simple and a bit old fashion for a 1990 movie but quite effective and is for sure one of the plus of the movie to me since I related more with the original 1973 Exorcist. The killed nurse scene where we can see the policemen coming in and out announces that some event will happen but when and how...go see it. "},{"Title":"Interesting Sequel to the Original","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" William Peter Blatty attempts to erase ExorcistII The Heretic, and he succeeds to a degree. Tautly shot and directed, this blend of Supernatural and Serial Killer story, revolves around unusual events in Georgetown , near the original Exorcist. George C. Scott gives a memorable performance as Det. Kinderman, who attempts to find a serial killer, that maybe associated with Supernatural events. Jason Miller returns and gives a haunting performance. Brad Dourif will send chills down your spine as the antagonist , who reaches new heights of creativity, in the serial killer department. There are some very intense scenes, not for the squeamish !! "},{"Title":"Correction of jacktheripper1888","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am sure I am not the first to correct Mr. Ripper's misidentification of George C. Scott as the actor who played Det. William Kinderman in The Exorcist (1973). It was the late Lee J. Cobb that played the part, not George C. Scott. Mr. Ripper did correctly identify Mr. Scott as the actor who took over the role of Detective Kinderman in Exorcist III Legion, after Cobb's death.Exorcist III Legion - like its predecessor, Exorcist II The Heretic - is a very underrated film.  Most reviewers who have disliked it have made the same mistake as those who disliked Exorcist II The Heretic; they wanted The Exorcist.  Unfortunately, that film had already been made. As a piece of creeping terror, I think that Exorcist III Legion can hold its head high - Brad Dourif is especially menacing, as is the uncredited voice of Colleen Dewhurst.  And, Scott's gradual descent from the world of reason to the horror of Legion unleashed on earth is rivetting. It was gratifying to see Jason Miller reprise his role as Father Karras 'in the skin' of Brad Dourif.  He will greatly be missed by Exorcist devotees.Perhaps, someday the four Exorcists will be edited together by William Peter Blatty - or William Friedman to form a 'complete' story like the three Godfathers.  I look forward to such a compilation. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated ...","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This didn't get much positive critical attention on its release, and hardly has a large fan base, but this is a smart and VERY scary thriller that's worth checking out.To be sure, it's no masterpiece.  It ends badly and isn't, let's face it, the fastest paced movie in history.  But if you settled in and let yourself get absorbed in its slow, creepy rhythms you'll be rewarded with scares the really stay with you.  I saw this flick 14 years ago, and I STILL vividly remember some of its best shocks.Exorcist III will probably never be put in the pantheon of great horror flicks, but it's a solid companion piece to the original Exorcist, and good for a couple of sweaty, sleepless nights. "}{"Title":"An interesting, albeit flawed follow-up","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First things first...this is not THE EXORCIST. It will probably not scare you like the first one did, why? Because in all earnestly, its a totally different kind of film, genre-wise. Exorcist 3 has more in common with se7en than it does with its predecessors (in the case of Exorcist 2 that is a good thing). While the original Friedkin film was very much a built up tension, demonic house of horrors, this film takes the point of view of Lt. Kinderman (George C. Scott) trying to piece together a string of grisly ritualistic murders.*SPOILERS*Ultimately he finds that all the murders are copycats of an infamous Gemini Killer's m.o. - though he got the chair 15 years before. The victims are all connected by an exorcism that took place at that same time, 15 years back, (you guessed it, Reagan's). Long and short of it - turns out Father Karras didn't quite die that infamous night - he was repossessed* by the soul of the Gemini killer and subsequently put into an asylum/hospital where he stayed a vegetable until the murders start up again 15 years later. Murders abound and before you know it Kinderman's family is targeted - (apparently Mr. Gemini can possess several people at once, including geriatric senile patients from the hospital). Kinderman saves the day then rushes back to the hospital to help some priest exorcise the Gemini/demon from Karras. The exorcism ends in bloodshed (apparently Blatty doesn't have much faith in the power of the ritual itself).*END SPOILERSBlatty does a good job connecting the characters of this film with the original and creating a somewhat unique story that is subtly connected to the first film. There are quite a few jump out of your seat moments in the film to call it a horror, but none that really come close to the original's downright sense of dread. Where the first movie really built up the horror of the possession, this one sort of just springs it on you in spurts, most of it taking place in the last five minutes of the film. One major problem I had with the movie is the fact that the exorcism supposedly plays a major part in the film and yet the priest who does it barely gets more than ten minutes of screen time, no motivation, and very little dialogue. That and the whole dynamic of Patient X's (you know who) possession gets a little muddled...sometimes its the Gemini and sometimes it seems more like its a demon...a little confusing.Basically if your a fan of the first one and you want a few scares go check the movie out. If you're looking for a real sleepless night though , best to forget this one and go for something a little less convoluted.*Strangely enough, Linda blair released her Exorcist spoof repossessed at the same time Exorcist 3 was released. Too bad both were lame.  "},{"Title":"Six stars Dourif steals the best performance, good writing so, so directing.","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The basic premise of the story by Blatty is plausible. I too have considered that serial murderer's parallel the definition of someone possessed of an spirit of evil (demonic ect...). I'm not familiar with how many director assignments Blatty has done, but he did alright for most of it. Some of the scenes at the end needed more work. George C. was not at his best,however I thought even though he was adequate. Brad Dourif was very convincing and aced everyone else's performance. There were scenes that failed. The attempt at humor with the fish story and some other scenes at the end were a tad over the top. otherwise I rate this film better than average six stars. Hell Jeffery Domier liked it. He should know.  "},{"Title":"I listened to confessions for fifteen years and wound up a lemon drop junkie.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, from beginning to end is the kind of horror movie that could only be silently successful in the early nineties. You've got your stellar performances from both Scott and Flanders as the detective and the priest, they've got this great and really believable chemistry between them that makes you so much as not even care that huge segments from the plot that are missing. I really enjoyed a lot of the visuals in this movie, some of the most frightening moments in the movie came at you kind of slowly and since your not sure how George C. Scott is gonna work out in a horror movie it's even that much more horrific. I think the whole twist about James Veneman, the Gemini killer works out beautifully and I think William Peter Blatty made and excellent move in directing his own movie (no William Friedkin to disallusion him). "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a big fan of the original and like most fans, i was dissapointed at Boreman's Exorsist 2. When the 3rd installment came out i was thrilled as i knew that Blatty was directing from his own book, legion.The reason i feel compelled to write a comment is due to a recent viewing on TV, i had not seen the film for years and forgot how frightning this was, the whole feel of the film is chilling, the close ups, long corridor shots and the excellent use of strange sound effects make this a genuinley scary film, try watching this with the light out!Big George C is awesome as usual, its sad we lost such a great talent, this film reminds us of how powerful an actor he was. Blatty does an excellent job from his own screenplay and directs with confidence and assurance, a man in complete control of his material.Brilliant film, and totally chilling, one that stays with you long after. "},{"Title":"Not to be compared with the orginal,but excellent horror film","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist IIIExorcist III is the only true sequel to the original exorcist. It is the one that Blatty set up at the end of the first Exorcist novel and in the scenes left on the cutting room of the first Exorcist. Legion is perhaps a better title but it was fair to connect the films. Indeed Exorcist III is largely a film about the demons that posses Father Karas after the events of the first film. Karas made a Sacrifice he said take me and through himself out the window. Would the devil be so easy to defeat?For a director with so few credits as Blatty he pulled off a high quality horror film on a limited budget. Morgan creek as a studio has shown itself to be really stupid in how they handle films(nightbreed, and the exorcist prequel where they fired the man who wrote Taxi driver!). The decision is add the Exorcism at the end is a tad bit forced indeed but doesn't hurt the overall effect to much.Something that has always bothered me about this film is George C. Scott. Something about his performance is just stiff and weird. However the actor who plays Gemini knocks the ball out of the park. He did so well years later the X-files had him almost repeat the performance in a episode.While the first exorcist is a great film I see it as more of a drama than a horror film. Of course it is scary if you put yourself in reagan's mom shoes. The film however almost requires a belief in catholism to make it a over the top horror film. Father Karas loss of faith and eventual sacrifice is what makes the first film great not so much as a fright fest.Exorcist III however is a horror film. Dark, foreboding  and nightmarish Exorcist III is worth a watch just don't expect the same kind of drama as the original. This a is a horror film. "},{"Title":"The best sequel in any horror line.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The things I liked about Exorcist III...I liked how you can run Exorcist 1 and Exorcist 3 and never even realize (or thereby miss) that 2 is missing. I HATED 2, and it is not relevant in any way to the story line of 1 and 3.I liked the cinematography; I liked the way the whole movie was shot.It was set up from all perspectives and edited together in a very creative way such as to give you the first person view at times, as well as the voyeur view from which most directors use.I liked how fully it explained what happened to Karras, and why. I loved how it went back and forth from the Gemini Killer to Karras, to demonstrate the power of the demon which possessed the Gemini to begin with.I liked the edge of your seat moments throughout this film. The scares were psychological ones, on a level with which most of us could identify.I liked that they used George C. Scott as the detective. In this role, he was rudimental to the success of this film.I liked that they used the same Karras.I liked the originality and creativity in the plot, such as the catatonics crawling about the ceilings, the symbolism used throughout the movie, the metaphors and side shots, etc.I liked that they worked on the plot and dialog and made the Gemini Killer's demon a truly evil persona and not merely bad. The things I did NOT like The exorcism itself seemed completely out of context with the story line. It was like they said, Oh yeah! Let's do an exorcism! as an afterthought to the main plot. It was almost as if the movie itself was over, but the actors kept on going in an ad-lib and they just kept filming. It was well done, but its timing was far too fortuitous for Scott's character, in my opinion.Secondly, I do not like the religious brow-beating we get in these possession movies. There are things in the shadow realms which are not of Christianity, which possess. Why don't they ever make a movie about THAT? Honestly, those were the only things I did not like about this movie, and the second is with the sub-genre in general and not this movie in particular.I found it to be an honest attempt and a successful sequel. I can't say it was better than the original, as the original was a well-told story in its own right. But it is definitely AS good, in my opinion.It rates a 9.2/10.0 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The best Exorcist...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist is supposedly the most horrific movie ever made and when I finally got to see it I pretty much laughed my ass off from start to finish. I am sure it wasn't intended as a comedy but it was the funniest film I had seen in ages. I never bothered hunting down the first sequel but when Exorcist III came down the wire my interest was sufficiently piqued by the trailer for me to go and watch it.Exorcist III takes us into a very different landscape and manages to convey some of the same atmospheric creepiness of the infinitely superior movie Jacob's Ladder, which was released the same year. It's basically a psychological serial-killer thriller with a supernatural element. George C. Scott turns in a believable performance as a hard-bitten, conflicted cop. Brad Dourif (possibly the most underrated actor that ever walked upon God's green earth) gives yet another spellbinding and intense tour de force of acting, here playing the Gemini Killer/ James Venamun. The parley between these two characters provides the entertaining core of the movie.It is somewhat of a shame that this movie is judged against that which many consider to be a towering monument to horror (i.e. the first Exorcist movie) especially when it can stand on its own apart from the series. It was originally to be entitled &#145;Legion' and that would have been much better for this picture.I would not go so far as to call this a classic movie. However, it is a cut above the rest. The film is definitely a `must see' purely to see Brad Dourif in his full, unadulterated glory. It is impressive visually too and doesn't smack of the normal formulaic approach to horror espoused by Hollywood.Best watched alone in the dark during a storm or some such.8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Scott vs Evil","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  George C. Scott as Lt. Kinderman is like a bulldog that will not let his bite go. He remembers the executed Gemini Killer of 15 years previous, but realizes that somehow mental patient James Venamun is that evil killer bought back, but how? Kinderman will tract down the killer of his good friend father Dyer (played by Ed Flaunders) but can a gun kill a man the has a Legend of demons within him? Kinderman knows the killer but cannot figure out how he can kill while still locked in his padded cell? A clue for you, comatose minds are easy to possess. Even if you don't know the history of the Exorcist films, you will enjoy Scott vs the devil. "},{"Title":"Caught By Surprise!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't get scared! The last movie to really do that was Romero's 'Night of the Living Dead' in the early 70's (I was 15). So not expecting much cause the original 'Exorcist' was more fad than frightening (to me). And '...II The Heretic' shouldn't even exist.So the biggest mistake for this flick is the title. They should have just stuck with 'Legion'. And the 1st shot of George C. Scott (taking over the role from Lee J. Cobb) suggesting (by a desk photo) that he and Jason Miller's character were best friends(?) starts the continuity on the wrong foot. But immediately after that...whoooooo!This is a great example were an (intelligent) viewer can let their imagination create a more horrifying experience than what a filmmaker can show. Just turn up the volume and let the eerie music and sound effects (& voices) do their magic. And a character's description on how someone was tortured, then murdered is more scary than what a lesser director would have exploited by visuals.Author/Director Blatty said he put on film what scares him. And that works just fine. It's a shame that 'the suits' insisted on tacking on an exorcism ending instead of letting Blatty committing his vision to film the way he intended. The exorcism did nothing; but the scenes preceding it is what gave my wife and I nightmares the same night we saw it. My 1st nightmare in over 20 years...that was cool.This film is full of flaws, but the creepiness far outweighs the (sometimes) spotty dialogue. And a few nice jolts too! Highly recommended for late at night; and turn that sound WAY up. I agree with some previous reviews that this is a very underrated horror film.7 out of 10! Stylishly done!(Note This was originally filmed in the 'TV' 34 screen ratio, so you actually loose some visual information on the top & bottom of the widescreen version. 'Reservoir Dogs' 166 ratio and the 'Godfather' films are 2 more examples were widescreen actually shows less.) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some say","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I liked this film and thought it was rather well made but suffers from some bad tinkering(or editing). The performances(especially from Brad Dourif) are good but the dialogue is superb. It's hard to find good chatty dialogue in a horror film. This wants to be more than a horror film and credit that to the director. He wants the film to be special and comes close to making a great film. The problem I had was George C. Scott's performance. He never really fit the movie and looked rather isolated from the film. Your main character needs to be that arc that gels the film, but Scott doesn't come through. So if you want to watch an interesting horror film with not a whole lot of fan support try this one out. It's not great, but certainly better than most modern rubbish. "}{"Title":"overlooked","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A film ahead of the rest; having a number 3 in the title I feel has resulted in it not being taken seriously... maybe if it had the title Legion, being the title of the book it's based on, it would have been taken on its merits. Although Fox would not financed it probably. Most people I know agree that the scene in the hospital... don't want to give too much away, but they agree it has one of the best jolts ever. A film I cannot do justice to - just see it or I'll get irritated; and if you don't like it keep your bitchin' to yourself. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When Patient X had George C, Scott pinned up on that wall, Scott's dialog was amazing .....I believe in PAIN....My second favorite movie after SlingbladeTotally underrated film "},{"Title":"The ultimate demon movie.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has it all. Just about everything satanic that you can think of is probably included in this film. The serial killer, decapitations, tons of blood, demons, and all that other good stuff.Personally, I didn't think Brad Dourif was anything special. During his scenes, I almost fell asleep because he talked so long about nothing. Personally, the film could have been better with a lot of his dialogue reduced. George C. Scott is great as he returns from the original THE EXORCIST to play the detective again.The murders were good. The mystery parts were good. A lot was good. The ending was kind of a stinker, but most else of the film makes it pretty good. The performances were pretty decent and the effects were also quite good considering that the film was made in 1990. William Peter Blatty returns to adapt his novel, write the screenplay and finally direct the movie. I read his original book, The Exorcist a little while ago and hopefully I will be able to find a copy of Legion somewhere.The film had a good shock factor to it aswell. It made me jump once or twice and nowadays that is pretty rare in horror movies. The film is quite brilliant and I was generally impressed. Overall, a good sequel to THE EXORCIST. I can't wait for the prequel.THE EXORCIST III 4/5. "},{"Title":"A Respectable Follow-Up","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I waited a long time to finally get around to renting this. From what I heard previously, this was a terrible film, but after reading the reviews here, it seemed to have a certain following. So I bit the bullet and parted with my $3.65 (yeah, I'm a tightwad). I'm a huge fan of the original, and think it's the scariest movie ever -- I cannot fathom how some people think it's boring or funny.I enjoyed Exorcist III because (after reading reviews) I had the right expectations. I was ready for a suspenseful drama (a la The Omen), rather than lots of visual effects and shock value. It's long and a bit slow, but builds well and reaches a great climax, kinda like a World Series game.My one disappointment was that when it originally came out, I was in high school and my friend saw it. He described a scene where a woman crawls around on the ceiling like it was the scariest thing ever. I couldn't wait for that scene. When it finally happened, I actually thought it was a bit funny. This is a far cry from the 'spider-walk' scene in the original...One last comment it's amazing how much more impact that old-fashioned 'analog' effects have compared to new digital ones. For instance, the voice of the demon in the original was done by Mercedes McCambridge (I think that's right), and was UNALTERED. That blew me away when I read that. And it's chilling. In Exorcist III, you know that the 'scary voices' are just done with pitch shifters, and it just doesn't effect you as much. This is similar to the original Star Wars effects, which were miniature models and matte paintings -- they are much more powerful than the new digital imagery.All in all, I gave it a 7. A good flick, not earth-shattering, and nowhere near the original. Ultimately entertaining, though. "},{"Title":"Blatty never underestimates the intelligence of his audience.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nobody writes dialogue like William Peter Blatty.To compare this film with the first Exorcist is as unfair as comparing the first two Alien films. The nature of each original is so different from its sequel.And let's forget Exorcist II, a lowbudget misfortune, unrelated to its parent feature and pumped out to capitalize on a Hollywood success.Exorcist III is the adaptation of Legion, Blatty's sequel novel to the Exorcist.It is directed with an unsettling eye, sometimes tricking us into believing solid matter is passable, spirits are transient, and murder is a creative art form. Most impressive is that none of this is achieved via visual effects.Writer/director Willam Blatty uses dialogue, camera angles, sounds, sound editing and other cinematic legerdemain to fool us. All this is in aid to the performances of The Two Towers' Brad Dourif, The Exorcist's Jason Miller and Patton's George C. Scott, all of whom delivered brilliant dialogue with frightening intensity.Perhaps the greatest tragedy here is the Academy overlooking this film for best sound editing, particularly in regards to the eerie oscillations worked throughout the vocal tracks. I have never seen it executed this well, before or since.The film may seem slow to some viewers, but its even pace just allows us to smell the dead roses along the way. "},{"Title":"Finally","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Finally Brad Dourif is getting Recognized for this Role!!!!! I remember watching when I was about 15 and looking over at my brother and we both were thinking holy S*#! Odd as it sounds, and it does sound odd saying this...but that was (and still is) one of the greatest performances (and I know in a horror film too) that I have ever seen.  An extremely underrated actor...in a very good film...I can see why he inspired Bruce Greenwood to become an actor.  Very good stuff.  Very good movie, go rent it--it will make The Ring look like a feardotcom.   "},{"Title":"Forget the Ring and Darkness Falls, rent this all time classic.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you're looking for typical gore and teen sex scenes, this movie isn't for you.   I've seen some of the recent horror flicks and measure them up to this one.I agree with other reviewers, and suggest this to future horror movie makers that you NEED to pay attention to the dialogue.   It seems like lately with horror flicks, studios feel you have to see everything.   Blood. guts. gore, victims getting torn to pieces and sure, that's fun.   Sometimes, down right funny.   I never laughed so hard at a death scene as when the blonde girl gets splattered by a bus out of nowhere in Final Destination.  But I mean, God forbid a movie does what this one did and that's force you to use your imagination when the attrocity committed to the victim is described. Although I will say that one scene had me clinging to the ceiling like the cartoons with Clyde the cat when the puppy came up behind him and started barking.If you've seen it, you'll know what I'm talking about.   It's the sequence with the nurse down the corridor.   Watch closely, and I SWEAR after checking out that room she LOCKS THAT DOOR and then out of that same door, WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!   I had to put my skin back on after that!I've seen another movie with Dourif where he played a parapalegic with Michael Ironside, and that movie with this one made me a big fan of his. It was brilliant how Mr. Blatty showed you it was Karras, but was really the Gemini that Kindermann was speaking with.   I know, someone said that it's impossible for Karras to be alive after the original Exorcist, but hey, it's all about the supernatural.Sure, the movie kinda drags along until Kindermann meets the Gemini, but the wait is well worth it.   Especially to see how excited Dourif's character was getting talking about how he beheaded the priest without spilling one single drop of blood and proclaimed it showmanship, yet nobody appreciated the effort and thought involved.   Pride in your work, I love that.I think the ending was kinda hurriedly done.  I am trying to figure out how Father Morning knew to go to the assylum for the exorcism, but maybe Mr. Blatty or someone else will use that angle to get out Exorcist IV.Brilliant story, great acting.   I rate it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm...","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It took me a long time to get around to watching Exorcist III, and who could blame anyone for that.  As a rule, sequels are not only inferior to the originals but oftentimes just plain bad, especially by the time we get around to a third film.  There are exceptions, however, and Exorcist III comes fairly close to the mark.The plot is based on William Peter Blatty's novel Legion, which was a semi-sequel to The Exorcist.  Those expecting a retread of the first film will mostly be disappointed, since the story is actually about the investigation of serial murders in Georgetown.  Additionally, the story benefits by not following the characers of Chris & Regan MacNeil, instead developing the characters of Lt. Kinderman and Father Dyer.  Jason Miller also returns as Father Karras...well, sort of.Once again I'm inclined to grieve over what could have been instead of what was actually created.  For one, I was bothered by the replacement of Lee J. Cobb with George C. Scott.  Likewise, Ed Flanders replaces Rev. William O'Malley as Father Dyer.  Jason Miller as Karras is the only familiar face in the trio of returning characters, which is ironic since Father Karras is the last character you'd expect to see pop up in an Exorcist sequel (since he pretty much died at the end of the original story).The film also suffers from dialogue that I found to be confusing and pretentious.  The characters do not often interact with one another in any manner that reflects real life, and several dream sequences come off as laughable.  What's worse, the conclusion has very clearly been tampered with.  It appears that the producers decided that you couldn't have a movie called Exorcist III without an exorcism in it, so the character of Father Morning seems to have been added in post-production.And yet, Exorcist III remains effective in spite of its flaws.  William Peter Blatty does a great job in creating a series of visual references that come together as the plot concludes, giving us a series of bizarre events and behaviors that are later validated and explained.  Brad Dourif delivers a multifaceted performance in what could have been an embarassingly stilted role as the spiritual entity, managing to be both amusing and scary (sometimes within the same sentence).  Jason Miller's role is mostly thankless, but he does get to do some real acting that echoes his brilliant performance in the first film.The cinematography is also excellent, including one sequence that is played out in a long, nearly unbroken shot with the camera mostly stationary.  The effect is startling, although the use of a shameless musical stinger on the soundtrack has a lot to do with the jolt.If Blatty had been able to iron out the rough edges, this would have definitely been on par with the original.  As it stands, it's an unsettling film with a great sense of atmosphere and an intriguing plot, which is pretty admirable considering the producers decided to play this up as an Exorcist sequel.  It could stand on its own quite nicely without these elements. "},{"Title":"A Truly Terrifying Experience","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The third in the Exorcist series is, in my experience, the most terrifying movie ever filmed.  Scott's performance is powerful, and the entire cast does a fine job.  The dialog is often humorous, and the humor's juxtaposition with the horror scenes somehow imbues them with a greater impact.  This movie is nnot only violent;  it's cerebral and, like it's progenitor, is spritiually based, which sets it apart from others in the genre.  I've watched it several times, and still have difficulty sitting through some scenes  Blatty obviously has a genuine gift for setting horror to celluloid. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece (even with the plot holes)","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (SPOILERS!!!)Well, some people critizice this masterpiece because it's boring or lacks action. People, if you want action, go see Armaggedon. And if you think it's boring, well, PAY ATTENTION (yes, you need to listen and have seen the original film to follow the plot). Because if you don't, than of course it's boring since you don't understand anything...The only plot holes I could find were (spoilers!!) Kinderman and Karras's past relation and the gravestone. Even though you don't see in the original Kinderman and Karras meeting more than once, it's established that they both liked each other, and since several weeks went by in the original, it could be argumented that they saw more of each other off screen (several parts of the film do happen off screen, like Karras's mother's death and her being found and buried). It's a bit of a stretch, but plausible. And as for the gravestone, well, minor correction, really, who cares about that? it¿s just nip-picking...All other things are explained if you really paid attention (father Kanavan gave Damien permition to INVESTIGATE, not exorcise, since in the original we never see who gave him permition to investigate, so it's not a contradiction), and Kintry's mother being the one who discovered Reagan's speech was english in reverse, well, in the original, the guy Karras talks to with the recording never says he actually discovered it, only says what was discovered, so you could say he and other people (Kintry's mother) took at crack at it. And Kinderman shouthing at everyone, doesn't anyone realize he's an old man and therefore is entitled to be impatient (doesn't have much time left) and cranky? Many elders are like that.And as for Karras being dead at the end of the original...It's said here he WAS DEAD (Brad Dourif says so) but the demons kept him alive in order to slip the Gemini Killer's soul in him (he even tells us it took him 15 years to fully recover from the head injuries), and this being a supranatural film, being forced to stay alive (you could say the demons let him die slower) isn't much of a stretch, is it?Now, if you want plot holes and boredom (Anfortas), read the novel Legion instead. Karras doesn't even appear there (only his body, and only at the end of the story, he is dead and gone forever there). Sometimes I think Blatty did the film to make up for the big screw up he did in the book.  "}{"Title":"Damned Good Sequel (no pun intended)","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a weak first act, this movie really hits its stride. Torpid horror films as of late (The Sixth Sense, The Ring (2002)) cannot match the upward-ratcheting tension and concentrated horror that writer/director William Peter Blatty and a talented cast deliver. Not as flawless as the original but definitely a worthy addition to the Exorcist canon. "},{"Title":"Really Surprisingly Creepy. Better Than The Exorcist 2","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist III was such a great movie!!! It was very eerie and suspenseful. William Peter Blatty directed this movie brilliantly. This movie wasn't as scary as the original, but I thought it was better than The Exorcist 2. This is a very highly recommended horror film. I give The Exorcist III an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Patrick Walker's Review Of The Exorcist III","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was absolutely PANNED on its release. It still is. People don't like this movie because 1) It isn't a roller-coaster blood and thunder movie, like the original, which exploited the subject of demonic possession and catered for an emotionally numb popcorn munching audience. 2) The cast is composed of good, old school, solid actors. There aren't any young good looking boys and girls in this movie with quirky dialogue exchanges and underlying love interests. 3) Watching on my 43 (standard tv screen ratio) video edition it looks a lot like a made-for-television movie-which for me isn't a bad thing, seeing that one of the other genuinely frightening movies I have seen in my life (The Woman In Black) was also a made for TV movie. I watched this film for about the fourth time in my life a couple of nights ago and my feelings about it haven't really changed. I consider myself an intelligent film viewer. This movie was an intelligent, stimulating and genuinely scary picture. My two problems with it were 1) There came a point (I think just after the biggest jump out of your seat moment in cinema history - no spoilers now!) where someone is describing how the victim has been killed and it became a bit too much - like the film made a point of not showing any of the 'horror' on screen but here it became slightly immature by heading off into 'Seven' territory by thinking up and then describing the most horrible deaths imaginable, permitting the audience to 'imagine' the slow death and torture for ourselves. As I said, this aspect of the film went too far at this point.  SPOILER!!! SPOILER!!! It was rather quite unsettling near the start of the picture when George C Scott explains the crucifixion of the young black boy against two boat oars, because the film has started in such a serene and unsubtle way of the shot of the boys on the rowing lake at sunset. SPOILER ENDED!!! SPOILER ENDED!!! 2) My other problem was the tacky blood and thunder finale, which after reading the other reviews here I understand wasn't the intention of William Blatty but rather added by the studio. Here I breathed a sigh of relief, realsing it wasn't the author/filmmaker screwing up, but I also uttered a groan of frustration realising that this interference spoiled an otherwise pretty great film. Can anybody tell me what William Blatty's original ending to the film was? Did he film it, but then the studios went back and reshot? Please, if someone could let me know. I don't want to talk too much about this films contents for fear of spoiling aspects of it.  Did anybody notice the subtle point of showing the crossed hands (right hand on top of left, I think) of George C Scotts interviewees? Namely the old lady in the senile ward (I think) and the nurse. Am I thick and missing something here, but what was this implying?Anyway, this is a good intelligent, frightening movie, but alas, anybody who hasn't already done so, or done so recently, should really have to sit through the first movie to truly enjoy this superior follow up. It has been described as the first true sequel to The Exorcist, which is true. Forget Michael Boorman's Exorcist II. This is the official real deal. After viewing this movie, I also read William Peter Blatty's original novel that he based the screenplay on, and it is bloody brilliant. Now if only he had directed the first movie... "},{"Title":"Brad Dourif saves what could have been a very ordinary sequel","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After the abominable Exorcist II (which this movie largely ignores, but doesn't directly contradict) moviegoers were probably a bit wary of this third installment.But here is a true sequel to the original Exorcist, even though story-wise it has little in common. More a thriller than horror, there are only a few moments in the movie which made my heart jump.But by far the best thing about this movie is the performance by Brad Dourif. Somewhat of a legend in the B-horror community, most recognised as the voice of Chucky in the Child's Play movies, nobody plays a psychopath like Brad. I really can't wait to see him as Grima in the remaining LoTR movies.The other performances are fairly good, most notably George C. Scott as Kinderman.Story wise, it's pretty sound... even with the reappearance of the (dead) Karass, for which a plausible explanation is given, but the ending was... disappointing. I've heard it was not what Blatty had planned and he was furious with it, and I can understand that.Overall, definitely worth watching for fans of the original movie or of thriller/horror in general, falling just short of a must-see. "},{"Title":"Almost as scary as the original!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think this film was almost as scary as the original!It has a quite complicated plot, you have to understand the events that happened at the end of the first Exorcist movie.If you don't understand how Father Damien got possessed you had better go back and watch the end of The Exorcist I don't care which version you watch that scene never changes.Damien says come into me! the demon than possesses Damien.The plot of The Exorcist III is a very hard and complicated plot to follow. If you don't understand everything you saw in the first movie than you had better not watch this one at all.You must ignore everything that happened in the second one, that was Reagan's story.This movie is the continuation of Father Damiens story as eery as that may seem.George C. Scott gives a pretty good performance in this film.I give it a 6 out of 10 on my scale.     "},{"Title":"Brilliant script","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now, this is the true sequel to The Exorcist.Lt. Kinderman is back and so Father Morning is. The dialogue is clever, and you get into the movie with it. It is so descriptive that it makes you imagine some of the off-screen deaths, or situations. When a well done dialogue makes you imagine the scene, it's truly scary.George C. Scott, and Brad Douriff steal the movie. Scott as the fierce, intelligent Lt. Kinderman, and Douriff as the Gemini Killer or Patient X. Douriff plays a psycho like no one else can.There are some scary moments like when the old lady imitates spider-man, or when a nurse is killed by some white dress nun or something like that. Rent this underrated movie, only if you enjoy clever writing, and good acting. That's what carries on the film, forget about make-up, bloody murders, or Reagan. "},{"Title":"Brad Dourif Alone is worth it","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so it's not the most fantastic film ever. But even you veteran horror fans out there will have to admit that the incredible Brad Dourif is well worth the price of the rental. Have you ever seen anyone sink their teeth into a role like that? "},{"Title":"Though I look, still mine eyes cannot see!?","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Capkronos of Ohio (Review dated Apr 2002) nailed it when he said people will either love or vehemently dislike this film. I subscribe to the former viewpoint.Blatty allegedly, still seething all these years over John Boorman's completely misunderstood EXORCIST 2 and obviously an adherent of the old maxim If you want it done properly - DO it yourself, decided to take the matter into his own director's chair and went off into seclusion to knock up his own flick. Matter of fact he had the unusual task of adapting a screenplay from his own novel.Many (fairly literate admittedly) reviewers here have taken the time to critically dismantle the film piece by piece. How could THAT happen? Wasn't Karras DEAD first time round? etc etc. Jeez people, go write your own screenplay wouldja?  The concept, in itself was a pretty fair old attempt at re-generating the evil influence. What elevates this film to absolute brilliance is the dialog and the performance of both George C Scott and even more pertinently Brad Dourif. As the Gemini killer, Dourif ramps up a similar characterisation he was running with in GRAVEYARD SHIFT. The mesmerising and oscar-worthy initial exchange between Dourif and Scott in the prison cell propels the film to a high that it just cannot maintain - none could. That one line Was I raving just then? sets the pace for the entire movie. Black humor to die for.Like so many other dialog driven films (and yes, sorry guys you really DO have to listen) EXORCIST III will be lost on so many viewers..and consequently we have the predictable comments  boring! too much muttering,  nothing happens and the one classic I recall - no car chases!  George Scott is just wonderful as Detective Kinderman. His characterisation here goes way beyond the I'm just here for the money angle. Look closely if you will at the scene where he is called to the bedside of his unpleasantly deceased close friend Father Dwyer (Flanders). Watch his facial movements and expressions here - can this guy act you think???I agree, the studio tacked-on ending was ill advised (though again, Scott makes the most of what he is given). Blatty was majorly pissed off by it but it really does nothing to sully the fine performances that went before.Oh, and yeah - one of the scariest jolts in all of horror history...and yet you see nothing. You know when that is - don't you?  "},{"Title":"Can't compare with the original, but then again, what can?  6/10","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not nearly as good as the original, but still passes as an above average horror film; The Exorcist III kind of works.  George C. Scott has always been a presence on the screen, and he makes no exception here.  I was impressed how good the acting and writing was in this film.  The film takes it's time, introduces characters, and lets the audience become emerged into the film. Brad Dourif is quite simply frightening.  Worth checking out. "},{"Title":"a very good film","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this his one of the best films that i saw. this film have a great deal of psychology and makes a man under if the devil really existes on earth. other factor very important in this film is the atmosphere of the film absolutely brilliant very calm an at the same time tame very scary.this is one of the movies that you should pay very attention because it tell us many obscure things that a person should paciently think on.  "}{"Title":"Horror movies are for those who like them","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen portions of this movie twice on cable TV.  Some critics expect an epic film the magnitude of The Ten Commandments.  However, this is just a working picture in the scary genre.George C. Scott and all the many cast players, including the uncredited actors, have to work somehow.  If they are criticized for working for pay because one does not like the movie story, don't blame it on the actors.  All in all, the role called for a main character as a police detective to be an in your face sort of character.  Mr. Scott did perform this role very well.  So, he was the right choice and interesting choice.  The film producers got what they paid for -- a Patton-type police lieutenant.We all know the type of horror story anything called The Exorcist (part whatever) has to offer.  The trick is telling the story differently from those that preceded it.  In this case, using the hospital scene and the dying of priests and hospital workers was different.To be an actor requires one to be engaged in the profession.  Making one movie and then fading out of sight can't be called career acting.  So, this reviewer recognized the working talents of Colleen Dewhurst as the uncredited voice of Satan, Larry King and Dr. C. Everett Koop as celebrity guests, Samuel L. Jackson as the dream sequence blind man, Harry Carey Jr., as a priest, Zohra Lampert as Lt. Kinderman's wife, Viveca Lindfors as Nurse X, and Ed Flanders as a priest.  See, people have to work and so it's OK that these and others I don't know, act in this film. So, watch this film for what it delivers.  Don't expect Patton!   "},{"Title":"Oh, The Flaws...","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know, Exorcist fans seem to be divided into two camps either you love this movie or you hate it. Those who hate it can't understand why there's no head-spinning or vomiting; and those who love it are blind to all its faults save the ending, which any viewer can see is useless and inappropriate. I hate to break it to you, folks, but the film's issues go a bit deeper than a studio-enforced exorcism scene.First of all, the pacing is horrible. The film begins with a drunken stagger, falls down a few times, and then tries to lurch along until the last ten minutes when it makes the final sprint toward an incoherent conclusion. Less talk, more action please, Mr. Blatty. And if they're going to all have a nice chat, very well; but please have some of it lead someplace?With all the drawn out monologues Blatty has forced upon his hapless characters, it seems he might have explained one major (and unforgivable) continuity error during the maddeningly slow trek forward at WHAT point were Kinderman and Karras best friends? Or for that matter, even close enough to have had a picture of the two taken? It becomes difficult to build a film based on the relationship between these two men (which, face it, is the core of the story) when it contradicts the mythology Blatty himself put to paper.Speaking of contradictions, hasn't anyone noticed that Father Kanavan WASN'T the priest who gave Karras permission to give Regan's exorcism? Or that Kintry's mother WASN'T the analyst who noticed the curious nature of the McNeil recording? And while we're at it, why does Karras' gravestone state that he died in 1975, two years after the events of the first film? Simple! Because Blatty, for some inexplicable reason, made this story take place FIFTEEN years after the original, despite the fact that all the TV adverts proclaimed that it had been (correctly) SEVENTEEN years! Figure that one out, folks!So...if I remember both the book and first film correctly, didn't we have a VERY lengthy discussion of the fact that the Church needs to give permission for an exorcism, and that this is based upon exhaustive investigation? So answer me this, guys and gals how in the WORLD does Father Morning show up out of the blue like that? Kinderman makes a phone call...and then there's Nicol Williamson, guns blazing, about to make the Devil's Day! Again, I realize the ending was tacked on at Morgan Creek's insistance, but it doesn't make any sense. Blatty might have tried to at least pretend to explain it.Karras' death scene is also unbelievably redundant. Hey, Father, what do you do when a demon inhabits you? Well, I squirm, close my eyes, throw back my head, and scream 'NO!', hurling myself out the nearest window. So what do you do if you're possessed AGAIN? Well, I squirm, close my eyes, throw back my head, and scream 'NO!', allowing the nearest available policeman to blow me to bits. Sigh. So what do you do if you're brought back for Exorcist 4, possessed AGAIN? Well, I squirm, close my eyes...Bad editing. Bad continuity. Unintentional humor (come on is the old lady crawling across the ceiling REALLY supposed to be scary?). Painful cameos (Patrick Ewing and Fabio *shudder*).This COULD have been a great movie, but without Friedkin there to tame Blatty's overindulgence as he did with the first film, it fails. I mean, if you need further proof of how badly this film required Friedkin, pick up The Exorcist The Version You Wish You'd Never Seen to see what happens when WPB gets his way in the editing room.One final note Brad Dourif was amazing. Utterly. And one think that constantly irritates me are those idiots who can't follow why Patient X sometimes looks like Karras, and at others, the Gemini Killer. If you looked with the eyes of Faith, you'd see me.It needed some work, guys...though I'd dearly love to see the Director's Cut, if only to see the morphing head sequence from the trailer that has all but disappeared... "},{"Title":"Great acting, great sound. Better than original? Just Different.","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   Great dialogue, well paced, superb acting, solid character arcs and plot development mark this fine horror/detective story. I many ways this film relates to the original as Alien is to Aliens, related but not alike enough to compare. Both are brilliant, but without the original part III would not make sense.   Everything in this film is so subtle that you could miss the best parts the first time you view it. EVERY line is important and almost every shot is revealing something on another level(look for celeb cameos during dream sequences and in the diner).    Huge meaning of life and theological issues are touched upon and are ultimately important to the resolution. Watch this film in wide screen, alone and with the lights low. And then watch it again you will be amazed how much you missed and how well planned this film was.   I love Patton, but this is a much more intense role and possibly Scott's best. His scenes with Dourif are believable and the sound effects add to the atmosphere in a remarkable way. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"THAT scene.....","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can remember to this day sitting in the Cinema with my two friends at the age of 15,laughing and joking before the film began at the prospect of another so-called scary movie. About 10 Mins in and I knew this was going to be something else altogether..This is the only film (apart from 'Ring')that truly scared me. Well terrified me actually, and like so many other comments here have mentioned, it was the scene at the nurses station that really stuck in my mind. It absolutely scared the crap out of me but was one of the most exhilarating few minutes of cinema i've ever seen.Give this one a chance.The performances are great, the story reveals new layers on multiple viewings and the sense of foreboding inherent in the visuals and emphasised by the chilling score, is second to none. The original Excorcist movie is recognised as one of the few truly great horror movies as everyone knows, but for me this one tops it. "},{"Title":"Not To Be Ignored","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Never has a film about diabolic possession been so intelligent or so carefully underplayed. The key to EIII's success is the manner in which director and writer Blatty meshes together the material world of a Washington DC hospital with what can only be described as the demon-inhabited spirit world of hell itself.It is an eerie continuation of the first Exorcist story, in which good cop George C Scott discovers that Fr Damian Karras (thought to have died in that famous steps tumble from EI) is in fact languishing in a secure mental unit while being possessed by a nasty chap known as the Gemini Killer.The Gemini (with a little help from his growling Demon friends in the Netherworld) takes control of the catatonic old folk on the wards adjacent to his and uses them to continue his spree of random killing. But the storyline is almost incidental to the chilling moments which are edited into the movie with sublime subtlety.For example, the moment when Scott is walking down the corridor of the secure mental unit and hears an almost imperceptible whisper from the Gemini's/Karras's cell calling his name 'Bill' never fails to produce the goosebumps.And the scene in which the nurse at her hushed, night-time hospital station is murdered by a possessed Old Dear wielding some huge surgical shears is sensational in its atmosphere-building suspense.Oh, and remember that early scene from the first Exorcist in which a clock stops in the office of some official at the archaeological dig in Iraq? Well that is spookily echoed in EIII.Don't miss either, the marvellously spine-tingling moment when - under the influence of evil - a tiny, injured bird being cared for by the New Exorcist Fr Morning, drops dead in its shoe-box home on the window ledge of the priest's monastic quarters.It is these moments rather, than the slightly overdone Exorcism climax scene itself, that make the film. All in all, a haunting, thoughtful exercise by Blatty and a worthy visual realisation of his excellent novel, Legion.  "},{"Title":"People need to give this movie a break.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No, this is not the best film ever made.  Okay, not even close, but there are some fine actors here George C. Scott, Ed Flanders, Jason Miller, Scott Wilson, Brad Dourif, Lee Richardson and Nicol Williamson.  All their performances are good, given what the performers have to work with.I have a hard time blaming William Peter Blatty for the inadequacy of the finished film.  I am only presuming, of course, but it looks like it was one of those situations where studio heads were not comfortable with the director's vision made a cut of the picture on their own leaving the narrative a confusing clutter of somewhat incomprehensible scenes.But I still can't help being drawn to this movie.  I saw it again tonight and, unexpectedly, sat through duration without regret.  The first time I saw it was back in '91 or '92 when it was first released on cable.  I was fifteen or sixteen at the time.  I was not oblivious to its flaws but at the same time was reassured by the fact that I was not sitting in an uncomfortable theater or had paid seven dollars for a bad movie, and could leave or change the channel anytime I wanted.  But I found I did not have to do that, as I was satisfied with the good things the film had to offer me.  It also made me an avid fan of the late Mr. George C. Scott.  Now nearly ten years later, at twenty-six, I found the film had even more to offer me.  I was particularly intrigued by the dialogue between Scott and the late, great character actor, Ed Flanders.  Though the screen time is short, I think it leaves the most redeeming mark of the film's integrity, and Brad Dourif is wonderful as the Gemini Killer.  It was also interesting to see Jason Miller after so many years.If anyone's negative feeling about this movie has allowed them to color their perceptions of William Peter Blatty as a director, please see his 1979 film, The Ninth Configuration, starring Stacy Keach, and also with Flanders, Wilson and Miller.   "},{"Title":"More a comedy than a movie.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just finished watching this great comedy, I say comedy because it was very funny, the acting was so horrible and boring that I laugh very often. Here is the story thanks to Glenn J. Schworak.The spirit of an evil killer has been given the body of the priest that saved the girl in part 1. He is going to take revenge for the last exorcism.At least Part II had Linda Blair, part III does not even have some great moments, just some so bad it's funny parts. "},{"Title":"the best film in the exorcist trilogy","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  riveting film which outshines the previous two films.yes,even the first film.the atmosphere surrounding the film is one of foreboding ,anticipation and ultimately the despair of satanism.i was unable to take myself away from the film such was it`s magnetic aspects.i feel george c scott`s performance is as good as he has ever played in any of his previous films.i have watched this film on a continous loop SIX times. "},{"Title":"HORRIFYING!!!!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good Lord, the original was great (even more with the new scenes), but this one literally scared the holy living crap out of me! (I'm not kidding, I wish I was, boy what a mess I did).I'm talking about that scene (if you've seen it, you know what scene), and two others. To hell with Scream and the other slasher films of today (they crack me up real good, like the Blair Witch Project).  "},{"Title":"look at me and tell me what you see!!!!!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, both highly overlooked and underestimated, appropriately uses themes, even characters from the original, and it works....The Heretic (part 2) can be thrown in the trash, as far as most are concerned, along the lines of the 3rd installment of Halloween (where the hell was Michael Meyers)? Brad Douriff and George C. Scott, both unforgettable character actors, blend well, and there are some damn fine Jacob's Ladder-y shots in this one.  If you liked the original, Jacob's Ladder, Coma, Amityville......aw hell...stuff about Hell, then you'll love part 3. Watch this film. It's better than a 6. "}{"Title":"The Exorcist III should have been Pt. II as it picks up where the original left off.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist III should have been Pt. II as it picks up where the original left off.  It's an excellent sequel with many big surprises.  In my opinion, this is one of George C. Scott's better roles.The plot is extraordinarily simple and easy to follow yet full of twists and turns you would never expect. I voted it a 9. "},{"Title":"Why no mention of Patrick Ewing?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Paging through the commentary regarding the second Exorcist sequel, I'm utterly shocked to find no mention of Patrick Ewing. His performance as an Angel was perhaps the most striking aspect of the entire film.  Why this guy didn't just quit basketball and go into acting is beyond me. He would have made Kazaam ten times better. "},{"Title":"For only being 'decent,' has possibly one of the scariest scenes i've seen..","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **Possible Spoiler**As a whole, I found this movie a good, 'lazy Saturday afternoon' kind of film.  This movie does contain I think one of the top moments in a horror film  the nurse's station.  The camera focusing on her from a distance, unmoving, little noise heard....well, I don't want to give it away.  Those who've seen it know what part I'm talking about.  I loved that scene. "},{"Title":"The True Exorcist Sequel","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had a good time with The Exorcist III. The film focuses around a serial killer who died the same night of the exorcism of 73 and found a home in Karras,to exact revenge on those involved with the exorcism.  Blatty gives us a good screenplay and some very scary scenes (the hallway murder,the confession, the head chopper). The acting was right on (Miller, Dourif, Scott). Alot of people put down the film becuase they felt it wasnt understandable. However if you pay close attention to the original and the scenes with the gemini killer and Scott you wont have much of a problem. I liked seeing Jason Niller return as Damien, great cast revival by Blatty. Whereas 2 continues Blares story, 3 continues Damiens and Kindermans. The films greatest strength is that it does its best to be a true sequel to the original, and succeeds. What i felt was bad for the film was a first hour that seemed to lag and an ending that seemed very rushed and forced. Just a little more effort into this one and it probably would have made more at the box office. Overall, a watchable sequel and one that does the exorcist name proud. "},{"Title":"Better than the original?  You'd better believe it!!","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off, let me say that I'm glad there are some intelligent moviegoers out there, people who looked deeper into this movie and saw that it was more than just another sequel.  In fact, I believe this movie would have done substantially better had it lost the EXORCIST title and just been called LEGION.  But, alas, it received dismal reviews upon its initial release by people who were expecting another pea soup fest.  The same people who think ARMAGEDDON is a good movie.  But after reading the other user comments I see that this remarkable film has quite a few fans who realized what writer/director William Peter Blatty was actually trying to do.  Blatty is one of the few horror directors who actually knows how to make a scary movie.  With a deliberately slow pace he draws the audience into the mystery as it is slowly unraveled, building and building up to a crescendo with eerie sound effects, creepy lighting, and some truly unsettling imagery. Hollywood needs to take note that it doesn't take blood and guts and braindead teenage characters to make a scary movie.  We need to do away with all these SCREAM clones and start making some real horror movies again. Is it better than the original?  It truly is.  The original to me seems a little dated now, and a tad campy.  Certainly not unworthy of it's status as one of the most influential horror movies of all time, but it is surpassed by this sequel.  Also, for the intelligent viewers who liked this movie, be sure to check out THE CHANGELING which also stars George C. Scott.  "},{"Title":"Very good, but original is still best","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist III is a good horror picture, well directed and acted, but the script needed an extra punch.The film has some excellent suspense scenes, makes you feel uneasy at times.Blatty did a good job with the direction, but required more punch in some scenes, I felt it was too laid back at times. Got silly at the end!The screenplay required more work as well, I didn't think it was nailed down. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A lot better than expected","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Our listing magazine gave this 3/5 stars. On an IMDb rating, I would give it 7/10Some other reviewers criticise the pacing in the first hour or so, and encourage you to wait for the gorefest at the end. Wrong way round!!! The first part is EXCELLENT; they could have made it an out-and-out slasher movie, but chose instead to build the creepiness gradually -- no direct shots of the dead bodies -- lets your imagination work. And then the non-scary scene of the nurse opening the door to find the melting ice, immediately followed by a long hold, as she crosses the corridor to lock another door... then.... .!!!!I thought it started getting a bit silly towards the end -- where did Nicol williamson pop up  from?But overall not bad! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, however...","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although this movie does not have the outstanding punch of its predecessor it still has a lot going for it.The chilling ambiance that defines the original is still present and is used to great effect. I knew much less about this movie and therefore I was possibly scared more by certain scenes. I had heard so much about the original that I knew what was going to happen before I saw it.The banter in the scenes with George C. Scott and Ed Flanders (Father Dyer) is very entertaining and the dialogue is well written, natural (I felt that these two men were good friends off camera) and often darkly humorous.I thought that George C Scott was excellent as the tired, troubled cop who is out of his depth.Finally, some of the Brad Dourif's (Patient X) monologues, were excellent - chilling, venomous and spiteful just what you want!! "},{"Title":"One of the must underrated horror films ever.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off,this movie is really creepy,it´s not one of those scares that jump out of the darkness,this movie is subtle,it will creep you out if you´re alone,just after you see the statue of god open its eyes or the crucifix shedding a tear,or an statue mockingly smiling,that´s the kind of scares,that´s why I love it.Even if George C Scott was nominated for the razzie that year he gives quite an enjoyable performance,Brad Dourif and the man that played Father Karras are also quite enjoyable,the actor that played Father Morning is good too,watching him enter the psychiatric ward for the exorcism was a thrill!The directing of the writer of the books and screenplays for the original and third gives a fine directing that is subtle and gives this movie the feeling that something is going to happen and you are feeling the fear gather in you,waiting,waiting.......Even though the studios did came up with an ending that had an actual exorcism in it,it looks quite forced but it still is enjoyable,hope the Exorcist 4Dominion is on par with the original as this one. "},{"Title":"Much better than given credit for","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADThe main fault I can see in this film is marketing.This should never have been given the title of Exorcist III.  The title alone raised expectations.This film simply can't be compared to the original.  This film is at its heart a mystery.  Ending with a similar battle for good vs. evil.George C. Scott's performance is as usual very well done.  If I can say there is anything wrong with the film it is with Blatty's direction and scripting.It's written for the stage, it seems.  Alot of what we see is filler.  Had this film been paced just a bit quicker with less of the talk with Brad Dourif's character, it would have been great.  Can you imagine Damien coming out to describe Hell?  Instead we have the Gemini Killer spouting off.I would have liked alot more screen time from other actors.  Which is WEIRD because I absolutely ADORE Brad Dourif.  Just not in this role.  It was time they could've spent better elsewhere.And of course Jason Miller was absolutely SQUANDERED on screen.  His only lines, although well delivered were just too brief.  And poorly written too. Would rather have seen them invest some money into re-doing this film (of course it would've required quite alot since George C. Scott passed away) than on messing up the original.  That one was fine.  This one needed the help. "}{"Title":"Better than II, but not great","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite a major hole in the premise (Kinderman describes Fr. Karras as having been his best friend, whereas in the original movie they met one time and never saw each other again) and some truly awful last-minute tinkering by the studio (adding an exorcist and an exorcism that are completely disconnected from the rest of the film), this film has some scary moments. No gore or violence is shown (well, at least up until that crappy, grafted-on exorcism) but the director, Blatty himself, skillfully uses the power of suggestion to acheive truly frightening effects. "},{"Title":"gave me the chills for weeks","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aside from references from the first Exorcist, this should have been made into a separate entity.  It stands alone, is very different, and makes the hairs on the back of my neck stand up.I've  watched it several times (TV , rental) and keep dreading the same scenes.....the decapitated religious statues, the confessional scene.  And I'm an agnostic.  The first Exorcist merely made me queasy.  But this one makes me uneasy; a sign of a very good horror-thriller. "},{"Title":"Forget the Heretic, this is the sequel.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *Possible spoilers ahead*.When you've seen the Exorcist II, you'd probably think this would try and ruin the idea and story behind the original even more. To my pleasant surprise this movie turned out to be the movie Part II should have been.A serial killer is on the loose in Georgetown, killing his victims in excruciatingly unpleasant manners. He seems bent on making his victims suffer long and painful death. Dt. Kinderman (played by Lee J. Cobb in the original, played here by George C. Scott) investigates and finds out this may be the exact same killer that ran rampant during the time of the first exorcism. Although almost no gore visible in this, at times, extremely suspenseful thriller, the murders, and the way executed, are described to you in horrific detail, making you cringe in seat. Hearing this, you'll be thankful it wasn't shown in full technicolor (unless you're a sick mind). The scenes with the murders are tense, with photography, editing and sound effects that create an effectively eerie and unpleasant atmosphere. For example, the scene in the mental hospital, in which the camera holds still as it watches a nurse work, has you relaxing for nearly five minutes, before...As mentioned, the photography, editing and sound effects are wonderful, but so is the acting. The screenplay is full with moments that will creep you out, as well as intelligent and sometimes very funny dialogue, which is no surprise, as writer of The Exorcist, William Peter Blatty, wrote the screenplay after his own novel and also directed this movie.My only complaint is the second half of the movie, where the suspense and the pace of the movie almost comes to a screeching halt with Kinderman having to much dialogue exchange with the possessed psychopath in a dark, murky cell. And i won't even mention the ridiculous ending.They had a really good thing going for an hour, had they maintained that level of suspense and quality, they would have had a movie very close to being a worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"The Definitive Review","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have seen this film a few times; I saw it in the cinema. I have seen the first film, also in the cinema. I have read most of the reviews on this database.People have wildly conflicting views but this due the people themselves not the film.If you are a simple person, a fan of mindless action, violence, gore and little girls swearing & masturbating and have no respect for quality or the patience to recognise it, steer clear of this film and go get the original.If you consider yourself among the more intelligent members of the film watching community, able to appreciate subtleties and understand more complex movies. You will find this film more enjoyable.This film as a psychological horror/thriller ranks up there with the best of them and as a mindless gorefest down there with the worst of them. It's just that simple.  "},{"Title":"Excellent if you've read the book--confusing otherwise","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on William Peter Blatty's Legion, sequel to the more famous book and film The Exorcist, this is one of the scariest movies I've ever seen. The scene in the hospital hallway where the shrouded killer stalks the nurse and the scene where the old lady, possessed by the killer demon, spider-crawls on the ceiling are bone-chilling.  But here's the real skinny--the movie is almost impossible to follow unless you've read the book.  I saw it once before I read it and was hopelessly lost.  But after I'd finished the book, the movie made complete sense.  With or without the book, it's dozens of times better than Exorcist II and should be regarded as the true sequel to The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Boring first half is saved by average second","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I'm suprized at all the good reviews of this film since I've heard so many bad ones elsewhere. Anyway, this is a poor sequel to THE EXORCIST and EXORCIST II(I actually liked that one), having little suspense and causing absolutely no fear like the original did. !!!SPOILERS!!! A detective is hired to solve murders that are somehow connected with the events in the first film. He finds his answers from a mental patient who calls himself The Gemini Killer, but may be a person possessed by Pazuzu, the demon that possessed Regan in the first 2 films, but I'm not exactly sure. The first half drags with a couple good scenes where people are killed off by the killer. The second half picks up the pace a bit with it's supernatural stuff. Good acting, and some suspense and good effects in the second half, but a boring first half, and a confusing plot. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"One Word; BRILLIANT!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  From beginning to end I loved this film.  George C Scott's performance is so powerful and emotional that he makes all the events seem believable.  His magnificent screen presence makes every scene seem epic in its own right, and I could watch his speech on belief over and over.Ed Flanders is also brilliant as Father Dyer, replacing Rev. William O'Malley from the first film. With some of the funniest lines in the film, instead of the coldness that other films often give to religious characters, the viewer is drawn to identify with him and his believability.The supporting cast are universally excellent, each well realized and written. Each one is given their own unique stand out scene, making me wish more use had been made of them. Brad Dourif in particular is excellent in his role during the short times he is on the screen.William Peter Blatty also proves his capability as a director, an area he is not seen enough in, with wonderfully scary and suspense filled moments.Where this film succeeds is in not trying to out do, or even equal, the first film.  In this way it succeeds in making a very entertaining mix of horror, suspense and humour.Skip Exorcist 2 and go directly to this, 'The first true sequel' to the classic original, a brilliant peace of film making in its own right. "},{"Title":"Confussing sequel from Blatty.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Forgeting about John Boorman's film of EXORCIST II THE HERETIC, William Peter Blatty tries to cheer us up with this sequel after making his novel Legion but fails. George C. Scott takes over for Lee J. Cobb as Lt. Kinderman who has a feeling that his old friend Father Karras Jason Miller from the first film who was trown down the stairs has been possessed from The Gemini Killer who is played by Brad Dourif who killed several people. Scott Wilson's character is shameless as a doctor who can not stop smoking and later kills himself. Nicol Williamson plays The Exorcist and Vivcea Lindfors, Mary Jackson, Zorha Lampert, Barabra Baxley, Lee Richardson co-star and Samuel L. Jackson and Larry King play cameos.and Scott's speech about the carp is a joy. The film however dose leave Triva and Goofs-The Triva. William Peter Blatty had Louis Fortaker play a Nurse but he wanted her line to be bigger and then had her play Nurse Merrin in which Blatty took it from his orginial film where Max von Sydow played Father Merrin.Lee Richardson meations that his favorite flick is THE FLY. Richardson was in THE FLY and THE FLY 2.The Goofs. The University President tells Kinderman about the exorcisim of Regan MacNeil well there was no need to because in the original film Chris MacNeil had already told Kinderman about her possessed daughter.Father Dyer has flashbacks in which he was not present. The possession of Regan MacNeil and the death of Father Karras.Father Morning's vest he wears to begin the exorcisim starts on fire visibly the scene of were Father Karras starts the fire in the hospital.The Exorcist 3 is not a very good sequel but dose get credit for trying. My rating- 6 out of 10 ******.  "},{"Title":"Good, but it could have been marvellous","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film at least puts the Georgetown saga back on its rails after Exorcist 2. Mixing the horror of the first film with the humour of The Ninth Configuration, writer/director William Peter Blatty came up with a superb screenplay, based on the official Exorcist sequel novel Legion. George C Scott is superb as Lt Kinderman, a role played by Lee J Cobb in the original movie, who is on the lookout for a serial killer whose MO matches exactly that of a serial killer sent to the chair 15 years earlier (around the time of the McNeil exorcism). This ties in with strange goings-on in the disturbed ward of a nearby hospital, where one of the patients proves startlingly familiar to Kinderman.The film contains some truly great Oh sh*t! moments, a genuinely eerie atmosphere which plays to the audience's deepest fears and an ensemble cast whose performances hit the correct note every time.So what's wrong? Well, if you've read the screenplay, you'll realise that Morgan Creek, the production company, decided that there were no exorcisms, no spinning heads and there was a distinct lack of blood. Hence substantial cuts to the film were enforced to make way for an ending which uses the kind of splatter effects commonplace in the heyday of the Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th franchises.Had the film been made five years later, it probably would have been accused of ripping off an episode of The X Files. Certainly it has an X Files feel and I mean that in the most positive way possible. One day, perhaps William Peter Blatty might be able to restore the film to its proper state, just as he and Friedkin have done to the original. Until then we must sit back and watch a film which, though very good, falls short of its potential. "},{"Title":"Very slow story telling - but it works","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  They take their time to show Mr Scotts personality. The sad Kinderman face from right, the melancholic scene with another dead men from left and then &#150; after a long time - a short and intense shock moment. Ugh! Not bad and worth the watch if you like stylish horror movies. But you have to have patience. "}{"Title":"Scary film nearly ruined by the studio.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was a great thriller and featured some REALLY scary moments.(Patrick Ewing as an angel, the evil nun/nurse chasing people around with the coroners' bone cutter)Scott's performance as a bleary-eyed homicide cop in the twilight of a career plagued by memories of past murders is dead on. My one complaint with the movie is the totally unnecessary exorcism scene added to the film after it was already complete. Apparently the studio felt that the audience would feel ripped off seeing an Exorcist installment without one included in the film. Big mistake. As a side note-the film is nothing like the book-which is quite scary in it's own right.  "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller is high on creepy atmosphere.","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The third installment of the Exorcist series is a surprisingly ominous and subtle thriller, unlike it's widely (and rightfully) panned predecessor, Exorcist II The Heretic.Based upon William Blatty's novel Legion, George C. Scott stars as a policeman investigating a series of shocking and inexplicable murders.  His growing obsession with finding the killer leads him deeper into the supernatural and threatens everyone around him.Featuring fantastic performances by Brad Dourif and the late George C. Scott as well as a great supporting cast, Exorcist III is good enough to stand on it's own; unfortunately the attached horror sequel stigmata in this case likely did not help attract any new fans to the picture.  The references to the first Exorcist are few, but still important.If you're looking for non-stop action, look elsewhere, because only towards the end do you get much.  What you will get however is amazingly potent and eerie visuals full of weird oddities that you could miss if you blink. It's mostly a very quiet, solemn movie, but it did not fail to hold my interest for a moment and the few shocks are quite genuine.  There are moments that even David Lynch would be proud of.If you like a thinking man's horror film, do yourself a favor and check out Exorcist III.  Just keep a light on. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but very good","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film shows William Peter Blatty's incredible talent as writer and director. There are some really shocking moments and look for subtle scares, especially where George C. Scott is in the church and he hears noises. If you listen carefully, you'll hear dubbed in Regan's giggling after she killed Father Merrin in the original. Major complaint Casting of Brad Dourif. He's played enough weirdos. I would rather have seen Jason Miller play the Gemini Killer in a possessed state. That was the worst flaw for me, and  the ending Exorcism scene was a little too obligatory. Aside from these flaws, an excellent horror movie. "},{"Title":"If creepy characters is what you're after...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You'll like this one.  Never have a hospital setting or geriatric people been so scary.  The method of killing is also top notch horror.  I thought part II was alright, but this is Blatty's final masterpiece.  Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Somewhere Beyond The Sea","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey! The Gemini Killer was Brad Dourif, from the X-Files episode Beyond the Sea, playing practically the same character! I guess the X-Files writers were watching this movie too...anyways, besides Dourif's creepy performance, this movie was pretty lame. The Exorcist didn't need a sequel, let alone a threequel!  "},{"Title":"Chilling, elegant, intelligent, excellent","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie! It is much better than LEGION, the book, which is an interesting character study of Kinderman but lacking on things like plot, suspense, and so forth. This film takes the best of the novel, and also the funniest dialogue that didn't make it into THE EXORCIST! My favorite scenes the Gemini Killer (Brad Dourif) describing a murder while straitjacketed and strapped down, using only his eyes and face; and the scene in the hallway. "},{"Title":"Stylish and truly frightening","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One sometimes is lucky enough to chance upon certain gems in the video store among all the crap.  I don't recall if The Exorcist III was released in theaters, but even if it had been, it is clear that it was not a blockbuster in any respects.  I have seen this film repeatedly, usually to watch someone ELSE watch this film, because it is genuinely scary.  Blatty creates an ominous mood throughout the entire film and maintains it with clever and subtle devices. I don't think George C. Scott has been gruffer since Patton.  The witty dialogue between the characters is charming, yet not contrived.  And, of course, Brad Douriff's performance is chilling. I would strongly recommend this film.  Watch it in the dark, preferably in a room with some Catholic imagery!  Creepy!  "},{"Title":"An intense horror film","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's sad that William Peter Blatty has only directed two films (the other being The Ninth Configuration) for they both have a style and panache that is sadly lacking in many other popular films. Don't let the Roman numeral fool you; this film can stand on its own! This picture contains some of the creepiest scenes ever and is practically free of blood and viscera. Quite an accomplishment. The mixture of sound and image makes this a film that sticks in the mind for a long, long time. Grab your rosary and turn out the lights! "},{"Title":"Sheer Brilliance","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Contains perhaps the single most nerve racking scene in the history of horror films.  Scott is somewhat too melodramatic, yet effective.  Dourif is simply terrifying.  Brilliant use of sound.  If viewed with surround sound, ominous whispers can be heard throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Underrated Film, Finally a Worthy EXORCIST Follow-Up","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Incidentally, did you know that you are talking to an artist? I sometimes do special things to my victims things that are creative. Of course, it takes knowledge, pride in your work... For example, a decapitated head can continue to see for approximately twenty seconds. So when I have one that's gawking, I always hold it up so that it can see its body. It's a little extra I throw in for no added charge. I must admit it makes me chuckle every time. Life is fun. It's a wonderful life, in fact... for some.In 1973 we got THE EXORCIST (1973), one of the most commercially successful and famous horror movies of all time. 4 years later, we got THE EXORCIST II THE HERETIC (1977), an unbelievably horrible movie (I watched it once years ago and I can't bring myself to watch it again, even though I probably will eventually because it'll be fun to write a review for). Then, 13 years later, we finally get THE EXORCIST III (1990), an actual worthy sequel. Now, this film actually could have been a lot better than it actually is. A big reason I'm rating it 8 out of 10 is because I'm taking into account the kind of film Blatty wanted to write. He wanted it to be a more faithful adaptation of his book, LEGION, and even wanted the film to be called LEGION, but the studio made his make the story more exorcism-focused, and to put THE EXORCIST name on it to make it easier to market. I mean, the movie would have been loads better if that exorcism wasn't thrown in at the end, and it felt a lot more like an afterthought than a resolution to the story. Seeing as I am a huge SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (1991) fan, I loved the interactions between Kinderman and the Gemini Killer, as their conversations were slightly similar to those of Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter. Blatty writes these scenes exceptionally, which is to be expected seeing as his novels have received much acclaim, and much of THE EXORCIST III's power relies on the words and symbolism. Blatty's direction is also amazing, especially considering that this was only the second film he's ever directed. Although I believe that THE EXORCIST has slightly better cinematography, this film is still amazing. This is one of the only films I can think of where it's directed, written, and adapted from a novel by the same person. THE EXORCIST III is completely underrated. Even on the Internet and on horror blogs, I see very little appreciation for the film. Considering the fact that it's a third installment in a horror film series, this film is exceptional (I mean, compare this to any other third installment in any other horror series, it's most likely superior). THE EXORCIST III is an incredibly intelligent horror film, but can still be enjoyed without focusing on the more intelligent aspects. If you're looking for a film with great acting, you can find that here. If you're looking for a film with some beautiful shots, you can find that here. If you're looking for a film with a fantastic plot (except for the dumbed-down crowd pleasing scenes the studio forced Blatty to include), you can find that here. If you're looking for a film with enough symbolism and foreshadowing to keep you engaged in the film to watch it again, you can find that here. If you're looking for, arguably, the most effective jump scare in the entire horror genre, you can most definitely find that here (please refrain from watching said scene before-hand, it works much better in context). In conclusion, THE EXORCIST III is an unbelievably underrated horror flick, that, while I still believe the original to be vastly superior, is a wonderfully journey into darkness. It would no doubt be much better if the studio let Blatty have more creative control over the film, but it is still worth a view or two. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"This is a stand alone sequel that is vastly underrated.","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We have a murder on our hands, and Lieutenant Kinderman, played breathtakingly well by George C. Scott, is making jokes with his detectives. My personal favorite is, On the entry exam for the new policeman, they ask What are rabies and what would you do for them? Ryan said, Rabies are Jewish priests and I would do anything I possibly could for them. He also has a pretty popular monologue about carp, but I won't spoil it. Anyway, a child from a group the police sponsors is beheaded. Meanwhile, Kinderman and Father Dyer go see It's a Wonderful Life as a way of forgetting their friend Damien Karras's death. They hang out at a restaurant where Kinderman fills Dyer in on the details of the slain boy. His head was replaced with a statue, stuff was jammed through his eyes, all that fun jazz.Later, a woman goes to confess to a priest and the priest ends up dead. Turns out, the same M.O. was used by the killer as was used on the boy. Soon after, Dyer ends up in a hospital, where all of his blood is drawn, without a single drop spilled, into jars. And with the remaining blood, the words It's a Wonderful Life are written on the wall. Well, it turns out that these killings are very similar, in fact, identical, to those of a previous serial killer named The Gemini Killer. The only problem is, he's been dead for about fifteen years. So how is this happening?I know what you're thinking at this point in the review. What the holy hell does this have to do with The Exorcist? Well, patience. It has a tie in. It turns out the spirit of the dead Gemini Killer found its way into Karras's body just before he died, and he's now locked in the basement of the hospital. How's he getting around? Why Father Karras's body? Well, that's up to you to find out. And trust me, it's worth it.One of the best things this movie has going for it is Brad Dourif, who plays the Gemini Killer. He even utters a line of shameless self-promotion. Child's play, Lieutenant. The back and forth between Scott and Dourif is completely insane, and chalk full of over the top emotion. Tack on a creepy performance of Jason Miller, reprising his role as Father Karras as well as another character, and you've got a terrifically acted sequel.Is it scary? It has its moments. Particularly the scene in the hospital hallway, which has some of the best buildup and one of the best payoffs in horror history. In my personal opinion, and remember, this is purely opinion, this movie is better than the original.I know. Sacrilege, right? Well, we all have our tastes, and mine don't have to be yours. Give this movie a try. Maybe you won't feel the same way I do, but I know you'll enjoy it if you like horror. ___________________For all the Horror Banana reviews, visit http//morozov924.hubpages.com/ "},{"Title":"Exorcist 111 Legion, a good sequel to The Exorcist....","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought that Exorcist 111 Legion was a good sequel to the Exorcist It is set 15 years later from the first Exorcist film. it stars Lt. Kinderman and Father Dyer on the anniversary of the death of their friend,Father Damien Karras, They cheer each other up by going to see It's a Wonderful Life at the local theatre in Georgetown, near Washington D.C. But unknown to them there is a gruesome serial killer is at large His murders, have involved torture, decapitation and the desecration of religious statues they resemble those same murders of the Gemini Killer, who has been dead for fifteen years. Lt. Kinderman is keen to get on to the case to find out what is going on in Georgetown. what he finds out is shocking and not what he had been expecting. I thought that this film was a very good sequel to The Exorcist. It was a sort of film that kept you guessing and it made you have to think carefully. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure of the highest order","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III Legion is one of the most underrated films of all time.**SPOILERS**A series of brutal murders is plaguing Georgetown, Penn, and Lt. Kinderman, (George C. Scott) is becoming obsessed with the case to the point of madness. The clues that are found point to an executed serial killer, which puzzles him even moire and consults old friend Father Joseph Dyer, (Ed Flanders) for advice. Not helping much, the trail of clues lead to a mental institution, and there a special patient, James Venamum, (Brad Dourif) claims to be the killer he's searching for. As he gets closer and close to discovering the truth about the inmate and his wild claims, he finds a fight for his very soul.The Good News This is a rather surprisingly good film. The fact that it's not above going for a more subdued series of scare tactics is well appreciated, and three come up quite easily to prove this. The dream sequence, where, moving through Heaven as a large Grand Central Station, finds an old friend with his head stitched on who turns and utters a shocking line holds a strong kick. The moment where a character enters a hospital ward and one of the patients is scuttling about on the ceiling behind them is a real jump. The scene that gets the biggest jump is a nurse around the ward as she checks on strange noises she hears down a corridor, and emerges from a room followed in complete silence by an alabaster-white winged figure. The constantly repeated shots of a figurine rapidly opening it's closed eyes gets some shocks and manages to completely haunt as well. They help with a powerful tone that is really unsettling and manages to get the best out of very little. The storyline is quite brilliant, leaving very little in the way of confusion or even of the rather typical sequel flair of re-writing the rules of the game. The way it is able to connect with the original and take off where it left is a fantastic feat. There's very little to find fault with in this one.The Bad News There's only two things that come to mind with this one. The fact that the ending is so out-of-place and over-the-top that it borders on the ludicrous is not too far off. Not only does it really ruin what could've been a brilliant movie, but it does little to stave off what was the inevitable. This really could've been changed without much hesitation. The only other thing that really bothers is that it's a more personal choice, but the pace of the film is a real take-it-or-leave-it affair. Very rarely does this happen, but the film doesn't really need to be sped up and make things go quicker, but the film does take it's time in spelling things out. It's that simple.The Final Verdict A grossly underrated film that really deserves a wider appeal, and in fact may be the most underrated film of all time. It's not for everyone, though, as what makes it an underrated film isn't exactly a popular theme. Take it with extreme caution.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Blatty.. exorcist soul is now free..","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Its an incredible movie.. It has everything that can continue the story and story can be written in such a perfection. Someone can look and see how a sequel is done after that accident of exorcist II heretic. This movie had been possessed by demon when Exorcist II was done. It must certainly be skipped only the original exorcist and this only sequel of it. Thats all. Only such a sequel could be done and fit perfectly. And read exorcist II message board where some people thinks that soundtrack of exorcist II is wonderful. Then just look at exorcist III. Thank you William Peter Blatty. Your creation's soul is now free, got rid of demon. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Thriller.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie should NOT have been called The Exorcist III, it should have been called the Legion, or even the Exorcist II. It has nothing to do with that piece of crap second installment. This story follows the gruesome trail serial killings in the city Georgetown. The murders are shockingly similar to the killing spree of the Gemini killer years earlier.The twisting plot, shocking murders, incredible acting (minus Brad Dourif, who was AWFUL!) and chilling cinematography all contribute to make this one of the most underrated movies of all time.Brad Dourifs terrible acting nearly destroyed the credibility of his monologues.******** (8) out of ********** (10) "},{"Title":"Good example on how sequels should be done!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III is probably the best in the Exorcist series. Very underrated. It contains lots of superb dialog, and very good acting. George C. Scott is very good in the role as the lieutenant, and Brad Dourif is probably the best actor in the entire series of The Exorcist. The way he shows him self and how he plays different roles, the Devil, The Gemini Killer and the little girl. Don't expect lots of special effects, because you'll be disappointed. The Exorcist 3 is not a splatter-feast, it's more of a serial killer film. The hunt for the brutal killer goes on, and in the ending we get to know him. Some scenes is real intense, because of the good mix of a great soundtrack and good cinematography. I'll end this review with one of the best quotes from the movie God is not here with us now, it is only the darkness here, and your death! "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Evil","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** A number of brutal and ritualistic-type murders that have taken place in Georgetown has police Let. Bill Kinderman, George C. Scott, deeply concerned. Let. Kindeman was in charge of the Gemini Killer serial murder case that happened fifteen years ago and the MO of these killings are identical to that of that long ago killer.The fact that the murder victims now, a 12 years-old boy and two Catholic priests, were killed exactly the same way as those victims of the Gemini Killer were back then. The method of his savage actions was never reviled to the newspapers and the public yet these killings could not have possibly been done by him since the Gemini Killer was executed back in 1973, or was he? Worthy follow-up to the original movie The Exorcist if you throw out the ridicules The Exorcist Part II The Heretic made some thirteen years earlier. William Peter Blatty's Exorcist III starts where The Exorcist left off when the heroic Father Karras, Jason Miller,fell down a long flight of stairs outside the MacNeil residents taking the demon who was in possession of young Regan MacNeil's body with him to his death. At that very moment the convicted Geemini Killer James Venamun, Brad Dourif, was executed for his crimes. The Devil took advantage of this moment in time by transferring the soul of Venamun into the dead Father Karras' body and at the same time bring Karras back to life. Wondering around the streets of Georgetown the now unrecognizable and comatose Father Karras was taken into a local mental institution where he spent the last fifteen years, strapped down in a padded cell, and known to those in charge only as patient X. As time went by Karras' mental facilities slowly came back to him and with Venamun in control of his body and, this is hard to take, soul has been using the mental patients to do his bloody work. Manipulating their, crippled and very impressionable, minds the patients go out in the neighborhood as well as in the hospital and commit this latest string of Gemini  killings. Exorcist III has a lot of dream-like and surrealistic scenes in it which at times confuses you. As it moves to it final conclusion, in the graphic battle between Good and Evil, it becomes very clear to what it's been telling you for the first 90 minutes or so. The Devil through the helpless Father Karras, whom he brought back from the dead, is waging his war against Good with one of those saintly men who stood fought and died for it.George C. Scott gives his usual top-rate performance as the troubled and gilt-ridden, he felt that he should have saved Father Karras back in 1973, police Let. Kinderman. At first Let. Kinderman didn't really understand what he was up against, the Devil. When he finally did, at the end of the movie, he not only cast the Devil's demons out of the tragic priest but put Karras tortured soul to rest and peace forever, in a truly shocking and memorable final sequence.Both Brad Dourif & Jason Miller were just as good as Scott as the Gemini Killer James Venamun and Father Karras who both occupied the same, Karras', body. Like in a titanic tug of war Venamun and Father Karras were in conflict with each other throughout the entire movie. Until the evil, that was engineered by the Devil, on the people of Georgetown and the Catholic Church was finally put to an end. "},{"Title":"Such a good sequence!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watch this movie! Even tho' you didn't like The Exorcist II! This movie is really worth a watch! It has a lot of creepy moments, and a lot of scare scenes too! This movie is really underrated for coming after such a horrible sequence as that 2nd part.. That's all I can say.. People give this movie bad reviews because Ex.2 gave the series such a bad name... Just for you people, who discriminate this movie look This movie has 2 of the most scary scenes! So if u're interested, just watch it! You can even see the pictures first, but nothing like watching really the movie! It's a lot different! ;) I give this movie a 7/10! It's guaranteed fun! "},{"Title":"Greatest second sequel of all time?","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist 3 actually manages to come across as a greater film than even the over-rated original. It has an atmospheric, isoteric current that runs the entire two hours in the vein of the great Alfred Hitchcock. The hospital was a great place to set this movie, it sets the right tone for this tale of demonic possession. Bereft of bad language, the film manages to scare without referring to lashings of blood or gore and instead focusses on religion and a mystery killer. Don't understand why this received an 18 certificate, I guess it goes to show how much this scared the life out of the censors with its effectiveness. The end was a little disappointing but overall I was very surprised by this movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"A Superb but Overlooked Psychological Horror","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I tend to feel compelled to add reviews for movies I feel strongly about, where I disagree with the majority of sentiments previously given.This film is a finely crafted psychological horror film, the result of some impressive direction by William Peter Blatty, and strong performances by George C Scott and Brad Dourif.I hear a lot of people praising The Exorcist, but I always found the original incarnation of that film lacking in story continuity. I had read the novel many years prior to seeing it, and must say I was disappointed with the film (although not the book). In fact, I actually fell asleep twice watching The Exorcist, and had to watch it several times to see the film in it's entirety. I found the flow of the story was pretty horrid, so I was continually wondering if I had missed a particular scene which future scenes seemed to be referencing. I hadn't - they had been removed. Later on, reading comments and seeing interviews with Blatty, he basically said the same thing. They were a point of contention between Blatty (the screenwriter for Exorcist) and William Freidkin (the director) over a period of more than 20 years. The updated release has apparently corrected some of these story problems (where footage was still available), but I have yet to see it. Apparently Blatty's incessant nagging had some effect.In fact, the aspect of The Exorcist I appreciated the most were the background they provide for Exorcist III. In particular, the original ending (which was cut from the original release), showing the beginning of the friendship between Detective Kinderman and Father Dyer; and the background on other characters featured in III.Exorcist III continues from where The Exorcist ended, although many years later. The friendship between Kinderman and Dyer has survived the years, and begins with the arrival of a force of evil in the town, in the form of a series of brutal religious motivated killings. Kinderman links these murders to people from the original Exorcist, and discovers that both an old friend and an old enemy he thought dead may still be alive. Although (not to give too much away here) in the same body.Brad Dourif gives an outstanding performance as the Gemini Killer. I honestly feel myself cowering under his verbal onslaught in certain scenes of this film. Dourif is an actor I would dearly love to see more of in films. And Blatty is someone I'd dearly love to see directing more horror films.The violence in this film is primarily off camera, but there are some excruciatingly suspenseful and impressively choreographed scenes leading up to deaths. In particular, there is a scene leading to the death of a Nurse. It is shown from a fixed camera perspective, where the actual death is off camera. The tension is built up to so well it is actually more shocking than if you saw it on camera, where your overstressed imagination fills in the blanks. The horror seems very real and personal in this film. The only real gore of the film comes in at the ending. I had read elsewhere that this ending was not the ending the director originally had, but was added at the `request' of the studio to make the film more horrific. I would be interested in seeing a special edition DVD of this title, but given it is an entirely overlooked film, there is little chance (but I guess if an insignificant film such as `Romper Stomper' can get a 2 disc special edition, I guess anything can happen). "}{"Title":"Underrated Gem!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Better than the original?!  Well, that's a matter of opinion, and my opinion is, yes.  At least I like it better than its famous predecessor.  This is the true sequel to The Exorcist (forget part II, which has a good performance by Linda Blair, but that's all).  Written and directed by William Peter Blatty (the original's author), this film takes on a completely different tone.  It is very creepy.  George C. Scott's performance is awesome, and the slow, deliberate pacing of the narrative only adds to the chills. My favorite horror film. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film which sends shivers down the spine!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a brilliant film and a great sequel to the first two films. In fact of the 3 Exorcist films it is my favourite and in my opinion the best of them.I have just ordered it and encourage others to do the same. George.C.Scott is brilliant as the sad and melancholic policeman trying to understand what is happening and at the same time save his friend Father Karras from eternal damnation. Brad Dourif is really haunting as the Gemini killer, and the feeling is unbelievable when this evil being in the form of the evil one confronts George.C.Scott and in the darkness of his cell sings with the voice of an angel reminding us all of how evil and decadent Satan is. The scenery and atmosphere is eerie and the music no less eerie. "},{"Title":"This film really does scare people.","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When Exorcist III was first released in British cinemas, I worked as a projectionist and was able on several occasions, to witness the audiences response while viewing it. The atmosphere inside the auditorium was tense and the audible response was clearly heard at appropriate moments. It was an experience just watching the audience watch the film.While they came out, you could hear the audience's comments saying how much the film had scared them. Forget films like the original Exorcist or The Blair Witch Project that were supposed to have upset the audience, I saw genuine fear created from Exorcist III.And yes, it scared me too! "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those rare films - a sequel that is possibly even better than the original.Exorcist 3 certainly has a wider scope than the original, with the plot circling around an outbreak of murders, seemingly committed by a serial killer who was disposed of many years previously.  The film gradually evolves, and has been criticised for having a slow start, but there's quite a lot of details packed in.This is a film which may be hard to follow, and may even seem dull on the first viewing, but things gradually fall into place after repeated viewings (reading the book also helps).  My opinion is that this is a superb thriller, with several chilling scenes (including one or two that will literally make you jump out of your skin). "},{"Title":"The film is scary in an intellectual, stylistic way.","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is interesting in the ways it is not a traditional horror film. The film is largely concerned with hints of terror and brushes with evil. Nearly all the darkness of the film is established through the rather fine acting.  Of special note is the always reliable George C. Scott, and the often brilliant Brad Dourif in perhaps his best acting role of his career.Except for the ending of the picture, which is a disappointing special-effects extravaganza with no real justification, the movie moves at a slow pace of a horrific mystery where the always-consistent details add up one by one to the inescapable conclusion.  The film may manage to scare those who are generally unaffected by scary films, since it relies heavily on performance and moodiness as opposed to the more traditional gore and surprise.The film is a sequel to the original Exorcist, though it wisely ignores the regrettable Exorcist II.  The sound is top notch, and certain images (such as the human fly and the nurse stalking) are works of great cinema.A must for the person who has a long attention span. "},{"Title":"Stylish, scary horror without gore.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An excellent example of how a movie can be genuinely frightening with barely a hint of gore. Good, if typically overwrought performances by George C. Scott, Brad Dourif and Nicol Williamson. A worthy successor to the Exorcist.  "},{"Title":"Not just better than the original but possibly the scariest film ever made","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you want to discover if a horror movie really works is to wait till everyone else has gone home or sleeping put a DVD on and sit and watch it alone,I have done this many times with all types of highly rated movies,only once have I switched off early,and that was for the exorcist 3,not because it was rubbish or boring or I was tired but because I was absolutely terrified! I kid you not I was virtually unable to walk up the stairs had to turn the light on and call the dog to me! This film contains a few stand out shock moments and the scene in the hospital ward is without doubt the single most startling moment I have ever seen.Admittedly when I resumed watching the following day(afternoon) it tailed off a bit the ending not living up to the rest of it almost like they decided to rush it which is why it only makes it to number 2 of my top ten list. How this movie isn't higher rated by everyone is beyond me this should be up there as the one to beat,if the marketing had been done in the right way this would have been a £100 million movie,I mean if a good run of the mill film like the conjuring can do it? "},{"Title":"Blatty's Masterpiece, and the only TRUE Exorcist entry.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III is based on William Peter Blatty's novel Legion. It picks up 15 years after the possession detailed in the first. We have an all star cast consisting of George C Scott, Ed Flanders, and Brad Dourif. They are at the top of their game. Particularly Scott and Dourif. A young boy is murdered in a quite disturbing manner out on a sea dock and Lt. Bill Kinderman, played wonderfully by George C Scott, sets out to investigate. The murders continue, but have stranger and stranger settings and circumstances. A priest is murdered in his confession booth. A man is murdered in his hospital room. A young lady is murdered while at her post in the same hospital. After a few dead ends for Kinderman, including but not limited to questioning a catatonic patient who is physically unable to commit the murder but whose fingerprints were found at a crime scene, Kinderman encounters a patient in the hospital's disturbed ward who closely resembles his dead friend Damien Karras. But things are not exactly as they seem.Exorcist III is everything a true horror fan could ask for. It has some extreme studio tampering which actually makes the film confusing at a few points, but these can be overlooked when you view how well acted, directed, and photographed this film is. It's absolutely beautiful. Some of the best camera-work in a film I've seen, particularly a sequence where Kinderman is dreaming. This film isn't very well known for some reason, and I was actually surprised when I saw it a video store a few years ago because I had no idea there was a 3rd exorcist. I almost decided not to buy it, but I did and I'm grateful, because this installment is much better than the original(2 and 4 are cash-ins!!!) and is one of the greatest horror films of all time.10/10 Definitely needs to be in your collection. "},{"Title":"Hugely underrated and superior sequel.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lets get one thing straight - I don't like The Exorcist - I think its dull and empty - even its scenes of graphic outrage have been done better elsewhere.  Having said that its better than the sequel which in the words of Bart Simpson Both sucks and blows. So I should hate Exorcist III right? Wrong, I love it! I think it is a hugely underrated flick that when seen in the right conditions is incredibly effective. Creeping dread, bizarre supernatural happenings, meandering philosophical conversations and Brad Dourif! Not to mention that shot of the dark hospital corridor, late at night with the nurse wandering around for what seems like forever and THEN - ALL OF A SUDDEN -  head chopper!!! Damn I was weeks getting over that the first time I saw it. This is what happens when you stay true to the source material - great stuff - check out Blatty's novel Legion as well - it's great. Watch it alone, late at night in a dark room for best effect. "},{"Title":"An unsung achievement","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes, the writing is highfalutin and portentous. Yes, the performances are overacted. Yes, the style is too sober and literate for fans of the demonic histrionics of the original The Exorcist.All that aside, The Exorcist III deserves its pet moniker of one of the most underrated horror films in the history of cinema. Writer/director William Peter Blatty has woven a thoroughly intricate and pensive story that engages the viewer with its disturbing complexities and distinct texture. I swear Blatty was an accomplished cinematographer in a past life, because his flair for creating iconic nightmarish imagery and committing palpable mood and atmosphere to film seems natural-born.Along with Blatty's talents, the film, of course, boasts the acting chops of a cast filled with players known for both élan and intensity. George C. Scott, Brad Dourif, and Jason Miller are as great as you always expect them to be (perhaps a little too great -- again, the overacting). And Zohra Lampert, Viveca Lindfors, and Nancy Fish all give terrific supporting performances. Blatty shouldn't face any ignominy for the hopelessly silly conclusion of this film, which reminds me more of Amityville 3-D than the rest of The Exorcist III. Tremendous interference from the big cheeses at Morgan Creek yielded the blatantly tacked-on exorcism sequence at the end (Paul Schrader faced Morgan Creek's wrath to an even greater extent while directing the original cut of Exorcist The Beginning). It takes a lot of cojones to defecate on a borderline masterpiece, but if somebody's gotta do it, leave it to the film executives.And yes, the Brad Dourif Child's Play/redheaded boy reference is a little hokey, but it's merely another sly touch in an off-kilter and unorthodox film that is already teeming with slyness. "}{"Title":"Part 3 is scarier then the first 2","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't get me wrong the first two Exorcist movie are very scary. But The Exorcist III is scarier. This movie has great acting. This movie also has great special effects. This movie also has a great story line. IF you like really scary movies then you need to see this movie. See all The Exorcist movies. They are some of the best horror movie ever. I all The Exorcist movies are most sees. This movie is a classic. See this movie. I need more lines and I am running of thing to say. In this one has one of the actor from the original Exorcist. Jason Miller is in this one. Exorcist the beginning is better. Dominion a prequel to The Exorcist is also better. But still this is a very good movie. All the Exorcist movies are great. "},{"Title":"THE EXORCIST 3 - Fan Review","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is my review of one of my favorite horror movie sequels, William Peter Blatty's EXORCIST 3LEGION.Probably one of the most underrated horror movies of 1980's, EXORCIST 3 is one movie that can still give you a decent scare even on second or fifth viewing. First, let me say that only thing that i liked about EXORCISTTHE HERETIC was soundtrack by Ennio Morricone. Track Regan's Theme is my favorite, by the way. EXORCIST 3 has some great scare scenes, like old lady walking on the celling scene, but one scene that scared the hell out of me was where nurse is walking across empty hospital hallways, when suddenly one patient appears out of nowhere and slides towards her.Acting is also on spot, not over the top and it works well with plot. Directing is surprisingly great. I can't think of any scene that was bad, and that is rare thing in some of the movies that i like to watch over and over again. Special effects, well,i understand that this part was unnecessary in original cut, but i think that effects are pretty damn good and convincing. Screenplay and entire plot are good, and definitely much better than most of the movies with similar plot.I can't figure it out what kind of moron would say that George C.Scott was bad actor in this. He was awesome! No matter if he was in some funny, sad or scary scene, he delivered great performance in every shot.Most people would say that this was just horror movie. But i think that it was also very sad movie. Entire friendship between Damien and Kindermann was nicely shown and Kindermann having to kill best friend in the end in order to save him was very sad. I know that i would gone through hell for my best friend, so i know how Kindermann must have felt when he set Damien free.So, what more to say, but that i enjoyed the movie and i hope that one day William Peter Blatty's original cut will be released for public to see. I sure would pay to see it. "},{"Title":"It's a wonder life.","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In some ways I vastly think this second sequel is a vast improvement over William Friedkin's original film (even though many might think I'm mad for stating that), where it has the original's author William Peter Blatty writing the screenplay, but also directing the feature. Very different in style and totally ignores the abysmal first sequel, where this entry does continue on from the first film with characters returning, like Lieutenant Kinderman, Father Dyer and Father Karras with Jason Millar reprising the role. Kinderman is played respectfully by George C. Scott in what is a tour de force performance. His witty exchanges with Ed Flander's character Father Dyer and the hospital cell confrontations with Brad Dourif's psychotic serial killer character were definitely a highlight. Also its thick on dark atmospherics, with a lingering uneasiness and it has one of the most chilling set-pieces that simply make you jump. What we get is Blatty's vision, which is adapted of his novel Legion. Quite story driven, where it relies on its wordy script (sometimes over-explaining details) and brooding moodiness as this investigation becomes a graphic, if silly standoff between good and evil. It's less showy in its set pieces, but still it provides its moments of shocks and surreal imagery (like the dream sequences), but for most part it's a gripping psychological mystery teaser that only goes for cheap frights and special effects in its possessed fright-fest finale. The rest of the cast aim up rather well; Nicol Williamson, Scott Wilson, Nancy Fish, Grand L. Bush and Ken Learner.Nothing is normal about that man. "},{"Title":"Better out the 2 sequels, but loses the horror of the original.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III (1990, Dir. William Peter Blatty) Story After the death of Father Karras in the original film, his good friend, Lt. William Kinderman is sent on a mysterious murder investigation. Victim after victim starts appearing, with the blames being placed on a old frail woman. Could these murders relate to demons and possession? and how does the patient, who claims to be the Gemini Killer fit into all this? Actors The one thing which is good about this film is the choice of actors. Not because of their acting talents, but because of their looks. George C. Scott as Lt. Kinderman is a prime example. He could spend the entire film in total silence, and he would still make a believable lieutenant. When he does talk, he still fits into character, as you can really see the emotion on his face on the sadder scenes. Ed Flanders also fits into his role as Father Dyer. There is so much chemistry between the two actors and they really come off as true friends in the story. Finally, Brad Dourif is his usual magnificence as the Gemini Killer. It's impossible for him to not successfully play a villain right, and his true evilness appears here. Also, look out for Samuel L. Jackson as the blind man in the heaven sequence.Music The music unfortunately is a let down in this film. There's nothing striking about it and hardly memorable. 24 hours after I viewed the film, and I was unable to remember a piece of the score, with the exception of one. This was the Exorcist theme, which is hardly forgettable, but only lasted for a few mere seconds at the opening.Special Effects Surprisingly there were very few special effect shots apparent in the film. Unlike the first film, in which you had Linda Blair undergo a new transformation, Brad Dourif here looked exactly the same. There are some scenes which showed that violence had previously occurred, but again, the level of detail was very small.Conclusion 'The Exorcist III' is a decent horror film to watch, but don't expect anything too great. It relies on the mystery more than the actual violence. There's any interesting story, which ends up limiting the film to a select few locations. It's not as good as the original 'Exorcist' film, but defiantly better than the previous sequel, 'The Exorcist II The Heretic'. I don't think it would be for everyone, but it's worth a go, especially if you're a fan of The Exorcist.Take Me. Come into Me! &#150; Patient X (Jason Miller) "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I will basically echo what other have said this is a criminally underrated film, especially for a second sequel. In fact, I can't think of many horror sequels better than this one.This is a slow, carefully plotted and executed film. It is scary without becoming stupid and gory, and it is clever (especially in its dialogue and pacing) without being smug.George C. Scott is wonderful, as always. His character is a non-believing cop thrust into the middle of a terrifying investigation. Also, there is no way to prepare you for one particular death scene that has reached legendary status over the years. I knew it was coming, and it still scared the crap out of me. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A must see film for Horror genre fans","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Firstly I d'ont usually post on IMDb. Having read some of the comments made on this site, it motivated me to a defence of Blattys work, if only to balance out the negativity. This is a film that I return to watch at least once a year. Yes im a big Exorcist (Not Exorcist2) fan, but Ex 3 to me is the film that should have been the sequel to the original. The plot picks up nicely from the original, the cast is superb, if you home in on the dialogue between George C. Scott and the others, it becomes a very humorous black comedy. Yet the scenes between George C. & Brad Dourif make the film outstanding, and make repeated fascinating serious viewing. The cuts from Dourif as the serial killer to the priest are superb and the final showdown riveting. These alone make this film worth at least a 8 rating. I d'ont understand how it doesn't make the IMDb Horror Top 50.If you have'nt had the pleasure , and like the good vs evil genre, I thoroughly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A great thriller, but not for the exact reasons you think.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Take Underrated sequel with typically strong performances and creepy psychological horror. I got what I expected. William Peter Blatty's The Exorcist III was a truly wonderful movie. Cerebral, but very engrossing and full of surprises. By the looks of it, this is the true sequel to the original The Exorcist. This sequel tells more of a cerebral mystery story about Lt. Kinderman (A superb performance by George C. Scott) investigating a series of murders, supposedly committed by the long-dead Gemini Killer (Brad Dourif). The murders could also be connected with the possession and exorcism which happened sometime ago. The supporting cast includes a return by Jason Miller, reprising his role as Damien Karras. Ed Flanders as Father Joseph Dyer and Nicol Williamson as Father Morning, a Father Merrin-alike who's welcome is extended so a priest vs. devil can take place, a demand made by the studio to fully cash-in as an EXORCIST sequel. But the studio butchering doesn't badly jeopardize the story and Blatty's terrific direction. Up until the finale, it's a cerebral and mind-bending thriller. Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. It is somewhat intellectual I guess but I remember seeing it at the movies with my friends and having that creepy scared feeling you usually want from a horror movie when leaving. I have not felt that with any other movie. This is not Scream or I know what you did last summer - it is a really suspense filled horror flick that is much much better than the original. I agree with other reviewers when they say this movie is not watched enough and suffered low ratings due to the title. The Exorcist II was just ridiculous and I did not find the original to be scary in the least and certainly did not find it engaging like this film. Give it a try - You will like it. There are parts that will terrify you and the whole movie will give you an uneasy creepy feeling that will make you remember this film for years to come. "},{"Title":"Dissertation on Evil","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Massively underrated film because it carries the baggage of being an Exorcist film. It creates a disturbing atmosphere and attempts to address the existence of God in the overwhelming evidence of evil problem. George C Scott gives a typical brilliant performance. The film confronts the issue of how does an atheist deal with the undeniable presence of evil in a modern world especially as the protagonist is approaching death himself. Genuinely eerie atmosphere overall with good direction by first-time director Blatty (probably because he wrote the books!). This is very much a philosophical horror movie more about existential crisis than gore. Please give it time and absorb. "},{"Title":"A crazy thought Is this the best of the entire series?","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Exorcist 3' is one of my favourite horror films. I prefer it to the other four films in the 'Exorcist' series (I include 'Dominion') and, shock of shocks, I think it is the scariest. Superior in every possible way to 'Exorcist 2,' it is William Peter Blatty's TRUE sequel to 'The Exorcist.' Watching one right after the other is optimal since 'Exorcist 3' does assume that you have seen and understood the first film.That George C Scott was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award is completely laughable and a sure sign that the Raspberry committee is far less clever than they think they are. Keep in mind that 'Exorcist 3' had three major things working against it when it was released1. The legacy of 'The Exorcist' which is still rightly viewed as a landmark of the horror genre (whether or not it is still scary for a more contemporary audience is another matter) 2. The legacy of 'The Exorcist 2.' The sequel was such an hilarious disappointment that it inflicted terrible damage to the credibility of the entire series. Fans who might have given part three a chance had already walked away from the series. 3. 'Reposessed' the Linda Blair 'Exorcist' spoof had been released just prior to 'Exorcist 3.' It sent up the entire series and harmed the chances of a genuinely intense and rewarding horror film.There are scenes in 'Exorcist 3' which have haunted me for years. Very few horror films do that. The scene with the night nurse checking rooms is one of the scariest things I've ever seen on film. Or how about the ceiling walker? Or how about the nurse at George C Scott's home?Brad Dourif very nearly steals this movie and I wonder how the role and his performance would have been looked at if there had been no 'Exorcist 2' and if 'Exorcist 3' had come out a year earlier than 'Reposessed'? I was mesmerized by him every time he was on the screen and he has a very long and difficult speech in the middle of the film. It is a masterful piece of acting and the intensity is incredible. The anger and the power within him slowly crescendos and just as it pushes George C Scott's back to the wall in the cell, I defy an honest viewer not to be pushed away from the screen as Dourif looms into it, closer and closer, slashing a simulated knife back and forth and raging out his dialogue with lines that tremble just short of yelling. Dourif has been largely under-rated after early success in movies like 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,' and 'Ragtime.' His work here is among the best he's ever put in and nobody has watched the film or taken it seriously. Dourif suffered a terrible injustice by not being more widely recognized for his performance here. I can not praise him highly enough and I hope that some of his more recent success with projects like 'Deadwood' will send fans back to earlier examples of his work.George C Scott is another favourite of mine and I really love what he does in this film. Scott can fairly be accused of often looking like he was impatient on screen and tolerating another actor's lines only so that he could deliver his next brilliant speech. I loved him for it though and have enjoyed every performance of his that I've seen. That he is accused of poor acting here is truly mind boggling. Consider the scene where he comes to the hospital to visit the sickly Father Dyer. He begins with a calm tone that slowly becomes more agitated with each line. He is believable and true. He is concerned and worried about his friend. When he yells WE'RE FINE! at the nurse, it isn't because George C Scott the actor is blowing the scene. It is because Kinderman the character can't hide his stress and concern any longer. The same goes for later on when he realizes, in a panic, that he needs to get home FAST. I love the way he behaves as the passenger in the squad car. This is the face of desperation and Scott was absolutely correct in how he played it.Studio interference with the Nicol Williamson infused exorcism are the only flaws in what is otherwise a very good horror/supernatural thriller. Scott and Dourif are both excellent and in a very limited role, so is Jason Miller. It has two scary moments that I will remember forever and it is a much better film than people give it credit for being. This film deserves much better than it has gotten and I've rarely shown it to anyone who hasn't liked it. Much under-rated and highly deserving of a second chance. "}{"Title":"Exorcist III Legion = Best of the Exorcist Series","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I picked this up, I was expecting some poor shoddy sequel like Exorcist II was before it- too different and too dull. This is much more compelling than the first one, and while not as horrifying as the first, that is what makes it better.In Exorcist, there are a few terribly disturbing bits in there. Its more of shock value to me. Exorcist III does not have many shocking bits *Though the nurse getting gutted by one of the Gemini's legions was kind of a shock*, but it makes up well with the storyline.Oh, and George C. Scott plays Kinderman just as well as Cobb did in Exorcist I. His sometimes witty or sometimes sarcastic statements *Especially the What are Rabies bit near the beginning* sort of grew on me.Exorcist was also just plain gross at times. Exorcist III never had as much gross bits.I like EIII because its less disturbing than the original but not as terrible as the so called Exorcist II. This is the true second Exorcist.Oh, and Brad Dourif was just plain awesome in this film. He was rather cunning in how he gave hints to Kinderman about how he *The Gemini* works. His voice is antagonizing yet rather nice- which makes it effective.Overall, this film is awesome. Those who did not watch it closely would not get it.My only complaint- and its just a nitpick- why did they not use the original title of Legion. This has no connection to the horrible sequel of Exorcist II, but the title might be slightly misleading. Exorcist Legion might have been more effective.Overall, a less disturbing yet more compelling film than Exorcist. Those who expect Exorcist-like story lines will be saddened. Those who don't expect it to be formulaic *Like most sequels are* will love this film. "},{"Title":"IT'S A Wonderful LIFE!!","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One should be in utter awe of this masterpiece of eerie horror, I certainly am! William Peter Blatty has crafted a diabolical dream, that is so dark, twisted and complex, that it comes off as truly exhilarating. If you are among the few that has an attention span of more than five minutes, if you are intelligent and discerning, if you appreciate irony and great comical moments, if you appreciate that philosophical dialogue contain more depth than any special effect ever could, if you want to watch evil take absolute center stage, voicing monologues with such beautiful majesty(...as he watches while I rip and cut and mutilate the innocent, his friends,and again and again, and on and on. He is inside with us, he will never get away, his pain won't end...), if you want to behold one of the most brilliant and one of the darkest films ever made, then look no further than this portrait of psychotic night. If there ever was a Satan, he should give Blatty an A for excellent work, don't you think?! "},{"Title":"An improvement over the last film.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the third installment to this popular series, a Detective investigates a series of slayings & supernatural happenings that resemble the work of a serial killer executed on the same night of the exorcism in 1973, as time goes on, the Detective feels that Father Damien Karras who performed the exorcism & eventually or supposedly killed himself, didn't die that night & may be possessed himself. To be sure EXORCIST 3 is much better than the second installment, it's not boring like that film & keeps you interested, but on the other hand it falls short of the original in terms of scares & suspense. The acting worked well & director WILLIAM PETER BLATTY who wrote the original turned out to be a talented director, but somehow it dosen't work. Still a decent try & worth a look for fans of the genre, but it's nothing to special. Followed by a prequel, EXORCIST THE BEGINNING **1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"A Legion Of Scares","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" William Peter Blatty adapted his novel and directed the film version of the second sequel to his blockbuster hit. Fifteen years later, Lt. William F. Kinderman (played here by George C. Scott, RIP) is still haunted by the tragic, mysterious death of his friend, Father Damien Karras (the the late Jason Miller, back in fine form). Then a grisly string of murders he investigates seems strangely connected with a case he worked several years previously. The culprit was the Gemini Killer, and Kinderman is informed that a patient in the psychiatric ward of the local hospital is claiming responsibility for the crimes. The detective decides to confront the patient, but he knows it's impossible for this person to be the Gemini - the murderer was executed in the electric chair - on the very night that Father Karras successfully expelled the demon in the first film.Kinderman is in no way prepared for what he is about to face - evil wearing the face of his old friend, the priest's soul being tormented for the devil's pleasure - and a bloody rampage that claims the life of another friend, Father Joesph Dyer (Ed Flanders, RIP). Braving the supernatural force, the detective must face his worst foe to end the crime spree and free his friend's soul . . . . . .Blatty wisely did not try to top his original masterpiece; instead, he presents a portrait of a few of his key characters engaged in their own battles and trying to contemplate the meaning of life and death in general, all the while incorporated the supernatural to reach the point. The movie seems to have a more significant meaning since many of the top billed cast members have now passed on. Understandably, the film did not do well at the box office due to the previous sequel's disaster, but LEGION is an underrated gem. If you have seen the first film, you might like to see this one. Try to remember that it became before The Silence Of The Lambs. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and cerebral. An ideal continuation of the original.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all I recommend to readers that they try the original book 'Legion' by William Peter Blatty which gives a clearer picture of what the film should have been like before the studio executives got their hands on it. And also that you see 'The Ninth Configuration' also directed by Mr Blatty which confirms both his style and competence. (it's a very moving, funny and creepy film just as this would have been) George C Scott is perfect as Kinderman, his humanity laid bare by his repulsion at what is humanly possible and his love for family and friends. like Karras in the original film (and book) he challenges the existence of a God that allows death, pain, loss and suffering. The sad thing about the cut of the film available is that it creates the impression that Kinderman in the end is convinced that the devil exists but the divine is largely absent. Only a repeat of the sacrifice of Father Karras from the first story shows any victory for good. Brad Dourif is also totally convincing as the spirit of the serial killer inhabiting Karras. I would have liked to have seen more about the Gemini in the film (once again read the book for this) Nicol Williamson's Father Morning, isn't in the book nor is the flashy ending. It smells badly of studio interference again and I hope Blatty gets a chance to do a directors cut to rectify these scenes. This film is creepy enough without the need for the gore and push button shocks that most modern films fall back on way too much. It's also (and this might seem odd for a film of this type) a very funny film. Blatty started out writing comedy and it shows. Give this film a chance, it has one scene that will make you jump out of your skin (I guarantee this!) And a lot to say about the human condition.  "},{"Title":"The Exorcist III (1990) ***1/2","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's now hard for me to accept that I disliked this film in 1990 when I first saw it in the theater; because through subsequent viewings at home, I've come to really like it. Just proves that certain movies get better if you give them the chance, and THE EXORCIST III is one of the best examples I can think of where a feature needs to be studied more than once to be fully appreciated.It was written and directed by William Peter Blatty, author of the original THE EXORCIST. Blatty was never quite pleased with certain aspects of William Friedkin's film version of his book, and even despised EXORCIST II - THE HERETIC (don't we all?) so he managed to satisfy himself (and perhaps those of us who loathed PART II right along with him) by fashioning a compelling and understated horror tale that actually functions better as a detective story and a proper followup to the original horror classic.Part III features George C. Scott taking over the role of Lt. Kinderman from the late Lee J. Cobb. On the 15th Anniversary of the death of Father Karras, Scott starts becoming aware of a string of brutal murders that seem to match the M.O. of a serial killer that was executed on the same fateful night that Karras took his deadly plunge down the stairway at the end of the first film. It turns out that Karras is still alive in a sanitarium, but possessed by the soul of the serial killer (played by Brad Dourif, who comes off partly effective, partly rambling). Working through the broken body of Father Karras in his cell, the killer is continuing his old murders by channeling his will through elderly catatonic patients in the hospital.One of the personal thrills for me was to see Jason Miller reprise his role as Father Karras, this time a helpless victim of the serial killer with an occasional moment or two of clarity within his own self. George C. Scott delivers a fabulous performance and was a perfect choice to continue the role of Kinderman from THE EXORCIST. Of course the movie has its flaws, the worst being the inclusion of an exorcism which Blatty never wanted to film but which the studio insisted on when they called the feature EXORCIST III (Blatty's unrealized title was to have been LEGION, based on his novel of the same name). There occasionally seems to be bits of unrelated business belonging to some other film here and there, due to post-production tampering. If not for these unfortunate kinks, EXORCIST III night have emerged as an excellent film instead of a good one.As of this writing there is strong talk of a Director's Cut DVD in the works, offering up Blatty's intended version of the movie. This can only make the film even better. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist III I did like this movie. I thought it was good to watch. I did like the other 2 exorcist movies i liked the first one but i enjoyed the second exorcist movie more than the 3rd and the 1st. I think this movie is based on the Priest that got the demon to be possessed on him in the first exorcist movie. I am looking forward to the 4th exorcist movie the beginning. i give exorcist 3 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why bother with any more sequels? The original Exorcist was a stand alone film that told a complete story. Exorcist II was a bad enough omen to tell future film makers what was to come. This one suffers from what Exorcist II suffered from. Excessive re-cutting, re-shooting and massive re-writes have made the proceedings in this one confusing and hard to follow. George C. Scott isn't even able to lift the film's burdens. Only thing saving it from a one star rating is a few memorably spooky set pieces. Otherwise, consider yourself forewarned.Rated R. "},{"Title":"Just like part 2, it doesnt cut the mustard...or cheese, whichever sounds better...","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist III starts out very promising, with good acting, a somewhat original plot (that never actually is clear), and good suspense. But, occasionally, like some good movies, it has to end by one small, but effective flaw. I've seen Exorcist 1, and it was a brilliantly written, frightening masterpiece. A good film. I then saw part II, which turned out to be one of the worst movies of all time because everything from the first film was absent. The only thing that remained was the main star, Linda Blair. So, last Christmas, I saw this on DVD for $6.00. If I see a DVD that has a chance of being good for six bucks, I'll buy it. So, I did, and now, a few months after, I finally take a look at it. Like I said, the movie looked promising from the trailer, and it starts off good, but crumbles when it reaches the second half. Brad Dourif (known for his voice over work as Chucky, from Child's Play), plays as a mental patient who claims that he is responsible for recent murders. Brad Dourif gives a good performance, and delivers his lines well, as does the rest of the cast, whom each are helped out by a good script. There's nothing wrong with the acting, or script, it's the movie itself. It's filled with nonsensical and mindless jabbering from Dourif's character, and the occasional meaningless ramble. The movie itself never really does have a plot, though it has a few semi-chilling moments, such as the scene where the old lady crawls on the ceiling like a bug, but that's about all. The movie is nothing like the original, even though it was written and directed by the man who wrote the first film (William Peter Blatty). This film really isn't that good, and his has virtually nothing to do with exorcism. The film would have been good if half of it wasn't wasted by mindless speeches from Dourif's character. Exorcist III has potential, but it was all put to waste, and was thrown and flushed down the toilet. The upcoming part four has achance for redemption, but if it fails, the series will be permanently dead.Score 4 ½ out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Exorcist III is spooky and Brad Dourif makes it worse)","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Exorcist III is one heck of a spooky film. You never know what is going to happen in this chiller thriller. Once in a while in the film the great actor George C. Scott is funny. Brad Dourif puts on a fantastic performance that in MY opinion was oscar worthy. He put so much emotion and anger into this role I mean he did it all. He is always great in his films but this was outstanding! Exorcist III is a very spooky film and I don`t think anyone will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Better than the first two 'Excorist' movies!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It may be hard to believe, but I found THE EXCORIST 3 to be better than the first two EXCORIST movies. The first to are scary, but this one is horrifying. Brad Dourif is extremely creepy and the special effects are first-rate. If you liked the first two EXCORIST movies, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"My God, the Grammar","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Police lieutenant William Kinderman (George C. Scott) tries to solve a series of murders that matches those of the Gemini Killer (Brad Dourif), who was executed fifteen years before. William Peter Blatty directed and wrote this based on his novel Legion. It's famous for having been tampered with in post-production by a studio that wanted more of a typical schlocky horror film than a supernatural detective story. Given this, it's amazing Exorcist III turned out as good as it did. It's certainly light years better than Part 2, which is widely considered one of the worst films of all time. It does have flaws and it won't please everybody. It's certainly not in the same league as the original Exorcist. But it's an intelligent and interesting horror film with a good cast and some truly creepy moments. "},{"Title":"mixed feeling","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III (1990) This I have really mixed feeling about, It is much better the Second movie in the series but still not as Great as the first one.But this did have a very creepy atmosphere at the start of the movie and the snap of Jesus eye opens was little creepy.As movie went, It did kinds of lose that creepy feeling as it turn into bit more of true psychological thriller then . creepy or scary horror movie.I did some scenes very boring to watch, I felt they drag some scenes a little to longs in this movie.There were some strange scenes near end of the movie, Which I thought were little odd, I did find it a little funny.There one scenes that really took me by surprised is near the end as I didn't expected this movie gory at all, then one really nasty gory scenes near the end.The acting from everyone in this movie was really good.5/10 "},{"Title":"A slow burn with a studio mandated ending at right angles to the whole thing","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is certainly an improvement over part II, though as long as Blatty kept the film in focus and didn't use the infamous synchronizer from part II, it wouldn't take much to best that hilarious disaster. This begins with some witty dialogue between George C Scott and Ed Flanders as a cop and a priest who are friends, who keep each other company each year on the day father Karras threw himself down those infamous steps. Flanders is written out pretty quickly and it becomes clear his character serves mostly as a connection to the first film and little else. The story becomes muddled when events shift to the psych ward, the pacing grinds to a halt and the tone begins to feel like a 2nd rate giallo film - minus the explicit gore. The scenes with Brad Dourif feel endless and the studio mandated exorcism ending is at complete odds to the tone and style of the film. The moment super priest Father Morning enters, it's blatantly obvious the last reel has been trashed and replaced with a goofy ending. There's some well crafted suspense and intrigue, but this is mediocre work and nobody seems more disappointed in the final product than Blatty himself. "},{"Title":"Don't write the series of just because of E2 - this is good stuff!","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had the misfortune of watching The Exorcist 2 a couple months back.The film was boring, lazy and in no way a worthy successor to the original film, so the writer decided enough and took the reins for The Exorcist 3, both writing the screenplay and directing the film - and he did a far better job.The problem faced by this film is twofold, firstly regardless of how good it is people will still say that sure it's better than 2, but that's not hard, the other problem is that there was no way that it would top The Exorcist, still a classic 30+ years after release.And of course here we are, a film far superior to the god-awful second, but not quite in the same league as the first, though precious few films are.William Peter Blatty the writer of the original and this, and the director of 3 keeps a consistently creepy tone, there isn't much violence shown on screen or even after the event, though there are some pretty graphic descriptions. The only variations are the first couple of minutes and the ultimate showdown finale, which veer dangerously into cheesy territory.Take the intro as a prime example, after some ominous nothings a church door flies open and leaves and debris fly in, which apparently awakens a statue of Jesus on the cross, who then cries? Seriously, this really happened. Naughty leaves, you woke Jesus! I can't help but feel that somehow a studio got involved and told the director look we like what you've done, but you have to open the film with a bang and close it with a big wild showdown. Neither change helped the film but it doesn't really detract too much.The film is filled with realistic, normal everyday looking characters who talk in a fairly realistic way, given what occurs around them of course.The basic plot is different to both the original and 2, no Reagan here, although she is very briefly referenced early on. A cop named Bill Kinderman, who was good friends with the priest from the first film, is now good buddies with another priest, Father Dyer who is a little morose about the state of the world. They obviously have known each other for some time and discuss their situations freely. He tells the priest of a recent killing, a young teenage boy is decapitated and the body butchered in ritualistic fashion, shortly after another priest is murdered while hearing confession also in graphic fashion.Given his occupation and what he sees everyday Bill has a pretty wacko dream, and I mean wacko. Want proof? Not only does the dream sequence have some pretty out there stuff going on, it also has Fabio and Samuel L Jackson as bystanders and a young Patrick Ewing as the Angel of Death.Bill wakes up to find out that Father Dyer is dead in hospital, and not just dead, drained of blood dead.Bill immediately orders the hospital shut down, much to the chagrin of the hospital management. He then explains the nature of a case from 15 years prior, the case of the Gemini Killer.The Gemini Killer was a serial killer who performed depraved, unworldly executions of innocent and somewhat random victims, Bill goes on to describe specific details that were not released to the public, but which are now being performed on the new victims, the boy and priests. Bill believes that somehow the Gemini Killer is back.Lo and behold a patient in the same hospital claims to be the killer, and in a one on one chat he tells Bill in no uncertain terms that this is the case, and describes several things that only the killer would know. Not only this, but to Bill from time to time the patient appears to change from the actor Brad Dourif to Father Karras from the original film, this would obviously be a bit unnerving, on top of this his voice alters periodically into a demonic rasp.To describe what happens after would start giving the game away, nonetheless Bill and the Gemini Killer are destined to come face to face, Brad Dourif gives a powerful performance which could have easily been cartoonish and hammy in lesser hands.There are two really memorable scenes in the second half of the film, one has echoes of events in the first but is pretty jaw dropping and unexpected when it happens, the second is pretty well known and occurs over a patient two minute single shot when a nurse in the hospital is doing her rounds.I remember a few years back there were two Exorcist prequels being released at the same time, so they altered the names a little.I bet Blatty wishes that he could retitle The Exorcist 2 to anything but, as The Exorcist 3 is the only worthy sequel to the masterful original, and a strong movie in its own right.Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. Don't write everything in this series off after the second horrible rubbish. This is good stuff.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Creepy moments don't quite make up for crappy film","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are several very effective scary parts of this film.  The old lady, the white figure...  When I saw this film in the theatre when it came out someone started screaming during a particularly tense moment.Unfortunately the film doesn't hold up too well over time.  It looks pretty dated and the creepy bits, while still very eerie, do not make it worth sitting through all the tedious boring parts.George C. Scott is pretty good though.  And that has to be the voice of Colleen Dewhurst as the demon, no one had a voice like she did, but she doesn't seem to be credited anywhere.  Am I hallucinating? "},{"Title":"Great psychological horror","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ignoring what an abomination Exorcist II was, Wm. Peter Blatty returned to his long dormant sequel to The Exorcist, with this well cast thriller, concerning a cop investigating a series of brutal killings whose Modus Operandi is that of a serial killer executed 17 years earlier. He learns of a catatonic asylum inmate who claims to be the real killer, and who bears an uncanny resemblance to the long thought deceased Father Damian Karras.Blatty, forced by the studio to cast Jason Miller from the original film, does a great job of integrating his character into the story, in almost a Jekyll and Hyde/ split personality situation. The literary screenplay, while occasionally verbose, is very well written, giving the audience plenty of psychological stimuli, mixing detective story, thriller, and horror genres, along with some quite witty banter to relieve the tension, and give the audience a chance to catch their breath.This is a good horror, without being as intentionally gruesome as the first film. Subtle, intellectual horror, venturing deep into the corridors of this Jekyll/ Hyde villain's twisted mind, and ultimately giving closure to the first film's story, yet it still gives us a few shocks, with the killer jumping up being the nurse, with shears in hand, the white sheet covering him brightly lit, with a quick musical crescendo, which echoes for several seconds being my favourite scene in the film. I think this is my favourite in this trilogy, although I am reducing its score a bit due to the studio interference, which occasionally results in some choppy editing. Curiously though, the climactic exorcism (which was also forced on Blatty by the studio) really does seem out of place. Blatty should have been allowed to keep his original low key ending. "},{"Title":"Catatonic are so easy to possess.....","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Lt. Kinderman and Father Dyer meet up on the anniversary of the death of their mutual friend, Father Damien Karras, by going to see It's a Wonderful Life at the local cinema. But there's no cheering Kinderman while a particularly cruel and gruesome serial killer is at large. His murders, which involve torture, decapitation and the desecration of religious icons, resemble those of the Gemini Killer, who has been dead for fifteen years....Ignoring the events of Boormans brilliantly barking mad, but awful sequel, this is Blattys movie from his own book, Legion. And while it's not a patch on the original, which is the greatest horror movie ever made, its a pretty good movie.If you haven't seen the original, then it won't make any sense to you, let alone the emotion that comes to the screen, when we are reunited with Jason Miller.George C Scott looks bewildered half of the time, and the most intense scenes are in the cell, but there are some really good scenes, and in my opinion, this film features one of the best scares in a movie. Ever.Dourif steals the movie as Patient X, and it's visually stunning in some scenes, but the studio ruined the end of the movie, by 'having' to have an Exorcism in there.All in all, its a good movie, nothing groundbreaking, but fun while it lasts. "},{"Title":"Exorcist 2 ( forget about that awful 1970s sequel)","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The story is pleasingly back in the hands of the man who started it all. Exorcist 3, beautifully directed by Blatty himself, can be ranked not too far below the original.Set 15 years after the events in Washington, Exorcist 3 focuses on a series of crime which have been gruesomely inflicted upon associates close to Detective Kinderman. The Motive is uncertain and not an inkling if suspicious in put on anyone.Kinderman, while not a major character in the original film (though in the novel he is.) has the leading narrative in the film. George.C.Scott doesn't let us down with overtaking Lee.J.Cobb's role on playing Kinderman.Whereas The Exorcist 2 focused on the demon still inside Reagan, portraying a different sense of evil, Exorcist 3 goes back to the films old root and dives back into the mystery of possession and how Good can Challenge evil's dominance.With Blatty at the reins, both with the pen and camera, Exorcist 3 Is the true sequel to the one of the greatest horror story told. The film's focus on the demon which terrorised Georgetown many years back doesn't start until the latter half of the film. Before all that though, the audience is taken on a stimulating ride on belief, personal torment and grief as Kinderman (along with Father Dyer) desperately tries to comprehend the events which happened on those years back.At times, you don't realise you're watching a horror, with the character driven story and the slow build up. But nonetheless, Blatty has a knack on making any scene spooky. The church scene has a mystical flair to it and the dream sequence leaves you dreading the turn of the events which inevitably happen afterwards. And then there's one or two scenes which catch you off guard.If you were worried about the quality of storytelling after watching the dreadful Exorcist 2, then let me say, have no fear, this film delivers, along with Brad Dourif supporting role. "},{"Title":"The law of diminishing returns compels you!","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Don't you know there ain't no devil; it's just god when he's drunk. - Tom Waits William Blatty, author of The Exorcist, directs The Exorcist 3. It's a heavily compromised picture, the film's producers ordering Blatty to squeeze an exorcism into the film's last act, replace actors and inject several unnecessary shocking moments throughout. The original Exorcist was released when a bevy of changes were rocketing across American society. Though shocking the film put forth a very conservative messages, attempting to restore a pre-counterculture order in which daddy is boss, children don't swear, mommy doesn't work, sex and science are bad and everyone believes in God. Indeed, much of the film involved foul mouthed kids and liberal women being schooled in the importance of God, Christ, the Bible, faith and good manners. The film even had extended subplots which portrayed false churches and false priests &#x96; teachers, universities, professors, doctors, hospitals, science etc &#x96; as ineffective charlatans who serve only to bring about unnecessary suffering. Whilst genuinely horrific, the film nevertheless played like a giant exploitation movie, gore, special effects and swear words schematically rolled out to jolt its audience. This is the kind of film in which a little girl called Regan is graphically abused, given a spinal tap, masturbates with a crucifix, drops F bombs and beats up priests, all to convince you that Jesus loves you. Much has been written about the original Exorcist's underlying messages. One of the film's implicit points, then, is the need for a father to protect and discipline women and children, Michael Ryan writes in his 1988 book, The Political Ideology of Contemporary Hollywood Film, a book which examines The Exorcist in light of its era's growing distrust in figureheads and social unrest. In this regard The Exorcist is a kind of parental fantasy, in which a deeply troubled adolescent is coerced through a period of rebellion into maturity, reinforcing patriarchal authority along the way. Once the family unit is restored with the presence of a Father, normality returns.In The Exorcist, Mark Jancovich writes in his book Rational Fears, the world of the symbolic, represented by a priest-as-father, and the world of the pre-symbolic, represented by woman aligned with the devil, clash head-on in scenes where the foulness of woman is signified by her putrid, filthy body covered in blood, urine, excrement and bile. Michael Ryan echoes this demonic possession here is an unconscious metaphor for fears about independent women and female sexuality; the resolution offered reassures a threatened patriarchy that male paternalism will restore discipline and authority to an unruly post-sixties society. Elsewhere Jonathan Rosenbaum would cite the film as one of many examples of post sixties backlash cinema, films which react to the rise of feminism, hippie and civil rights movements. Unsurprisingly, after Regan is possessed, friends and family begin to suspect that the poor girl is doing drugs. Do you keep drugs in the house? one concerned character asks. Later Regan poses on a bed like a seductive temptress, and a priest beats her until she submits to his power and becomes a good little girl again. The message something, some force, is possessing our kids, making them swear, masturbate, pee, act disobedient, riot, do drugs, have sex, be promiscuous and ask questions. The solution? A very specific breed of hard-lined Conservatism.The rest of the film was hardly subtle, using its little child to make the majority of its points. It brutalises poor Regan to show that evil exists, it brutalises her to show that science is unfeeling, it uses the girl to represent innocence and wheels her out to spout obscenities, be injected by needles or receive spinal taps. The film was a kind of shock pornography; child abuse in the name of all that is holy, though of course Christianity (and all authority) has long used abuse, fire and brimstone as a kind of emotional blackmail. Contrast this with less successful horror films of The Exorcist's era, like The Wicker Man and Ken Russell's The Devil's, the former also about a man attempting to rescue a demon possessed girl but failing because Christ doesn't listen, and the latter which takes the position that possession is but a product of religious frenzy. What does this all have to do with Exorcist 3? Very little, which makes Exorcist 3 one of the only watchable films in the Exorcist franchise. Indeed, what few ties there are between the movies were forced there by the studios, as Blatty intended to make a wholly stand-alone film. His plot? The incomparable George C. Scott plays a small town police detective who's investigating a series of bizarre murders. Blatty's point, in theory, is that evil is legion (ie plentiful) and exists as a kind of spectre which sleeps within all men, causing some to awaken and cause horrible crimes. In the actual film, however, evil (thanks to producers) specifically becomes the mischievous demon from The Exorcist, which is able to possess people and turn them into serial killers. Of course if you know anything about the causes of crime and serial killers, this is absolute nonsense, but George C. Scott sells the story. He's an unconventional choice for such a character, bumbling about the film with a massive pot belly and crankily conversing with a local priest (they love It's a Wonderful Life and have cookie-cutter existential conversations resemblant of The Brothers Karamazov). There are clichés here and there, but the film sports a creepily subdued mood, eerie cinematography (brightly lit yet chilly) and manages to contain one of cinema's greatest peek-a-boo scenes, in which a nurse is decapitated in a hospital. Ultimately, though, how much value you get out of Exorcist 3 depends on how willing you are to overlook the film's more stupid moments, like studio inserted shocks, a last act exorcism (complete with bad special effects) and a dumb home invasion.7.9/10 &#x96; Underrated. Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"this is better than a lot of films","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" if I had to choose between this and how to get a head in advertising, this one would come up tops. perhaps one of frank millers best screen plays. or not one of his best? the best bit has to be the old lady crawling over the ceiling. it started off almost like a police thriller but ended up as a horror cheese fest. the murders committed were dark and terrifying. thankfully i had a companion to watch with else i don't know what i would have done with myself in the night.if I had to choose between this and how to get a head in advertising, this one would come up tops. perhaps one of frank millers best screen plays. or not one of his best? the best bit has to be the old lady crawling over the ceiling. it started off almost like a police thriller but ended up as a horror cheese fest. the murders committed were dark and terrifying. thankfully i had a companion to watch with else i don't know what i would have done with myself in the night. "},{"Title":"Slow moving until near the end","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to say this flick could have been done a little better, but when I saw it through the second time, I realized how the characters were chosen not so much to be believable, but to be scary.Scott as always did a tremendous job, but way way to old to be believable as a father with mother living and young daughter. Also cops retire at 50-55, mandatory.None the less, his choice for the role, I believe was excellent as long as you didn't think this was intended as something that actually could happen.My very favorite scene is the old woman, transformed into some sort of creature that walked across the ceiling. Other special effects were great also.So over all I bought this for 6.00 dollar DVD close out. How could I complain. Yes, I'll watch it again, unlike most cheesy horror flicks I'be seen. "},{"Title":"Deserves its IMDb rating!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Watched it last night for the first time. Found it pretty average ... George C. Scott is great though ... and there were a few very creepy moments. Unfortunately though, the film as a who-dunnit-it sucked. It was quite obvious early on as to the means used in performing the murders.The film was also guilty of treating its audience like idiots e.g. (Minor spoiler alert here) When it was revealed that the fingerprints from the confessional were different to those found in the first murder, George blurts out something like so we have two different killers. Totally redundant dialogue. There are a few other examples of this in the film where I just had to groan.And as for the exorcism scene, its a joke.In conclusion, this film is nothing in comparison to the original exorcist movie. The original is much richer thematically, more horrifying and more atmospheric. The exorcist III is merely a mediocre horror/Detective hybrid video flick.If you want to see a really good horror film with George C. Scott in it, go check out The Changeling. "},{"Title":"An Interesting, But Ultimately Sick Motion Picture","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Exorcist III is the only true sequel to William Peter Blatty's original The Exorcist.  The second installment of the series had nothing to do with Blatty's vision and the entire project suffered from that fact.  This film is based on his follow-up novel Legion which follows the Jason Miller character instead of Linda Blair's character.  The other prevalent figure is Lieutenant Kindermann (George C. Scott who plays the part that was originally played by Lee J. Cobb). Scott is trying to figure out who is committing some grisly crimes around the Georgetown area.  He believes that it is one crazed maniac, but every crime scene has different fingerprints left.  When he learns that all of the suspects are elderly, catatonic patients at a local hospital, the suspense builds.  He happens upon a disturbed ward in the hospital and sees a man who eerily resembles his deceased friend Damien Karras (Miller).  When he actually talks to the man he feels that it is indeed his old friend but the man says that he is the Gemini Killer, an also deceased man who was sent to the electric chair the exact same night that Karras fell down that long flight of stairs. When Scott does not believe him he shows him a different side of himself.  He literally changes form to become the image of the aforementioned killer (Brad Dourif).  From there Scott and Miller/Dourif have a chess match of words within the ward, with Scott trying to figure out how to stop the unworldy spirit (which he still does not really believe in).  Dourif methodically gives details on how the demon from the first film possessed him, while Miller was somewhat trapped because the two spirits used his body to survive.  Possession is also discussed as Dourif tells Scott that he is jumping to the bodies of the old catatonic patients of the hospital to commit his crimes.  When Father Morning (Nicol Williamson) learns of the goings-on, he decides that another exorcism is the only way to eliminate the demon for good.  Throughout the film, grisly murders continue and the possibility of someone actually doing these things is somewhat sick and disturbing to the normal viewer.  The Exorcist III is very complicated in most respects.  One will likely have to see it multiple times (if you can stand it) to get the full effect of what Blatty is trying to say here.  Overall the film is a near miss.  George C. Scott is excellent, as usual, but no one else can give him ample support.  Miller lacks the material that made his character so richly developed in the original and Brad Dourif plays a psychopath to the hilt, but he also somewhat misses the mark.  Everyone else is dull and under-developed.  Blatty's screenplay is very good, almost as good as the original. However, it somewhat over-plays itself and tries to explain material that really does not need to be discussed between the characters.  His direction is adequate (he uses many of the same techniques that Friedkin used in the first film), but somewhat overbearing and in-your-face.  All in all a worthy effort, but disturbing and difficult to sit through.  2.5 out of 5 stars.             "},{"Title":"Better than II","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" William Peter Blatty's adaptation of his own novel is an admirable film in some ways. It has integrity (rare in a horror sequel), it doesn't rehash the original, and it's well scripted for the most part (a nice change after its incomprehensible predecessor). The links to the first film could be more deftly handled but are, in the context of the movie's revelations, at least plausible; Blatty manages to resurrect a dead character in a way that doesn't raise so much as a groan. But this is a slow, SLOW film in which everyone talks as if they're heavily medicated, except George C. Scott, who snaps at everybody. The unseen chills are an improvement on the original's OTT comedy upchucks but aren't scary either, and the religious symbolism won't have an effect if you're not the God-fearing type. Even the interesting elements peter out around the halfway mark, which is a shame because there are good intentions at work here. "},{"Title":"The best in the series! Yes, BETTER than the almighty original!","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I took the opportunity to re-watch all three Exorcist films in one weekend in order to make the most accurate comparison possible. Let me come straight to the point&#133;.I doubt many people will agree with me but I think this is the BEST in the series. I've seen the Exorcist quite a few times by now (including the director's cut or the so-called version you've never seen) but not once did I feel like I was watching a true masterpiece (hey, at least The Exorcist kept me fascinated throughout its entire playtime. I really had to struggle my way through the lousy sequel The Heretic and that one might easily be the most redundant film ever made&#133;) . Yes, I also regard The Exorcist as an essential movie and one of the few films that co-formed the horror genre but I definitely think it's overrated and the reasons why I prefer Legion are simple and as following1. The 1973 original too much depends on only A FEW powerful and mesmerizing sequences instead of a being a coherent wholesome. The sequences showing young possessed Regan are fascinating but the rest is uninteresting talking. Now, Legion mainly is talking as well but &#150; I don't know &#150; it's a lot more involving. How many people among you really cared about father Karras' mother dying in the original? Or the torn familial situation of mother/actress Chris Mac Neil? Or the archaeological findings of Father Merrin in Iraq? Well, I sure don't&#133;.Legion, on the contrary, handled about a pitch-black matter. The return of a feared and inhuman serial killer blend with elements of religion, supernatural events and deep anti-social behavior. 2. Let's face it&#133;(dramatization) The Exorcist is nothing but an expanded Catholic treatise, giving us insights about what the Church considers to be evil. Aside from very intelligent use of technical eeriness, The Exorcist is definitely not the scariest movie of all time, not even the best tale handling about religious evil (check out The Omen for that). Let's just say it is fundamental viewing in case the horror genre fascinates you. Even though Legion obviously depends on its religious background as well, I get the feeling that the Catholicism isn't shoved down your throat here. William Peter Blatty clearly hasn't lost his obsession for religion since he wrote his notorious novel The Exorcist but at least I Dion't feel the necessity to pray for salvation this time, after seeing Legion. Anyway, onwards with my more specified thoughts on Exorcist chapter III Legion. Okay, I admit&#133;I'm a sucker for serial killer portraits and seeing I was already familiar with the real-life murderer The Zodiac this story fascinated me from the first minute right till the last. To a sick and twisted mind like me, this is just a perfect film heavy, devastating monologues about barbaric modus operandi and endless expeditions into the darkest chambers of the (in)human mind. With the right actors in the protagonists' roles (as it is the case here) a film like this becomes a modest masterpiece in my eyes. George C. Scott is excellent in roles where he plays a skeptic and exhausted lonely man (please check out titles like The Changeling and Hardcore to state this opinion further) but the real power here comes from the always-amazing Brad Douriff. The way he monotonously and straight-facing-camera talks about murdering human beings (even downright glorifying it as pure art) gives an entire new meaning to the word 'terror'. The film's plot is as compelling as it is complex. Fifteen years after the infamous exorcism of young Regan MacNeil, which cost the life to father Damien Karras, his old friend Lt. Kinderman faces a series of murders with a Catholic tan. The killer's trademarks strangely resemble those of the Gemini Killer, only he also died fifteen years earlier&#133;in the electric chair. Deep down the cellars of Georgetown's mental asylum (if you can call it that) someone claims recognition for the murders. When Kinderman goes to interrogate him, he's severely shocked to see the man is father Karras. Legion is a nearly brilliant wholesome of frights and shocks&#133;but not in the least how you're used to witnessing them. With the excessive use of vocal violence and a unique use of building up tension, implementing cheap gore 'n guts would only ruin a story like this. Even more than the legendary 1973 original, this film relies on the truly chilling power of suggestion!! Even though I like my portion of gore as much as the next horror fan, I thought this is a better film without gruesome scenes. Even the explicit climax is unnecessarily and quite a misfit considering the tone used throughout the whole movie. Yet, it's the only sequence featuring actual gore. William Peter Blatty is a very professional director in my book and one who clearly upholds his goals and ambitions. Even thought the producers somewhat forced him to make this sequel more accessible to the fans of the original Exorcist, he still manages mark this film with his own style and ambitions. The haunting atmosphere is brought to an even higher level thanks to the sublime use of ultra-eerie set pieces and chilling imagery. In conclusion I love this film!! And you should, too &#133; I think it describes itself best as a film that makes your blood pump faster to your heart AND it stimulates your brain activity at the same! That's a rare and unique combination that every horror fanatic should admire. "},{"Title":"Exorcist III Much Better Than Exorcist II The Heretic","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the disappointments, howls of laughter, and John Boorman's reedited Exorcist II The Heretic failed so miserably with the critics, few thought the franchise would be resurrected yet again for a third film Exorcist III Legion. However, it was well known that William Peter Blatty had a script featuring Lieutenant Kinderman from the first film, which was reworked to the point of being unrecognizable in the second film. As a result, director William Friedkin and Ellen Burstyn stayed away from the second film. Somehow the idea reemerged and Blatty directed this film himself after failing to persuade Friedkin and then horror maven John Carpenter to step in.George C. Scott was an excellent choice to play Kinderman, the role created by Lee J. Cobb in the original film. Scott has just the right combination of cunning, determination, intelligence, and psychological vulnerability to portray a policeman on the trail of a diabolical mystery. The top notch acting extends to the supporting roles as well, with Ed Flanders, Brad Dourif, Nicol Williamson, Scott Wilson, Nancy Fish, George DiCenzo, and Viveca Lindfors adding credibility and talent to the roles they play. Jason Miller also returns in a very unique role. Unlike the second film with Richard Burton, the acting makes this film work along with the much better script. William Peter Blatty had to rework the script several times in order to satisfy studio bigwigs with establishing more of a connection, however remote, with the first film (including changing the title of the film to Exorcist III Legion, instead of just Legion). Hence, the addition of Jason Miller to the cast, who played Father Karras in the original film. As a result, the main weakness of the film is the existential/metaphysical/religious elements involving the characters played by Brad Dourif and Jason Miller. The film would have worked, and much better at that, without the forced connection to the whole exorcist story. As it is, some less sophisticated viewers may erroneously equate possession with mental illness. The film contains pretty good special effects, as well as some frightening scenes, the hallway scene with the nurses' station among them. However, no real psychiatric ward would be as poorly lit as the one in the film obviously. The effects in this film actually are as good and better than anything in any of the other exorcist films, including the two prequels made later. Several notables appear briefly in the film, including Samuel L. Jackson and Larry King. Georgetown University basketball coach John Thompson appears, and New York Knicks' star Patrick Ewing and male model Fabio appear as angels in a dream sequence. Colleen Dewhurst, ex-wife x 2 of George C. Scott, provides the demonic voice and maybe more than a passing frightening frame of reference for Scott. **1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"decent sequel","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  decent sequel comes  no where close of matching the original but is still a alright viewing but it has a slow pace so get prepared to pay attention cause that's what your going to get i give this movie a **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"What were they doing?!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As anyone could probably guess, this was not a good movie. George C. Scott seemed a little... I don't know... gassy? Random shouting and yelling at people; I still don't get it (listen for We're fine! and It is not in the file! It is NOT!!). There was some dialog about a carp at the beginning that you can find under the memorable quotes section that seemed to have some relevance, but not enough to keep it from sounding very silly. The entire movie was boring and slow, except the gross parts and the scenes with Brad Dourif as the Gemini Killer. Dourif is brilliant in this film, however impossible it may seem. I love him. If you're a fan, this movie is a must-see. If not, look for him in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Eyes of Laura Mars, Wise Blood, Ragtime, Blue Velvet, Mississippi Burning, the upcoming Lord of the Rings movies, and many, many more. Gracious me. Was I raving? Please forgive me... I'm mad. "},{"Title":"Boring is too short a word.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Based on R1 DBD 110 minA really watch watcher of a movie, at times it runs more like a play than a movie with long speeches (some rather good) and periods of gazing down hospital corridors. As a horror movie it is pretty poor, most of the gore scenes are left to the viewers imagination but the movie itself does little to provoke such imaginings.Blatty is big on subtle suggestion but here all we get are ticking clocks, distant groans and headless statues.4/10 late night TV fodder. "}{"Title":"Would have made a great musical..","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok.. I give in. This movie and the fact that I just viewed it on television are the penultimate proof that evil DOES exist in this world.George C. Scott looked as if he was about to keel over and die at any given point during the movie and in fact, I had to watch the credits afterwards to see if the movie was dedicated to the memory of George C. Scott. I don't know if it was just the torture of having to read that 'script', assuming there was one, or if he was sliding away into some other dimension for medical reasons unknown.On the bright side I've never seen more or better Satanic human-stuck-to-the-ceiling scenes. It's too bad they saved them all for the last 20 minutes of the movie, but that may not be accurate as I took several naps so as to be 100% alert for the amazing action..I probably had popcorn popping for 80% of the movie because of the two hours of 'plot setup' which gave me plenty of spare time. In a movie like this, it's worth an extra star.All in all In spite of the fact that this movie had NEITHER a chase scene NOR Adreiene Barbeau (although she may have been in that nutty lightning hell pit at the end), I'd have to give this movie at least 2 stars just for keeping me from watching the Jerry Springer show.Was this a Made-for-TV movie? Ok.. A Made-for-absolutely-no-reason movie?  "},{"Title":"wow..what a massive piece of junk!","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie started off promising; there was an eerie atmosphere and it had elements of horror and thriller. But then towards the end of the movie, it turned into a comedy. It got really corny and silly.The only thing that saved this movie was Detective Kinderman's (George C. Scott's) acting. Everyone else was just a throwaway character. The nurse's acting was horrible and completely unlikeable.With that being said, the first Exorcist was by far the best. The original was intended to be a serious, scary film but unfortunately the sequels have done the first Exorcist a complete disservice.Linda Blair even went on to make a parody movie of the Exorcist...how can you make a parody of your own movie!Just horrible. "},{"Title":"The Wisecracks And In-jokes Were The Reason It Was Written","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Writer/director William Peter Blatty the original novel on which the original THE EXORCIST was based ( He also adapted his own novel into an Oscar winning screenplay ) but despite the references to Father Karras etc and no point does this movie feel like it was ever written as a sequel the original 1973 horror comedy ( It made me laugh out loud ! ) but since this also has some amusing moments at least Blatty is consistent The movie does have a plot , that of Lt Bill Kinderman finding out that a serial killer is using the method of operation of a dead serial killer from 15 years earlier but Blatty concerns himself less with plot and more on one liners like Lt Bill telling a deluded woman that he's a TV repairman and the woman replying that she's not holding an imaginary television but an imaginary phone ! or the in-joke of one of the priests saying his favourite film is THE FLY ( Look up the trivia section ) , or the classic camp scene of LT Bill talking to murder victims in Heaven What did someone say these scenes weren't meant to be funny ? Again I can only go on what instinct caused me to think . Certainly this might have started off as a serious supernatural thriller but all through the film you are left with the distinct impression that Blatty is getting extremely bored with things so resorts to introducing laughable concepts like chain smoking hospital patients etc . You also get the feeling that if this had been made a couple of years later this would have been a dark thriller devoid of any supernatural elements to tie in with Hollywoods obsession with serial killer thrillers after the mind blowing success of SILENCE OF THE LAMBS If you thought THE EXORCIST was terrifying ( I'd surprised how many people did ) then you'll probably find this dubious sequel disappointing . My own opinion is that it's watchable but that's probably down to it being a very camp film "},{"Title":"Very boring,but not bad.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In my opinion Exorcist 3 is definitely better than really awful Exorcist 2The Heretic,but worse than the original.It's true that director William Peter Blatty doesn't rely on blood and gore;instead of he creates an unforgettable atmosphere of dread and fear.Some scenes like the confessional sequence are indeed really creepy.Unfortunately Exorcist 3 is relentlessly talky and dull in places and not really that scary,mainly because I've seen much more scarier flicks like Suspiria or even Zulawski's Possession.I didn't find it disturbing-if you want to see something totally mind-shattering try to find Cannibal Holocaust.Overall I was a little bit disappointed with this one-I expected a creepy masterpiece and finally I've got pretty scary,but also deadly dull horror film.So if you are The Exorcist fan then this one is a must-see,if not avoid it.My rating7/10. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't get it. All these rave reviews for this rambling flop? Supposed to be about a serial killer? Who? The radio lady? Brad Dorif? Who is it? Who is doing the killing? What's the deal with the giant pruning shears? When the nut-case nurse attacks Linderman's daughter, did she die? Get hurt? Why didn't Linderman shoot her while she was attacking? WHO WAS THE KILLER? The nut-case shrink who has to read his lines from papers in his desk drawer? Was that intentional to show his cheat sheet? What was the point of him having to read his lines? Bad actor? Why does Father Karras' character jump back and forth? How come Linderman got away with murder at the end? How did his limbs get re-attached? Too many unanswered questions. The only thing that kept me watching it was the award winning George Scott. Man, he must have been hard up for bucks to partake in this jumbo flop. Plot? Where? It seemed to jump around all over the place with no connection. Scary? Not to me. More comical than anything. Folks, if you are looking for something as riveting and scary as the original, go elsewhere. This movie is a waste of time. Look for a Gilligans Island marathon and watch that. You will thank me later. Like I said, I don't get it. What's up? Excorcist II was bad enough. Why couldn't they have done any better? All on a bad acid trip while making it..? Anybody who raves this movie, for God's sake, stay out of Hollywood! "},{"Title":"Dull supernatural thriller with tenuous links to the original Exorcist.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist III starts in 'Georgetown 1990' with Lieutenant William Kinderman (George C. Scott) & his close friend Father Joseph Dyer (Ed Flanders) conducting a annual ritual in which they go to the cinema to watch 'It's A Wonderful Life' in memory of their friend Father Damien Karras (Jason Miller) who died when he fell down a flight of steps 15 years ago... Afterwards Kinderman confides in Dyer over his latest case where a young black boy named Thomas Kintry (James Burgess) was murdered, decapitated & his head replaced by a head of Christ from a statue. Shortly after another murder with strong religious overtones happens, this time the victim is Father Kanavan (Harry Carey Jr.) & around this time Father Dyer is admitted to hospital where he becomes the next victim of this sadistic serial killer who has exactly the M.O. as someone dubbed the 'Gemini Killer' 15 years ago when very similar crimes were committed. Is it a copycat killer? Or does it have something to do with the mysterious James Venamun (Brad Dourif) who currently resides in a padded cell but seems to be possessed by something evil...A box-office flop when released The Exorcist III was written & directed by William Peter Blatty based on his novel called 'Legion' I personally thought it was rather dull & didn't do much for me at all. The script goes for psychological horror rather than visual, The Exorcist III is more police thriller than straight horror with most of the running time consumed by Kinderman's investigations into various murders before the climax where a few horror elements kick in particularly the exorcism which felt out of place when put beside the rest of the film. I found the character's bland & forgettable, the film has a slow pace & I found myself rapidly losing interest in the whole thing despite being a huge horror fan & liking The Exorcist (1973). Put as simply as I can I was bored & it just didn't grip or engage me whatsoever although having said that as a thriller it was OK. The horror is very subtle & apart from the climax there is barely a drop of blood in the entire thing as The Exorcist III tries to shock you with it's dialogue driven descriptions of the murders. I didn't even like when Kinderman & the 'Gemini Killer' met each other & talked. Technically The Exorcist III is alright although the cinematography got on my nerves as director Blatty likes to keep his camera as still as he can & insert lots of random scene setting objects into sequences which really slow the film down. The locations & sets are OK with nice detail & overall it's well made with that Hollywood polish to it. The acting was OK but I didn't particularly like or feel for anyone & Scott as Kinderman started to become irritating to me well before the end. I really didn't think too much of The Exorcist III, it just bored me plain & simple. It seems to get good reviews & I'm sure there are people out there who will appreciate & enjoy The Exorcist III more than I did. A bit of a bore as far as I'm concerned I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Should have been a scary installment...is instead confused, confounding and bungled","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" George C. Scott takes over Lee J. Cobb's role from 1973's The Exorcist, playing police detective Bill Kinderman who is still working in Georgetown and mourning the death of his friend, Father Karras; on the 15th anniversary of Karras' death during an attempted exorcism of a demon-possessed child (which, coincidentally, was also the night a serial killer was executed!), grisly murders begin happening in the city that have Kinderman baffled. He should be the plot threads and causes for these gory deaths make little sense, while Kinderman's questioning of an isolated hospital patient (played, for no explained reason, by both Jason Miller and Brad Dourif) tries and fails to inject an exorcism-scenario akin to the first film onto a detective-story narrative. Writer-director William Peter Blatty based the screenplay on his novel Legion, and while he has a good ear for joshing conversations and b.s. humor, he goes way overboard on the nasty intricacies of a demonic slaying. There also seems to have been some confusion in filming the last portion of the story, as Kinderman converses with mental patients and one highly-strung nurse but is never shown putting the pieces of this puzzle together. Initially, Blatty prods our memories of The Exorcist amusingly, but soon finds himself exploiting that plot with useless references to the characters and with the casting of Miller (an idea that just doesn't pan out). Scott is terrific as Kinderman and actually gives these metaphysical ramblings some weight; however, Blatty has no sympathy for his gaggle of victims and winds up exploiting himself. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Laughed all the way through it.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this one with my friends 20 minutes ago and, my god, it was awful! We even laughed in the parts where they were talking just for talking. We fast-forwarded it in the parts where we realized there was nothing to see. A really scary piece of *, down there alongside Exorcist II, the Erect, or Heretic, or whatever. The exorcist series is surely one of the worst sagas of all time. A hemorroid for people who sit all the way through it and don't fall asleep. My god, it was bad! George C. Scott had no expression, he just yelled sometimes to - who knows? - wake up the audience. all the actors were bad, specially one woman who played a nurse with fingernails constantly in fornt of the camera lenses. Three thumbs down. Kill this piece of excrement! After a sequel like Exorcist II, how do they dare to walk these steps again? "},{"Title":"Just Wow!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I picked this movie up just because I had purchased the first two and boy did I want to demand my money back. I guess it was good for them stretching it, but as an all in all movie it's really sucks. George C Scott delivered a brilliant performance like always, but the all around story sucked, pretty much forgetting the first two movies and just taking the surviving characters and throwing them in a whirlwind of religious crap and cheeky slasher ideas. The book Legion was far better and just wish William Peter Blatty could've done a better job with the third installment. Two thumbs way down. I think there was one mention of the previous movies and in where does any of it fall the battle between Legion and Father Morning. It was all completely missed and they just added it for time filler. I think the only redeemable part of this movie was the return of Jason Miller as Damien Karris, however how was it missed that his body was never laid to rest, or the fact that he remained under the care of a hospital wing for oh so long?? And what of the fact that the demon has a personal grudge with the surviving cast members of The Exorcist. Instead of going after the little girl and her mother who managed to stop it in it's tracks, it just decides to weed through everyone else in Georgetown. It just left too many questions for it being a third installment. The first is brilliant and I know it's suicide for a sequel to compare it to the original, but damn you can only go so far before it's impossible to compare a little. The darkness and morbid settings of the first one were brilliantly constructed, whereas this one they just filled a cheap rip off of The Zodiac Murders, and slapped Exorcist III in the title. Avoid this unless you really want to waste an hour and a half of your life. "},{"Title":"A lame sequel to a masterpiece","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Exorcist is an absolute classic, The Exorcist III, however; most certainly is not. William Peter Blatty, the author of the original novel, this time takes the directors chair, and in doing so proves that someone directing their own work doesn't necessarily make for a better film than if they had gotten someone else to do it. This film follows on from the original by following the fates of two of the surviving central characters; Lieutenant William Kinderman and Father Damien Karras. After a series of brutal murders, Lieutenant Kinderman sees a similarity with another series of brutal murders that happened fifteen years ago, collectively known as the 'Gemini murders' due to the killer's modus operandi, that included a symbol of the star sign 'Gemini' being carved on one of the victim's palms. These murders also seem to be somehow linked with an exorcism performed fifteen years earlier.The main problem with this film is the murders. The film delights in explaining all kinds of horrible ways to go in very graphic detail, but it never delights us by showing any of them, which, being a gorehound, annoyed me no end. It's like a smoker having a cigarette and no lighter; why does Blatty torture me like this?! Blatty, perhaps realising how mean he's been throughout the film, does show some guts in the final ten minutes by way of a lovely sequence that sees a priest stuck to the ceiling; but I'm afraid it's too little too late. This idea of describing the murders without showing them (or just showing us the aftermath) does have it's plus points; not many, but a few. One of which is the conversations that Kinderman has with the Gemini Killer, which show the killer describing his 'art' with great glee. These scenes are genuinely creepy, and by far the film's best moments...but again, a little viewing of what he's describing isn't too much to ask...is it?While The Exorcist presented itself as a serious piece of art, despite much unpleasantness; this third installment doesn't seem to be bothered about doing that. In doing so, it has caught the worst of both worlds. The Exorcist III doesn't come across as being a serious film, and it doesn't have much to please the gorehounds either. The characters in the first film were very real through excellent acting from all concerned; but here it's very hammy. George C. Scott is a good actor, and his performance in this film isn't too bad on the whole; but it is over the top at times, and at other times he looks bored (probably with the lackluster material he's working with). Brad Dourif, a man who is no stranger to campy horror films made around the time this was made plays the Gemini Killer, and his performance is the hammiest of the movie. As I mentioned earlier, the parts where he describes his 'art' are creepy due to the writing; but his deliverance is neither malevolent not realistic. In David Fincher's Seven, Kevin Spacey played a similar character to Dourif's here, but he was able to make it malevolent and real by way of some toned down acting; Dourif just looks silly. The rest of the cast isn't in it enough to really make an impression, with the exception of Jason Miller who reprises his role from the first film...and doesn't really impress with it either.The Exorcist III fails on everything that the original thrived on. Through hammy performances, a dull plot and an ill-advised 'less is more' attitude, William Peter Blatty has made a lame sequel to a masterpiece. The original film is one that stays with you and is not easy to forget; Part III is as forgettable as they come. Although not a complete waste of time, this film cannot be described as 'good' and I can only recommend staying clear. Go and watch the original again is my advice. "}{"Title":"Didn't Karras like die in the first one?","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now this was the worst of the sequels. My friend was raving about this movie, as being scarier than the first one. And I said Well, nothing could be scarier than the first. But she insisted. She said she couldn't sleep for a week. And she's sometimes pretty tough to scare. But not this time. I went out and rented it. I watched the whole thing. And I was soooooooooooooo bored. When they brought back Karras, why didn't they think of something more original? This movie really sucked. I'd rather watch the second one. Because at least they have a better plot. Then they brought back someone who is supposed to be DEAD! Karras died!!! He's not supposed to be on the Earth. And I hated they way they had to involve the first Exorcist in this. LEAVE THE CLASSIC OUT OF THIS! Honestly, I hate this movie. I really wish I didn't take my friend's word for this.1/10  "}]