[{"Title":"Translated?  You don't say.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"44 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The subtitles in this movie are done so well, one almost forgets the movie was done in French.  The words seem to glide effortlessly off of Gerard Depardieu's tongue, as if only he were meant to speak them.  It almost makes you jealous of Cirano's eloquence.  Even those with no appreciation of poetry whatsoever can still find this movie entertaining.  The action is enthralling; the cinematography, endearing; the movie, entertaining.  A must see film if you enjoy poetry, romance, humor, action, suspense, period pieces, aesthetically pleasing images, theatre, French, English, other languages, large noses, good movies, or any combination of the above.  In short, rent it, buy it or steal it.  Just make sure you watch it.  And don't blame me if you get caught stealing it. "},{"Title":"This is the Masterpiece you've waited all your life to see","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WARNING - YOU WILL FALL IN LOVE WITH THIS FILMThis is the ONE film that made Gérard Depardieu a world-wide superstar. Although he was a star in the french cinema for years, Gérard Depardieu was an un-heard-of unknown in the United States prior to the success, and critical acclaim of this french language film. This film also won 2 Academy awards in 1990(best foriegn film, and best costume). If you have ever seen this film then you know that this was the role that Gérard Depardieu was born to play. After seeing this I cannot imagine another actor in the world playing this role but Gérard Depardieu. This movie will make you laugh, and it will make you cry. You cannot help but to experience all of Cyrano's passions and his lust for life, as well as his heartache for never getting Roxanne to fall in love with him,and his anger and embarassment he feels about his self-contiousness about his large nose. As the film moves foward you grow to love the Cyrano de Bergerac charactor as you experience his emotions with him.There is some good battle scenes and some action scenes and even some killing(but what little bloodshed is done in this film -is done with good taste and relavence to the story instead of a bunch of meaningless killing like as seen in other films in this genre). This is about as well done as any film will ever get. I give it 5 out of 5 stars, a perfect film- A masterpiece  "},{"Title":"Best adaptation ever","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw the first adaptation of Edmond Rostand's novel, the 1950 version with José Ferrer. Despite Ferrer's good acting, it had some things going against it. First it was in English, and the thing is that the whole play is written in verses that rhyme. Of course, you just cannot do that in English. Second, Rostand's story was seriously altered.Now, with this version we finally get the real Cyrano de Bergerac, a man whose nose is as great as his courage and skill at sword play, his talent at writing beautiful love poetry, and his will to resist all temptation to become the servant of higher powers. We get to follow his adventures, to feel his wonderful love for beautiful Roxane, his attempt to win her love in ways that nobody would ever consider, and his struggle to keep the freedom of his spirit.I admired the acting, the direction, the lighting, and the costumes. There is so much in this movie to applaud. But the best of it all is that it keeps so close to the original text. I read the play and I just couldn't believe how good this adaptation is. Watch this movie if you have the heart of both a lion and of a lover, and you can appreciate excellent French poetry. "},{"Title":"Translated?  You don't say.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The subtitles in this movie are done so well, one almost forgets the movie was done in French.  The words seem to glide effortlessly off of Gerard Depardieu's tongue, as if only he were meant to speak them.  It almost makes you jealous of Cirano's eloquence.  Even those with no appreciation of poetry whatsoever can still find this movie entertaining.  The action is enthralling; the cinematography, endearing; the movie, entertaining.  A must see film if you enjoy poetry, romance, humor, action, suspense, period pieces, aesthetically pleasing images, theatre, French, English, other languages, large noses, good movies, or any combination of the above.  In short, rent it, buy it or steal it.  Just make sure you watch it.  And don't blame me if you get caught stealing it. "},{"Title":"Hopelessly Romantic?","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are a hopelessly romantic guy like me, you will love this movie. ) It is very poetic and moving.  The english sub-titles forces you to really pay attention to the words, which are the best part of the movie.  French IS the language of love, so they say.  I bet your girlfriend will like it too! (In case you don't have a girlfriend, you can watch it and think of yourself as a diamond in the rough, romantic, poetic and underappreciated, just Cyrano. p  "},{"Title":"Deeply moving","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film that made me realise that it's OK for guys to cry.  Cyrano, as played so convincingly by Depardieu, is a great rollicking hero, not the foppish aristocrat of previous productions.  Indeed, it is his larger than life robustness that makes his futile, towering defiance at the resolution so poignant; the ignoble end of a hero is a classic theme, right from Beowulf, through John Wayne's The Shootist, to 2000's Crouching Tiger, Hidden DragonThe lyricism in the English translation of Cyrano is commendable, the filmmaking technically sound, the sets and choreography well presented. Depardieu's portrayal of the legendary swordsman as a bullish brawler rather than a delicate fencer is an interesting take, and I find it works.The downside is that the character of Roxanne is so utterly insipid and moronic that you wonder why Cyrano is so taken with her.  The tragedy of this Cyrano isn't that his love is unrequited, but that it's so misplaced. An interesting contrast is with Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, which replaces the Roxanne character with a peer for the hero, a companion battleship as Henry Higgins would say.  This makes for an even more heartwrenching story, and makes you realise that Cyrano could have been even better if Depardieu's superb performance had been tempered just a little in favour of a Roxanne who was more worthy of his regard. "},{"Title":"Non, non, mon cher amour, je ne vous aimais pas!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" No, no, my dearest love... I don't love you!I was just a teenager when I first saw this film. I really didn't know what to expect of a French movie with unknown actors (at least to me by then), with a story I didn't previously know and with the only reference of some Cesar awards. After all, it was an european movie, it was French, it was based in a classic book and with a romantic theme. But something attracted me.I was shocked.Actually it was the first movie I ever went to see to the cinema more than once. I purchased it on VHS as soon as I could, and I am getting it on DVD now that it's available in Spain. After all this time, I know by heart almost every scene of the movie, and it keeps on bringing tears to my eyes in the final scenes, no matter how many times I've seen it.The movie has so many things so nicely put together, it's almost impossible not to be hooked on some of them.To begin with, I was very surprised with the fact that the whole movie is spoken in verse. I think it was the first time I had ever seen something like that, and it is probably also the last since I can't remember any other movie like this! I don't know how well it was done in English, but I can say it was translated into Spanish awesomely. I can only wonder how beautiful it is in the original French version. Everything is so musically coherent and adequate, that you really enjoy watching the movie spoken in verse. I loved it.Then there is the absolutely magnificent performance by Gerard Depardieu. He perfectly resembles at every moment the personality of the eager and sometimes naive but at the same time extremely intelligent, romantic, desperate and vulnerable Cyrano. His physical look, his facial expressions, his voice... everything makes him the perfect Cyrano de Bergerac. You really share his suffering and at the same time you admire its strong personality and determination. He makes Cyrano an admirable man, an enjoyable human being. Wonderful.Apart from that, there is many more things in this movie that make it absolutely enjoyable. The humor. The sets and props, all the environments created. The music. And the story is an absolute classic that many people will feel related to; the struggle of a man than, even though not physically gifted, wants to live and love with no limits... to the person who is not ready to correspond him. Maybe it's the reason why it was so touching for me when I was a teenager, and maybe that's why it still brings tears to my eyes even today )All in all, a beautiful romantic tale with great sets and performances and that will touch almost anyone's hearts. My favourite movie of all time, and definetly a classic. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, romantic movie.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cyrano De Bergerac remains one of the most tragic romantic heroes of all time. He speaks to those who should have anything they want, but deny themselves everything. This film is a fitting tribute to a larger than life character. It is simple, elegant, and subtle. At the center is a awesome performance by Gerard Depardieu as the tragic renaissance man. The rest of the cast does a fine job as well, including Vincent Perez as Christian and Anne Brochet as Roxane. Roxane is also a very tragic figure. She lives for fourteen years, after the death of her one true love, in mourning being visited by her actual love without knowing. The plot is very complicated with no main character getting an easy ride or coming out happy. This is a film for those who believe that they will never have love, although it may only be in your own mind. "},{"Title":"Now That's What I Call Acting!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All I have to say is wow! I think it's safe to say that these French don't mess around when it comes to acting. Gérard Depardieu was absolutely brilliant as Cyrano himself and it was such a refreshing pace from the garbage I've seen recently. This was definitely one of the most brilliant performances in late film history. Yes the acting was theatrical but that was the only real way to carry it out...it would've stunk if they modernized it just for the cameras, I'm sure other versions have done this and that's why you don't hear too much about them. I thought it was funny that Vincent Perez was such a proper performer in this and then they made him Eric Draven in The Crow sequel which was far from good. Just everything about this movie was well done and while it was very romantic it didn't do it in a mushy kind of way that'd turn off guys that aren't really big on that stuff such as myself. There was some decent swashbuckling but it's not one you'd choose for the action itself per say. Just watching this made me really want to read the book because the script was simply genius and nothing less.The poetic lines sounded like silk feels and I highly recommend this to any couples out there that are looking for a little revitalization!Final GestureMovies It's long but I think I'd make it through just to give it due credit.DVD Purchase The idea is gnawing away at the back of my mind.Rental YES! "},{"Title":"Greatest French film of all time","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gerard Depardieu should have won all possible acting awards for this wonderful film. This is his best performance (So far). Brilliant costumes and sets. Perfect dialogue. This is the greatest French film of all time. Certainly the greatest European film I've ever seen. (Not counting films from Great Britain, as Great Britain is not in Europe.) Where the Hell is the DVD?  "}{"Title":"cousin, I'm a poet","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cyrano de Bergerac is one of the most representative characters of French theater and he has been the subject of many screen adaptations. Here, this is Jean-Paul Rappeneau's turn to transpose in pictures Edmond Rostand's famous play. With the help of his scriptwriter Jean-Claude Carrière, this is a faithful and especially modernized version that he offers us. Rappeneau and Carrière have deleted difficult or old-fashioned verses and they have even written necessary verses for understanding. In short, a substantial work has been made and it is better this way because the result is very convincing. It enables to make the movie easier to follow and dialogs, partly constitute the success of the movie.As for the directing, it's very tempting to make a comparison with another movie Molière (1978). Both stand out by a witty, vivid and sometimes poetic directing full of liberty and movements that  does everything to avoid filmed stage production and succeeds in it. And of course, the movie enjoys a performance of a high quality. Beginning with Gérard Depardieu whose performance is absolutely convincing and he will remain an unforgettable Cyrano de Bergerac. He is very well followed by the whole of the distribution.At last, it was a surprise to see this movie gain a triumph (11 French cinema awards in 1991 and a huge commercial success). Ultimately, a smart and subtle movie... but not Rappeneau's best movie. His finest achievement was to come five years later with le hussard sur le toit (1995).     "},{"Title":"Careers are built on films like this","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Gérard Depardieu became famous with Cyrano, and Cyrano de Bergerac knew its master with Depardieu.This classic piece of French literature is based on real events (largely adapted), and while it is a stage play, the skill of transposing the play to the silver screen is a feat!The film resorts to skillful cutting of the text (now public domain - check Gutemberg), which sounds easy, but is not, because it flows so naturally and needs to be cut surgically, word for word.At the same time, all that is missing from the script by Edmond Rostand is inspired by generations of stage performance. The miracle then is making the script in French likable to audiences who do not understand French, as Edmond Rostand can be compared to George Bernard Shaw, Shakespeare and Samuel Beckett.The genius of Gérard Depardieu and the beauty of the sets, the quality and care for detail all push to bring this beautiful film within reach of non French audiences. In that respect the sword duel scene at the beginning is memorable and worth playing twice on DVD!One thing though, the finale scene I found awkward but Edmond Rostand created it so the director had no choice. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest film of all time","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" How can one even begin to describe the greatness of this film? Forget that it is subtitled; this soon becomes immaterial as the translation is perfect, or that a couple of very minor scenes from the play were omitted, it is impossible to think of a greater example of cinematography than was achieved here.Gerard Depardieu; in his first internationally acclaimed role, gives an early inkling of the talent that he would later display in, The Man in the Iron Mask. At times he is comic, haughty, tragic & noble.Cyrano ceases to be a dramatic creation & becomes a real human being with whom we can empathise & be brought, almost, to the point of tears at the point of his death. Depardieu creates a man very much of his time; never mind Edmund Rostand's writing it is Depardieu who brings the character described as every actor's dream to life. He is believable, noble & generates sympathy in the viewer.Anne Brochet's Roxanne is beautiful. It is clear from early on that she is an intellectual (described as precieuse) but shallow, who we see developing as the story evolves.Vincent Perez is convincing as Christain handsome & with fairly base objectives, but developing through association with Cyrano & honourable.Even Jacques Weber portrays De Guiche in such a way that we can accept his, later, friendship with Cyrano & never truly induces the feelings of hatred that so many villains evoke in the viewer.The colours & lighting in the film are exceptional; a sign of the care that were invested in making it as historically accurate as possible, with soft, muted shades replacing the garish colours that have flawed so many depictions of the period, whilst it soon becomes evident that Rapineau wanted to ensure that the word epic would be truly applicable to this production.As a piece of romantic fiction this film cannot be bettered & would be ideal for those wanting to settle down for an evening with someone really special. Whatever you do see this film. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hate poetry. I hate romance. I love this movie.The thing that stood out the most to me was the attention to detail. It is obvious that the director and the actors worked tirelessly on this film in order to make it flawless, and wonderfully entertaining. After taking a class when I first saw it where I had to watch many French movies and discuss them, this is the only one I came out really enjoying and recommending others to watch.I have not seen any other version of Cyrano, so I have nothing to compare it to but itself. Depardieu does an incredible job. He owned the part, he convinced me that he was Cyrano. It usually is apparent when watching actors that they are simply acting - they are not really being the character they're playing. I love watching Depardieu because he gets into the part, and you forget that anyone is acting at all.This movie definitely ranks among my favorite movies of all time. It has a little bit of everything. It is hilarious, sad, happy, colorful, beautiful, ugly, and mesmerizing all at the same time. And this is the first French movie that even the guys in the class were able to admit that they enjoyed! "},{"Title":"C'est magnifique","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite film of all time. It is a poem in every respect. The dialog AND the subtitles are poetry, but if you speak un peu de francais you'll see they don't exactly match. Yet the script and acting are so smooth you forget the poetry unless you listen for it, which makes for pleasurable repeat viewings. Also, the film intelligently discusses aspects of love that affect everyone, both the ugly and the beautiful. Great music throughout, and it looks like Technicolor, though I'm not sure it is.. Incredible performances by everyone in the film, and wonderful bits of excitement, romance and adventure. Tragedy and comedy, and gorgeous both to look at and listen to. Check it out! Pauvre Cyrano... "},{"Title":"Cyrano de Bergerac  a great introduction to the richness of French culture.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cyrano de Bergerac is one of the most perfect films made in French language.It is a film which must be shown to all connoisseurs of French culture as it makes for the most perfect introduction to French civilization.The greatness of Cyrano is universal as he teaches us some of the most essential human values such as friendship,love, sadness and trust.It is a film for which everybody has worked hard under the leadership of French auteur Jean Paul Rappeneau.There is an air of authenticity in the portrayal of France circa late 1900s.This has been achieved by creating magnificent sets,marvelous costumes and a cast of many junior artists.Jean Paul Rappeneau allows us to be transported to a time when innumerable duels were fought over women, pure love was omnipotent and poets and artists were venerated.When we watch this film,we come to realize that Gerard Depardieu is exceptionally great as troubled Cyrano who has hidden many deep secrets in his heart.It is due to the greatness of his personality that we choose to own his sadness in order to lessen his pain.There are no so many films which can have such an effect on movie goers. This is the best virtue of this historical drama. "},{"Title":"Forget about it!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rappeneau has rendered all future attempts to remake Rostand's play futile. This must be the knock-out all-time version to make us forget the efforts of José Ferrer (1950) and Derek Jacoby (1985). First of all, Depardieu is the ultimate Cyrano, embracing the 17th century poet as well as the 17th century action hero. Secondly, the film is replete with unsurpassed visual splendor, and in spite of his name, the composer, Jean-Claude Petit, has made what approximates the greatest of musical scores. But most poignantly, this play MUST be done in French, in the Molière metre that Rostand so masterly copied in his old, but-not-that-old play. No translation can do justice to Cyrano's definition of a kiss as Un point rose qu'on met sur l'i du verbe aimer &#150; a rose-colored dot over the 'i' in the verb ... to love? (do you see what I mean?), and there's Cyrano's great goodbye to Roxane Grâce à vous une robe a passé dans ma vie. - thanks to you, a skirt has passed through my life, the beauty of the original poetry teetering on the brink of disaster'a skirt'? a dame? a moll? We suddenly see Cyrano accompanied by Lauren Bacall or Gloria Grahame. I have seen the play in seven or eight different versions, but I experienced for the first time that I actually shed tears in the final scene, when Cyrano senses an august balance in his fate that consigned him to waiting in the shadow while others mounted to passion and fame &#150; his handsome young protegé, Christian, who culled the kiss from Roxanne that Cyrano so yearned for, and Molière who has stolen lines from Cyrano's unpublished poetry. Accordingly, one can pity Rostand for never experiencing what his play could really achieve. "},{"Title":"superb adaptation of Rostand","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This fine French film (with rhyming subtitles provided by Anthony Burgess) stars Gérard Depardieu in perhaps his best performance, as Cyrano, the romantic adventurer who pens ghost letters and creates conversation for his friend to the woman he secretly loves.  A play which crackles with energy and wit as well as being truly touching, this fine version excels all expectations.  Anne Brochet is a fine Roxane, never sure of the truth until it is too late, while Vincent Perez is colourless (or just overshadowed by Depardieu?) as Christian.  Pick of the many great scenes in this - the duel early on where Cyrano rattles off descriptions of his over-large nose while sword-fighting; the scene under the balcony where Roxane first reacts to the poetic words of the lover-fighter; and the scene in the garden near the end, where the pretence on all sides comes to a head.This film draws out the heart of the play and makes it sing with true relevance once more.  Highly recommended and proves the towering talent of Depardieu when in the language of his native country - fine actor he may be but never as effective in English. "},{"Title":"A sad story of why you should not let love go unspoken","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now this is interesting because I have a feeling that Roxanne, the American version of this film, was released first. I am not sure as to the release date of the first film for I believe it to be a 80's movie as opposed to a 90's movie. It was on recently but I think, no, I know that I threw out the television paper so I do not know. Anyway, Cyrano de Bergerac seriously romps all over Roxanne, as most French movies tend to do to their American counterparts.Cyrano de Bergerac is about the captain of the Gascony guard who has a big, no a whopping great nose, and he is very sensitive about its size. He considers himself a freak and that nobody will see past the nose to his soul. Cyrano is a poet and a great lover but he feels he can never be loved because of his physical appearance. The woman that he loves, Roxanne, is in love with another man, Christian, who is in Cyrano's battalion but Christian does not know how to be romantic so Cyrano becomes Christian's romantic side and uses his romantic words to create an intellectual depth to Christian that does not exist.Cyrano de Bergerac is a tragedy in a number of ways. There is no fulfillment in the romantic sequences. Christian is not what Roxanne wants and they can never really be together because Roxanne loves Christian's words and his looks and nothing else. She claims to love his soul, but it is a soul that says the words that she wants to hear. When Christian tries to confront her without Cyrano's help, she sees a brute that she wants nothing to do with. She does not love his soul but rather his words, the words that Cyrano speaks. The further tragic part deals with the Duke who also loves Roxanne, and wants to marry her. Instead, Roxanne marries Christian, with Cyrano's help and upon discovery, the duke sends them off to the Spanish Front where there is little hope of survival. They are married in word but it is not consummated and the duke makes sure that it is not, and never will be consummated.The greater tragedy is that of Cyrano. He holds a love for Roxanne, though it is really only attraction to her physical appearance, yet he does not speak of it to anyone. Christian learns before his death, and he is the only one that knows that Cyrano loves Roxanne. This he learns from the letters that are sent in his name. He has read the letters and soon realises that Cyrano gives Roxanne a love that he never could, but Cyrano is constantly held back by his deformity. There is constantly reference to love in spite of a deformity, but Cyrano feels that he is not for Roxanne and remains silent. He spends time with her, every Saturday, and even manages to crawl to visit her on his death bed, but it is a love that remains silent, and the only person that knows and can reveal it is dead.Roxanne was a comedy, Cyrano de Bergerac is a tragedy. There is no hope in the film and everything is spiraling down to a very bloody conclusion. Cyrano is a master swordsman, who defeats a hundred men by himself, but he cannot stave off the anger of a duke. He is able to fight the Spanish hordes, but he is taunted by a love that he feels that can never be fulfilled. He speaks only of it on his death bed, and even though is very reluctant. This is a very sad movie, nothing like the Hollywood rubbish that is splattered over all of the screens. This is a movie with depth that deals with the real emotions of people. It is not one where the couple get together and live happily in the end, but one in which pain strikes through it right until the end. It is a poetic movie, though much of it will be lost in the translation. In essence, I see Cyrano de Bergerac on the level of a modern Shakespeare for it seems to have lots of Shakespearian elements, including a very deep, poetical language -- even though it is in French.Cyrano de Bergerac is a film that has one overriding theme and that is Carpe Diem - seize the day. Though such a thing does not happen in this movie, it shows us that it is something that we should do. We cannot let our love kindle unspoken, especially when the woman that our love is focused on so dearly wants to hear. In my opinion, it is not something that should be done for I feel that we need to be tactful in regards to the woman that we speak with and shouldn't overwhelm them, but in Cyrano's case he feels that his nose makes him hideous and that Roxanne won't want anything to do with him, which is not true as you learn at the end. When it comes down to self-doubt then it should be cast away. One should be tactful, but one should not attack oneself in belief that no woman would even want him. "},{"Title":"probably the best ending line for a period piece","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Steve Martin did a commendable job in turning this classic into Roxanne - but it was too optimistic for a modern piece... and lacks that... certain.... P thingy.It is only through the period setting and our limited and romanticized knowledge of the past that this version can work. And no less with Depardieu's imposing figure and statue.The opening sequence is captivating enough with the atmosphere, the smoke and the candle lights and the crowded theater/bar what have you. Still you need great delivery of the lines and a top-notched translation for the non-French speaking (like me)And what a last line !!! "}{"Title":"A Love For The Arts","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are one to enjoy movies of romance, comedy, tragedy, and suspense, then this movie is for you. I thoroughly enjoyed watching this movie. Though I am not a fluent French speaker, the subtitles helped me, and could help anyone to still experience the same emotions as though it was in their native language. Gerard Depardieu's talented acting has a knack for captivating the viewer. The personality of his character, is the personality that any man wishes he could have... witty, sharp, and of course, excellent with words and finding comebacks for insults, which are constantly thrown at him because of the size of his nose. His charming ways of speaking would make any woman fall in love with him, as we saw with Roxanne, though his physical appearance is one to put many off. The extremely good looking Christian (played by Vincent Perez) has the opposite qualities. A very handsome appearance, but finds it very hard to express his feelings in words. Then there is Roxanne (Anne Brochet), who was supposed to be beautiful (though I do not find her at all appealing) and was the one who both these men were in love with. Out of all the actors, I think that she did the poorest job out of all of them. She seems to be extremely ignorant and naive, and she is portrayed just as a silly little girl.I heartily recommend this movie for anyone who appreciates the arts and has an interest in comedy and has an interest for history. "},{"Title":"The ultimate romantic hero","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the sort of hero that most men would aspire to being, poet, warrior, Noble soul, protector. In fact this film has to be a blue print for the masculine soul, the non Merci! speech has to be one of the high points, the little man with the power and the good sense not to abuse it. The film has its roots firmly embedded in the European tradition of chivalry and we can not without the benefit of hindsight Roxanne was always unobtainable to Cyrano because of his own perceived deformity. Cyrano was similarly trapped by his own position in society, especially as he was acting in Loco Parentis. This is an incredibly sad film about missed opportunities and wasted lives . Cyrano is a man out of time living up to ideals that no one can be expected to maintain in todays society and perhaps even at the time. This is also a film with compassion and standards that men secretly want to live up to. "},{"Title":"Days Of Rhyme And Noses","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Exactly forty years after a Puerto Rican (Jose Ferrer) stamped an indelible mark on the role, the soldier-poet is again portrayed by a Frenchman, arguably the greatest French actor working today in both film and on stage, which is saying something given the strength - Philippe Noirot, Daniel Auteuil, Vincent Lindon, Jacques Gamblin, Jean-Pierre Bacri, Jean-Pierre Darroussin, Andre Dussolier, Jacques Villeret, Michel Aumont, Jean Rochefort, Jean-Paul Marielle, Michel Serrault, Fabrice Luchini, Jean Reno, Alain Chabat, Gerard Lanvin, etc -of the competition. I'll deal with the Ferrer version more fully on its own page but will, of course, touch on comparisons - the non-rhyming translation of 1950 versus (for English viewers) the rhyming couplets of Anthony Burgess in 1990. Writer-Director Jean-Paul Rappeneau has been sparing with his enormous talent; since his first screenplay 'Signe Arsene Lupin', produced in 1959, he has authored a mere fourteen more including one cult film - Zazie dans le metro - produced the following year and the well-received, well-remembered Jean-Paul Belmondo vehicle, L'Homme de Rio. Since his directorial debut, the exquisite La Vie de Château, he has given us only six more, culminating in his latest masterpiece 'Bon Voyage' released in 2003. He has worked twice with two of the greatest talents in French cinema; with Yves Montand he made Le Sauvage and Tout feu, tout flamme and with Gerard Depardieu he made Cyrano de Bergerac and Bon Voyage and in between the stately, elegant Hussard sur le toit (Horseman On The Roof). With a painter's eye for detail and composition Rappeneau does not shrink from the large canvas and/or crowd scenes (witness the gorgeous shots of a teeming Bordeaux in Bon Voyage) and gives us here a Paris well-stocked with set-dressing and extras but he is also at home in one-to-one intimacy and knows how to use both sound and music to express and/or heighten a mood. On paper the ultimate romantic story of a doomed romance is actor-proof, after all how difficult can it be to apply a prosthetic organ and spout some of the most eloquent language ever bestowed on a character already drawn larger than life. On paper is one thing, on stage or set it is quite another and the role requires acting of the highest order to bring off - witness the current fiasco at England's National Theatre - and in both Ferrer and Depardieu the role finds the actor. Much has been made and rightly so of Ferrer's magnificent timbre and vocal calisthenics but he WAS speaking in English which meant that English-speaking filmgoers could sit back and bask in his magnificent delivery without the need for looking beneath his image to find out what he was saying. For native French-speakers Depardieu is more than up to the comparison despite the odd complaint of his machine-gun delivery. In full color and sumptuous production values Depardieu IS Cyrano and if you haven't seen or HEARD Ferrer then there is nothing here - no inadequacy in performer or director - that will make you feel short-changed and want to seek an alternative version; in Black and White with virtually no production values to speak of Ferrer was forced to rely almost totally on his great voice. In Rappeneau, Depardieu and (for English-speaking viewers) Burgess, this version has three no trumps which it exploits to the full. Like the Ferrer version it doesn't waste much of its budget on high-salaried support, though both Ann Brochet (currently appearing in support in Patrice Leconte's 'Confidence trop intimes') and Vincent Perez (who suffers from either type-casting or a penchant for costume roles viz, Le Bossu, La Reine Margot and the remake of Fanfan la Tulipe) continue to work in films. The DVD version, complete with Booklet, is currently available in cut-price outlets in Paris for 10 Euros which has to be a snip. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great--with the heartwrenching story, funny rhyming script, and a terrific Depardieu lead","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cyrano de Bergerac (1990)This is Gerard Depardieu's shining moment in an up and down career. Some say the movie makes a blur of the subtle writing and emotional power of the original play by Edmond Rostand of the same title, written in 1897. And as much as the English version by Jose Ferrar (1950) is the acclaimed English language version, the play was originally French. And it's all in verse, including the subtitles, which in this case use the translation by Anthony Burgess (of Clockwork Orange fame).But the story, the story. It's all about the simple amazing plot (about which Rostand was convicted, on slim evidence, of stealing from a Chicago amateur writer). The year is something like 1680, in France. A man of great talent and fighting skill, a deep emotional life and poetic sensibility, and also with a gigantic nose, is in love with Roxane. This is poor Cyrano, who has everything but good looks. And Roxane happens to be in love with a very good looking young man who is a bit of a talentless fool. Cyrano, out of love for Roxane, steps in to help the fool by writing letters for him that succeed in wooing the beautiful Roxane.If this sounds like that crazy movie called Roxane starring Steve Martin, well, you've got it. That's the Cyrano story, and Martin's movie sort of kicked off the contemporary deluge of Cyrano movies in 1987 (three years before this one). Of course his is a comedy, and there are some changes from the play and this 1990 version, which tries even in its grandiose production to be true to the tightly written and scripted original.It's all pretty terrific. In a way, if you like Shakespeare, it's the play that holds the whole thing back a bit, lacking, oddly enough, complexity. An example is the funny but thin asides with the cake maker who wants to be a poet. There is no shortage of characters, there is a constant turning of events, and it does never quite ever slow down, but the main trick and drama of the situation is so central and gripping you end up waiting for it to find some kind of denouement or twist and surprise. And you do eventually get that, with great beauty and pathos (this is no comedy). But that's sort of all you get, in terms of narrative flow.And that's almost all you need, I have to admit. This production pulls out all the stops, and scene after scene is amazing in its set design and lighting, in its huge range of characters and gritty lovely evocation of 17th Century France. You could watch a bad play with such sets. And the photography is fluid, active, and formally terrific, too, which layers up the ongoing beauty of the filming. And Depardieu is terrific in his bloated, leading man way (I say this because he has detractors, those who have seen searing and cutting intensity in stage versions, but I have nothing to compare it to except Steve Martin). The two other main characters are actually a drag overall, and avoidably, I should think, with all the talent being lavishly expended. Roxane is more delighted than delightful, ornamentally pretty but also so stiff emotionally you wonder what all the fuss is about. And the foolish pretty boy is probably meant to be a bit shallow as a character, but it does leave his parts a little cardboard.Anyway, I overthink this. See the movie. If you don't like subtitles, see the American one from 1950. Don't think the Steve Martin one is enough. For one thing, the original ending is one of the most moving and memorable in all of cinema. For me, the Depardieu version of this last great scene is unmatched. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful films I have seen in my life","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love films of all kinds, and since liking Gerard Depardieu and being familiar with Rostand's classic play, I knew it was going to be good. But I wasn't expecting it to be this brilliant, I can't think of a film recently that struck me with how beautiful and poignant it was as much as Cyrano De Bergerac did.There were three major assets that really blew me over. One was how beautifully translated and subtitled it had been, I have not seen subtitles or dialogue this lyrical or poetic in a while. Two was how Cyrano De Bergerac was made. The costume design and scenery are truly sumptuous, as is the cinematography.Gerard Depardieu's performance is truly exceptional and I don't think he has been better, though Jean De Florette comes close. Depardieu is passionate, witty and very moving. The support cast with Anne Brochet and Vincent Perez particularly notable do a fine job matching him.Cyrano De Bergerac's story is one that is timeless, and for those who haven't yet seen it, it is most likely to emotionally resonate with you like it did with me. The music is both rousing and quietly understated too.Overall, I have nothing bad to say about Cyrano De Bergerac, it is the very definition of beauty and poetry on film, complete with an exceptional lead performance. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Merging Poetry and Cinematography in a perfect way. First time in history, and it hasn't been done or even tried again aftetwards.English translations may be good, but to appreciate it to its full potential you have to speak french fluently, and it's probably why it isn't in the top 20 of IMDb.This movie earns a 10 out of 10 not only because of its unique style (dialogue is 100% alexandrines), but also because of the spot on acting and because the director didn't deviate from the original play by Edmond Rostand (an absolute heart-breaking drama) in any way which is a huge achievement.Magnifique. "},{"Title":"the nose knows","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  French films are always high on the style factor, especially period pieces, and this one is no exception.  High style, crazy costumage, the works.  But that is nothing without a great story, and this film truly delivers.  And Depardieu does an INSANE amount of talking, so if your french needs a little dusting, watch this a few times and it'll help. "},{"Title":"I really have to agree with the commentary om this-its very good","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was first introduced to this movie I was forever hooked-the plot and the story were awesome as well as the incredible acting of Gerard Depardieu and all the right factors, such as the awesome French, with great, true subtitles by Anthony Burgess and just the overall feel, which left me feeling so good. And yes, as frank said, this is a romance/action drama movie that men will enjoy very much indeed, perhaps even more so than women, which I think is true as it is more likely to communicate to men; I have totally felt how both Cyrano and Christian felt in the movie and the end where he is recounting his life and then wanders into the trees, with Roxanne and the others following in wonder, is the part that makes me feel nostalgic for the beginning of the film. Everything about this film is good. Everything. Gerard Depardieu at his finest, with the amazing Vincent Perez and lovely Anne Brochet, who add to the quality of the film. Good music, good back-round scenery, beautiful lines, dialogue, philosophies, love poems, and the overall quality of the film are too much to describe with words on IMDb alone. Watch the movie! All young adults, and some adults will love this film, of love, life, passion, sadness, action, humor, art, incredible word use, and cinematography. "},{"Title":"C'est plus beau lorsque c'est inutile...","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We've all experienced it, the drag of seeing masterpieces ruined and dismembered or simply lost in translation. And I'll admit, even though I'm only seventeen I've seen it happen far too many times, from Rob Brown's DaVinci Code to Christopher Paolini's Eragon. And then, once upon a french class, I was introduced to the greatest tragedy ever written, and again in the same day the greatest retelling of a tragedy through film. I'm not really in any position to comment on the translation of the film as I've only watched without the subtitles, but I can tell through other comments that I'm not the only one who can appreciate Rostand's masterpiece, French speaking or not. Gerard Depardieu graces the screen with a flawless portrayal of Cyrano, the witty rebel who's eloquence and skill with a sword are matched only by size of his decidedly enorme nez. He delivers what must be some seriously challenging dialog effortlessly while still staying true to Cyrano's character. For all those considering seeing this film for the first time, don't let the subtitles scare you, it doesn't get much better than this! "},{"Title":"Sprawling, overambitious perhaps, but stunning","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the strongest virtues of Cyrano De Bergerac is that it's almost entirely free of the ponderousness and stuffiness one usually associates with period productions and/or screen adaptations of classic stage plays. It's lively and even funny at times, but also poetic and moving. At 138 minutes perhaps it tries to cover too much ground, but the reconstruction of the period (the mid-1600s) is stunning and there are wonderful moments to spare. Gerard Depardieu absolutely owns the screen in this role - it must be one of the highest highs in his astonishingly prolific (as well as uneven) career; Anne Brochet is fittingly enchanting; Vincent Perez may not be up to the level of those two, but he is perfectly adequate for what he is asked to do. A very good movie. *** out of 4. "}{"Title":"a  gem","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" and nothing more. for the art of Depardieu to explore and use and give force to the details who defines his character. for Vincent Perez as the lover who ignores the feelings of his friend. for Anne Brochet's performance, subtle and delicate and seductive. a film who reminds old recipes and Rostand's universe. mixture of old fashion romanticism and adventures, high sensibility and profound beauty of sacrifice in name of loyalty . few admirable scenes. and grace of script for rebirth a world in its original spirit. a great Depardieu who manage emotions and vulnerability and force and touching love declamation. a film about love. in a refined style. short. a real must see. or, only, simple, a gem. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Variation","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Embarrassed by his large nose, a romantic poet/soldier (Gerard Depardieu) romances his cousin (Anne Brochet) by proxy.The story of Cyrano has been told many times, and there are a number of film adaptations. Perhaps best known is Steve Martin in Roxanne, which is a little heavier on the comedy and much lighter on the sword fighting. Well, you know, you will have that.This version has an advantage that few have it is French. That gives it a bit of weight. And it does not shy away from the fact Cyrano is attracted to his cousin, something that would be removed from any mainstream film (unless used for comedy, as with George Michael Bluth). "},{"Title":"Good tragic love story","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cyrano de Bergerac (Gérard Depardieu) is the sharp-tongued large-nosed swashbuckling leader of the guards Cadets de Gascogne. He has unrequited love with his cousin Roxane (Anne Brochet). However, she's infatuated with the handsome new recruit Christian de Neuvillette (Vincent Pérez). Christian is tongue-tied and asks for the help of Cyrano. Cyrano writes romantic letters for Christian to give to Roxane. She falls more in love with Christian. Arrogant nobleman Comte de Guiche (Jacques Weber) is also vying for Roxane and orders the Cadets de Gascogne to fight against the Spaniards. Roxane hurriedly marries Christian. Cyrano risks his life everyday to send letters to Roxane while fighting on the front.The only missing element from Depardieu's Cyrano de Bergerac is some disdain from other women. He's too confident. He's very much the bully early on. Heck he kills a guy even if it's not all his fault. It's not until he has the meeting with Roxane that the other side of him is revealed. The movie gets much better from then on. Depardieu is able to be more complicated. The movie is generally done on a grand scale. The battle is big and the love story is grand tragedy. Although the ending is a little too melodramatic for modern tastes and way too long. "},{"Title":"Planted in my soul for years","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Have you experienced watching a movie in your childhood you did not know the title of and merely remembered the actors , but was obsessed with the idea of it? Well, this movie was one of these.Until a few days ago I decided to look for it using my memories for the plot. And I found it, cannot tell you how happy I was! The idea behind this movie is outstanding! I can only quote the Little Prince L'essentiel est invisible pour les yeux.The world presented in this movie is different than ours. Starring actor is moved by feelings unknown in the material space we live in. His actions look like the actions of the fighter for overall justice and happiness without having the privilege to ever be awarded for that. The only award known to him is freedom and self-satisfaction. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece ; if  you aren't moved by this film, please contact Area 51, for you're an Alien","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Summary  near the middle of the 17th century, Cyrano de Bergerac is the most independent-minded and talented poet, the most feared duelist, and, in the Cadets de Gascogne Regiment, one of the most valorous military men on the place of Paris.Yet, secretly, he feels miserable...Deeply in love for years with his cousin, the radiantly beautiful Roxanne, he never confessed it to anyone, including the beauty herself, for fear of ridicule...For this hero has a terrible flaw  his hideous, overgrown, cartilaginous nose, destroying forever his chances to live a normal life.One day however, Cyrano's routine of hiding his sorrow behind his pride is turned upside down  Roxanne wants to talk to him...Trembling with a mix of fear, hope and excitement, he goes to the rendezvous, only to learn that Roxanne is in love with a handsome young man, Christian de Neuvilette ; Christian is to incorporate the Cadets de Gascogne, and, not being a Gascon himself, she fears he may be roughed up or worse and is asking for Cyrano's protection, which he gallantly promises, accepting his defeat with secret despair.But in those days to be handsome wasn't enough and to win the heart of a precious meant to master the art of eloquence, and Christian, as chivalrous as he is, not only has none, but doesn't understand that it should be needed so badly when a man an a woman are already inclined to each other, risking to lose Roxanne with his directness.Cyrano decides to help Christian in wooing Roxanne, through his utmost brilliance in eloquence ; he'll be his voice at their secret rendezvous, his hand in writing his love letters...But won't he risk burning his proverbial wings getting closer and closer to what has been his personal sun for so many years? From then on you should watch the film without knowing too much, for it is a masterpiece on so many levels. The end, particularly, has drawn oceans of tears from hundreds of millions of eyes (the play book is a best-seller).But before giving my own appreciation on the film, one has to know the following facts  - There was actually a Cyrano de Bergerac, in the middle of the 17th century, and, except for the love story, he was EXACTLY what he is portrayed in the film, and perhaps even more interestingly so, in that he is considered a precursor of the enlightment and perhaps agnosticism ; he composed also incredibly touching poems about nature, yet one just needs to know that the most historically accurate fact in the film is his famous fight, and victory, against one hundred henchmen at the Porte de Buci, which was related by many written accounts of the time, to understand that he was a larger than life, extraordinary character.- The french play writer Edmond Rostand, by the end of the XIX century became engrossed with this almost forgotten historical figure, and decided to revive him in a play, adding a love plot, using the historically attested, enormous but not particularly ugly, nose of Cyrano, as the catalyst for the story. The play was instantly a triumph and never ceased so, despite a curious use of the metric and some arguably convoluted verses, but the emotion is so there that no one in his mind can resist it ; this play is almost entirely respected in the film, verse for verse.- Now the film in itself  first, hats off to Jean-Paul Rappeneau for his recreation of XVII th century Paris  it isn't a film played in this era, it is a film LIVED in this era ; one must watch it to believe it! it's an absolute shock, never have I felt such an immersion in time! the costumes, the streets, the houses, the light, the settings, the people, everything feels (and probably is) authentic.- But especially hats off to Gérard Depardieu, who has understood the character so well, turning his frustration into bursts of pure fury, yet showing the widest palette of emotions, the deepest gallantry, the deepest sorrow, with such delicacy...If it were just for his act, one should watch the film. it's not for nothing that this is considered his career's pinnacle.I have only two negative remarks to make  First, Anne Brochet as Roxanne isn't convincing enough in my opinion, and she isn't as radiantly beautiful as I would have liked, but her role is difficult (who wouldn't be turned off eventually by such a pretentious lady nowadays?), and she acts magnificently during the end scene.Second, the fight scenes with Gérard Depardieu are more reminiscent of his role to come as Obelix, rather as to the finest fencer of his day ; now, one has to understand that the real Cyrano was only twenty when he did all his exploits, before being gravely injured on battle at twenty-two, and that good old Gégé was probably well in his thirties in the film...For the rest  a must watch, absolutely. If the end doesn't draw tears from your eyes, please contact Area 51 for you must be an Alien. "},{"Title":"Cyrano - the representative of many a men","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is a Cyrano Bergerac in majority of men. The man who can fight with hundred at a time, but doesn't have the courage to express his love. His complex, his fear is something which I myself have experienced in life. Apart from all this what makes Cyrano special is the happiness he finds in making his loved one happy. Even if that means letting her unite with the man she loves. As Cyrano himself says towards the end -  While I was down there in darkness, others climbed up and kissed the flower. This one line is valid not just in the life of Cyrano but many of us around. The film is filled with similar heart pleasing one liners. If ever you thought you are a loser who cant win hearts, turn on to this masterpiece. There is a beauty in being a loser. A beauty that is eternal.. "},{"Title":"Cyrano De Bergerac","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cyrano De Bergerac was a very energetic and passionate movie. The actor that played Cyrano did such a great job. The enthusiasm and power that he put into the role was amazing. I love how Cyrano was so prideful. He had his own path and he did not care who he angered. I also enjoyed how the ending was not a happy ending. I feel the way they ended it was more believable than the way an American would of ended it, with the guy getting the girl and living happily ever after. The directer is Jean-Paul Rappeneau. He is a french film director, screenwriter, and actor. Rappeneau is known for creating the most elaborate film version of Cyrano De Bergerac. The film was one of the most expensive French films ever produced. A great idea is the idea about how people think very superficial about themselves. This idea is seen throughout the whole film. In the beginning Cyrano freaks out at a man in the theater and ends up in a sword and word battle with the guy because he makes fun of his nose. Also Cyrano feels no woman would want him just because of his nose. Even in the end when he is told that Roxanne loved whoever wrote the letters and did not care if the person was ugly, Cyrano still waited until his death was eminent to let her know he wrote the letters. Another good idea is that a man should stand up for what he believes in. Cyrano shows this constantly throughout the movie. First when he is in the bathhouse and Comte De Guiche comes to ask him a question. Cyrano could get one of his plays put on stage but he would have to join Comte De Guiche. Cyrano basically spits in his face and does not respect the man. The largest thing that stood out to me that made this movie French was the fact that it did not have a happy ending. If this were an American film Cyrano would of ended with Roxanne and Christian would not of died. But with having Christian die and Cyrano not tell Roxanne he loves her we get this interesting ending where no one ends up happy. It has a very dark Shakespearian feel to it. Another thing from the movie that was very French was that you were entertained by more words than fighting. In an American film there would of been more fighting and less word play, but in the French movie the people are more proud of being able to speak more diverse than be rich. "},{"Title":"beats Hollywood at its own game","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Edmond Rostand's celebrated swordsman/poet is the ideal role for Gerard Depardieu, demanding a physical presence and a level of energy few other actors could muster. Taking its cues from the swashbuckling entertainments of Hollywood's golden years, the film may well stand the test of time to become the definitive version of the story thrilling, romantic, literate, and larger than life in a way that not even subtitles can hide. But it isn't all swordplay and daring-do director Jean-Paul Rappeneau and his co-writer Jean-Claude Carriere devote equal attention to the humor in Cyrano's character and to the tragedy of his unrequited love for the fair Roxanne, and Depardieu responds with a generous performance filled with bold flourishes and subtle gestures. It was a sure bet for the Best Foreign Film Oscar, but Academy voters apparently don't appreciate European features comparing so favorably to their American role models. An ill-timed and too candid interview with Depardieu, during which the actor revealed too much (for Stateside viewers) of his delinquent adolescence probably didn't do the film any favors either. "},{"Title":"simply a superb film","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just a wonderful film. So many memorable scenes but my favorite was Cyrano's sword and verbal battle with the dude who made a simple common insult of his nose which Cyrano then responded with dozens of funny and clever alternate versions he could have used instead. Just a spectacularly witty and superbly acted scene! It has to be one of the best of all time in my opinion.But the entire movie was superb top to bottom. Great lines, great costumes, great acting. The English translations appeared to be perfect -- I cannot imagine it being any better in French but I suspect it was. It deserved all the awards it got. A ten in my book! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Poetic, and Masterful","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although much of the greatness of this film comes from the immortal story of the French play written hundreds of years ago, there is something special about this adaptation that sets it apart from others. It may be simply that it is French, and the French understand this play more than anyone else. It could be Depardieu's riveting performance that would make you forget that he is acting. It might be attributed to the magnificent sets and stunning cinematography, or the perfect mix of tragedy and comedy. All of those things are part of it, but the true greatness comes from the translation. Some say that it may kill the poetry to make the lines that rhyme in French rhyme in English, but in this film it is not so. Cyrano's eloquence grips you in such a way that you feel like applauding the screen. The poetic soul of the story is backed by the characters speaking in poetry. The opening scene is masterfully shot, establishing the greatest character in film or literature in one of the greatest scenes of all time. Above all, Depardiu gives a performance for the ages in a demanding role. You will see why he won the top prize for acting at Cannes "}{"Title":"The most beautiful romantic film","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this magnificent film, Gerard Depardieu does his best job in all the movies I've seen from him. The story is so beautiful and the mise-en scene is just incredible, simulating perfectly the period in which the story happened. The costumes are just amazing, incredible!!!For people who speak or understand French this must be one of the most beautiful films in this language, and for those who think it is a romantic language, please watch this movie!!!I can only recommend this film. Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"The definitive version of Edmond Rostand's play","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not certain a better Cyrano De Bergerac is possible. It has the right actors, starting and ending with Gerard Depardieu in a performance that should have won him an Oscar. It has the right settings, the right look, the right music, the right comic-elegiac tone. I don't think we'll see another film version of this play for a long while-- there's really no point. "},{"Title":"Best actor","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent movie - wonderful sets, costumes, acting, direction - a must see.   All I can add to the comments of others is that Depardieu was robbed.  He should have won the Academy Award for his memorable Cyrano. "},{"Title":"sound of drum, flags flapping, spears rising toward the sky","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cyrano de Bergerac is a great baroque fresco.  The opening in the theater, the fight of Cyrano against one hundred killers, the cadets marching in the night streets towards the war, the siege of Arras, all looks like some big Baroque painting. Director Rappaneau has defintely documented himself very well (probably using as reference the great painters of that period  on how people lived and died during the Thirty Years War the people pillaging the heaps of dead, the Spanish soldiers praying before the attack, the coming of the Spanish across the wheat field towards the French stronghold. The attack scene is one of the most realistic ever made with the sky covered by the smoke of the guns, the peasants forced by the soldiers to fill the creek with faggots of wood, so to allow them to cross, the following melée is highly realistic, one can almost smell the taste of blood and smoke. The costumes are perfect, so is the scenery. Gerard Depardieu is immense, he fills the screen, showing a character full of dignity and of courage, but permeated of gloominess for the love not reciprocated by the beautiful cousin. "},{"Title":"The pinnacle of Romanticism.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A marvelous take on Rostand's classic. Gerard Depardieu is a towering presence playing a towering character. Written in the late nineteenth century, the play was meant to be the last hooray for late Romanticism and conveys all the deep emotions of a Tchaikovsky or a Brahms. The cynics of our times will find its poetry laughable but nothing for me will ever top Cyrano's dying or the balcony's scenes. They are the pinnacle of Romanticism and, like the treetop chase in Crouching Tiger, remind us of the poetic beauty that is to be found in the human soul. "},{"Title":"Funny and moving","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm aware some people are put off by subtitled films but this is one of my favorites and therefore should be watched by everyone. Mostly, this is because it made me cry and I can't think of another movie that had this effect since, I don't know when. It's a similar emotion to 'Casablanca', basically a love story that has no 'happy ending'. The acting and score is impeccable but it is perhaps the english translation I admire the most because unlike many other subtitled films it succesfully convays emotion. So, please watch it, I'm not a sap, (my favorite film is Goodfellas!) "},{"Title":"What can I say?","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent film but I would like to bring non-French speaker's notice to Brian Aldiss' (Empire of the Sun) superb translation work for the subtitles... particularly his ability to get some of the rhyming to work - always tricky between languages!  "},{"Title":"This movie addressed what is important in a relationship.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had it all, action, romance, pathos and enlightenment.  The sword fight scenes were choreographed terrifically.  Pierre Lhomme did a terrific job shooting both the fight scenes as well as the romantic scenes.  The director, Jean-Paul Rappeneau, did not go for a Hollywood ending but  stayed true to the story leaving the poignant ending.  The movie is in French with English subtitles but it is so visual you will understand the plot and enjoy it.  Do yourself a favor and rent or buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Passion for the film.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cyrano de Bergerac is an excellent film, perfectly adapted to the cinema by its screenwriters from Edmond Rostand's novel. It has action, rythm, poetry, passion. The emotional charge in every character drives you into an internal trip where your deepest feelings are touched, and your breathing is paralized by moments.The tecnical supports are wonderful too the music, the casting, the weardrobe, the make up, the different stages, the camera takes and its movements. Everything is submitted to the film, to the narration that the director pretends to show.I would like to say that it is outstanding the performance of Mr. Gerard Depardieu in Cyrano's character. It is magnificent, really glorious. And about Mr. Rappeneau's work, I think that the director and his crew, have demostrated, with this film, that the cinema is the seventh art.Thank you to all of them !!!  "},{"Title":"A chef d'oeuvre in poetry","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So brilliantly written, you could watch this movie like you can listen to one of your favorite song so abondant and subtle are the rimes. With a very impressive list of great French actors, you can only enjoy the best of acting. Of course you have to be French(language)to fully appreciate the richness of the script but anyone with a serious interest and knowledge of this tongue might discover the genious of Edmond Rostand. He is a Shakespeare of his time no doubt.  "}{"Title":"this is the best movie ever","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was totally amazed by the excellence with which Gerard Depardieu played this character.  I believe that he actually felt the sort of rejection that Cyrano felt deep in his soul.  I was swept away by the deep emotions that he expressed, the passion with which he delivered each line. To tell the truth, though, I thought that Roxanne was a little dim-witted to not see right away what was going on between her, Cyrano and Christian.  Her knowing about the whole plot would have ruined the drama, though, and made the movie foolish.  Her naivety served to bring further tension between Christian and Cyrano and make the movie great. As for being long, those of you raised by bleep-ing computers and video games will not like this movie. Those of us with more poetry than cynicism in our hearts will be lost in the moment as Gerard whispers his famous words. And tonight, when I at last God behold, my salute will sweep His blue threshold, with something spotless, a diamond in the ash, which I take in spite of you . . .and that's . . .my pinache.   "},{"Title":"Marvelous even for non-Francophiles","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very rarely, you come across a foreign-language film that is so masterfully directed, acted and translated that by the end, you forget you're reading the subtitles.  This is such a movie.  The story of Cyrano de Bergerac--soldier, scholar, nonconformist and poet, with a beautiful soul and freakish face--is one that should resonate with anyone who has ever yearned for love, but feared rejection too much to take the risk.  It's a movie that should be seen by every awkward teenager, every hopeless romantic, and every stubborn soul that refuses to conform. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!! Destined to be a classic","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So rarely does fine literature translate to screen without suffering terribly. They creators of this masterpiece have done a masterful job preserving the soul of the novel on the silver screen. A truly fantastic, literary movie destined to be considered a classic by future generations!  "},{"Title":"The power of true poetry...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This version is true to the French original. Notice how the language rhymes throughout (even the English subtitles, which is no mean feat - this ensures the English preserves the beauty of the French). Gerard is sublime in his native tongue. A man of the sword, poetry, philosophy, romance - Cyrano is truly a man to be admired. Tragedy through integrity is a superb essential paradox. This is a heartbreaker - and should touch you deeply. (Once you whet your appetite, move on to Jean de Florette and Tout le Matin du Monde). "},{"Title":"The essence of romance","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gorgeous filming, beautiful acting, and masterly translation of the poetry in Anthony Burgess's subtitles. This is an overwhelming film, full of humour, tragedy, music, conflict and true love. To die for. "},{"Title":"A great movie for romantic people.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can not think of one single negative aspect. The fact that it is in French might be a bit of a barrier but in any other language it would simply be a disaster and if you don't know French then watching it with subtitles in your own language is the second best way. Keep tissues handy. )  "},{"Title":"A Grand Period-Piece Which Magnificently Depicts France Through Razor-Sharp Comedy","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a genuine rarity when you manage to stumble upon a film so distinctively unique. Evidently, Cyrano de Bergerac is a miraculous example of a unique slice of modern cinema which has its own set-charms put against its own glaring confidence. From the moment I started watching Cyrano de Bergerac I fell in love with the beautifully laden, grand romantic's vision, and gesture which was being laid bare before my eyes. With this glimpse of realisation I knew I was commencing the viewing of an extravagant modern masterpiece.Cyrano (Gérard Depardieu), a bulky, poetic musketeer with a humongous nose and a man who is both cynical and lively. Due to his nose he deems himself ugly and unfit for the woman he in love with, which is in fact his cousin. In an attempt to swoon his cousin, Cyrano uses his sophisticated charm and wit in the poetry he has written for her. Unfortunately because of his own embarrassment he asks the gallant Christian to pursue the woman with his poems, which leads to Christian falling in love with the lady and so enabling her to misidentify the author of the poems.Tragedy and comedy can be mixed perfectly, writers such as Shakespeare proved this, as have other geniuses and so does Jean-Paul Rappeneau's Cyrano de Bergerac. There is no denying that Cyrano de Bergerac is a depressing tale, yet I would not accuse it of being cynical and due to the delightful ambiance the film holds you feel apart of something truly heart-warming. Comedy is used as a way of dealing with tragedy and a method of being the jester to hide with personal anguish. Cyrano is a flamboyant genius, a man who knows his language, a man so eloquent he's impossible to ignore and a man of both the hysterical and profound.The brilliantly accurate casting of Gérard Depardieu as Cyrano is truly outstanding because he offers one of the finest male performances of the '90s. It is an unexpected performance from such a huge star. His performance bursts with a controlled charisma and a rare personal flourish which will exceed all expectations. The extravagant and lustrous feel the film has is echoed through its array of stunning set-pieces and costumes. All this helps to create a somewhat surreal, yet natural environment. Every technical aspect of the film is outstanding; from the choreography of the fight scenes, to the scathing conversations, to the fluid camera work and the gorgeously epic score. The film has many running themes, which include masochism, self-indulgence and self-destruction, all enabling a huge deal of character analysis.Cyrano de Bergerac is arguably the finest period-piece to come out of modern cinema, yet it is built exactly like a classic of another era. Both a spectacle of sheer entertainment and illustrious cinema, tied up with the blending of ambitious lavishness. "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever made","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cyrano is passion. It is a pure, heavy rich seam of poetry, war and love. Tap into it and you're rewarded with moments that will live with you forever. Cyrano's sweepingly dramatic ode to life after learning of Roxanne's love for Christian awakens the soul, while the ending is beautifully sad. See this film and let it rouse you. "},{"Title":"Greatest Literary Character...IMO","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie did a fantastic job of bringing, IMO, the greatest literary character to life. Cyrano is portrayed flawlessly in his larger than life exploits. The drama is compelling and timeless, the acting is superb, the cinematography is pleasing to the eye and the plot is easy enough to follow for almost anyone.Overall, I give this movie a 10/10.People should truly watch this movie in French. Watching it in its original language really brings out ALL of the art poured into this film. The French language, though I find impossible and distasteful to learn, has many beautiful sounds that go well with Cyrano.Sorry this review isn't so detailed, I am really just astounded by the portrayal of Cyrano and the overall quality of this film. Really just and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Good, but the classic version from 1950 is better","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a person who loves Cyrano de Bergerac's story, I needed to watch this version of the movie. I didn't hate it, but I need to say that this version is far away from the classic version of 1950 with Jose Ferrer as Cyrano. Gérard Depardieu is a nice actor, but he simply can't compete with all Jose's eloquence and posture. I mean, Jose IS Cyrano, while Gerard have more talent with comedies and romances. The actress who plays Roxanne in the 50's version is much more beautiful then Anne Brochet and all the emotion from the classic version it's not followed in this one Cyrano played by Gerard doesn't look to be in love with Roxanne, and neither does Roxanne played by Anne looks sad when Cyrano dies in the last scene.But to be a little bit optimist, I need to say that this version has better scenarios,clothes and locations, as also has much more sense the story about Cyrano be in french then in English. "}{"Title":"Cyrano is finally on DVD","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The 1990 French film version of Cyrano de Bergerac has always left audiences craving more, and the DVD is no exception--in fact, it leaves something to be desired. Cyrano was one of several early 90s films (Raise the Red Lantern, La Femme Nikita) that introduced foreign cinema to a new younger audience, making foreign language films popular for the first time since the 1960s. Before there was an IFC or Sundance Channel, Cinemax and Showtime were friendly to foreign films so that even in the Midwest viewers could see what was on the big screens in NYC or Cannes. This was a godsend for those living in small towns where these films never hit the big screen, but unfortunately these cable versions are often all we have for comparison when reviewing the quality of a DVD. This makes it all the more disturbing to see the Cyrano DVD from MGM World Films--it doesn't even equal the pan and scan cable version.I first saw Cyrano at a junior college film fest where a video projector was used to show VHS formatted films on a large screen. This was my first taste of the unusual experience of seeing a movie on the big screen that has been formatted to fit your TV. Nevertheless, I loved the film and taped it when it appeared on cable shortly thereafter. After seeing the DVD I have decided to keep the tape.Let's get down to details.After loving the film in full-frame I was looking forward to finally seeing a letterbox version--the full theatrical widescreen. I am still waiting. There is a trend today that I call litterbox version. This is the common trend on cable to show a movie in a slightly wider format than regular pan and scan, but still not in its full cinematic width. The black bars are too small and the image is still being cropped off the sides. I won't pretend to understand the logic behind this--perhaps it's an attempt to play it both ways and satisfy everyone. But people who purchase DVDs with a widescreen label do not want to see a litterbox version. Cyrano is such a disc. A quick comparison between the feature and the trailer shows a significant difference in proportion, though neither is showing the entire Panavision image.What about picture quality? Grainy in the darker scenes, unacceptably so in the final scene. Was the first shot of Vincent Perez always blurry for a few seconds?Sound? I actually taped this movie twice from cable when I realized that one channel was broadcasting in stereo and one wasn't. The DVD's overall sound is superior to this, but there are numerous audio glitches. Occasionally, a single word of dialog will have an odd echo effect or sounds will briefly jitter into the opposite speaker. This happens often enough to be noticeable.There is one more significant change that has been made for this DVD. The subtitles. Previous VHS and cable versions featured easy-to-read yellow titles. Here there are old-fashioned white ones. They are easy enough to read, but there is a further change. This is not the famous translation by English author Anthony Burgess. They have abandoned that for a similar version which still does a decent job of making the English rhyme but varies from Burgess's version in noticeable ways. This Burgess translation is cited as a plus in some reviews, but you won't find it on DVD.Those seeing the movie for the first time will love it, but old fans will want to keep their tapes. From the list of other titles offered by MGM World Films I'd say it's only a matter of time before they release Raise the Red Lantern. Let's hope they don't ruin that one. In the meantime we can count ourselves lucky that at least this litterbox version is wide enough to see Cyrano's entire nose. "},{"Title":"Better than Hollywood","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Beautiful costumes, poetry, performances and locations makes Rostand's story come alive again. This relatively new film version (there have been untold adaptations both visual and written) about the legendary french historical figure, Cyrano, has been remade well and is a great watch if you like period pieces or romance - hold the cheese.Gerard Depardieu and Anne Brochet do what Steve Martin and Darryl Hannah could not in the Hollywood tragedy Roxanne which adapts the same story. They help make this story of unrequited love both believable and touching while at the same time it is fantastical.It does also say something about the French view of themselves and their cultural roots.Top marks. Jacob. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, magnificient","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with earlier commentators that this film is dashing and romantic, but also that it doesn't get close enough to its characters to make them count emotionally. The first part of the movie is somewhat like a very well done matinée, like a Zorro-episode. It does grow emotionally, but the matinée good-humoured style stays to the end.What I like about this film, which seems to be an Hungarian/French co-production, is its beauty. Gérard Depardieu does a great job, and I like the poetry. The music is very good and fits extremely well. The cinematography is just brilliant, some scenes are just inhumanly beautiful, any scene from the battle at the end is like an 18th century painting. The costumes are unlike many other historical dramas very realistic.4+/5 "},{"Title":"Superb Film, better than Steve Martins 'Roxanne'","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The french classic bought to the big screen in its native tongue.  Perhaps a romantic novel - but you will laugh, cry and be amazed by an over-acted death scene.  The french language does not detract the enjoyment of the film and if you liked 'Roxanne you will love this film "},{"Title":"dashing and romantic","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say - Depardieu at his zenith - a lovely production.Whoever translated the text for the subtitles did an extremely impressive job of retaining the poetry of the original. The couplets rhymed, the language flowed and it all seemed so effortless. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Depardieu gives us a giant performance as Cyrano. Perhaps the little problem with the movie is that it's too theatrical.The death of Cyrano, at the end, is very very theatrical! It tooks him a very long time to die and he can't stop talking like a poet while he suffers.  But if we accept that this is from a theatrical play, this movie is more than excellent.It's fast, even if the film is about two hours. Young Vincent Perez is pretty good too!  It's the best Cyrano of the cinema history.  French movie directors will do a lot of very good film in the 1990's following this model (let's say Renaissance films, like Ridicule, Beaumarchais l'insolent, Marquise, La fille de d'Artagnan.)  This Cyrano starts the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Depardieu is great, but I still prefer Roxanne...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anthony Burgess' rhyming couplets following Rostand's play have their own charm, but as subtitles, they appear forced... I wonder if non-English speakers feel the same about translations of Shakespeare... The other problem, for me, is that Rappeneau doesn't get close enough to his characters (particularly Cyrano) to make them count, emotionally. Looks great.  Doubtless the best 'echt' Cyrano, but an opportunity missed. "},{"Title":"our hero? not quite.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Can I just say that this movie made me feel like the worst cynic ever made? I felt so sorry for pauvre Mlle. Roxane, who gets duped and jerked around through the whole film (while M. Cyrano is romanticized), that I didn't have much sympathy left for our hero. Let me see, Cyrano worships her & yet thinks it's perfectly ok (no, gallant) to trick her into marrying Christian? Of course she must only care about appearances; how could she be an object of worship if she had a brain? (I can hear the replies now 'Lighten up!'  Sure, sure. I told somebody I laughed at the end of this movie & yes, that crossed the line into absurdity..) "},{"Title":"I fell asleep, but that didn't matter.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Cyrano de Bergerac at the movie theater, a grand old theater in Raleigh, North Carolina.  About an hour into the movie, I was falling asleep.  After nodding off a few times, I came to realize that I was enjoying my shut-eye much more than this pitiful movie.About an hour and a half into the movie, lightning struck somewhere nearby and all the electric power on the block went out.  The movie theater emptied out; not too long afterwards, I was able to continue my sleep at home.If you are having trouble sleeping, rent Cyrano de Bergerac. "},{"Title":"The review that follows is negative, and I give away part of the plot.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If the only elephants one has seen have been the Asian kind, an African bull elephant is another kind of thing again, as is Gérard Depardieu.  -Sorry, what about him made me think of elephants?  Perhaps the way he barges and bellows his way through the role.  I was worried now and then that some of the other characters might break.  His ability to stay alive is also pretty elephantine.  I don't think I've seen a longer death scene outside of Wagner.  Fatally wounded in one part of Paris, the hero staggers to another part, staggers around a large garden long enough to say goodbye to the rest of the cast, pauses, ruminates, wanders somewhere else, collapses to the ground - but he's still not quite done for yet ...So, the hero gives us a bit of a headache and is at best ridiculous (at worst, dislikeable).  Is that really so bad?  Is it enough to ruin a story with some poetry in it, so beautifully shot?Yes. "}]