[{"Title":"If only more people had the guts to make films like this....","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"119 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really wish that there were more movies like Henry out there. Most people still don't realize just HOW controversial this film was when it was made. The MPAA wouldn't touch it with a ten foot pole. McNaughton fought for 4 years to get an R rating, but no dice. And since he didn't want the X, and there was no NC-17 rating at the time, it was finally released, with no rating, in 1990. And why? I've seen films with MORE violence in them...Romero's Day of the Dead leaps to mind. But it's not the violence in this film that makes it so disturbing. It's the way the material is handled. And this is what the film's detractors obviously can't appreciate.Henry doesn't bother with any type of morality...it neither glorifies nor denounces Henry's actions. It simply observes. It places those actions before us and says there it is...you deal with it...you sort it out. People who don't like this film often say that there's no character development...no discernible plot line...etc., etc. Those people should stop throwing around film school terms. This is one movie that doesn't present events in a movie reality...it shows us things as they are in the real world. Character development means showing you enough of the characters in 90-120 minutes to make you feel as if you've known them forever. How often do you spend 90 minutes with a real person and know that much about them...or feel that you can seriously identify with them? It's just a conceit of film-making. Same with plot lines. Does life have a plot line? Not at all. Life is an endless succession of things happening. Some seem important and/or entertaining...some don't. Henry, in its attempt to realistically portray the life of a serial killer, does not need a plot line...in fact, it benefits from having only a very loose plot line. Much like a homicidal version of The Catcher in the Rye, this film seems much like a lot of things that happened, as opposed to a carefully constructed fictitious story...which make it seems all the more real...and all the more disturbing.Henry is disturbing on many levels. Firstly, it feels very real. Too real, perhaps. Nothing is slicked up...nothing seems counterfeit or contrived. The entire thing is so utterly plausible that it chills you to the bone. Secondly, the complete lack of police involvement is equally disturbing. The only time you see a police car in this film, it's driving past in the background as Henry is cruising the streets. It drives past...and that's it. And Henry isn't scared...nor is he even aware, apparently. He has nothing to hide. He knows the police won't connect his crimes to one another...and they certainly won't connect them to him. So what has he to fear?And finally, the setting of Chicago makes the film more disturbing for me, as I'm somewhat familiar with that city and can spot some locales in the film that I recognize. In fact, a friend of mine who lives in Chicago told me that the first time he watched Henry, he and a friend rented it and sat down in his friend's apartment to watch it. It was about halfway through that they realized that the apartment they were sitting in was the same one used as Henry's apartment in the film. All I can say is...I'd never use that bath tub again.All in all, I truly wish that more directors had the guts to make films like Henry. Honestly, I can't think of one film that's comparable. There simply aren't any films out there that are anything like this. This is truly one of the most disturbing films I've ever seen. After seeing Happiness, I guess that Henry probably got knocked down to Number Two on that list. But Second Most Disturbing Film Of All-Time is still a damn fine achievement, in my opinion.If you want to see an accurate and appallingly realistic portrayal of what the life of a serial killer must be like, definitely give Henry a viewing. Make up your own mind from there.Oh, and a final note...one reviewer stated concretely that his biggest problem with the film was that serial killers work alone. This is, of course, not always the case. The real life counterparts to Henry and Otis (Henry Lee Lucas and Ottis Toole) DID kill together, as did Bianchi and Buono, the infamous Hillside Stranglers. Those are not the only such instances...but they're certainly the best-known. Therefore, the overly broad generalization that serial killers work alone is no real attack on the realism of this film. "},{"Title":"one of the scariest movies ever made, period.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"101 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With the BWP hype, a lot of talk of going around about the scariest movie you've ever seen. Probably because I've seen over a thousand horror/fright/suspense/gore movies, I have trouble pinning it down. I can't name the scariest, I can name the top 5. As far as non-supernatural horror goes, this movie and Last House on the Left are the scariest movies I've ever seen.I saw this at a film festival and the audience was very, very quiet. My friend and I just sat there quietly cowering most of the time. It's just way too realistic. The opening and closing are probably the most frightening, and we don't even see Henry killing anyone, just the bodies of his victims and their terrified screams in the background, echoing. It will give you chills down your spine. The stuff in the movie that scared me wasn't any big jumps or gore, just very disturbing, creepy moments (especially if you knew someone who was been the victim of a homicide, as I do). My friend I saw it with worked at the city prosecutors office and heard about plenty of local murder cases and said it rang very, very true to life. One of the most chilling scenes is early on, when Henry goes to a mall and just sits patiently in the parking lot, scanning. The camera looks coldly and calculatedly at different women in the parking lot from Henry's point of view. There are so many shots you almost start to wonder what the point of the scene is until it hits you they are ALL potential victims, this is how he looks at women. I have always been careful as a woman whenever I am alone but after seeing the film, to this DAY I do not walk to my car alone at the mall without my mace in my hand, and I look all around me and never turn my back on anyone. The movie also does not glamorize the killing or violence against women at all.Also, it's a good primer on home and personal safety. (a good rule- Do not EVER let a stranger into your house when you are home alone if you were not expecting him. In fact, after I saw this I never open the door when I am home alone and not expecting anyone, period. Think I'm paranoid? Watch this movie and see how safe you feel).The plot sounds simple but it's not boring. The movie follows the exploits of Henry, a young man who is practically a textbook case of a serial killer (male, white, 30's, drifter, soft-spoken, shy). Conflict comes when his disgusting nasty inbred cousin Otis Toole stays with him, along with his pathetic sister. One night Otis and Henry pick up a couple of prostitutes and are having sex with them in the car. Henry kills both of them sort of offhandedly, with no more emotion than you would swat a fly. Otis starts joining him on his exploits. Henry is more sympathetic than Otis, however, because while Henry does these things because he is sick and doesn't have a choice, Otis seems to get off on them, and also should know better. Things sorta go downhill from there, and the sister complicates things because she is so desperately lonely that Henry starts to look good to her. It culminates in one of the most chilling, downbeat endings of all time.After I saw this movie at the festival, I was lucky enough to be there when Michael Rooker, who plays the title character, came out and lectured and did Q & A. When I say lucky, I don't mean lucky that I got to meet a celebrity (though that was neat). I mean lucky that I was able to have proof immediately afterwards that this was just a movie. If the movie had ended and I just had to get up and go home, I probably wouldn't have gotten any sleep for about a week. He was very nice and personable, wore glasses and a blazer, not at all like his character. The thing I remember most clearly is someone asked him what kind of movies he liked and he replied, I don't like horror movies, really, I like musicals. Everyone laughed for about 5 minutes, partially out of relief. BIG relief. See, it's just a movie, there's the actor right there, and ha-ha, he's actually very shy and charming and harmless, isn't that funny?Even with all of that, I still find this one of the most disturbing, unsettling movies ever made. You haven't seen a really scary movie until you see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"97 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am 57 years old. I've seen many films in my lifetime. I am not easily frightened or upset by movies. I am partial to drama and documentaries. I can count on one hand the films that I have found to be so deeply disturbing, that I later regretted seeing them.This film is among them. It is possible to see too much in this life, and once seen, some sights remain trapped in your head FOREVER short of getting a lobotomy, or beinghypnotized. Leaving the theater that day, I honestly felt as though I had actually witnessed several murders. I was really shaken by the horrific realism of this cinematic event. I was sorry that I had seen the film, but it was too late to retract the terror that, even today, still remains in my memory. Some things are soemotionally damaging, that perhaps they should be left alone. This film was so powerfully unsettling for me, that I feel a need to warn others of the emotional impact. This speaks well of the directors skill at scaring movie-goers, butapproach with caution please. This is a very heavy movie. The HoneymoonKillers is another film that I regret seeing. Would that I could forget thatnightmare! "},{"Title":"Is this a film to acclaim or condemn?","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"75 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In 1960, Michael Powell committed professional suicide by directing and producing Peeping Tom, a thriller in which a psychopathic murderer photographs his victims at the moment of death.  Denounced as sick and without redeeming social value, Peeping Tom vanished from theaters, while its director, also denounced as sick, went on to make only two more films in the next eight years.  Powell's film has gone on to attract an avid cult following and, if it hasn't done so already, so will Henry  Portrait of a Serial Killer.Loosely based on the real life exploits of Henry Lee Lucas, a leering, low IQ sicko who became a media star after claiming to have murdered several dozen people (some believe Henry was bragging), this film takes a gritty, realistic approach that creates the impression that we are watching real life unfold.  Director John McNaughton exploits the discomfort the viewer is inclined to feel by presenting a scene in which Henry and his equally vicious former cellmate, Otis, videotape the rape and murder of one of their victims, then play it back for further amusement.  This shocking episode effectively makes the point that those who seek second hand thrills through violent entertainment are almost as guilty as the perpetrators of such deeds.  By casting anonymous non-stars in the leading roles (not that he had a choice considering the budget and the repellent subject matter), and focusing entirely on the exploits of the killers (there are no scenes of police investigating the crimes or peeks into the lives of the victims), McNaughton has created a brutal, amoral horror film that makes the bloodiest gorefest look benign.  Although the real Henry was apprehended, his cinematic counterpart is never even suspected of his crimes, and gets off scot-free. Is Henry a film to acclaim or condemn?  It's a difficult question to answer, and I, for one cannot make a decision.  It is so expertly made that I think McNaughton deserves a round of applause and maybe an Oscar.  But, at the end of the video tape of the film that I watched, there was a commercial hawking Henry T-shirts ($14.98) and posters ($7.98).  Both were available through Henry Merchandising, and this attempt to turn this all too real murderer into a cult figure deserving of a fan club is despicable. "},{"Title":"Harrowing and real.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"60 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"   The real Henry Lee Lucas had one of the worst childhoods that I have ever had the misfortune of reading about. Growing up in Texas, he lived with a family that was totally dysfunctional. He grew up in a shack, that had nothing more than a dirt floor. The father being a legless alcoholic, literally as well as figuratively. The mother worked as a prostitute. Henry was also forced into sexual activity with her clients. They forced him to dress as a girl and then would proceed to have sex with him. He was a child that grew up being raped.  He then grew up with such an intense rage that he became a serial killer. Are we surprised? Now, I am not trying to justify his behaviour. Rather, I am pointing out the fact that these people do not just fall out of the sky. There is no such thing as an inexplicable evil. That is, the person is just evil because they are. Yes, there seems to be some genetic evidence  for psychopaths. However the majority do not become killers. The ones who become killers are made. If you are truly interested in what makes a psychopath, I suggest you read, 'Not Guilty by reason of Insanity ' by Dorothy Otnow Lewis. Serial killers are often portrayed as being like Hannibal Lecter. Smart and talented creatures that have suddenly lost their moral code. The truth is most are a psychological mess. Losers that are full of conflicting emotions. There is also strong evidence to suggest that these people are made by a specific form of brain damage. Basically when you combine trauma in childhood and frontal lobe brain damage, you end up with Henry.  This movie is what happens when people are treated in an utterly horrific way. Michael Rooker is excellent as a psychopath who seems normal but deep down harbours a psychotic rage against society. He and Otis travel around killing. Why? Why not? The pointlessness of their lives is perfectly captured. People complain about the lack of plot. I think it perfectly captures the plot. It shows the emptiness of these characters. In fact Henry and Otis feel nothing unless they are killing. The emotional side of the characters has been like killed off by previous abuses against them. They are not unlike the living dead. Even when Otis's sister shows some affection towards Henry he cannot reciprocate. He can't relate to people, he can only get off on torture and death. Yeah, this is shocking. But it is also incredibly sad.  Here in New Zealand there are many shocking drunk driving ads that they play to try and get people to stop this behaviour. I feel that this movie is like that. The movie is an ad for psychopaths, who they are and the dysfunctional psychological world that they inhabit. It is a film that honestly looks at these kinds of people. This certainly does not glorify these people, which is a criticism that has been levelled at the 'Silence of the Lambs' series. This is why I think it shocks people. The serial killer kills for visceral, physical pleasure. As Ted Bundy stated, 'I killed because I wanted to.' Maybe, this is where the film falls down. That the characters motivations are not explained well enough. But either way the viewer is given a shockingly realistic interpretation of a serial killers world. Obviously this is a film that was made on a budget! But this just adds to the bleakness. In fact Chicago looks dirty, grimy and not like somewhere that you would visit. The performances of the rest of the cast are pretty average if not bad. So the film has some definite flaws. The exploitation factor is there. But then I think of films like Baise Moi and this film has nothing on that!  Overall I think this is an objective look at a world that those of us who come from normal backgrounds will find horrific. A world that we prefer would never exist, but however does exist. Maybe one day, as our society matures these people will cease to exist. Stories like these will become completely fictional. I really hope for that day. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wholesome entertainment for all the family.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" A flat disturbing film, almost documentary in scope which trawls the depths of the human condition. 'Henry' is not surprisingly often slated as a violent exploitation film, bundled together at Film Fairs with the Italian cannibal flicks of the 70's.Make no mistake though, this is a highly commendable piece of movie-making, which tackles the subject of serial killers with the same no-holds-barred approach which 'M' did way back in 1931. By referencing the early Fritz Lang classic, I am intentionally comparing 'Henry' favourably with it. I would also say that Henry Rooker's performance is on a par with Peter Lorre's.The film develops like a three-handed play, revolving around Henry's flat which he shares with former prison-mate, Otis. The trio is made up by Becky, the sister of Otis, who comes to visit.We are introduced to Henry immediately as a killer and the story does exactly what it says it will in the film's title. We simply follow Henry throughout his daily routine. No mention is given to any police enquiries and Henry is oblivious to any notion of avoiding capture or covering his tracks. Much of the film's power comes from this nonchalant approach, whereby if a person doesn't register that something he is doing is wrong, then it quickly becomes almost acceptable.Rooker, in the title role, is totally convincing and gives a chilling performance, free from the mannerism clichés which detract from more famous serial killer characters like Hannibal Lector and Norman Bates. I can only think of Kevin Spacey in 'Seven' (1995) giving a similar level of performance for this character-type.Despite a couple of scenes whose violent content borders on the gratuitous, for the most part 'Henry' succeeds by relying on a suffocating atmosphere and it's down-beat characters.Anyone without a sense of desolation at the end of the film must be devoid of their senses.BEST SCENE - Henry and Otis enjoying a night in on the sofa, watching their recent home-video recordings, is one of the most disturbing scenes I can remember watching. "},{"Title":"A dark and twisted film about a very deranged and demented soul.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986) is a film that is loosely based upon the exploits of notorious white trash serial killer Henry Lee Lucas. This man claimed to have killed hundreds of people, mostly women. But the director takes us down the path of a man who is in many ways similar to the real deal.Michael Rooker stars as Henry, a demented man living in a twisted world who lives with a scummy roommate Otis (based also on Henry Lee Lucas' running buddy/lover Ottis Toole). Otis' kid sister Becky (loosely based upon the very young sister of Ottis) comes to live with her older brother after a falling out back home. She decides to head out to the big city to find a new life.The film follows the murderous trail of Henry who's pent of rage and sexual frustrations fuel the madness that's locked deep within his psyche. Those that are around him soon feel his madness and it's brutal and fatal consequences. The director follows these three individuals with a pseudo-documentary feel. The rape and murder scenes are graphic and brutal as they should be. This is no mere exploitation film because there is nothing exploitative about it, as it should be.I have to recommended this film. It's a sick, twisted but honest look at the life of a serial killer. He's no movie magic monster because unlike those, he's for real. Co-starring future B-Movie thug Tom Towles as Otis.You'll never see a film like this again. "},{"Title":"The human mind can be pretty disturbing from time to time","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"33 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" As you probably know, this film is partly based on the confessions of the real Henry Lee Lucas. If you know that and see this movie, you can ask some serious question about how disturbing some of our fellow humans are. This man shows no emotions what so ever. Contact with other people is nearly impossible, no mercy, not wondering whether his victims have a family or how old they are...no nothing. You wonder if he even IS a human, no living creature can be so awful.So, if you ask yourself all this during this movie, and I assure you will, you could say it's an excellent film. The mission of the movie itself has succeeded. The ideal atmosphere is achieved in the movie. Dark, melancholic, depressing...Director McNaughton really creates world you don't want to live in. Michael Rooker plays the role of his life and puts down one of the best acting performances ever. Sure, he's never honored with an Oscar or any other important price for his performance, but everyone who sees this movie knows it's true. Actually, when I first saw this film at the age of 9 ( Too young, I know) I thought this actor was in fact a real-life psycho. Henry talks with the same, aggressive tone of voice during the whole movie, his eyes seem to shoot fireballs when the camera looks like in them and his appearance makes you want to puke. Actually this film is pure genius for mainly one reason  you don't have sympathy for any of the characters. Most film, even is the whole cast play villains, there's always one you like. One character you create a sort of band with. In Henry Portrait of a serial Killer you can only feel hate. Hate and disgust for Henry and for his companion Otis. Heck, you even start to hate the girl... For being so naive that is.Although many persons are killed and many violence occurs, Henry certainly ain't a gore or bloody film. Many things are suggested but not shown, and in this case it's actually more or at least as scary as showing the actual murders. That's a quality you don't see in movies very much. Only the old horror movies from the 30's and 40's could do that. And now also Henry can. I advise everyone to see this movie, if they haven't already. Not just if you're a fan of horror or thrillers, but also if you appreciate good movies in general. Even the most critic movie buffs can only find this film terrific. It was on many many levels a very important film. "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal of a serial killer.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Lee Lucas was the son of a prostitute and a railway worker.His mother seems to have detested the child and treated him with sadistic cruelty.In January 1960 he murdered his mother during the course of a quarrel,slashing at her with a knife.He was sentenced in a forty years in prison,but was recommended for parole after ten years.After that he met another drifter Ottis Toole.The two teamed up and left a bloody trail through Michigan,Ohio,Indiana,Illinois and Wisconsin.When Lucas was arrested he confessed to a total of three hundred and sixty murders(many of these admissions proved to be false).Both-Lucas and Toole-were sentenced to death.HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer is a pretty good film.Michael Rooker as a psychopathic killer is really believable.The supporting cast is also great.The scene when Lucas and Toole watch themselves murdering a family,who they tie up and kick to death,is very disturbing.A must see for any fan of the genre.Check it out,you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Movie To Keep You Up At Night...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I had the chance to see HENRY 2, I wasn't really sure if I had seen the first one, because so much time has passed since its release and the commotion it caused back in '86. Now having had the chance to see the 20th Anniversary Edition from Dark Sky Films, I'm not so sure that I didn't remember it, as much as I didn't WANT to remember...John McNaughton presented the indie world with his calling card via this film, and simultaneously raised the bar for what realism is in these kinds of horror movies. And where the true horror lies is the way in which it deconstructs and de-glamorizes the image that Hollywood has created for serial killers. This is not a chronicle of a super-intelligent monster like Hannibal Lecter, or even the channeled virtuosity of a noble murderer like Dexter Morgan. This could be anybody you walked past down the street yesterday, or saw at the stop light on the way home from work. And make no mistake about it...he works at a job, pays rent and buys groceries like anybody else. And if you happen to catch yourself alone with him at the wrong time, the next time anyone will ever see you again is at the morgue. Count on it.Based loosely on the exploits of multiple murderer Henry Lee Lucas, HENRY was the breakout role for Michael Rooker (SLITHER), and together with co-stars Tom Towles as his dim-witted sidekick, Otis and Tracy Arnold as Otis' emotionally blasted sister, Becky, they paint a documentary-style picture under McNaughton's guidance, of how some people living on the fringes of society behave. This doesn't necessarily mean that they're wild-eyed, foaming-at-the-mouth-crazy, and therein lies the scariest part of all. These are the kind of blue-collar, salt-of-the-earth types that you might dismiss without giving a second thought...but the time might come when you do so at your own peril.From the opening frames of the movie, you know you're in territory that's far removed from the usual slasher film. Henry is seen doing mundane, everyday things - buying cigarettes, finishing lunch at a local diner - and juxtaposed with those scenes are absolutely horrific shots of dead, mutilated bodies, as the sounds of how they died careen and crash underneath the discordant music along the soundtrack. Sorry, kids, but this isn't THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE. In that picture, as within this one, a time and place is firmly established. But if you don't live in Texas, part of you can sort of remove yourself from the horror that wants to seep into your subconscious and stay there.With HENRY, it becomes obvious that the locale is somewhere in metropolitan Chicago, but the urban landscape is familiar enough that it could be Atlanta, Detroit, Boston, New York, anywhere. It could be the city where YOU live now.And by writing the characters and the events they're involved in with a totally detached, non-judgmental eye, McNaughton and writing partner Richard Fire reveal a horror more numbing and penetrating than a thousand Freddy Kruegers or Michael Myers. There are people in the world who actually do these kinds of things, and they're out there NOW...and it's only by the grace of providence or some cosmic lottery that we've won, that we don't ever run into these people...or that some of us unfortunately do.Enough has already been written about the remarkable performances of all the actors involved, so the only thing I can add is that if you've never seen HENRY, you need to watch it all the way through at least once. I can safely say that you will see why horror is the way it is today, and how so many filmmakers have misinterpreted what director McNaughton was saying with HENRY.With the searing images still fresh in my mind, I can only say this...I feel like I need to take about a hundred hot showers, and none of it will ever wash away how nasty and horrible it made me feel. Which I believe is exactly what the makers of this film were trying to accomplish.I sincerely hope that once you've seen this, you would feel the same. And I would be really worried about anybody who doesn't, or worse, who said they enjoyed it. "}{"Title":"What A Sick (But Fascinating) Film!","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This low-budget film gets high marks because it's entertaining, despite the perversity of the subject matter. It's only 83 minutes long and it moves very fast. Some will be turned off big-time with the shocking brutality of this film, but that's what it is about - a cold-blooded killer (Michael Rooker, playing real-life killer Henry Lee Lucas) with seemingly no conscience, and a stupid partner (Tom Towles as Otis Toole), who is about as bad.Chilling is a good word to describe these guys.The only part of the movie which was repugnant to me was the scene in with Rooker and Towles break into a house, terrorize a woman and videotape it. Other than that, this is fun to watch in a sick way. This, and the French movie, Man Bites Dog, are the two movies in my collection I am embarrassed (morally speaking) to say I own and find fascinating to watch.There are only three main actors in this film Rooker, Towles (playing fellow killer, Otis Toole, a real dumb-ass trashy character) and his kid sister, Becky (Tracy Arnold). All three are extremely interesting.The rest of the people are all victims of those two guys who go on a killing spree that is almost a daily occurrence for a short time. It's absurd, but that's the story. It caused quite a star when it was released. It was given a rare NC-17 rating. Nowadays, it would be R with no fanfare.This is a very sick story, but it sure is interesting. "},{"Title":"A frightening analysis of the psychology of evil","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Henry' is a hard film to sit through, plain and simple. It lacks any theatricality to it whatsoever and engages in utmost realism in it's presentation of it's title monster. The fact is that people like Henry have existed without the soundtrack, without the dramatic tension, and without the stylized body count. 'Henry' isn't interested in creating a film merely for entertainment's sake. 'Henry' isn't really an entertaining film in the traditional sense of the word. It is a well acted and well paced drama about evil.Michael Rooker gives a tremendous performance as the title character. Henry is by far one of the most frightening characters in film and he does so with subtly. Henry is a sad looking fellow. Most of the time he is at a loss for words and with a blank solemn expression on his face. He's the kind of guy you bump into on the street and don't think twice about. Rooker is brilliant in portraying Henry in this restrained fashion. It isn't what we expect that frightens us. Look at Anthony Hopkins in 'Silence of the Lambs', a brilliant performance but it lacks any suspense or fear to it whatsoever. Henry is the anti-Hannibal. The characters in this world underestimate him until it is too late. Rooker's delivery of the minimalist dialogue is outstanding. Cold, blank, and with a sad gravel we are intrigued by Henry and yet we don't know what exactly intrigues us about him. This fascination is brilliantly played with in the character of Becky, fascinated by Henry to the point where she convinces herself that she loves him. Tragically for her Henry is incapable of love or any humanity.In keeping up with this realistic view, director John McNaughton has created a brilliant portrayal of the cold rainy streets of Chicago. The film feels almost like a documentary as the camera work is very static and gritty. I can't think of a better place to set the film than Chicago. It's capable of being a very ugly city and McNaughton's haunting trip into the back alleys and seedy neighborhoods at night is filmed beautifully. We get to comprehend the environment and yet McNaughton doesn't over empathize it.Henry is a brilliant film. Well acted and brilliantly conceived. It isn't an easy film to sit through but often the most challenging works of art aren't. Kudos to Rooker and McNaughton for taking this subject matter with utmost sincerity. Violence is either glorified on one extreme or attacked viciously on another. 'Henry' is an honest look at the capabilities and evil power violence has. "},{"Title":"A Gritty, Realistic Exploration of Serial Murder","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry (Michael Rooker), a character based on serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, hooks up with his prison friend Otis (Tom Towles) and his sister Becky (Tracy Arnold). Henry teaches Otis how to be a bloodthirsty killer, but things go awry when Otis fails to have Henry's level of control and turns his sights on to his own sister.Director John McNaughton was a delivery man for executive producers Malik B. Ali and Waleed B. Ali of Maljack Productions, who then had him make some low-budget Chicago-themed documentaries before offering him $110,000 and a 16mm camera to make a horror film (without offering any ideas or limitations).The story was brought to McNaughton by his friend Gus, who had a videotape of 20/20. McNaughton never heard of Henry before, and was not even familiar with the term serial killer, but felt this had great potential. He had always loved horror films, especially Roger Corman's work with AIP, and he teamed up with Richard Fire of the Organic Theater (the home base of Stuart Gordon), where they found Tracy Arnold and Tom Towles. Towles, of course, would go on to work with McNaughton many more times.Along with the cast, McNaughton brought in composer Robert McNaughton (no relation), who does a fine job adding to the creep factor, and the use of samples (such as screams) was quite innovative for its day. We also get some great street scenes, showing Milwaukee Avenue in Chicago (near where director McNaughton lived). One home shot at was at the corner of North and Wood in the Wicker Park neighborhood.This film is absolutely amazing. Opening with still frame scenes of death, including a murdered hooker who is the most disturbing corpse I have seen since I watched Four Rooms (and this precedes that film by a decade). The first scene opens with the unknown victim Orange Socks, posed just as in the police photograph, only adding to the authenticity.The camera used was of lesser quality than a normal theatrical movie camera, giving a more realistic or snuff feel. I can watch heads explode and all sorts of simulated violence without flinching, but this really put me in a zone of discomfort. With a repeated viewing, this feeling decreases, but the grit of Henry is timeless.Likewise, there is a later scene where a murder is being filmed on a home video recorder. The actors go to such extremes with the violence that it looks completely plausible -- I would be surprised if the victims were not actually injured in the process. This realism is something not often found in horror, and really makes this film stand out as a groundbreaking piece of work.Michael Rooker, still a novice actor at this point, is amazing. He comes across as somehow dumb yet clever, unable to read but able to get what he needs. This fits the redneck killer profile of his character, and is so convincing you woud think Rooker himself was a little bit dumb or slow if you had not seen him in other roles (Mallrats, Days of Thunder).The use of largely unknown actors, and not very attractive ones at that, again added to the realism. Hollywood would try to make the killers ugly but do so by using beautiful people (I think Monster proved this). Henry presented us with exactly what we were promised without all the glossy shine. At a screening of Henry in Chicago in August 2008 at Portage Theater, director John McNaughton made an appearance but refused to answer questions about the picture. This is a shame, McNaughton. Not only is this the film that made you a name, but it is legitimately a great picture and possibly your best work. Please don't alienate your fans or deny yourself this great achievement.If you are looking for lots of sex and blood, you are probably looking for Murder Set Pieces (which is like this, but different at the same time -- less realism). If you want pure in-your-face brutality, this is more your style. I give it a complete recommendation, and consider it a must see for all horror fans of all ages (well, those old enough to handle the intensity, that is).One last interesting note after some distribution issues, this film was part of the reason for the MPAA's creation of NC-17 along with Pedro Almodovar's Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down. So, along with being a great film, it also has historical value. "},{"Title":"The most horrifying film ever made about a serial killer's mind","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite a few dated aspects, this film remains as terrifying today as it was when made twenty years ago. Henry isn't a supernatural being, such as Freddy Kruger or Pinhead. He's an ordinary blue collar Joe, just like those you see on the street everyday. He just happens to kill people, not out of revenge or anger, just as a way to kill time. In here lies the film's power - Henry could be anyone you run into on a day to day basis. Reality is always more horrifying and unnerving than dreams. Anyone who claims this to be tasteless exploitation obviously doesn't get the point. Roman Polanski once said that, You have to show violence the way it is. If you don't show it realistically, then that's immoral and harmful. If you don't upset people, then that's obscenity. Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a perfect case point. It was absolutely necessary to show the video of Henry and Otis rampaging the house and massacring the family. It is key to the visceral power of how depraved humanity can become.The film works well because of its characters, and how it causes you to question your reactions to what you see. People wouldn't have been as disturbed by certain sequences if they were merely suggested. Also, the development of the characters (or lack of) is key. Henry appears to be an inhuman and emotionless monster. He seems to show no signs or disgust or enjoyment out of the killings, but is indifferent about the matters all the same. Otis, Henry's accomplice, is among the sleaziest and most unlikable characters ever featured in a film. The audience grows to hate him more than Henry, despite the fact his actions are less disgusting than Henry's. Henry shows no emotion, Otis comes across as being a giggling creep. His main goal throughout the film is to see his sister naked. Becky, Otis' sister, is attracted to Henry and the fact he killed his mother. The audience knows she is destined for nothing good while she is oblivious of all the danger. Her naivety causes the audience to hate her also.The plot summery seems like the ingredients for a ripe exploitation feature with a few quick thrills. Henry is anything but. If the filmmakers were satisfied with a quick exploiter, why would they seem to be so interested in plunging the darker areas of the human psyche? Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street aren't true horror movies - this is a horror movie in every sense of the word. Certainly not for all tastes, but for those who want to be challenged by cinema should check this out. (9/10) "},{"Title":"The best character driven horror movie ever made...","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a brilliant, terrifying piece of art. With a small budget, no name actors (at the time), and a rookie director, this film was extremely well made, realistic, gritty and terrifying. Michael Rooker (Henry) is one of the most believable killer ever portrayed on the screen, right beside Robert DeNiro in Taxi Driver and Woody Harrelson in Natural Born Killers. Along side of Henry there is Ottis, a low life drug dealer who met Henry in prison. They live together and go on pointless killing sprees.The beautiful part of this film is that it does not focus on why they kill, but more on the psyche of their killings. They give many clues as to why they do it in the text, but in the end it is just killing for the sake of killing. This is beautifully portrayed in the performances of all the actors, as well as the wonderful direction and writing.This is not a typical slasher movie, but more of a psychological horror. You are frightened not only because of what you see, but what you don't, and the sheer mystery of the characters as well as their blunt qualities you cannot avoid cause for a film that is scarier than any blood fest schlock that's out now.Truly one of a kind. "},{"Title":"Truly Horrifying","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a true horror movie; an in-depth psychological study of how a serial killer's mind works. These killers feel no remorse for their victims, and think killing is a game. The film is difficult to watch, especially a particular scene in which the two killers videotape themselves murdering an entire family, then later keep rewinding and rewatching it, admiring their work. They are both pure evil, and the movie, despite some chunky and sloppy directing and camera work, does an unforgettable job of showing their complete lack of humanity. The film is constantly chilling and troubling, moreso than almost any other film out there. "},{"Title":"Grim and nasty - perfect 42nd St. flick","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I was vacationing in New York when this movie came out. I was out with my cousins looking for a movie to see. Henry was suggested. I had told my cousins that I wanted to go to Times Square. This was at the tail end of the complete decadence era of 42nd Street. I can't think of a more perfect film to see in that cesspool. Mind you, this was not the 42nd St. of today. Back then, you were taking your life in your hands seeing a flick down there. The theater was great too. It had a ten rows of 8 seats each separated by a walkway down the middle. Forget stadium seating, surround sound. You were lucky if the movie came out in the right order.Henry is a depressing, nasty piece of work. Henry kills people with efficiency. He doesn't seem to get any joy from it. It's just something that he does. He teaches his roommate the ropes on how to be a good serial killer. Henry becomes disgusted with him when he starts taking too much pleasure in it. This leads to the one gory scene in the movie. It involves a bathtub and a saw. The minute it was over, a girl in the audience got up and ran out of the theater. Most of the movie house started laughing at her. I kept watching.Excellent movie. Nasty, grim and mean.  "},{"Title":"I'm still shaking!","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's been half an hour since I finished seeing this movie, and believe me people, I'm still shaking.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, tells the story of Henry, a man with one hobby killing strangers. Played by Michael Rooker (his best performance ever) and loosely based on notorious serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, this character is pretty much the summit of what a serial killer is about white, in his thirties, lonelier, soft spoken and shy. But, however, what makes Henry persona so disturbing (and interesting) is his lack of guilt or remorse. He just kills whoever crosses into his path; and moreover, he does it in such a ruthless and remorseless way,(expressing no feelings), that makes the original Terminator look like Lassie (you have to see it yourself).The rest of the main characters are Tom and Becky, who are brother and sister. Ottis, Henry's sidekick at first is a kind of obnoxious grown up Milhouse since he does whatever Henry says (as Milkhouse does with Bart) and also, since he seems to have homosexual feelings towards Henry (In the Simpson it has been implied more than once that Milhouse has homosexual tendencies, especially towards Bart. However, you have to figure it out by yourself in the case of Henry and Ottis). Nevertheless as the films moves forward, Ottis becomes Henry's partner in crime and his lust for blood equals Henry. Becky, on the other side is as problematic as Henry, since both have been molested when they were kids (even though Henry was molested in a crueler way) and because of that she finds in Henry her equal and thus, falls in love with him.This movie is not for everyone. It's dark, bleach, depressing, melancholic and has an atmosphere of evilness rarely seen in other films. Most of the violence shown on the film is shocking and some scenes are disgusting.But,don't get me wrong, it's not a cheap gore-fest either. It is superb filmed and well acted movie and what is surprisingly enough, it doesn't condemn nor support it is just the story of a sick, twisted and sad human being, whose lust for violence and blood makes him able to cope (more or less) with a world he doesn't understand. If you get easily disturbed and sick whenever you see a scene of violence, don't watch it. But if you want to open your mind and to discover the dark side of a human mind, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT. As long as you live, you won't never forget this movie. "},{"Title":"Yeah. I killed my mama.","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Movies like Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer really test my assertion that I base my ratings and opinions more on entertainment value than anything else. Was I entertained by Henry? Well, not if you're using the traditional definition of the word. I can't imagine that anyone would find the all too realistic handling of the subject matter entertaining. There's a sense of real menace and violence just under the surface of every scene. Henry doesn't come across like a normal Hollywood horror movie where everything feels like fantasy and you know as soon as the lights come on it's over. The horror in Henry goes on long after the movie ends. I generally watch movies for escapist entertainment &#150; and you won't find that here. Watching Henry and Otis go about there daily life, including the butchering of innocent, unknown victims, is like peeking into the mind of an actual serial killer. I'm not sure that's a place any of us want to be. So I can't really use the word entertained to describe the experience of watching Henry. But I was certainly mesmerized. It's almost cliché to say, but watching Henry is akin to watching a car wreck &#150; it's impossible to look away.Director John McNaughton crafted an incredible film given its almost repugnant content and miniscule budget. The low budget look, the pacing, and the almost documentary style of the film really go a long way to making Henry effective. Another plus for the film is the acting of the three main characters. Michael Rooker gets most of the acclaim, but I think Tracy Arnold and especially Tom Towles give equally strong performances. It's a nice job by three unknowns (at least unknown to many people).So in the end, I've got to give Henry a rating of 8/10. It's a powerful, shocking, raw, brutal movie that, while often difficult to watch, is impossible to ignore or forget. "},{"Title":"It's the face, the portrait","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you want to see the film that most approximates the feel of snuff porn, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer could possibly be it. Dirty, gritty, low-fi sound and image are pasted together in a sickening deluge while the camera focuses, intensely, on the face of a serial killer. As serial killers go, the eponymous Henry is a very good representation of one he's smart, he's charismatic, and he's completely devoid of remorse.Henry's plot is slim, purposefully unresolved, and mostly lingers in long takes of relative inaction. In this way, the audience is not brought along in a narrative of good vs. evil, but is forced to accompany Henry along with his actions, often times focusing more on the search for a victim then on the actual killing itself. Meanwhile, drama is given through the interactions with Otis, Henry's roommate, and Becky, Otis' sister, who has a romantic attraction to Henry. Henry's life is set to context by Otis' and Becky's long history of abuse and degradation to help reflect the world-view that he was brought up in. In this way, the movie is unrelentingly uncomfortable and focused on showing the aspect of the world that a typical escapist movie-goer is desperate to avoid. Bad sound quality and washed-out imagery enhance this effect by creating nauseous images and discordant themes, especially through the key part of the score (though admittedly most of the score is unfortunately 80s enough to now come off as rather dated and ridiculous). Also, the movie isn't always just violent on-screen, but sometimes uses sound as referent to leave many of the killings to the audience's imagination.This movie is typically credited for questioning our cultural fascination with serial killers. I'm not sure if it can entirely be accredited to that, because part of what makes serial killers interesting to our culture is the media exposure they get, and in this movie Henry not only doesn't get noticed but takes great pains to make sure he doesn't leave a traceable mark upon his victims. Instead, the focus is so much more psychological, questioning what can drive a person to do these things and even argue logically for them. The interesting part is how open-ended the discussion becomes, via the use of the dialog where Henry tries to explain his past but includes gaping contradictions. Ultimately, the true story isn't really the point, it's the face (portrait) that matters.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"Realistic, incredible performances. Solid horror film!","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Title Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer Director John McNaughton (The Borrower) Cast Michael Rooker, Tracy Arnold, Tom Towles Review There's only a handful of movies out there that you watch them and after wards you are left with this look of shock in your face. Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is one of them. Based on the real life exploits of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, this films achieves a thing rare in todays horror films. It scares you.Henry appears to be a regular guy. He works as an exterminator and lives in a little apartment in Chicago with his roommate Otis. They were both inmates in jail and now that they are both out, they decide to live in the same apartment. Things get complicated when Otis's sister Becky decides to move in with them because shes had some problems back home and because of her extreme loneliness she falls in love with Henry. Of course she doesn't know about his part time job as a vicious serial killer.This movie really surprised me. As I watched it I couldn't help but think why the hell I had not seen this before. The reason is the film was made in 1986 and no studios were interested in it because of its graphic and realistic nature. Therefore it went straight to video in 1990. Well, it took me a while but I finally got around to watching this film and let me tell you, if you haven't seen this film and you call yourself a horror fan, well, get your ass off your couch and go and get it like right now! Its essential viewing my friends.Now, some people might think that this film is all about gore and blood and the murders, and yes there's lots of that. But to me what really stood out were the performances. Michael Rooker does an incredible career making performance with Henry. Its strange but the way the character is portrayed he seems almost like a good guy when compared to for example his roommate Otis. Now there's a real scumbag if there ever was one, which brings me to another point about this movie. The characters are the lowest scumbags you will ever know! I mean, you don't want to meet these guys on the street. And the actor who plays Otis (Tom Towles), he really out did himself in making his character a real turd of a man. So my hats down to these two actors for doing some of the best acting I've ever seen on a horror movie. I also enjoyed Tracy Arnold playing Becky, Otis's sister. Her reactions towards some of the events rang very true, specially towards the end.The writers of this film made sure that the tense moments were very effective. And strange thing is that some of the most tense moments have nothing to do with the actual murders being committed. I found the most tense moments were those between Otis and Henrys different personalities clashing or just the fact that you know that these two guys are certified lunatics so you know that any given situation can turn into a real bloodbath, every moment in this movie is just right there on the verge of going completely ballistic. So the intensity levels are high here thanks to some great performances and a solid script.But whats a movie about a serial killer without some killings? Some well orchestrated murder set pieces? Well there's plenty of those in this movie since the real life Henry Lee Lucas reportedly killed hundreds of people. So right from the get go in the first scene you get a taste of Henrys work. Interesting thing is the way that the movie chooses to show you some of the killings. The director decided only to show the aftermath of the actual killing. He focuses on the corpse of the victim and then we chillingly hear how it all happened. I found this to be effectively creepy. By the way, John McNaughton the director used some really great sound effects to enhance the sequences. There's some gore here too, not everything is implied. And when things get gory...they get gory my friends. There's a scene involving a bathtub...wow. You'll see what I mean, don't wanna spoil any fun.So, basically, this is one of those movies that makes you feel really uncomfortable as you watch it, but you just cant take your eyes off it. And at the same time you can appreciate how extremely well crafted this motion picture is. One thing is for damn sure, you wont feel like your watching the type of horror movie they make today. This is a solidly horrifying film that you wont soon forget.Rating 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Wholesome Family Entertainment Part 5 It's Either You or Them","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, If I sat here all damn day, and tried to think of an 80's horror movie that is equal to this one... well, it just wouldn't happen. Yet another fine example of a low budget bringing out the horror, within the horror. A story, with no moral, and no retribution. This is Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer.Michael Rooker will forever haunt your dreams as Henry, a character based on serial killer, Henry Lee Lucas. Rooker just has that cold, merciless, look about him, perfect for the part. Henry is a drifter. Calm, and soft-spoken, actually mild-mannered on the outside. Underneath, an unspeakable rage with all the fury of hell, simmering inside him, constantly searching for someone, anyone to kill, for just a little peace of mind. As he passes through Chicago, Henry hooks up with an old friend from prison.Meet Otis Toole, played to perfection by Tom Towles, a man, who was apparently born to play the role of deranged redneck. Otis is the epitome of white trash. Probably more capable of rape than anything, that is, until Henry gets in his head.Becky, Otis's sister is in town for awhile, so the bachelors have a little female company, which is fine with Otis, because he's just lookin' for a little lovin'. Unfortunately for Otis, Becky is more in to Henry, I guess she prefers the quiet type. Being naive and irritating, and having stupid hair is no reason to set such low standards.Before we know it, Henry introduces the splendor of cold-blooded murder to Otis, who is a natural. At times, during their little outings, Otis comes off even more sadistic than Henry, although lacking the intelligence needed to have a successful killing career, besides, Henry's patience is running thin with this obnoxious redneck, plus, Becky is all up in his business, so it might be a good idea to hit the road soon.They occasionally play Henry on the Independent Film Channel. IFC would kick ass if they played less watered-down independence and more outrageous B-cinema, like this. I would recommend the 20th anniversary DVD, with the documentary on what actually happened. What actually happened is even more brutal than the Portrait. Like all great horror epics, there must be a sequel, which must make money. Henry 2 is just OK, which, now that I think about it, would probably qualify the sequel as one of the best horror movies of the 90's, considering the 90's, and all. No cops, no justice, no rhyme, no reason, just evil destroying innocent, then, moving on. Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is some vile/dandy horror. For a better serial killer movie than Henry, check out... no, wait, this is it, seriously, it doesn't get any better than this. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A successful horror/crime movie","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, while not, as it is often described, among the most disturbing movies ever made (compare with Eraserhead, Pi, and the Cabinet of Dr. Caligari), takes an approach to the biopic genre which was both novel at the time (grainy film stock, hand-held camera-work, no Hollywood plot resolution, a style echoed in Morris' The Thin Blue Line two years later), and frighteningly effective--even today, when audiences have been thoroughly exposed to Anthony Hopkins (and Brian Cox) and the psychological gore films of Se7en and Saw. By stripping down the production and putting the viewer face to face with the empty eyes of Michael Rooker as Henry Lee Lucas, HPoaSK makes the viewer wonder whether to sympathize with him and believe his sad story of his childhood, or see him as a killer with no hope of redemption. Furthermore, by keeping the camera close to the action, one has no choice but to feel thrust into Henry's world, and feel like an accomplice to the killings. That said, however, there are a few significant problems with the film. Character development is wanting, with some characters--most noticeably Becky--almost a blank slate. The killings, while a few are rather novel and disturbing, get repetitive. And, as has been noted, the lack of police action or justice is glaring. One last point, however HPoaSK's use of sound is nothing short of remarkable. The use of mickeymousing (which, for those unfamiliar with the term, is when an action on screen is matched by a similar sound effect Mickey Mouse falls down the stairs, and the sound effects man slides his hand across a piano) is fairly rare in modern cinema, appearing in the occasional Bond film when a villain appears, or in the Kill Bill movies, but out of fashion, generally; however, HPoaSK uses mickeymousing to heighten the impact of Henry's murders in a truly startling way--almost as startling as in Lynch's Eraserhead, when the Fats Waller soundtrack cuts to silence, then to an orchestral sting, then to silence. Certain scenes in HPoaSK are worth revisiting (for those who can stomach them), just to see how well the sound works in them. This movie is certainly not for everyone, but is, at least, a fairly powerful experience. Seven stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"An Utterly Discomforting Journey Into The Mind Of A Sadistic Killer","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" An utterly discomforting journey into the mind of a sadist, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is exactly what its subtitle suggests. Brutal, disturbing & absolutely uncompromising with its content, Henry is unsettling from the very first frame but what really separates it from other examples of its genre is its stringent focus on telling the story from the killer's perspective.Loosely based on real life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, Henry covers the crime spree of its titular character who goes around randomly killing people without any remorse or empathy. The plot mainly focuses on his stay in Chicago where he lives with Otis, a drug dealer he befriended in prison, and the inner turmoil he undergoes when the latter's sister comes to stay with them.Co-written & directed by John McNaughton, Henry establishes an uneasy tone within the first few minutes in which we see this sociopath driving around the town but interspersed within that segment are snippets of the brutality he leaves behind on every corner. Most of Henry's murders take place off the screen and yet its effect is deeply felt, which can be attributed to the film's clever use of sound effects.The film is truly an unhinged view of a mind filled with reckless hate but it is also extremely honest in illustrating the root cause of Henry's evilness, his philosophy of life & the ruthless but calculated nature of his crimes. Shot on a shoestring budget, the movie makes use of real locations & settings that gives its story an added sense of realism, which in turn ends up making the experience all the more horrifying.Despite the low budget, the technical aspects are no slouch here for the film creatively uses its limited resources to full potential and all of it works in harmony to serve its story as well as characters, whether it's the bleak shots of Chicago streets, the stark arrangement of few scenes juxtaposed together, the pace at which its plot unfolds, the brilliant use of sound & music to further amplify its ominous vibe, and keeping it as true to real life as possible.Coming to the performances, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer features a committed cast in Michael Rooker, Tom Towles & Tracy Arnold, with all three of them doing an excellent job in their given roles. Rooker is obviously the show-stealer here for his rendition of Henry is very chilling, effective & exquisitely balanced. Towles begins his act as if his character is dim but as the plot progresses, he adopts a highly repulsive persona that's destined to shock many, and even Arnold does well with what she's given.On an overall scale, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer isn't a film for everyone. It's an absolute horror show that takes a no-holds-barred approach with its content, swims against the tide of its time by discarding a moral conclusion, is bolstered by three convincing performances, utilises its available resources amazingly well, and despite lacking the graphic depiction of murders, barring one family massacre sequence, can leave its viewers emotionally scarred. A low-budget classic that shows that people in real life are capable of inflicting more horror than any monster on film, Henry is definitely worth a shot. "},{"Title":"Real and Gritty","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a serial killer is a film that feels more like a documentary than a general horror/slasher film. It doesn't try to sugar coat what it or the lead character is, instead focusing on a truth, well a possible truth. It is based on the confessions of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, who while a known serial killer, confessed to a load of killings that later were discovered to be lies. As no one knows the true number of killings he made the film bases itself around his confessions instead.When I've shown this film a lot of people have said it's not scary or more importantly it's not gory. If you're looking for an over the top gory/bloody type film this will probably disappoint you. There is plenty of violence, but its grounded in realism rather than trying to go over the top e.g. like the so called torture porn films. As I've seen lots of horror films it's rare for something to get to me and I tend to find the thought of certain scenes usually sound worse than they actually look. However Henry is a film that really did affect me, leaving me with a kind of sick and empty feeling. Michael Rooker certainly played a part with that as he plays Henry in a cold, strange but very realistic way. It's the way he looks, speaks, his mannerisms. Apparently Rooker stayed in character right through production even when the cameras weren't rolling. It's obviously from watching it that Henry is low budget, but that's what really works. It's shot so simple, as if you're watching something real. I also admire how the film kicks right in - the film starts with scenes with dead females, us seeing the dead girls Henry has killed, hearing their screams and his shouting over the top. It really shows you right from the start the mood of the film "},{"Title":"Pretty Potent Stuff","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Loosely based on the real-life exploits of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, who confessed to the slayings of over 600 people but who was ultimately convicted in the homicide of a mere 11, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer changes some of the established facts around yet remains a very strong experience for the viewer. As revealed on a certain Wiki site, the film was shot in just four weeks in 1986, at a cost of around $110,000, but was not released until four years later. Despite its great reputation, it is a film that I had long put off watching, having a suspicion that it would be a rather unpleasant experience for me over all. But lately, I have been exposing myself to a bunch of previously dreaded films (such as Blood Sucking Freaks and 1978's I Spit on Your Grave, with Audition and Cannibal Holocaust soon to come), and find that Henry is actually quite excellent; unpleasant, of course, but nevertheless featuring a winning script and three dynamite performances that elevate it to the ranks of first-rate independent filmmaking.In the picture, the viewer makes the acquaintance of Henry (Michael Rooker, in his first screen role), a polite, soft-spoken, illiterate young man who looks a tad like a less muscular Arnold Schwarzenegger crossed with Grand Funk Railroad's Mark Farner...and who also happens to be a quite casual serial killer. Before we even get to hear him speak, we see a trail of Henry's victims on screen a beautiful brunette lying in the grass with a gashed abdomen, a pair of liquor store owners with gunshot wounds to the head, a bloodied hooker with a glass bottle stuffed in her mouth (!), a dead woman lying face down in a stream. When we first meet Henry, he is doing work as an exterminator, appropriately enough, living in Chicago with an ex-jailmate named Otis (very loosely based on the real-life Ottis Toole, and played here by Tom Towles), a parolee who makes a living as an auto mechanic and pot dealer. Otis' sister Becky (Tracy Arnold) soon comes to stay, and learns that Henry had done his time in jail for the killing of his own mother. And it would seem that old habits do die hard, as Henry's propensity toward homicide for kicks remains undiminished, and when the bored and frustrated Otis becomes a willing student in the art of casual killing, the pair enters into a series of slayings that achieve a whole new realm of fun and games....Featuring expert direction from John McNaughton and those three finely crafted performances, Henry truly is a powerful experience. The film is often quite suspenseful, and much of that suspense derives from the viewer's never knowing which of Henry's encounters will turn lethal. Anyone who Henry sees, be it a waitress in a diner or a woman walking her dog, becomes a potential victim, and it is the lighthearted, blithe casualness with which Henry dispatches these victims that makes the picture so horrific. Operating under his philosophy of It's either you or them, Henry is as dispassionate a killer as Schwarzenegger's Terminator, calmly eating a burger and fries, for example, after breaking the necks of two prostitutes. Several of the picture's slayings are merely suggested (for example, that guitar-toting female hitchhiker who gets into Henry's car; Henry later offers the guitar to Otis as a present) and some seen, as mentioned earlier, only as bloodied aftermath, but still, the film DOES give the viewer ample evidence of Henry and Otis in action. Thus, the repeated stabbing and head bashing of a TV-dealing fence; the oh-so casual murder of a driver in an underpass; the pair videotaping their rape/murder of an entire nuclear family (arguably, the most disturbing sequence in the film), and the final 15 minutes of the picture, which I won't go into but do guarantee will long linger in the memory. The film gives us an explanation for Henry's psychosis that at first seems only barely plausible (his mother had been a hooker who had forced Henry to wear dresses and watch her have sex with the customers)...until one learns that such had been the case with Henry Lee Lucas himself in the 1940s. My mama was a whore, Henry tells Becky with a sneer on his face, and the moment is an icy one. All told, Henry may be unpleasant, detailing as it does the lives of three very damaged and disturbed people (Becky had been repeatedly raped by her father as a girl and beaten by her present husband), but remains a very fine film. Its violence is clinical but hardly exploitative, and in its understated way, leaves a residual chill that a less artfully composed picture could never achieve. It was followed by a sequel six years after its release, but with a different director at the helm and another actor portraying Henry, this follow-up is a product that this viewer is in no great rush to see. Further good news regarding Henry is that the film is available to us today on a great-looking DVD from the always dependable Dark Sky outfit; Henry, originally shot in 16mm, may never look better for home viewing. It took me 24 years to catch up with this one, but I am so glad that I finally did. Pretty potent stuff, indeed! "},{"Title":"disturbing yes, but in a challenging way","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Instead of the cheap slasher film he was hired to direct, Chicago filmmaker John McNaughton borrowed the case history of local mass murderer Henry Lee Lucas and created a fictitious portrait of an actual killer which, however well drawn, is so brutally honest it becomes a difficult film to recommend. McNaughton flirts, at times, with outright exploitation, but underneath all the appalling violence is a film that demands to be taken seriously, examining a casual murderer (played with unnerving, low-key intensity by Michael Rooker) who preys on his (mostly female) victims with no remorse, no pity, and no real motive the only reason he kills is because it's easy and he's able to. The film is notable for the director's refusal to dress up the bloodshed with any palatable style; it's a grim vision of America's moral wasteland and a shocking reminder to acclimatized moviegoers that murder most definitely is not entertainment, and it certainly isn't pretty. Approach the film with caution but by all means approach it. "},{"Title":"No Yuppies Here","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If there's a more chilling movie out there than Henry, I sure as heck don't want to see it. This one iced me right down to the proverbial bone. There are none of the usual slasher clichés, except maybe several posed victims, which is also the movie's weakest part (too artificial). No, instead the movie is drained of anything that smacks of glamor or suspense. Henry even turns away from the chance to stalk a victim down the usual dark alleyway. Now there's a surprise.In place of the usual sneaky slash and flash, there's life at the bottom of the human barrel. No yuppie haunts here. Kill-buddies Henry and Otis exist only in the seediest surroundings-- cramped kitchens, bare walls, cheap prostitutes-- and finally a personal hygiene that's hit and miss, at best. No, these folks will not be on Oprah or even Jerry Springer anytime soon. Drifter Henry's chief occupation is killing people and pests like a wind-up toy. Behind, he leaves a trail of bodies. But who cares, since most are low-lifes like himself. Apparently not the cops since we never see or hear them. Otis, on the other hand, has learned to enjoy torture and murder, especially when he can videotape it for chuckle-filled reruns. If anything, Otis is more stomach-turning than Henry, even down to the petty level. Notice him leaving poor under-sized Becky to lug the back-breaking suitcase from the airport. Henry, at least, has some manners before dispatching victims.It may seem improbable, but the film is expertly done. The makers know the effects they want and how to get them with sure-handed camera set-ups and slow purposeful pans. Like the characters, the movie is ugly to look at, even down to the color mix and sound quality. The makers also do some manipulating. Does anyone really care when the obnoxious fat guy gets to wear a TV, or is anyone not morbidly riveted during the family butchering scene. I expect that gut-wrencher was meant to undo years of commercial titillation with a version of the real thing, and it works. I almost heaved, not because of the usual gore.There is none. But because of the pure, unvarnished human agony.Notice how well Henry, Otis, and Becky don't communicate. Otis especially appears about one tick above a sea slug. His two chief pastimes are staring at TV and mouthing his one memorized sentence, Why don't you get your poor old brother a beer. Small, plain-faced sister Becky would like to talk, but what chance does she have. I suppose it's desperation among the poor and loveless that she stays in that pest-hole, knowing that Henry has killed his own mother. Then there's cool, cunning Henry. He gives evidence of deeper thoughts but is too stifled and hate-filled to try. Besides, he communicates through killing. The long, meaningful lapses remind me of that minimalist masterpiece Stranger Than Paradise, proving, I suppose, that sometimes less really is more.Anyway, this is a one-of-a-kind with an hypnotic appeal despite the subject matter. But maybe scariest of all-- it's based on a true story. Now that really does send me under the bed. "},{"Title":"More than a little disturbing","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fictional movie very loosely based on an actual serial killer. Henry (Michael Rooker) seems like a nice normal guy. He lives with low life scum Otis (Tom Towles) and, unknown to Otis, kills people (mostly women). This is very unsettling. We see the bloody mutilated corpses and HEAR what went on while they were killed. It's all played with creepy background music. A sister of Otis' named Becky (Tracy Arnold) comes to visit. She starts to be attracted to Henry and he seems to feel the same way for her...but can he conquer his compulsion to kill? I caught this back in 1990 at an art house. It was shot in 1986 but unreleased until 1990 because the MPAA rightfully gave it an X rating (it was released unrated). I walked out horrified and thoroughly depressed. 18 years later it's lost none of its power.We don't actually see Henry murder anyway until halfway through--and it's more than a little disturbing. His violent rages come out of nowhere and he shows no mercy to his victims. The murders and ferocity increase and leads to a home invasion about an hour in that's virtually unwatchable. This is one of the few movies where the violence and murders truly horrify you. The acting is excellent across the board--Rooker is superb as Henry. It reaches the point we're you're almost expecting him to kill people. You never know when he's going to explode. It keeps the viewer tense and off key. This movie rightfully got Rooker recognized. Also the direction is assured and the music score is just perfect for the tone of the film. It has a truly horrific and depressing ending.This is (obviously) not for everyone but it's shattering and disturbing and recommended for those who like to be challenged by a movie--and have strong stomaches. Recommended for horror fans especially. "},{"Title":"Depressing, disturbing........","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the only review I have ever done where I have not given a star rating for. I don't know what to say. From start to finish Henry is depressing, disturbing, extremely uncomfortable and creepy as all hell. The acting is almost too good. It seems as though they are not actors but just normal people that they hired. The score is extremely unsettling and it goes very well with the mood of the film.There really is no plot to this film. It just follows Henry (chillingly played by Michael Rooker) and his cousin Otis as he teaches him the way of being a serial killer.I really wasn't prepared for this movie. All those reviewers that say this is one of the most (if not THE most) disturbing movies ever made are telling the truth. I have never felt that way in a long time. From the opening scene of a dead woman in a ditch, to the last scene of a body bag, the movie grabs a-hold of you and doesn't let go. The violence is not always shown on screen, but when it is, it is brutal and horrible.This is not for everyone but if anyone is looking for a disturbing horror movie, rent this one. Just prepare yourself for it. "}{"Title":"Disturbing, unflinching","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I picked up a tape at Movies to Go in Tacoma many years ago, the cover art depicted a figure gazing disaffectedly into a blood-spattered mirror, with the tag-line of He's not Freddy. He's not Jason. He's real. So into the VCR I popped it, actually not expecting much--I had been horrendously duped by covers before. It was the most uncomfortable 82 minutes I've ever sat through, a sociopath's slice of life presented documentary style. The film has been much maligned, either by those who call it gratuitous, or who were unimpressed. The is actually little violence shown, but the aftermaths are graphic and disturbing. John McNaughton barely bats an eye in his offering of what amounts to a Day in the Life of a Psychopath, injecting bits of grim humor into an otherwise relentlessly sickening life. Michael Rooker is exceptional as Henry, a drifter who views the lives of others as trash. Tracy Arnold and Tom Towles are effective as Becky and her brother Otis, a pair of bleak losers who lucklessly enter Henry's path of destruction--Towles portrays the scumbag Otis so well that for me it was hard to divorce the actor from this character when playing other roles. A repellent, unflinching, unforgettable experience, with one of the most chilling openings and conclusions ever committed to celluloid. "},{"Title":"truly disturbing","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Realistic to the point of being unwatchable story of a serial killer and his murders. Michael Rooker is chilling as a psychopath who has the uncaring black eyes of a shark. This movie is filmed just like you are in the room with him when he does his business and it isn't pleasant. An X rated movie (now NC-17) for the violence. I'd never watch this film again because it was so unsettling. Definitely not for anyone under 21. And the ending is a total downer. This movie is grosser than any horror film and makes Psycho look like Mr. Rogers because it's done in such a documentary style. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Probably the most disturbing movie I've ever seen. This film shows the crimes of a serial killer's from his amoral perspective. What makes this movie especially disturbing is the low-key, realistic tone. In Hollywood serial killer films, the killers tend to be larger-than-life, almost inhuman monsters, who invariably murder their victims in extravagantly grotesque ways. Henry, by contrast, is just a low-life drifter who kills people for reasons that seem to be a mystery even to him. Michael Rourke gives a chillingly convincing performance as the title character, a psychopathic drifter who seems to kill for a reason that seems to be a mystery even to him. The actors playing the two other main characters, Henry's accomplice and the man's sister, also turn in excellent performances, though at times the actress seemed a little too pretty for the role she was playing. Unlike just about every other movie ever made about a serial killer, from M to Se7en, the police are never even a threat to the villain; the only cop in the movie is Otis's clueless parole officer. Part of the film's disturbing quality comes from the fact that there are essentially only three characters, all of them very weird. As much as I like Silence of the Lambs, there is something creepy about the way that Hannibal Lecter became a figure of pop culture. There's no way that Henry could ever become any sort of cult icon. "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss?","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS THROUGHOUTI watched this movie by myself after my boyfriend refused to watch it with me, saying he was too disturbed by it the one time he'd seen it previously.  I figured any film that gets a reaction like that ought to be worth watching.  And I'll admit, it was fascinating, the same way picking a scab is fascinating; you know it's bad for you and can cause scarring, and it's not really all that entertaining, but something compels you to do it anyway.My biggest problem with this film was that it gives absolutely zero insight into Henry's mindset or that of any of the other characters, nor does it even attempt to.  We don't identify with anyone, not even Becky, and as such we have noinvestment in the characters.  A previous reviewer said something along thelines of we get to hear about the horrible events in Henry's childhood that made him what he is, and I couldn't disagree more.  There's exactly one conversation between Henry and Becky where she talks about being sexually abused by herfather and how she tried to like him anyway, and Henry comes back with a story of his mother being a whore who forced him to watch her turn tricks.  Of course we know at this point that Henry is a liar and an unreliable narrator, and this is just illustrated further when Becky catches him lying about his supposed method of killing his mother.  We find out zero actual information.So where's the motivation?  If they both had such horrible childhoods, why is Henry a killer while Becky is not?  If Otis is such a psychopath, how come he doesn't start killing until Henry introduces him to it?  We don't see anything about the actual killings and how they affect Henry, what purpose they fulfill for him or why he does it.  Even when he begins instructing Otis on serial killing, we get no sense of his underlying wants and needs that might be fulfilled bykilling.  We get nothing.  And I don't think that's a characterization choice, I think it's bad filmmaking.I do agree that the scene where the camera pulls back from the TV screenshowing the video of the family's killing to show Henry and Otis on the couch watching forces you to examine your own status as film voyeur.  The problemwith that is, it doesn't add anything to our understanding.  It makes us feel bad for being enthralled by the same footage that is enthralling these despicable men, but then it doesn't offer any alternative.  In essence, the director has merely created something fascinating to watch because of its creepiness without giving us any underlying substance.Are we supposed to be surprised when Henry kills Becky at the end?  The manhas killed every other person in the movie thus far - why would we expect him to do any differently with this naive girl?  Because she said she loved him?Thptpth...You might as well write on a piece of paper, Serial killers exist.  They are out there.  They could be the guy next to you on the train.  So watch out. and then hold that sheet of paper up to the camera for 90 minutes.   But then, nobodywould be titillated by that, would they? "},{"Title":"Realistic and Disturbing...Some People Don't Get It","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  ***  out of  ****The first time I saw this masterwork, I was truly affected. I don't think certain people (mostly the jaded kids of today) get it.Henry is real...too real. He's a serial killer who just can't stop what he does, like an obese person unable to stop eating those Oreos. When he goes about his routine, it's with the most natural indifference in the world that in itself makes us cringe.This film is SUPPOSED to be sort of plotless, and it functions more like a twisted documentary about a twisted individual. At times we get inside Henry ourselves and can almost feel for him. He and the people he meets are the trash of our society, those who view such unspeakable killings as a kick.The Family Invasion scene is literally one of the most unsettling moments I have ever seen; it's intensely disturbing in the cavalier and frank way it is shot. Masterful.HENRY is a cheap and simple film, and that's what makes it so hard to watch. It should totally unnerve you, unless of course you happen to be a Henry. "},{"Title":"A bit to dull","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1998 (uncut), and I must say that I expected more intensity. The movie was realistic and brutal, but after all the TV-clip I saw of the film I must say that it didn't deliver the goods.The good thing about Henry was the acting, and that the Hollywood influence was minimal. But I don't think I will recommend the movie on that basic. "},{"Title":"Ugly, relentless, horrifying, and essential","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's hard to know where to begin evaluating a film like Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer. Buzzwords like dark, gritty, and disturbing don't even come close to summing up the grueling visceral horror that permeates every frame of this chronicle of depravity. Shocking certainly applies here, but a trivial designation like that doesn't even remotely encompass the sheer nihilistic weight of the abominable acts Portrait's audience will be required to sit through when they commit to viewing this film. I could throw out a dozen adjectives in the vain hope of adequately describing why this bleak journey deserves to be unquestionably recognized as one of the most harrowing and powerful horror films ever made, but the word I invariably arrive at to most succinctly essay the brutal brilliance and lasting potency of Henry is actually a noun masterpiece. Though it arrived in the middle of the splatter decade, Henry was and remains wholly unlike any of its genre contemporaries, and while history has since shown us that it's possible for films about serial killers to win Oscars, the audiences of Portrait's era had never been exposed to an unflinchingly realistic study of pure human malevolence quite like this. The fact that it was branded with an X-rating upon its release should underscore exactly how much resonance Henry had at the time, and though there is certainly enough nudity and violence here to push the boundaries of R, the most objectionable aspects of Portrait, and in my opinion the ones that drew it the X, are the film's unyielding intensity and its refusal to offer the viewer any sense of pathos or release. Henry is a film that wraps its fingers around your throat and squeezes until it has exhausted its 83-minute run-time, and when its devastating finale fades from the screen, you'll come to the realization that you haven't been entertained, you've been assaulted.This is certainly extremely bloody fare, but Henry is far from a splatter film. In truth there's only one high-impact gore effect in the entire affair, and its obvious reliance on a rubbery prosthetic head actually renders it the least realistic moment in the movie. Even the most horrendous sequence in Portrait, where Henry and his lunatic sidekick Otis menace and murder a suburban family in their home while Henry captures the whole thing on video, leaves most of the bloodshed off-screen. The majority of our glimpses of Henry's victims are shown to us after the killer is long gone from the scene, presented as slowly-panned, lingering snapshots that resonate like crime scene photos, but the savagery displayed in these images tells the entire tale for us, and this tactic of suggesting rather than showing and requiring our imaginations to paint the broader pictures actually makes the violence in the film far more loathsome and effective.The repulsively immersive documentary feel and staggering brutality wouldn't have nearly the same jarring impact, however, if not for the stunning performances that bring these ugly characters in this ugly world to life. The minuscule budget director John McNaughton had to work with required him to rely on then-untested actors to populate his reels, but the portrayals here are so impressive that it's hard to imagine a more seasoned cast improving upon the presentation one bit.Michael Rooker's menacing lead turn is by far the most affecting and multifaceted character study of a serial killer ever committed to film, and the most frightening aspect of his depiction of Henry is his chilling sociopathic ability to be deceptively charming and endearing at times even after we've seen what he's capable of. Yet Rooker always keeps Henry's meticulously masked rage coiled and within reach, which makes a seemingly mundane scene like Henry asking a woman on the street about her dog seethe with suspense. Tom Towles strikes the perfect balance of predatory and pathetic as Henry's tag-along pupil Otis, and his fearless portrayal is also noteworthy. However, the biggest surprise the film has to offer is Tracy Arnold's arresting and heart-breaking performance as Becky, a deeply damaged walking casualty who has the unfortunate distinction of being both Otis's imminently doomed sister and the object of his unsettling incestuous lust. Arnold's emotionally wrenching essay of tragedy here is utterly magnificent, and it's truly amazing that she never built up a substantial post-Henry resume.McNaughton manages his lean running time perfectly, establishing an astounding amount of nuance and subtext at a whip-crack pace while still staying focused on the heinous deeds of his subject. Yes, these random and remorseless murders are glimpses into the darkest recesses of humanity that are sickening to behold, but one of the most clever and cruel tricks the film plays is forcing us to partially understand what drives these killings and the animal behind them. It's not a pleasant epiphany, but the reinforcement of man as the most sinister monster of all proves to be the nexus of the piece, and McNaughton wisely allows this epistle to bubble to the surface instead of expounding on it, again engaging the audience by urging us to locate the method in the film's madness.There are too many more superlatives I could bestow here for me to mention in the space I have, but if you get anything out of this write-up, I hope it will be my insistence that Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer is mandatory viewing for anyone who considers themselves even a casual connoisseur of the horror genre. This film isn't fun to watch, but it is absolutely riveting to behold, and even if you only see it once, there are scenes in Portrait that will remain with you forever. If you have the stomach to undertake this haunting and unforgettable journey, you'll find yourself in the callous clutches of an undeniably peerless classic. "},{"Title":"Portrait of an imagined serial killer","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Supposedly based on the true life serial killer, Henry Lee Lucas (played by a turbulent Michael Rooker), but in fact is framed on tall stories of the largest fabler in American crime history (made even taller by director / scriptwriter John McNaughton, who adds his own two cents to the mythology). Henry Lee Lucas admitted to over 600 murders, whilst in fact, together with his comrade in mayhem Otis (Tom Towles) are probably culpable but for a fraction of those events. Inspired by the prefabricated musings of a trickster conspiring with police 'to clean up the books' John McNaughton supposedly presents us a portrait of a psychotic mind, but essentially remains underwhelmingly vacuous.The hyperbole of Lucas's life story is taken at face value giving a terrifying vision of a pair of two morally incapacitated individuals, albeit Henry himself finds a soft spot for Otis's cousin Becky (Tracy Arnold). The trio of off-beat uneducated drifters clinch viewer attention with idle chit-chat coupled with pending violence boiling just below the surface. Unlike Hannibal-like eroticism the serial killers are hollow, dead and pitiful, which allow for a certain level of affinity with the characters, though thankfully never creating a need for compassion. Suitably events are portrayed pretty matter of fact (thankfully) without the ulterior intellectually deviant underpinnings so predominant in serial killer movies - this murderer isn't a deranged genius, just a murderous lost soul.Low key direction with unassuming choreography keeps attention focused on Rooker and Towles, which make a oddly disturbing couple, believable, but at the same time unreal. Rooker especially has a tentative quality of lingering anger and dead eyes, which slowly rescinds during contact with the awkwardly naive Arnold. Gifted with the best lines Rooker excels at his portrayal painting an appalling picture of a psycho, albeit one that is doubly fictitious, hellbent on murder, but conscious enough to avoid having a modus operandi.McNaughton does also have some nice touches, which add undeniable dread, especially with the opening act, where murders are not shown, but heard menacingly dubbed over pictures of corpses. The strongest point of the movie (in true Funny Games style), when a tellingly graphic murder of a family is presented as a video tape being watched by the serial killers, drawing comparisons between them and viewing watching such gruesome pictures. Disturbing and drastic hard to recommend as anything other than exploitative horror, one so vividly criticised by Haneke in Funny Games. Roughly shot and essentially pointless and thoughtless, not even having the decency to entertain a story more based on fact and less on delusions. Maybe beforehand knowledge about the actual Henry Lee Lucs detracts away from viewing pleasure, as the true life story of his incarceration makes just a much more enticing talking point, than the on-screen imaginings presented by the director. "},{"Title":"As a True Story & Horror Film it has to be the most Disturbing, Sickest, Twisted, Depressing & Shocking Films I've ever looked at","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a Horror Film & A True Story I found this to be really Shocking. i don't why, I just watched it last night and I couldn't get to sleep for a while. I think that this film makes your bones grip. The music and the scenes make you cringe. The actors are also very believable and every death whether it's on-screen or off-screen is executed well and it's done in a way that I've never encountered.I didn't find anything wrong with the film but I couldn't give it a 10 cause of how disturbing it is. What I will say this is the best HORROR film I've seen this year so far. I've even talked to myself about how sadistic and how scary it was and that's why it is known to be a controversial film.I'm also glad that the director didn't go into all the detail and back story of Serial Killer Henry Lee Lucas and I'm glad that he sort of kept his story in some tame sort of way. A different direction in some pointers to be honest.The thing I really wanted to point out though was that this film was deep. I don't just mean deep, it was really, really deep. Besides it's disturbing content, the film just pushed at me and I felt a sense of rage, anger, sadness and even dullness. I've never even encountered a Horror film that would actually trigger me off. I felt angry at times when I was watching this film and I have no idea why.I believe that if your gonna look at this film it has to be looked at very carefully and it must be viewed with an open mind. When I started to watch this I didn't know what i was getting myself into. Like Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Black Christmas, Poltergeist & Nekromantik this film has to be looked at carefully. 9/10 *Spoilers* Be warned that Henry & Otis could scare viewers at times. To be honest Otis gave me the creeps. Henry was scary but I liked him anyway. "},{"Title":"A brutal, uncompromising Portrait","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first thing to greet us in Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a dead prostitute laying in a ditch. Then, we're introduced to the story's antagonist, Henry (Michael Rooker), as he finishes his meal at a Chicago diner. After he leaves, we're shown a graphic montage of murder victims, their bodies horribly and savagely mutilated, with their faces frozen with the look of death in their eyes. The connection between Henry and these murder victims is simple Henry is a serial killer, and these people are his victims, the latest in a gruesome and senseless killing spree.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is loosely based on the real-life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, who confessed to committing 600 murders but was only convicted of 11 (though some criminologists believe he was responsible for between 40 and 50 murders), and could only be positively linked to four. His first killing was believed to have been his mother (one of the four for which he was positively linked to), though he confessed to an earlier killing of a neighborhood girl during his teenage years, which he later recanted his confession. Former Texas governor George W. Bush, in 1998, commuted his death sentence to life imprisonment due to lingering doubts about his guilt - mostly over concerns that he may have fabricated most, or all, of his confessions. OK, history lesson over; this is a movie made for pure shock value (and to a lesser degree, entertainment value, as well).Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is an impressively brutal and uncompromising feature from director John McNaughton. This horror picture is shot in no particular style, like Tobe Hooper's 1974 The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and McNaughton's camera doesn't flinch once. It just shows us what is with no moralizing and rationalizing Henry's actions. The film was completed in 1986 but was released in 1990 due to McNaughton's persistent problems with the MPAA in obtaining an R rating, who wanted to give the film an X for which he adamantly refused, and four years later it was finally released unrated.In the film, the soft-spoken loner Henry is living with his ex-con friend Otis (Tom Towles). Otis's pretty, damaged-goods sister Becky (Tracy Arnold) comes to live with them after divorcing her abusive husband. Becky is pretty smitten by Henry's cool exterior and their similar backgrounds. Pretty soon, we start to see in pure, undiluted detail, Henry's bloody killing spree and his ushering of Otis into his sick and twisted world. Not long after, they manage to obtain a video camera so they can record their murders and then later re-watch them for added pleasure. (A scene where this is highlighted is when the two break into the home of a married couple and as you would expect from this film already, is not for the squeamish.)What is great about Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is the brutal and uncompromising presentation of the story - the stark, frightening realism of the events, the raw intensity, brutality, and utter savagery of everything we're forced to see here. As I stated earlier, no attempt is made to rationalize Henry's actions, though the film and criminologists seem to suggest he was motivated by the abuse he suffered as a child at the hands of his mother - who was a prostitute and would bring home clients and force young Henry to watch her have sex with them, and would sometimes put him in a dress - his murderous actions being an expression of misogynistic rage (his targets were mostly women) over that humiliation.Where most movies fail is where Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer succeeds. Most similar-themed serial killer movies gloss over the murder, the gruesome carnage, which often kills the experience. They attempt to make sense of the madness. This movie doesn't have any of that. The camera never flinches and there's no attempt to hide anything that goes on. The juvenile horror-/torture-fests of today cannot compare. This movie was made during a time when horror films still had guts and were not afraid of actually terrifying the audience. As Henry, Rooker is pretty effective in a one-note, flat-voiced, and soul-less performance that is what reportedly got him his big break into the movies. Tom Towles is also chilling as the simple-minded ex-con initiated into Serial Killing 101, the more-experienced Henry showing him how to kill and get away with it. To be sure, he's even more frightening sometimes than Rooker is as Henry.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a chilling and challenging exercise in horror film-making. Its opening and closing images of death and relentless portrayal of murderous mayhem are unforgettable. It's also excellently acted and directed - director McNaughton is skilled in portraying Henry as an unsympathetic serial killer whose actions cannot be rationalized. It's easy to see why this film made Entertainment Weekly's top-20 horror films of all time.The real-life Lucas died in prison in 2001 of natural causes.8/10 "}{"Title":"Proofs once more that low budget genre movies are often the most effective ones.","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" For these type of serial killer movies you never need a budget worth millions of dollars to let it work out. Often a shoe-string budget work out the best for this type its movies, because it contributes to the movie its unpleasant atmosphere. You can say that in these type of movies the amateurism and simplicity all adds to the creativity and overall effectiveness of the movie. The best known example of this is the original first The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, from 1978.This movie is far less known and also isn't blessed with such a great title. The title of this movie somewhat sounds something like a based on true-events TV movie, without any graphic images. But don't be fooled, for Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is filled with graphic violence and other disturbing moments.The movie feels and breaths an '70's atmosphere. Also the overall style of the movie is very '70's like, in a gritty, dark and very straightforward type of way. It also of course helps that the movie at times uses 'home-video' movie, in which we get to see the killings/rapes from the perpetrators perspective alone.It isn't a movie that has a true beginning or ending, in terms of having a conclusion that puts an end to things. It has instead now got one of the best possible endings thinkable, that is shocking, unexpected and satisfying even though it doesn't put a definitive end to things.The real story of Henry Lee Lucas is even more shocking and disturbing but also a lot longer and more complicated of course. It's far too much to put in a movie and then prevent it from getting ever overlong or starts repeating itself and remain original. This movie obviously had to make some choices and even decided to not only exclude a lot but also to change and add certain elements, which all strengthens the story in this case. The story might seem very simple at first sight now but is's perhaps the very same simplicity that makes the movie so great- and let things work out in it so effectively. It makes some great choices with its story and build up, that seem simple but are all thought out and constructed cleverly.The movie features the then still unknown Michael Rooker in one of his earliest roles. None of the actors are that impressive within this movie, which gives Michael Rooker all the more room to shine in his role. He plays a great two faced character, that can be both kind and sort of shy as well as ruthless. He does this very convincingly within the movie.But it are the graphic killings within the movie that makes this a really watchable one. It doesn't show all the killings how they happened but only just a few, which makes the impact of them work out all the more and adds to the reason why this movie is regarded by many as one of the most shocking one's.A great and effectively shocking movie within its genre.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Uncompromising, brutal and disturbing film-making.","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nearly twenty years ago, I caught this film at an all-night horror film festival. Instead of the whooping, hollering and cheering that accompanied most of the other movies, Henry was met with a deathly silence by the audience. Its gritty and gripping tale was so different, so fresh, and just so plain nasty, that everyone watching was lost for words.Even today, Henry still has the power to render the viewer speechless, such is the brilliance of the direction and performances in this powerful and shocking movie.Recently released from prison, murderer Henry (Michael Rooker) is earning a meagre living as a bug exterminator; in his spare time, however, he prefers to seek out bigger prey, committing a series of indiscriminate murders in a variety of grisly ways. On a night out with ex-prison-mate, and now flat-mate, Otis (Tom Towles), Henry slips into full-on murder mode, doing away with a couple of hookers, and ends up recruiting his impressionable friend as a willing accomplice to his extra-curricular activities.Between spraying roaches and teaching Otis the secrets to being a successful serial killer, Henry also forms an unlikely relationship with Otis' sister, Becky (who is staying with her brother, after leaving her violent husband). But when sexual deviant Otis takes the idea of brotherly love a little too far, Henry steps in with devastating consequences for all.Director John McNaughton shows that he means business from the very start by opening his film on a slow reveal of a naked female corpse, which has been dumped unceremoniously in some shallow water. Several gruesome bodies later (including one of a woman with a broken bottle jammed in her face) and the audience know that they're in for a rough ride. This film doesn't intend to glamourise murder; it means to show the ugly side of killing in every nauseating detail. The result is a truly haunting experience that will stay with the viewer long after the film has finished.As the film progresses, the levels of violence escalate, and the unflinchingly graphic manner in which the depravity is captured make this one of the most harrowing studies of psychotic behaviour ever filmed. McNaughton's sparing use of his unsettling score, coupled with some particularly stylish and clever storytelling techniques (most noticeably, the ferocious 'house invasion' scene, which I believe to be a big influence the effectively sickening August Underground pseudo-snuff movies) make this a chilling character study that pulls no punches nihilistic and disturbingly graphic, the film presents violent death without the glossy veneer that would be present in a Hollywood production.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Shocking Realism","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shocking, disturbing, controversial, unsettling, great. Is it everything people say it is? Yes, it is. But it works better than The Silence of the Lambs as Gene Siskel said it in his show giving thumbs down to Hannibal film? No. Both films know how to shock, and both films are based in real psychopaths but they're like two different roads that never cross each other, and both are great films on their own. While The Silence... was about saving people and the FBI persecution over a dangerous killer, Henry is beyond this world, it is about another dangerous killer totally out of control who will murder in the most horrific ways you can imagine and there's no one to stop this guy. The intelligence of the story is being simple, showing an unpredictable man who keeps killing and killing more and more people without mercy or remorse, and convincing his friend Otis to participate in those murders. Michael Rooker and Tom Towles plays these two friends with an impactant and shocking realism that manages to go from a black humored film to a horrific thriller that's gonna make you on the edge of your seat. For the minds who might think that this is just a film about a guy who kills people indiscriminately and never gets caught here's a reminder about what Henry Portrait of a Killer really is. It urges the viewer to see how the mind of a psycho killer works, without fear, caring about how to fool the police with their styles of killing, fulfilling a strange taste for blood, liberating their anxieties and problems in other people. As Sandra Bullock says in one moment in Murder by Numbers about the killer she's chasing The profile doesn't fit the profile; just when you think that you know who is Henry's next victim or his method you know nothing because though apparently this guy is so ordinary he has a enormous intelligence in making these killings. Everything is unpredictable, it's not like CSI where at the end of the day cops know how these guys act and the victims are all equal following a profile like the women murdered by Jack the Ripper.The movie is quite impressive so if you're interested in watching but gets impressed or depressed with violent scenes or disturbing moments try to stay away, and if you can't do that go ahead but I warned you. I've seen many things in terms of film so I can't really say that this film shocked me so much to the point of nightmares and all, but I must recognize that the family murder scene is scary and depressive (I admired director John McNaughton's style in presenting this scene through the lens of Otis camera, it makes the scene graphic since everything you see is at distance but it scares because of its content and because the killers are watching calmly). The only thing that bothered me in the murders is the snapping neck thing because 1) It is used four times during the movie which is unusual if one consider that psychopaths almost never uses this form of killing (or at least the ones I researched on web, news and all medias never used it); 2) It's not that easy as it portrayed in the film, it lacks realism; 3) The sound of the neck breaking is so loud in the film that you think you're seeing a Chuck Norris or Steven Seagal movie, and we're talking about killers who are murdering people without getting caught, people from across the street could hear Henry murdering someone. But it's a minor flaw, doesn't impeach the movie of being brutal and powerful as it is. Definitely one of the most relevant and sinister films I ever watched. The sound of those cuts will echo in my ears for a long time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"disturbing not for the violence but the layers of human horror on display","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer will make the typical teenage fan of Freddy or Jason s*** their pants. Or maybe not. Maybe this might actually, when it's not ratcheting up the precisely random violence and kills, bore some of the younger audience looking for stupid characters doing stupid things and getting killed by a bogeyman. Henry, based on real life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, wasn't a bogeyman. He was more like your friend who is usually bored every other night and goes out to do something. But that something, instead of like going to a bar or a movie or a show, is killing people, whomever, as long as it's not too obvious (never using a gun twice, and proper disposal of bodies, is some advice given by Henry), with a hapless dumb-ass, Otis, usually in tow.What makes it so unnerving is how McNaughton chooses to just show his protagonist doing these things, without passing any judgment exactly. Perhaps some did think judgment was passed somehow, or that the controversy came from just showing a killer as is, and without proper law and order about (a cop car shows up literally once, for a goof). It's a downright sad and vicious bastard of a movie, showing the primitive horrorshow of, say, the massacre of the wife, husband and child, as seen through the staggering hand-held vision of the camcorder that Henry is operating while he and Otis do the slaughter. And yet for all the horrible things they do- and, arguably, Otis does worse ultimately, if only by way of Becky- they're never shown as caricatures, or as supernatural creatures. They're just killers, doing it for the hell of it, or, perhaps as reason Henry gives, 'do it before they do it to you' (this also goes for defenseless hookers).It might not be entirely a great movie - it's shot roughly and some of the editing is crude and the use of music and sound effects (yes, sound effects) is cheesy and a little laughable, not to mention the shoe-string special effects and make-up - but it's got great things about it, memorable notes to take. Tom Towles is excellent as a downright creep of a human being, while Michael Rooker does perfectly as a tortured soul who, as Henry, just does what he does, though at the same time was, at one point, a victim himself from his mother (who, apparently, he also killed). Some vulnerability is found with the Becky character, though Arnold' performance is just passable.What makes the movie for me is Rooker's hold on the character, so dark and deep and scary that you can feel your skin crawl knowing he could just snap at any moment (albeit not as awful as Otis, in a weird way), and McNaughton's lack of easy answers - certainly not with the ending, which is equally bizarre and chilling. A minor cult item to take note of it's the kind of movie I always saw on the video shelf in the horror section as a kid, looking dangerous with Rooker leering at the mirror and a warning on the video box. Now I know why. "},{"Title":"Haunting Masterpiece","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986) **** (out of 4)Brutal, haunting and at times downright eerie portrait of a loner named Henry (Michael Rooker) who along with his friend Otis (Tom Towles) gives us a view at a serial killer's motives and actions.HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER was one of the most controversial movies ever made and in the era of a slasher, it couldn't even find a release for years. It's easy to see why because there's no question that it's one of the most raw, violent and frightening films ever made. Director John McNaughton was given money to create a horror movie but he instead created something totally original and shocking. It's been noted that this wasn't the type of horror film the money men were expecting and this reminds me of when Peter Bogdanovich was given money to create a cheap horror film and instead he went and made TARGETS, another chilling movie about a deranged mind.This film here benefits from some great acting and technical brilliance and it's rather amazing what everyone was able to pull off in just 28-days on a very small budget. I think the greatest thing going for the picture is the way McNaughton makes it just so raw and powerful. By the time this film was released we were already used to violence but there was something different here. This wasn't a masked psycho running around and slaughtering teens at a camp site. This here was something more personal and the fact that a guy like Henry could be stalking you just made it all the more creepy. The film has some terrific camera- work but also an incredibly haunting music score that perfectly plays over the aftermath of some of the murders. Another major plus are the three performances, which are just marvelous with Rooker perfectly capturing the mind frame of this deranged man. It's really amazing to see Rooker work as you really do feel as if you're watching a real character. There's never a false note in his performance. He could be acting out this violence or struggling with his relationship to the third character in the film. Just take a look at the sequence where he talks about the abuse he received from his mother. Towles is also terrific as his character is just as deranged in his own right. The actor manages to make you feel uneasy whenever Otis is on the screen and especially with his appetite towards his sister. In the role of the sister, Tracy Arnold often gets overlooked but she's the perfect centerpiece of sadness that gets mixed up in all the horror and violence. Most people won't be able to relate to Henry or Otis but the sadness of the sister's character is someone viewer's probably know.What really separates this film is the controversial violence, which originally got the film a X-rating. There's no question that the added sound effects really push home the violence and what we see here is something that often crosses the line. Whereas in horror movies of the era where we cheer for the killers and the violence, the death scenes here are something far more horrific and especially the now infamous home invasion sequence. This scene alone is without question one of the most disturbing moments in film history and manages to make you sick at your stomach no matter how many times you've seen the film. HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER is without question one of the best of its type. It's not a movie that you can really enjoy because of how dark, disturbing and at times sad it is. The movie is a prime example of a low-budget movie where the director and cast could have just mailed something in but instead they went the extra mile and tried to do something fresh and original. This movie will certainly live on because of this and it remains one of the most raw and brutal films ever made. "},{"Title":"Henry & Otis","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" An original horror movie that plays out like a re-enactment, Henry is the story of a serial-killer, on the loose, with no end in site. The movie plays out more as a drama than a horror movie. At times, the audience feels hope for the main character ( played by Michael Rooker ) Henry, who is without a doubt, a cold blooded killer. Even though he is a killer, he is like-able from time to time and is far from scary. Thinking the movie will end in a happy ending, the audience is not prepared for what happens. We (the audience) are expecting for Henry to gain some kind of redemption as the road ahead seems positive. Once he opens the trunk of his car, we realize that this is far from a happy ending. In fact, Henry turns into a true horror movie without us expecting it. Not your typical horror movie, mankind is the monster and good does not triumph over evil. "},{"Title":"Overrated and boring","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love horror movies and back when this was released it was sick and twisted, but times have changed and now its nothing more than an 80s horror flick with fake blood and cheesy murder scenes. The remake of The Hills Have Eyes was much scarier than this.If you are a fan of cult horror films this is a must for your collection, but don't expect to be rattled by the movie as others have said. If you want a movie that really gets into the head of a serial killer and is actually entertaining see Natural Born Killers. After all, it's just murder, man. "},{"Title":"Going on my favorites list!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The scariest part of this movie is that Henry and Otis , our main characters, were the real life serial killers Henry Lee Lucas and Ottis O'Toole.I loved this film! Michael Rooker reminded me of Heath Ledger in Brokeback Mountain. Each character does a fantastic job at being both normal and creepy, especially Rooker. The movie told the story well, although I wished they would have spent more time on Henry and Becky. In real life their relationship was quite complicated. Since real life Henry was a pathological liar, we don't know how many people he really killed but the movie doesn't make it about numbers yet shows how brutal he really was.Awesome movie.. it's going on my favorite's list! "},{"Title":"Michael Rooker, Why You So Scary?","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a film that has everything I should hate in a movie, yet there is a undeniable appeal to Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. Not for its chilling tone and graphic scenes, but its documentary-drama vibes and Michael Rooker's colder than ice performance. I have been looking for this film for almost a year, and I finally found it in a cheap record store with a shelf of 500 other DVD's just gathering dust.Essentially the film is based on the infamous real-life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, a man found guilty and convicted of 11 murders but had been both known and rumoured to have killed 600 people between the 1960's and 1980's. Henry for a time, would be killing at least 1 person a week with the help of a drifter and male prostitute Otis Toole. Henry died in prison of heart failure in 2001, at the age of 64.The film is loosely based on those events, but as the opening credits say, it is a Portrait and non-fictitious story of a man named Henry. Otis has been tweaked in as a fellow convict and his niece in real life had been changed to be his sister. As far as the narrative goes, it is literally watching Henry killing prostitute after prostitute, and eventually the meeting of Otis's sister (Who is sweet and naive to Henry's crimes). Both reveal there troubled pasts in the notorious Yeah I killed my Mama speech. Sooner or later, Otis (Who is beyond sicker) joins Henry on his endeavours, and dreadfully re-watches the sadistic attacks on recorded tape.It's 1 hour 20 minutes of brutal killings and character development. But as many critics have realised and shamefully myself too, it is a movie That fuels people's fascination about serial killers. I've seen many a snuff movie with results I cannot fully understand, but Henry does have some harsh pros about it. 1. It's partly true, and 2. The characters are sick enough to actually become interesting. You will not believe how far you'll be willing to watch these portrayals go. Michael Rooker is in his first ever role as Henry, giving us an all to real performance. There are moments where he is surpassed by Tom Towles's performance as Otis, which is so unreal sometimes Henry felt like the anti- hero of the movie (Yezus!). Final Verdict It's sick to which I am all for, but I wished in more meaningful purposes. But nevertheless, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer does have this bizarrely strong appeal, most likely because of its part fact, part true story. I urge you to check it out sometime, BUT BE PREPARED. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Still holds up after all these years","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film on its premiere in 1990, and watched it again tonight. Twenty-three years later, the film is still just as shocking and disturbing. I remember sitting in the theater in 1990, and some people actually laughed at some of the scenes, but it was the uncomfortable laughter of disbelief, for example, in the scene were Henry and Otis are sitting in the car and Henry snaps the hooker's neck, and the expression on Leon's face was almost like that of a character from a Goya painting. Or when Henry kills the arrogant TV guy with the hot iron. I guess my point is that there's only one way to get through this awful film by distancing yourself from the horrible events that happen in it. The death of the family is heartbreaking, but to emphasize Henry's complete detachment from the horror of it, and his inability to comprehend the gravity of what he's done, the entire scene is reduced to a video that Henry and Otis shot on location with a camcorder, as though their victim's lives are nothing more than images on a television screen. It is a remarkable commentary about the imagery of violence in our society, one that holds up even today. This film isn't the fun, colorful controversy that 1967's Bonnie and Clyde was; it is the dark, dreary controversy that reminds us that we are endorsing the horror that happens in it because we're watching the film.I didn't enjoy this film in 1990 and I didn't enjoy it tonight; it is a reflection of our shallow society, and reminds us that evil just happens, and there's nothing you can do about it. "}{"Title":"Michael Rooker convincingly portrays serial killer Henry Lee Lucas","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a straight-ahead crime story that paints the title's portrait without pulling any punches and without any psychologizing. It does this with a lot of skill where it counts, in a top-notch script that knows what scenes to include and exclude, and what dialog to include; and in the casting and then the acting, which brings it to life. The script introduces the sexual elements and the violent elements skillfully. The locations also add to the atmosphere. Even the cars add. The sound track has good intelligible sound all the way, surpassing many big budget films in which much goes wrong, such as music drowning out voices and actresses whispering indecipherably.The film makers have an eye for period detail and a knowledge of the kinds of people involved. This is why the film works. Above all, there is an excellent performance from Rooker. This was his debut film, and he has not stopped working since. Fortunately, this role didn't typecast him. As for casting, Tom Towles is terrific as Rooker's partner in crime.Although the film was not high budget and looks like something that would play in drive-ins or offbeat theaters, it rises well above all that. Somehow, it is very American, showing some of America's underbelly. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic Indie Horror!","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" To quote Homer Simpson Oooh portrait, sounds classy. This movie is the chilling and brutal story of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, who along with his accomplice Otis killed an unknown number of people. Also known as the confession killer for taking credit for hundreds and hundreds of killings. Henry's actual number of victims it unknown, but he was convicted of 11 murders and sentenced to life in prison. He died in 2001.Directed by John McNahugton on a shoestring budget of $100,000, Henry was filmed in Chicago with unknown actors in late 1985 and early 1986. It marked the screen debut of Michael Rooker, who plays Henry, has gone on to have a prolific career. Most currently playing Merle Dixon on The Walking Dead.Henry is loner living Chicago and is a part time exterminator of bugs, then at night an exterminator of humans. He lives with Otis another sleazebag loner who isn't to bright. They met while serving time and now share a small prison like apartment. Otis also has a sister, Becky, who left her husband and has come to live with the serial killer odd couple. Henry and Becky spark up a relationship and he protects her against the verbally and physically abusive Otis.McNaughton opens the movie on a close up of one of Henry's victims (the orange socks girl) that was ditched in the weeds. We then see a few more gruesome crime scenes of Henry's work. His tableaux of carnage. This movie is not a your typical horror movie, it's more of a pitch black character drama about violence. Rooker is amazing in his performance as the remorseless and soulless killer. Although Henry mostly killed by himself, he let Otis tag along and they became a team, until Henry ultimately killed him too. The movie is not a truly accurate account of actual events and some things were changed to make a it a better movie.Henry was completed in 1986 but wasn't released until 1989 as it had an epic battle with the MPAA over the films rating. Originally given and X rating, which was mostly reserved for pornography. Henry was one of the movies that led to the creation of the NC-17 rating (which is still a ratings death sentence). Meaning that the movie contains intense adult themes, but is not pornography. Once released it really polarized critics, it received several rave reviews from critics like Roger Ebert (R.I.P). Its an intense and unflinching look into the darkest corners of humanity. Dark Sky films released a 2 disc special edition in 2006 to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the film. It has a commentary track from the director, an hour long making of documentary, and much more. Check it out! "},{"Title":"spooky on first viewing","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was based on the life of Henry Lee Lucus who was an unwanted child that was constantly abused by his vicious mother, Viola, in Blacksburg, Virginia. Viola's husband, Anderson, who lost his legs in a railroad accident was also abused heavily and eventually took his own life by sleeping outside in the snow during the winter. When Henry entered school he was forced by his mom to wear girls clothes and even put his hair in sausage curls. He was also only allowed to remain barefoot. When a teacher gave pity on Henry and gave him a pair of shoes, he was beaten mercilessly for accepting charity. Viola also beat him with a piece of lumber so bad that he was in a coma for three days. Henry was also subject to Viola's live-in boyfriend. He happily introduced the young boy to the joys of bestiality as he was taught to kill animals after they had been tortured and sexually abused. That's just a small piece of Henry's terrible back story which isn't really touched upon in the movie. The film takes place when Henry returns to Chicago after serving time for killing his mother. Henry is played well by Micheal Rooker, who was a janitor when he auditioned for this role. Henry moves in with his friend, Otis, played effectively by Tom Towles. Eventually, Tom's sister comes to stay for a few days and takes a liking to Henry. The real trouble starts when Henry and Otis start killing prostitutes for fun. The two make a weird, and in a way, comical, duo, mainly because Otis is such a goofy idiot. The film has a good, gritty feel to it and even though it strays pretty far from the true story at times, it is still an effective film. Good stuff! "},{"Title":"Slaughter for the hell of it.","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" John McNaughton directs and co-writes this crime drama loosely based on the case of real life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas. Disturbing and gritty, this thriller is better than any run-of-the-mill slasher flick. Based on confessions of Lucas, we examine Henry(Michael Booker)select his innocent victims. Lucas is joined by a loud-mouthed ex-con Otis(Tom Towles), as roommates the two go out to kill as if it was like going to the corner convenience store for a pack of smokes. Meaningless killing just for the hell of it. Henry makes sure the methods of death are random so not to leave an obvious trail. McNaughton presents this movie on Lucas' terms...straight from the bleak nightmarish mind of the confessed killer. Rooker plays Lucas so cool and without conscience. Others in the cast Tracy Arnold and David Katz. "},{"Title":"At least these events are rare","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry &#151; Portrait of a Serial Killer is not a normal movie. It's an abnormal movie. You've seen more blood, more sadism, more sickness in a lot of horror films. But this approaches the subject of serial murder matter of fact. Here's this sick guy. He kills. He enlists his cousin. They kill together. He tries to explain why he does. Sounds like any other loser.Michael Rooker deserves a lot of credit for taking on this thankless role. Hard to think of actors as brave people, but he is.Baroque horror movies featuring the likes of Hannibal Lecter, or Freddie, or Jason are so bogus. This is the real deal. It's based on the killing career of Henry Lee Lucas.People like this passeth all understanding. They just are. If you want an insight into what they are, Henry is a pretty good introduction. But the insight is limited. Who really knows? This is not a movie. It's a document. It says, Here it is. Take what you want from it. As such, it's impressive, down to the final, awful scene.No education here. Awful childhoods turn kids into sickos. Like, who knew?But, on some level, the document is important. Someone had the courage to show us the outcome. Give them credit.Anyone intrigued by this movie should read By Reason of Insanity By Shane Stevens. It's a serial killer novel that explores the why in much more detail. These people exist, dudes. All we can do is keep a lookout. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best depiction of a serial killer ever put on film.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It took four years for the general public to see Henry, what they saw was one of the more disturbing portraits of the depths of humanity. Henry is a fascinating character played with depth by the under-appreciated Michael Rooker. He is a vicious killer with little or no morals, but he shows flashes of humanity around his best friend's sister, Becky. She sees a kind, gentle man. Really, in comparison to her vile brother, Otis, Henry is these things, at least to her. Otis and Becky almost represent good and evil to Henry. Otis, given a second chance at life, uses it to kill and torture those around him, while Becky is looking to use her chance to make a life for herself and her daughter. The ending is one of the more horrifying aspects of the film and seals it's place as a classic. The character study would be enough, but the ending is a perfect, although despairing, end.P.S. Although the release of this was held up and it does contain some gore and violence, this is a cerebral horror film. The reason for it's shelving has more to do with the moral tone. To be fully drawn into it, you have to do what the film wants you to do, relate to Henry. That is far more terrifying than any gush of blood. "},{"Title":"Downbeat and unpleasant film that is all the better for it","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" On his release from prison Otis reunites with his sister Becky and goes to stay at the home of his friend Henry. The house is small and poorly furnished and their live is one of basics, getting money where they can but they get on, despite Otis' cruelty towards Becky and Henry's dark past. When Otis goes out for a drive with Otis to pick up a couple of prostitutes, the date ends with Henry calmly and passionlessly killing them both and leaving their bodies by the road. Otis is stunned but finds himself taken in. Soon they are killing together, with Otis more and more enjoying the violence.The fuss over this film was at a time when I was too young to appreciate or understand it. Later I heard about it from Mark Kermode making reference to it in relation to other films but not really being a fan of violent films I never sought it out. It was only recently when it was on ITV4 that I caught it (despite knowing that ITV4 had very little respect for their audience or what they show). In fact, lets get the ITV4 rant out the way here and now &#150; the usual issues were all in evidence but a particular nice touch was that the coming up next announcer came in over the top of the final, silent scene; what a great channel they are &#150; a flagship for the digital revolution.Anyway, back to the actual film which, thanks to me taping it, was not spoilt by their regular advert breaks. The film opens with violent images and in terms of narrative the structure is not an unusual one. In the same way as Neo was our guide into the world of the Matrix and many TV series will use begin with the main character being as new to an environment as we are, so we join Otis as he enters Henry's world of killing. The parallel is not that good though because of course the viewer is never asked to relate to, or care about Otis in the way other films using this device would do. The story has been understandably criticised by some viewers because it does seem to go nowhere and just rather wallow in the pointlessness of the lives of the characters. However I liked this approach, I enjoyed that it forced me to watch it for what it was and not as part of some horror or action movie. I thought it showed an intelligence in the telling that many may dismiss or not realise. A fellow reviewer here has said that they found the film fun and it was only the video-tape sequence they found to be repugnant. His comments seemed to suggest that he'd missed that this was the intension. I too found it unpleasant to watch but not as distressing as the moment the camera pans back to reveal we are not watching this happen but rather the audience is sitting with the killers watching it, just like they are. It is a frightening moment in some ways but offered me more than if the film had just been a traditional horror movie with the killer being hunted down &#150; indeed there is more in this single device than in some entire films.The cast are suitably horrible. Not flamboyant serial killers but just dead and empty. This is true of Henry and Rooker is excellent in the role, leading the cast with dead eyes. Although Rooker gets the credit I think the character played by Towles is just as important and just as well played. Otis' transformation from scum to frenzied scum is subtle but important and he does it well. Arnold's Becky is an important and needy part of the tale - sad and desperate, a woman who washes hair and for whom Henry seems like a viable option.Is it a brilliant film? No, no it isn't but I can only assume that those who have dismissed it as not scary or not violent enough or boring are simply missing the strengths that the film has while highlighting the failings it areas where it never purports to be strong. Violent but unglamorous, engaging but repulsive &#150; I'll not rush to watch it again but it is an important film worth seeing once. "},{"Title":"Heightens your awareness rather than dulling it with a much more human and familiar monster","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Serial killers are ubiquitous in today's violent social climate. Read the newspaper, watch the 11 'O' Clock special reports or listen to the radio; you'll find out about them. Take a trip down to the movie theatre, buy or rent a DVD; you'll find killer-flicks such as 'The Silence of the Lambs', 'American Psycho' and 'Manhunter'. It has become clear that the viewing public have a somewhat morbid fascination with the deranged psyche. 'Henry' only takes us deeper into this without use of showy effects or polished features; going for an understated, low-key, atmospheric style instead. Pretty much just what the title suggests; 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer' offers a fairly candid view of an inarticulate, motiveless mass murderer from the lower-class milieu; loosely basing itself on real-life serial murderer Henry Lee Lucas.Following his release from prison, the anonymous Henry (Michael Rooker) of the title leads his miserable little life finding work as an exterminator (clumsy metaphor) when he's not living in a grungy Chicago apartment with fellow jailbird Otis (Tom Towles), a buffoonish and demented drug-dealer who also provides Henry with an eager accomplice in his gruesome pursuits. The two, having known each other since their prison days, 'work' well together, albeit with dissimilar methods. Otis will burst into rapturous laughter after shooting an innocent man dead in front of his own car, while Henry exudes emotionless expressions as he 'takes care' of the body.Murders range from the strikingly violent to the perversely casual. In one particular scene, Henry repeatedly stabs an ill-mannered pirate TV merchant with a soldering iron before smashing one of the many illegally-attained technical appliances over the poor man's head. Tension is built up throughout the sequence as the salesman progressively becomes more foul-mouthed towards our male protagonists, making the viewer wish for this supposedly 'despicable' man to die as he does so. After viewing it, we ourselves feel dirty. An earlier scene shows us an unnecessarily aggressive Henry snapping the necks of two prostitutes in his car before heading out to buy a hamburger with roommate Otis.Once Otis' sister Becky arrives, however; their, to some extent, repressed homosexual relationship is disrupted and the duo are forced to carry out their grisly deeds more cautiously. A tentative bond is formed between Becky and Henry one evening whilst playing cards. With Otis out on some errand, they are able to discuss deeper issues like their traumatic childhoods. Becky tells of her sexually abusive and tyrannical father who forced her to undress in front of him so he could see how (she) was developed. When questioned by a curious Becky (What was your mama like?), Henry explains that his mother was a whore. He then lets us know of how he killed her (Yeah, I killed my mama...) on his fourteenth birthday. We learn that the two were given little or no choice in life as children and little or none since. This is only reinforced when Becky tells Henry, I feel as though I've known you my whole life.Culminating in two atrocious scenes of murder; one wherein we are not only watching the characters' endeavours, but watching them with them; we are shown Henry and Otis' invasion of a suburban home captured on video. Just when we think we are seeing live events unfold; the camera turns to the pair sitting on the sofa, reviewing their home movie on the television. Later, Henry realises Otis must go after he discovers him raping Becky in their apartment. Both Becky and Henry are forced to leave town after disposing of Otis' body. The next morning, after leaving a motel room without Becky; Henry stops by a roadside in his car to deposit a mysterious suitcase. Perhaps the most haunting image in the whole film is the one that ends it.Characters like Becky and Otis are somewhat like cardboard cut-outs compared to the more psychologically developed Henry. Conversely, the film doesn't seem as interested in plot and character expansion as it is in forcing the viewer into reflection; questioning their fascination with the central character and his sinister exploits. Here, we have a film that gives a face to one of society's worst enemies and lets us come to our own decision; sympathise or despise him. The film simply observes while we must apply our own moral code to it unlike most others which do this the opposite way around. "},{"Title":"The infamous account of a serial killer","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" John MacNaughton's infamous account of a serial killer, loosely inspired by confessed killer Henry Lee Lucas, is a sleazy and realistic film that hits you close to home. Few films have had the guts to do what HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER did, which is account the serial killer (Michael Rooker) who has a taste for women, stalking and murdering them, particularly hookers as they are easy prey. For him the thrill is not in the hunt, but in the kill, as he relishes in the deaths of basically anyone. When his flat mate expresses an interest in Henry's sadistic hobby, Henry eagerly shows him the ways of a serial killer. He teaches Otis (Tom Towles) how to kill, cover yourself and kill again, and Otis too learns of the adrenaline rush of snapping someones neck with your bare hands. While doing all of this, Henry also seduces Otis' battered and bruised sister Becky (Tracy Arnold), fresh out of an abusive marriage. Becky finds solace in our protagonist, without a clue of his extra curricular activities.The basic story is of Henry and Otis killing people, sometimes to get what they want, usually just for fun. McNaughton is very talented, he creates an eerie and disturbing atmosphere with the slow lingering shots of Henry's victims rather than showing their murders. Ken Hale, Steven A. Jones and Robert McNaughton's creepy score was very effective, although misplaced at times which made the scenes seem cheesy. But when used at the right times the score was fantastic. The overall atmosphere of the film was very terrifying, every character had a black cloud over their head, their demise was right around the corner. There was a scene where henry was watching a woman pack her groceries, and when she pulled out of the car park her followed her. Doesn't sound that creepy, but the mix of Rooker's expression, Macnaughton's direction and the terrifying musical score made that scene go down as one of the most terrifying in film history.The acting was very very good. Michael Rooker was perfect as the dull killer, if you look closer you see the subtle hints of what he does, but unless you see him do it you'd never guess what Henry did with his free time. Tom Towles was also very good as the 'apprentice killer', and sometimes I was more scared of him than I was of Henry. Tracy Arnold didn't live up to Rooker and Towle's standard, but she did do well.The home invasion scene was well done, but didn't live up to the hype. The ending was great, very unexpected but definitely not out of character for Henry. I did think some of this film was creepy, but I'd heard a lot about it's infamy and it didn't live up to its standard like most 'disturbing' films I hear about, such as LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT and I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE. Some scenes from these films make me squirm, but none of them leave a mark.Overall a great character study of a serial killer. Not one for the kiddies, and if you don't like horror films I'd stay away. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy Gem.","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" John McNaughton's harrowing and brutal film based on the real life actions of serial killer, Henry Lee Lucas. McNaughton directs the film with a bleak look, it's very gritty and dirty, which suites it well. The performances from Michael Rooker (Henry) and Tom Towles (Otis) are incredible, they play great psychos. The violence is far from fake here, it's mean-spirited and downright evil, just wait until the 'home invasion' sequence. They just re-released this bad boy on DVD not too long ago, so hit up your local Best Buy or online distributor and buy this sucker. You definitely won't regret doing so, this is real Horror, in it's pure and unadulterated glory. "}{"Title":"He makes it look so easy","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really, now, are people's necks so easy to snap?This is a minor quibble, given the film's fair portrayal of a serial killer not some evil being, but simply someone with a different moral code (or none at all). This is evidenced with Henry's tenderness towards his roommate's sister and his heroics at putting an end to her sexual assault. Contrasted with Henry's neck-snapping activities, the film induces an uneasy tension as the viewer searches for some sort of redemption for Henry.The only thing the viewer should search for while watching this film is the REWIND button, as some scenes are best viewed again. "},{"Title":"The Portrait Within","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you don't have a strong stomach, be warned -- there is no 'distance' between the content of this and way it's portrayed...meaning the sort of distance you'd find in, say, Cobra, which ostensibly also dealt with the 'portrait' of a clique of multiple murderers.Henry Lee Lucas and Ottis Toole (correctly spelled with two t's) were real monsters -- the actual content of this biopic is a jumble of their sociopath character traits and of their deeds. But the historical accuracy is unimportant -- it is based on 'confessions', which may have been outright lies or hyperbole. Lucas claimed to have done in Jimmy Hoffa and the Jonestown victims.What matters here is how this is constructed around a 'construction' the snuff film recorded on a stolen video camera. The act portrays them within a movie, just the way the container of this movie defines the larger portrait. Of course, they spend time admiring their handiwork, more or less the way we do, as voyeurs. Neatly done.This is a good example of noir -- people meet their fates with no rhyme or reason. Why didn't McNaughton keep this in mind in his later works? "},{"Title":"A brilliant shocker!!!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry ( Michael Rooker) with his buddy Otis ( Tom Towles) are roommates and both are maniacs who go on nightly murders as well as capturing them on tape for their own pleasure. Unfortunately Otis's sister Becky ( Tracy Arnold) has moved in for a little while to their apartment and don't know about the secrets of Henry at night time as she falls for him, but he can't let the truth out or can he?.A powerful, brutal and unique psychological horror thriller with excellent performances by Rooker and company here, director John McNaughton brings us a dark and disturbing look into the mind of a psychopath on the verge of killing people. The film is based on actual murderer Henry Lee Lucas and the movie is quite thought provoking, gory and flat out terrific! this movie isn't for the faint of heart for when the movie came out in 1986 originally it was slapped with an X rating for the subject matter of gore, extreme realistic violence, sexual abuse and drug use as it was held over for 4 years until it was finally released in late 1989 in theaters with no rating but a No one under 17 will be admitted warning and received great reviews.The movie is one of the greatest and most important movies of the horror genre, it's no mere slasher flick but a dark and broadening psychopath movie with fantastic acting and thoughts as well as some truly disturbing murder sequences that will make you wanna keep the lights on all night.Also recommended Maniac ( 1980), Taxi Driver,  Driller Killer,  The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, American Psycho, Texas Chainsaw Massacre part 2, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 2003), Last House on The Left,  Cannibal Holocaust,  Silent Night Deadly Night, Man Bites Dog,  I Spit on Your Grave, Mother's Day, Halloween 1 & 2, Friday The 13th series,  Fight Club, Natural Born Killers, Se7en,  Silence of the Lambs,  Leon The Professional,  The Godfather,  Scarface,  Trauma ( 1993 Argento),  Men Behind The Sun,  Ichi The Killer,  Re-Animator, Psycho ( 1960),  The New York Ripper,  Bloodsucking Freaks,  High Tension,  The Devil's Rejects,  House of 1000 Corpses,  The Hills Have Eyes ( 1978 and 2006),  The Toxic Avenger,  House on The Edge of the Park, Caligula, Blue Velvet,  Sleepaway Camp,  Battle Royale,  The Untold Story, Riki-Oh The Story of Ricky,  Freddy Vs. Jason, Nightmare on Elm Street,  Lost Highway, Jeepers Creepers,  One Hour Photo,  May,  The Toolbox Murders ( 1978 and 2004),  From Hell,  Pieces,  Terror Train, Dead Presidents, A Clockwork Orange, Wrong Turn, Just Before Dawn,  Perfect Blue,  Scream 1 & 2,  Hostel, Saw 1 & 2,  Sin City,  L.A. Confidential,  Reservoir Dogs,  Fargo,  Deep Red, Tenebre,  3 Extremes,  From Dusk Till Dawn,  Phenomena, Manhunter, Hannibal,  Red Dragon and Wild at Heart. "},{"Title":"Still the Best Horror Film I've ever seen (spoilers galore)","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just picked up the two DVD Anniversary set at a horror convention, and I have to say it was worth every penny. Besides containing the best horror film ever, it contains the Making of Henry almost an hour of Henry history from conception to screen from most everyone involved. The DVD is worth it for just this feature. I always thought the reason the film was shelved was because of the horror content. It turns out, it was because the original cut was over 2 hours long and the Ali Brothers hated the film. There's outtakes and deleted scenes.There was actually a homosexual kiss between Henry and Otis, that deservedly was cut because you could clearly see how uncomfortable Michael and Tom were. As Michael leans over, you can literally see him start to laugh. There's a very cool short on Henry Lee Lucas. After seeing all these extras, I sat down and watched the film. It's still horrifying on multi-levels. The mall scene is incredibly frightening, and the home invasion scene still ranks as the most disturbing piece of cinema I've ever witnessed. This film isn't cheap gore for gore's sake. This is horror at it's most chilling based reality. "},{"Title":"portrait of an insane mind!!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director John McNaughton, Script Richard Fire; McNaughton, Cast Michael Rooker(Henry), Tracy Arnold(Becky), Tom Towles(Otis) Henry portrait of a serial killer, based on the exploits of an actual serial killer,could be the most realistic and brutal film ever made about a serial killer. This movie is quite different from other films about serial killers such as Se7en(a great film in its own right)and the more recent Saw. The previously mentioned films and most others that I have seen about serial killers are usually told from a victim or victim's family's point of view or they are about police detectives trying to track down the killer as in Se7en. Henry is taken from the killer's point of view with no cops ever to be seen. It is as if he is able to commit these grizzly crimes without any retribution whats so ever. Although the vast majority of the killings are done off screen, many of the victims' bodies are shown in very graphic detail. Michael Rooker plays Henry. He just got released from prison for killing his mother(he reveals his reason for doing so to Becky a little later)and is staying with fellow inmate Otis and his sister Becky. There is a scene in this movie where Henry and Otis pick up a couple of hookers after drinking in a bar. Henry starts to get very rough with the girl while having sex. The hooker in the front seat with Otis tries to help her and at that point, Henry snaps her neck. Otis is shocked at first but then he starts to get a thrill out of killing just like Henry and becomes just like him although always subservient to him. The other principle character in this film is Becky. She was sexually abused by her father and Otis as well. The only jobs she seems to be able to find is a stripper. She does not know about Henry and Otis's killing sprees. She starts to develop feelings for Henry and she is the one person that Henry is able to open up to. By the end of the film, Otis and Becky both end up dead and Henry gets away.This is a film that has quite a reputation. You hear a lot about it on internet web sites such a IMDb and others and is almost always on people's most disturbing film's lists. If you see it you will know why. This is a different kind of horror. It is not a teen slasher film or a monster movie(although one could argue that Henry is indeed a monster!) for here the 'monster' is a real person. This is a very disturbing and realistic portrayal of the exploits of a brutal rapist and murderer. The realism is to the point where it almost seems as if the film makers are flaunting it. The DVD that I rented was a two disc set. It had a documentary on the real killer. This included interviews with law officers involved in his eventual arrest down in Texas and a prison interview with the killer himself. "},{"Title":"The movie you love to hate... (and hate to love)","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This guy IS Satan... there is no reaching him, he is an inhuman being. Michael Rooker portrays this character so well that you actually believe him. He scares me to death. I feel like writing him just to ask him if he's a good guy in real life and has a sense of humor, just to make me feel better. This movie is at a completely different level that any other movie ever made. It is completely realistic and brilliantly acted and directed. For that reason it is a masterpiece. But it is one of the most horrible movies out there though. But it's not called Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer for nothing. That's exactly what it is. And it's highly interesting. I praise it. "},{"Title":"Truly shocking and powerful, nearly 20 years later","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Uncompromising, brutal, and brilliant; director John McNaughton's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer shows the violent life of its titular character in stark reality. Michael Rooker (Tombstone, The Bone Collector) plays Henry, in a role inspired by the story of real-life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas. There isn't much story to speak of, no frustrated police detectives, no reflection of the violence's effect on the public. This film is simply a series of events in the life of a man who connects with his world by killing. And in that simplicity, it impacts you more than any number of forgettable true-crime thrillers. The documentary feel is paired with almost a TV-movie aesthetic at times, which is somewhat hard to explain but you may get that impression as well. It brings the film that much closer into your home, where you feel like you're really witnessing some of the most miserable lives ever caught on film. No, this is not easy popcorn viewing by any means, and it isn't a fun escape. However, the honesty and the strength of the writing, performances and direction make it a testament to the power of film.  "},{"Title":"Get the VHS version","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This a great film set my home town of Chicago. Michael Rooker's breakthrough role as the serial killer. I have seen both the DVD and the VHS version of this fine movieand I suggest that the latter is the better of the two formats.  It ismuch more explicit and   shows the horror of Henry's deeds more graphically. "},{"Title":"Harrowing and real.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"   The real Henry Lee Lucas had one of the worst childhoods that I have ever had the misfortune of reading about. Growing up in Texas he lived with a family that was totally dysfunctional. He grew up in a shack, that had nothing more than a dirt floor. The father being a legless alcoholic, literally as well as figuratively. The mother worked as a prostitute. Henry was also forced into sexual activity with her clients. They forced him to dress as a girl and then would proceed to have sex with him. He was a child that grew up being raped.  He then grew up with such an intense rage that he became a serial killer. Are we surprised? Now, I am not trying to justify his behaviour. Rather, I am pointing out the fact that these people do not just fall out of the sky. There is no such thing as an inexplicable evil. That is, the person is just evil because they are. Yes, there seems to be some genetic evidence  for psychopaths. However the majority do not become killers. The ones who become killers are made. If you are truly interested in what makes a psychopath, I suggest you read, 'Not Guilty by reason of Insanity ' by Dorothy Otnow Lewis. Serial killers are often portrayed as being like Hannibal Lecter. Smart and talented creatures that have suddenly lost their moral code. The truth is most are a psychological mess. Losers that are full of conflicting emotions. There is also strong evidence to suggest that these people are made by a specific form of brain damage. Basically when you combine trauma in childhood and frontal lobe brain damage, you end up with Henry.  This movie is what happens when people are treated in an utterly horrific way. Michael Rooker is excellent as a psychopath who seems normal but deep down harbours a psychotic rage against society. He and Otis travel around killing. Why? Why not? The pointlessness of their lives is perfectly captured. People complain about the lack of plot. I think it perfectly captures the plot. It shows the emptiness of these characters. In fact Henry and Otis feel nothing unless they are killing. The emotional side of the characters has been like killed off by previous abuses against them. They are not unlike the living dead. Even when Otis's sister shows some affection towards Henry he cannot reciprocate. He can't relate to people, he can only get off on torture and death. Yeah, this is shocking. But it is also incredibly sad.  Here in New Zealand there are many shocking drunk driving ads that they play to try and get people to stop this behaviour. I feel that this movie is like that. The movie is an ad for psychopaths, who they are and the dysfunctional psychological world that they inhabit. It is a film that honestly looks at these kinds of people. This certainly does not glorify these people, which is a criticism that has been levelled at the 'Silence of the Lambs' series. This is why I think it shocks people. The serial killer kills for visceral, physical pleasure. As Ted Bundy stated, 'I killed because I wanted to.' Maybe, this is where the film falls down. That the characters motivations are not explained well enough. But either way the viewer is given a shockingly realistic interpretation of a serial killers world. Obviously this is a film that was made on a budget! But this just adds to the bleakness. In fact Chicago looks dirty, grimy and not like somewhere that you would visit. The performances of the rest of the cast are pretty average if not bad. So the film has some definite flaws. The exploitation factor is there. But then I think of films like Baise Moi and this film has nothing on that!  Overall I think this is an objective look at a world that those of us who come from normal backgrounds will find horrific. A world that we prefer would never exist, but however does exist. Maybe one day, as our society matures these people will cease to exist. Stories like these will become completely fictional. I really hope for that day. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"art-house meets grind-house","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film at the Seattle Film Festival in 1990. Michael Rooker was there and was quite humble and charming. The film itself is a stunning piece of work. It amuses me to know that the producers gave John McNaughton the money to make a slasher flick. Oh boy, they must've been surprised when they saw the finished film.(Where's the tits? Where's the blood? they wanted to know, according to the Director.)This is quality film-making, stuffed with style and powerful as a kick in the head from a mule.The performances are excellent. The music is especially effective.A low-budget merging of art-house and exploitation. "}{"Title":"Harrowing, Sick, Nasty-- but Good!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very conmparable to Last House on the Left... Henry, is a tale of a serial killer who just offs people whenever the time is.  Done with no holds baring, the movie is very interesting and extremley frightening at the very end.  Reccomended to all horror fans, but be cautioned, some of this material is off the wall "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Supposedly the story about Henry Lucus who claimed that he murdered some 350 people while he was on the loose. But as evidence showed he murdered two persons at most with most of the crimes, that he claimed that he committed, were in states that he was never in at the time that they happened. Henry, Michael Rooker, is the closest I've ever seen an actor portray a psychopath that I can remember. No feeling or expressions just a murderous urge that his victims don't notice until it's too late. Seeing Henry at the start of the movie he looked like any other young man you would see in the streets of any town or city in the US. But there's something underneath that is far more terrifying then any of the monsters in any slasher film. Thats what's scares you most of all about Henry. He on the surface looks and acts normal but he isn't and what make he murderous actions in the movie so much more disturbing. In that he seems to lack any emotion committing them. Like his unfortunate victims aren't worth caring about even though he brutally murderers them. I have to admit that even though I saw the movie HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer more then ten years ago it still shocks me thinking about it, far more then any film of that type that I've ever seen, before or after. Watching the movie I didn't feel like I was watching a movie with actors and actresses in it but watching a real newsreel about crime in America. There was one scene in the movie that really shocked me --I'll just say it had to do with the use of a camcorder-- that made me think for a moment that I was watching what some people would call a snuff film! The sheer brutality and malice of Henry and his fellow psycho killer Otis, Tom Towles, was so realistic and gruesome that I had to turn off the TV for a moment to keep from seeing the final outcome of a sadistic and sickening home invasion that the two not only participated in but also video taped! The only thing that I saw that was unrealistic about the film was that Henry and his sidekick Otis seemed to murder with impunity and the police, in the many places where their crimes were committed, seemed unaware of what they were doing. That was the only thing that made me feel that the murders in the movie Henry, like those of the real Henry Lucus, was stretching it a bit too far in the body-count department and for that I felt it was only fiction and not based on a true story. "},{"Title":"Best serial Killer Movie I've seen so far","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've watched quite a few in the last few months. They all tried but this one is the best so far.I've pretty much decided that you can't make a great true story serial killer movie because there are so many fake ones out there. It's all about focus and the writer captured it. The MIND of a serial killer.Acting was great. Directing was great. No wonder this film originally got an X rating with less blood and guts than Alien. It was because it was too real.   "},{"Title":"A pants-wetting masterpiece","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer shows you that you don't have to have big names or a huge budget or dazzling special effects to make a good movie. All you need is good actors and a good plot. Henry has both. Michael Rooker has not gotten the work or credit that he deserves but let me tell ya, he IS Henry. Tom Towles is equally brillant as the repulsive Otis Toole. The budget of $100,000 shows but doesn't effect the film's quality. It adds to it really because this movie doesn't need to be dressed up to be great. You get the feeling that you are getting a forbidden glimpse in the evil life of these two men, Henry in particular. This film just may be the greatest movie of all time. It never lags, it holds you the whole time, and it's scary as hell. Bottom Line At your next late-night party, put Henry on and let the fun begin. It helps if your guests have an open mind to the definition of great movie and don't proclaim their favorite as Steel Magnolias. "},{"Title":"Shocking, disturbing, extremely graphic horror film","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (1986) D John McNaughton. Michael Rooker, Tracy Arnold, Tom Towles, Lisa Temple, Brian Graham, Sean Ores, Eric Young, Lily Monkus. Shocking, disturbing, extremely graphic horror film loosely based on the real-life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, with Rooker playing the title role who, along with his roommate Otis (Towles), go on a killing spree. This all goes on while Otis' younger sister Becky (Arnold) falls in love with Henry. The infamous gruesome scene shot on videotape where Henry and Otis kill an entire family is one of the most disturbing scenes ever shot (and caused one of the actresses to go into shock after shooting). The film was not released theatrically until 1990 after a screening in 1986 was not received well by horrified viewers. Offers two of the most reprehensible main characters ever (especially Towles as Otis). Well-acted, disturbing, scary, repulsive, gory, suspenseful, etc etc etc. Not for the squeamish! RATING 7 out of 10. Not rated (FOR MATURE AUDIENCES ONLY extremely graphic violence and gore, profanity, nudity, and brief drug use).  "},{"Title":"A classic piece of horror","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There I sat, 5 minutes after the credits had rolled, not able to believe what I had just seen.  I eventually got up, rewound the tape and hit play again.Nope, my eyes didn't deceive me.  This truly is the horror genre at it's best.  McNaughton is a genius.  This film leaves you feeling like someone's just dropped a ton of bricks on your head.  Truly disturbing, horrifying and downright disgusting.Thank god they picked Rooker to play Henry, this has to be his best ever film role.Even the damn music is excellent (done by McNaughton).This gets a very rare (from me) 10.Oh, and avoid Henry 2, it should never have been made. "},{"Title":"Hate/Love","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie shocked and scared the heck out of me.  I hated watching it, but I have to say that it's a sort of masterpiece.  No other film that I can recall depicted the banality of evil as chillingly, unless you want to get into the many Hitler documentaries.  Henry is so far gone into madness, brutality, and pure evil as to render it almost as boring and empty as his mind.The most disturbing aspect of it is that Henry is so untouched by the evil he does.  I hesitate to recommend it, but as a real depiction of the mind of a pure psychopath, it's probably very close to reality.  It left me drained and feeling very dirty, but if you want to understand how anyone could do the things he does without a trace of remorse, it might be worth watching. It's the creepiest film I've ever seen.  Beware!  This film will take you into places you wish you'd never been.As a film, I give it 5 stars because it perfectly realizes its intent, but I never want to see it again.  "},{"Title":"Intense!!!!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the scariest movies of all time... Michael Rooker who is a good inspiring actor, captures this role in one word  INTENSE... This is a horrifying film and is not for the weak of heart. The director did a nice job as well as the actors but Michael Rooker stood out the most.. No wonder he has been in so many movies. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THE REVIEWThis film was made in 1987 on a very small budget but it uses this as an advantage as it makes everything look more realistic. There is nothing in this film that may distract the viewer from this reality, like big special effects or else. It is simply depressing and has absolutely no humor.The film is set in Chicago and shot in a working-class area. Everything looks gray, dull and bleak. You wouldn't want to live there. The people in this film are all regular people, not beautiful or rich. This makes it even more disturbing as everything in this movie could happen to me and you.This is no action film. Compared with films made today, the pacing is quite slow.Most killings happen off-screen. You only see the results, which is gruesome enough, underscored with screaming. Despite its enormous body count this is no splatter film.The two main characters, Henry and Otis, are totally unlikeable. But as Henry seemingly kills to release tension, yet without really enjoying it, Otis is even worse. He accompanies Henry on his killings and shows no remorse whatsoever. On the contrary he gets a sick enjoyment out of it. He even films his murders and watches them at home in slo-mo on his VCR.For me one of the creepiest scenes in the movie is when Henry sits in his car on a supermarket parking lot and looks at all the women who come out of the store, ready to pick his next victim.The film has no morale. It just shows the life of Henry and his acquaintances from a quite detached point of view. It ends with Henry getting back into his car and driving on. No police are on his tail, nothing, he is no suspect. So you know he is still out there and the next victim could be...Excellent movie and great performance by Michael Rooker. "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry (Michael Rooker), a quiet man with a seemingly unquenchable rage, introduces his roommate to the pleasures of random homicide while being drawn to his sister.  Director John McNaughton's fictional depiction of mass killer Henry Lucas is a chilling document that is enhanced rather than hurt by its low-budget origins.  The cornerstone of the film is chilling deadpan performance of Michael Rooker.  Some people have complained that this film has no moral, but I think it has a very distinct one  Watch out! "}{"Title":"Man thats weird!!!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A film that i had never heard of, I must admit that before i start this. It was a case study thrust upon me by my Media A-level, yet what a film.All I knew of this film was what my slightly bias teachers had told me. The more I found out about it though, without sounding like a maniac, the more I wanted to see it. When I did finally get to see it I was blown away, it was surreal. Michael Rooker managed to be both frightening, calming and scared all at the same time. Even when he was just calmly waking down the street in one scene, I felt worried. Who's next? Will it be her or her or her? How will he do it?For me personally the most effective thing about the film was the way in which the murders were depicted. The use of almost a freeze frame as a soundtrack of the murder is played made the murders twice as bad as if they had showed every detail, simply because my mind, like most peoples make take things to the extreme and nothing on screen can come close to the scary stuff that can be created in my head and this element of myself was exploited in this movie to the greatest degree. It worked amazingly.I have only seen one other John McNaughton film so far (Wild Things) but I have found that his skill of direction is very high in my opinion. There is something about the way in which he uses the camera that I can't identify, but works so well that no matter much you want to look away or how much you are involved in the scene you instantly want to know more about what is happening around the edge of the camera, the area that you can't see.An altogether good film that is not for the faint hearted!!! "},{"Title":"The BEST and by far the most scary serial killer movie ever filmed","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Raw, brutal and brilliant. A powerful look inside the minds of a mad man. And not just Henry's. Not for everyone however, filled with some extremely graphic scenes of rape, murder and incest.SPOILERSWhen this movie first realsed it was highly controversial. Thus it sat on the shelf for many years. It is still a highly effective film portraying Henry a deadly drifter who moves in with his old jail buddy Otis. Soon Otis learns of Henry's ways but instead of telling the police he partakes. Otis's sister also moves in but is complelty unaware that the two murder people for kicks. Over time she begins to fall in love with Henry. When Henry finds a jealous Otis trying to rape his own sister he kills him, then severs his body into several pieces and throws him over a bridge. The sister is forced to watch all this in shock. This leads up to most likely the most chilling, horrifying, and psychologically baffling endings ever filmed. A very powerful movie experience. One that does not glamorize killers in anyway but lets you know they are not all witty cannibals but normal, quiet people who live next to you. And believe me after you see the house invasion scene you will always lock your door after dark. **** Out of **** "},{"Title":"The best character study of a sociopath ever done","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You may be thinking Oh, no, not another psycho killer movie! Enough already!  But this is one of the best of the bunch, if not THE best.  It is certainly the best character study of a sociopath ever done.While this is a work of fiction, not an actual documentary, this film is the most realistic of its kind I've ever seen. It seems like real life, not fiction.Henry fits the profile of a serial killer -- with his traumatic childhood, rootlessness, pent-up anger, prison experience, and an inability to form close, trusting, long-term relationships.  He is far more believable than Norman Bates or Hannibal Lecter.Moreover, its low budget is an advantage.  None of the performers were well-known at the time (although Michael Rooker, in the title role, has since become a star).  Every scene was shot on location.  The settings are all in and around Chicago, mainly in working-class neighborhoods. The characters are not rich, beautiful, or glamorous.  They appear at a glance to be just regular folks. Everything seems, on the surface, so ordinary.So this dangerous sociopath lurks right here among us.  To those he meets, he seems nice enough at first, even though we know better.The gory murders are all the more shocking because we see them occurring in neighborhoods and inside homes that are very much like our own.  The message is clear  This could be you.Add to this the plain, matter-of-fact, documentary-style direction and cinematography, and you feel as if you have witnessed the killings yourself.  WARNING SPOILERS!The home invasion scene, where Henry and Otis watch a video of themselves slaughtering an innocent family, is one of the most perverse, disturbing things you will ever see.  Here, you see them calmly sitting on the sofa watching their sick video, and suddenly realize that you're doing the same thing.  Now, you feel more like an active participant than a passive witness. Finally, the end of the movie shows Henry calmly disposing of Becky's body (the girl had loved him, a love that he was unable to return), and driving away.  He's still out there!This is not an easy film to watch, but once you've seen it you will NEVER forget it. And you'll definitely be more cautious. "},{"Title":"You can't really explain this film","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So much in this film seems borrowed from others.  Michael Rooker's character (Which, by the way, he deserved an Oscar for), seems like a mix of Robert De Niro's It's me or the world attitude in Taxi Driver and Malcolm McDowell's Kill for the hell of it attitude in a Clockwork Orange.  Add to that some Troma style gore, and you have Henry.The way I am describing it makes it seem like it's a complete rip-off, when in fact it isn't.  Though many parts of the film resemble other classics, the final product is not like anything you've ever seen before.In Henry, we enter the life of, Henry, and his buddy Otis.  Forced to participate in weird sex games with his mother as a child, Henry now takes his rage out on the unexpecting victims of Chicago.  Eventually, he turns his friend Otis onto murder as well.  All the while, Henry is falling in love with Becky, Otis' sister.  But what the audience realizes is that even though Henry loves Becky, Henry's true love is taking the lives of others. let's just say love conquers all in the end.Do yourself a favor and rent this movie tonight.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"I will never stop on the highway again","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Listen,lots can be said about this movie.Let me put it in a different light.After seeing Hitchcocks Psycho,would you shower alone in the house?Well after seeing this film,trust me,you will NEVER again stop to help a motorist at night on the highway,EVER.   "},{"Title":"Interesting psychopath movie","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is, not only because of its realism or its interesting main character, a very good movie.    With this movie, I discovered an actor that never really attracted me, maybe because of SOME of his more recent projects Michael Rooker.  I know, he played in Replicant with Jean-Claude Van Damme, but except for that, I was pretty impressed by his filmography.  Mr.Rooker is far away from being a bad actor, really.  And this film, along with other productions, proves it.  It was his first film, and definitely a great role to start.  Many actors started their path through glory with a bad guy role.  But Henry is more than a simple bad guy...  The film, in 1986, had brought a strong wave of controversy.  I have to admit that it's pretty violent (not SO much, but I can understand why it was censored in the 80's).  I saw a 81 minute version, which is not the whole runtime, and sometimes it was obvious that some murders had been cut.  But too bad, it's true to say that the sadism and brutality of the violence brings something really intense and somehow disgusting in the film, but even with the 81 minutes version I felt its effect completely.  (SPOILERS) Many murders are atrocious to see because of the graphic aspect, others are gratuitous, and others are disgustingly brutal.  The graphic aspect makes it a sometimes pretty gory film, like the guy that gets his head smashed with a TV, or the guy that is stabbed in the eye and then gets his head cut off.  These murders bring a sense of strong disgust to the viewer.  The gratuitous murders, like when Henry gives a gun to Otis and tells him to kill anyone to see how it feels to kill someone, are probably the ones that show how sick Henry (and Otis) are.  The brutal ones, without pretending that they are not ALL brutal, are the worse to watch.  If you've seen Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange, you'll understand.  There is a very disturbing rape scene in Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer.  But it's not only the rape that is SO disturbing, it's also the fact that they are filming everything, and Otis just can't stop watching it later.  Those who found Deliverance's rape scene shocking, don't see this, really, because Deliverance's scene was very soft and had NOTHING brutal compared to Henry's.   But, the most important point, the realism.  The setting is very common.  Henry, Otis and his sister live in a very small house, have very normal jobs, are not wearing some Versace clothes, and are simply looking like anybody you could meet on the street.  There's a scene where Henry cleans the floor with a broom, you know, all these things you have to do in every day life, but that are never shown in movies.  Movies usually show the extremes either very rich people or poor people.  But the middle-class environment is so well delivered.  But we still have to understand that this is a low budget film, so even if they had wanted to make a richer environment, I doubt they could have done so.  But believe me, it's a very good element of the film.  The characters are also very affected (in a good way) by a near setting.  The way the speak, their accent, vocabular, their jobs, their clothes, everything.    It appears that the character of Henry is an interpretation of the not THAT renowned killer Henry Lee Lucas.  It's an interesting concept to make a movie about a killer that is not known as THE MOST DANGEROUS killer off all times.  They could have made a movie about Charles Manson's life, but they decided to make it on someone a little less known's life.  And that's good.  It's like the film Sweet and Lowdown, with Sean Penn, who plays the SECOND best guitarist of all times.  It's good to see that they give second places a chance.    The characters are not so important, except for Otis and of course, Henry.  Henry plays some kind of teacher (in mass murdering) to Otis, but he has more personality than that.  He's a man full of contradictions, a man that has a very hard choice to make in the end of the movie, a man that has is full of nuances, but that still consists into a very dangerous serial killer.  We have many hints of his past life, and it somehow justifies all of his horrible acts.  Otis is different.  He discovers a passion in murder and rape, but doesn't control himself, exaggerates too much.  And Henry is aware of that.  The character of Otis becomes slowly something totally different than what it was before.  At first, he's a pretty normal man, with a minor violent behavior, but discovers suddenly a way to express his rage.  To me, Otis seemed like a stupid junkie while Henry seemed like an experimented and cautious addict of killing people.  Otis' sister, Becky,is important, but not for her evolution.  She falls in love with Henry, who simply doesn't know how to react to somebody's feelings.  Becky doesn't have a very important role, but her character becomes useful for one thing, and only one love.  And that's the point where Henry will be full of contradictions.  And that's the most important thing, because it tops Henry's deranged mind.  Henry is a nice character to analyze.  But, even with all that said, you'll never know how brilliant the ending is if you don't see it.  So, overall, the urban yet middle-class setting makes this film very realistic, the complex characters make it twisted, the brutality makes it shocking and intense, and the music, directing and atmosphere are a huge contribution to this movie, that is, for sure, not the most interesting to watch, because you somehow stay pretty distant to the characters and atmosphere, but the whole thing has lots of qualities.  Pretty enjoyable, and terrifying enough.  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a great movie.  It's a different approach to a serial killer's life, way more original than movies such as Strangeland, Resurrection, and other thrillers that are not bad, but do not focus enough on the killer's mind...and in Henry, they did not make that mistake. I give it 7/10, but it's really close to an 8.  And, by the way, I just couldn't believe they made a sequel to this film.  Really, this fact deceived me (though I haven't seen the second film), because the ending of the first one was perfect, and a sequel simply ruins all of its meaning.  "},{"Title":"John McNaughton forgot to thank Kubrick","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Much like Pier Paolo Pasolini's Salò o le 120 giornate di Sodoma this film is difficult for people to get their mind around.  In the case of Salo..., the intensity of the brutality, plus the Italian political metaphor, make this understandable.  Henry on the other hand, isn't that deep.  In his inaugural effort behind the camera, McNaughton deftly composed a film that communicated the depravity of the sociopath.  Moreover, Henry has obviously influenced the manner in which the genre of horror/crime films have been structured and had an impact on the way wide release films were rated.  Yet the clamor surrounding this film then and now is a bit curious. The gore that repulsed many in Harry by had been done in countless films and paled against that which was seen in contemporary slasher films such as Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Friday the 13th.  The so called moral ambiguity of the film's conclusion while certainly well placed, wasn't ground breaking. Yet what is perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the uproar surrounding Harry, is both the failure of the critical public, and McNaughton himself, to acknowledge the influence the rape and murder seen from A Clockwork Orange had on the most ghastly moment in this work.  On the DVD version, McNaughton reminisces about how the video tape sequence was in his mind, the central moment in the film.  Not only is Kubrick absent from this vestigia flammae, but so is any discussion of the scene standing as a larger metaphor.  Thus, for those who have subsequently used this juxtaposition to establish some sort of didactic connection between the TV viewers on screen, Henry, Otis, and any and every movie viewer watching them appears to be the stuff of film class and coffee houses, and certainly wasn't due to the perspicacity of McNaughton. Regardless, Henry stands the test of time as a creative infusion of real life themes into the horror genre. In so doing, McNaughton does not give the audience the luxury of dismissing the events in the film as being fantastical.  Herein lies the genius and the true horror of the film. "},{"Title":"Good but unwatchable","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very well made film all around. The acting, cinematography, and storyline are all extremely good. But this film is so disturbing that it is unwatchable. My brother and I are the kind of moviegoers that can stomach any kind of movie, but the same can't be said of this one. The murders aren't very gory, but the filmmaker does a good job at making them extremely disturbing in the areas of location, how the victims are picked, etc. The killers just randomly knock off innocent victims in the most disturbing of fashions. See this film because it is good, but be forewarned! "},{"Title":"Henry Portrait by a Sadistic Filmmaker","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who says Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is not a disturbing movie either saw a trimmed down version, is desensitized to the level of emotional bankruptcy, or is a serial killer himself.  There is one  scene after which the actress involved (one of about 20 people whose credit listing includes the word dead, victim, or murdered)actually went into shock, from the experience of filming.  That said, I would like to debunk two common myths about this film 1.  Henry is based on the real life exploits of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas - This is not really correct.  After being apprehended, Lucas proceeded to confess to hundreds of killings, and was scarcely challenged by detectives eagerly wishing to close the books on reams of unsolved murders. Owing to the efforts of an enterprising Chicago reporter, it is now believed that Lucas may have committed as few as three murders, and was nothing like the relentless psychopath pictured in the movie.  I wouldn't necessarily say this makes the movie any less disturbing though.  The fact is, someone committed these crimes and, whether or not it was Lucas, this alone is unpalatable. 2.  Henry is a good movie - Henry is well-made and it achieves the intended purpose of films of its kind - inspiring horror in those who view it.  However, there is really no joy to be gotten out of it.  If one makes a movie that is inherently unpleasant to its viewers, it should have some sort of point.  The only point that I can see is to portray the fact that serial killers have a lot of emotional problems and are apt to do horrific things - hardly a news flash.  Apparently the target audience is people who take a voyeuristic pleasure in the suffering of others, in which case I would recommend psychiatric help rather than a movie rental. * Amusing note - I originally saw this film in a high school classroom! Our psychology teacher was a traumatized, formerly heroin- addicted Vietnam Vet who conducted the viewing under the auspices of educating us on abnormal psychology.  To the best of my knowledge, he is still teaching there today. "},{"Title":"SO REAL! SO AMAZING!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 15 years old (last year) and I didn't think it was disturbing or anything, I just thought it was a great movie. This movie was soooo real, the setting, the way the actors acted,the clothing they wore, even the apartment they stayed in was made up to look like a REAL apartment, not some clean/ colorful/decorated apartment. The cinematography was great! I have to say that this movie showed Michael Rooker at his finest!!!!! The person he portrayed was so true to life and accurate, it was scary. He really made the movie a masterpiece. I just want to say that I was speechless at the end of this movie because of the way it was filmed. I give this movie an A+!!!!!!! YOU HAVE TO SEE IT!!!! "}{"Title":"Henry A Very Disturbing Movie","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry is a movie with basically no plot. It is the only conceivable way to make a documentary about serial killers. Although it is not that deep, it does scratch at the surface of why certain killers do what they do. Henry, the main character, admits in the film that his mother was abusive in physical, mental and sexual ways. This made him callous to society, to the point where he wants to kill people for no reason. While staying with his friend Otis and Otis's sister Becky, he turns Otis into a killer. Otis doesn't seem to have as much motive as Henry. Although he is a perveted drug abuser, there is not much explaination of his past.This movie has some horrifyingly terrible scenes, one in particular being the murder of an entire family where Otis nearly commits necrophilia until Henry stops him. One of the most disturbing scenes is the very end, and it happens to be the least graphic of all. I don't know if I would say Henry was a good movie in the sense that it is enjoyable to watch. It is more of a interesting movie that attempts to explain a topic few really take seriously in cinema. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the most realistic and Frightening movie ever made.In the way that it happened to a real man and that the whole story is true.Other movies is just fiction and of course there is other movies that are more graphic,but you got to remember that this is real,and that's what is sick.The things that the main character(Henry Lee Lucas)experienced when he was a child was just tragic and we really get to hear about it in the movie.I don't think that it ever have been made a movie like this,who shows a real serial killer from the inside. The movie have absolutely no humor and is evil and depressing from  start to end. As the movie goes on you really get to experience how sick Henry is and what he experienced as a child to make him the way he is. This is no movie for easily scared persons,because this movie takes you inside the head of Henry Lee Lucas. But if you really want to find out how a serial killer thinks,then this movie is the only one that shows it.The movie is cut in many countries because of some very strong scenes.But it is possible to get the uncut version if you give it some time. This movie is like nothing you have ever seen before and it is truly a masterpiece.Really evil and shocking.  "},{"Title":"Good movie,not as graphic as made out to be.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this one. The whole time I was watching it, I couldn't figure out why it was put in the horror section at the video store. I think it deserves to be in Drama. At the end of the video, they had a recent interview with the director, and it was the decision of the producers to make it and market it as horror.It was made in 1986. For years I had heard how graphic it was. I forced myself to rent it. I'm sure back in the day it may have made some viewers sick, but it is mild by today's standards.At times I felt bad for Henry. The man was seriously sexually repressed and confused. It seemed that everytime he would get turned on by a woman, he couldn't relate and that cause his killing streaks.The murder at the end made me sad. I didn't want it to be what I thought. I was so on edge that I fast forwarded a little to only be proven right.This is Rooker's first film. He does a great job making Henry a soft spoken gentleman and madman all in one. I actually disliked his buddy Otis more. "},{"Title":"Don´t watch this at Christmas!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not released in Germany for a long time because of being too radical and his explosiveness. Actually Henry is a film that swings between two extremes on the one side there are scenes of excessive violence, like the snuff video which Henry and Otis had filmed when they were killing the family. On the other side however there are a lot of sad and melancholy moments. The conclusion of them seems to be that everyone of those serial killers, no matter if in the movies or the reality, have immense problems with their identity, their sexuality, inner conflicts caused by traumas from their childhood, traced back on an extremely problematic relationship to their mothers. Henry is not a thriller in a typical Silence of the lambs-style, it´s more a semi-documentary horror drama about the psyche of a sick man. Director John McNaughton sends the watcher on a roller coaster between pity and disgust sometimes he presents Henry as a sorry figure, sometimes as an ice-cold monster. Michael Rooker is brilliant with playing the title role! Next to Anthony Perkins (Norman Bates) and Sir Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter) he´s performing one of the most frightening psycho killers in the history of cinema. Watch this film if you want to see something really disturbing!9/10 "},{"Title":"Yes, it is the way serial killers think, but who wants to see that?","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt the most disturbing film ive ever seen. Ive never seen peeping tom though. The film starts out with dead people in sewage waste, a dead hooker with a bottle stuck in her head? gross. That is just plain gross. Anyone who gave this film critical praise is just as sick as the person who made it. The film is a sad excuse for shock value. Sorry, its just not good. "},{"Title":"The Most Powerful & Terrifying Serial Killer Movie Ever Made","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A harrowing account of a serial killer that kills to pass the time. This movie has no budget (supposedly $100,000) and no names (although Rooker went on to become a star), but that turned out to be kind of a good thing. There's no glitz or glamour here, no sensationalizing. It's just pure evil that McNaughton was able to make it seem real. That's what makes it so scary, the perverted heartlessness of it all. People die because they are in the wrong place at the wrong time, but it's not because of the everyday dangers of life, it's because Henry decides that someone being nice to him or doing him a favor is going to die. The pinnacle of this is when Henry & Ottis fake car trouble so they can shoot the first person that stops to give them a hand. The story is purposely one-dimensional; there is no need to muttle a story presented from the point of view of the killer who does not fear (or probably consider) reprimand by including a police investigation. There are really only 3 characters, Henry, Henry's cellmate turned roommate Ottis, and Ottis' sister Becky, who moves in with them after her marriage goes awry.Becky likes Henry, but we really don't know why. It has been explained that she's fascinated in him killing his mother, but she obviously liked him before she found that out. Ottis is a perverted loser that doesn't really have a mind of his own. He entertains himself by fantasizing over every woman he sees, even his own blood, but really is only happy if he can torment them. Although he's killed before, he's not the type of person that would have had the brilliant idea to take it one step further and kill people for `entertainment.' When Henry makes him an accomplice, it's not hard for Henry to convince him that killing is the thing to do. Henry is a very complicated character. He seems like one of those people that could have been a good person, but he was ruined by his whore mother who would make him watch her turn tricks in their house even when his father was home. He's incredibly intense, unforgiving, and incapable of loving or being loved. That said, he isn't such a bad guy when he's not killing; he is pretty quiet and mainly keeps to himself. He certainly wouldn't seem like someone that was going to be that hard to coexist with until he killed you. He always sticks up for Becky when Ottis is having fun at her expense, so he's not totally oblivious of right and wrong. He has no remorse for what he does though, and basically does things because he can. He seems to be the way he is because his emotions are locked up inside him, only coming to the surface when he kills. Henry & Ottis are not the meticulous serial killers we usually see in movies that know how to cover their trail so the police can't find them. They aren't smart enough to be, but they also have no conscious and no worries. Henry will snap a woman's neck, leave her on the side of the road, and never think about her again. He doesn't believe that he can be caught unless he kills to many people in the same area or uses the same gun more than once. As far as we know, the police aren't after him yet. There essentially no scenes that don't involve the three that live together. This works because it makes the actions of Henry and Ottis, who now spends his time when Becky isn't around (since she doesn't know they are going out murdering people) watching their violent murder of a family over and over again in slow motion, much more horrifying. *spoiler*The ending is perfect because there is no conclusion to this story. This character will go about business until he dies or is locked up, but either would introduce the element of justice. Of course, the real Henry was eventually caught and it's a damn good thing, but having that happen here would remove so much of the power by suddenly shifting the mood 180 degrees. This story is totally about Henry's lifeless and orderless world, so we cannot be left with even a glimmer of that hope.This isn't meant for family viewing, but if you are going to watch a horror movie, this is one to check out because of its uniquely realistic presentation and an awesome performance by Michael Rooker. If any movie is scary, it's this one. It doesn't use cheap fake outs to generate a reaction, but nothing is more terrifying than considering that no matter where you are or how good your intentions are, a Henry could pop up and end you. It's horror in the truest sense of the word! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Murder isn't entertainment.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  NOTE This COULD SPOIL the movie for those who have not seen it!!Let's face it, death is not pretty. Not of natural causes, not because of cancer, and not because of disease, but the worst of all is murder. The first three there isn't a sense that you can prevent them. Sure you can try to avoid doing things that would bring them on, but in the end, guys like Jim Fix get a heart attack mid stride while jogging (go figure).Henry paints the ugliest of all, serial killing. In films like Halloween and Friday the 13th we do have serial killers at hand, but in an unreal world with indestructible villains (or heroes if you prefer). Before I saw HENRY, Michael Myers scared me the most out of all the horror heroes because his character was plausible (before he became invincible). Henry gets down to brass taxes. He IS real, and the killings are all to authentic, which is why the film is unsettling. Sure you can sleep through the night knowing some guy who wears a hockey mask isn't going to come in with a lawn trimmer and splatter your face into a few dozen pieces. HENRY doesn't provide that luxury. He snaps your neck, he stabs you to death, he shoots you, or he mutilates you n sticks you in a suitcase and tosses you on the side of the road.Those of you who couldn't (or can't) sit through this, or thought this was (or is) the worst movie ever are entitled to your opinion; however, I think that you have proved the director's point. One day it could be you found in that ditch, and it won't be pretty, will it?If you can't stand the heat, don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Shocking and brilliant","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Upon finding this film at Blockbuster Video, I noticed a helpful warning on the checkout box stating that the film should not be seen by viewers who are easily upset.If I made a movie powerful enough to deserve a disclaimer like that, I'd be very proud of myself.  And make no mistake, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer definitely earns it, mostly with the notorious scene in which the titular murderer and his sidekick Otis sit down to watch a videotape they've made of themselves brutally killing a defenseless family.  The sequence is horrifying, and chillingly real--had I seen that video footage in other circumstances I absolutely would have believed it was authentic.  I've seen hundreds of horror movies, and laughed at most of them, but that scene gave me nightmares.  It's one of the most heart-rending moments in the history of cinema.At the end of the scene, Otis pushes the rewind button.  Henry asks him what he's doing, and Otis replies, I want to watch it again.Equally terrifying is the ease of Henry's crimes.  His technique is simple--he keeps moving from place to place and varies his method of killing enough that the police have no way of knowing that the crimes are being committed by the same person.  And he nearly always chooses his victims at random, killing with no significant motive.  Think about it--you could be murdered tomorrow for no good reason by someone you've never even met.  Scary thought, isn't it?As gruesome as the film's content may be, it makes an incredibly worthy point.  Watch this film with an open mind and an open heart, and I guarantee you will come out of it with a greater appreciation for human life and a better understanding of the unfortunate nature of man.   "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece - A Flower in the Desert","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Simply my favorite film. The other side of the American dream. I imagined that American movies were only that Pretty Woman sorta thing until I was struck by the power of this movie. Finally something with no pretty faces, beautiful scenarios and millionaire budgets. Only superb actings (which even deserved a little mention in a great psychology book such as On Killing), a dark, gloomy, decaying atmosphere and a striking plot - even people that hated this movie can't deny that it's very disturbing. I really doubt if something of this quality will be ever produced again. "},{"Title":"An unremarkable serial killer","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't get me wrong... as serial killer films go, this one is very good.  It is good, though, because of the gritty realism that permeates every aspect of the film.  Unlike the glamorized, slick killers of _The Silence of the Lambs_ or _Seven_, Henry is a rather boring, unremarkable individual.  He is only smart in that he manages to elude capture, and even then it is only in the most rudimentary fashion.  Aside from the character of Henry, the entire film feels very true to life, almost like a documentary.  Of course, this clinical approach tends to be even more chilling than a traditional Hollywood film.That said, the plot in this film is minimal; don't look for any major revelations there.  The strength in this film is in cinematic and storytelling technique, yet the story itself is rather disorganized and raw. "}{"Title":"NO, don't see it","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of two films ever that I think, despite that it was well made, I wish I hadn't seen.I say well made because I think it meets it's objective of showing a very realistic 'portrait' of horrible events and a horrible monster of a person.I say I wish I hadn't seen it since I didn't enjoy a minute of it, couldn't appreciate anything to do with the filmmaking, acting, ANYTHING at all beyond the continuously revolting character.I know that unbelievably horrific things happen in our world.  I did not want to spend that time watching them.  I saw this film a number of years ago now, and it is STILL disturbing me.  Yuck. "},{"Title":"deglamourising the serial killer","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry ran in to major problems with the British Board of Film Classification, there was a long delay before it was screened outside of rep. and when the video was finally released it had been heavily censored.  All of which is a shame because this unflinching and unglamourised study of an unrepentant serial killer is thought provoking, powerful and responsible.Director McNaughton has stripped away the stylization that is so dominant in serial killer movies and opted for an unflattering portrait of a loser and the banalities and boredom of his every day life. Intercut with scenes of Henry and his sidekick Otis sitting around and going about their business are distressing scenes of the aftermath of the murders-which are accompanied by the soundtrack of the murder taking place.  The viewer hears the screams as they see the body-the horrific lifeless outcome of Henrys terrible actions. This is a powerful movie indeed and will not appeal to all but is the perfect riposte to the current trend of films that portray murder as a flippant, even cool act.   Whatever the BBFC thought this is a film of far more serious intention than most films of the genre.    "},{"Title":"Very good, very disturbing","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While reading the reviews to Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer here at IMDb I realized that most of the people misunderstand this film and do not see it for what it is.This film is NOT a conventional horror film trying to give the audience a few cheap scares. Although it does contain a high amount of violence it is NOT meant to satisfy the blood lust of some narrow-minded gorehounds out there. Anybody who rents/buys this film because he (she) hopes that the film will deliver the goods is a primate!Okay, I'm feeling relieved now.This film is one of the most disturbing films I've seen so far. During the whole 83 minutes there's not one pleasant moment. But I would rather call it a documentary (or a portrait) than a horror film. This documentary shows us Henry, a serial killer who kills people for no obvious reason. He is joined by his pal Otis. The difference between Otis and Henry is, that Otis seems to like killing people whereas Henry is absolutely indifferent; he kills with the same indifference as one would light a cigarette.This film contains scenes of rape, incest, mutilation and murder in such a realistic way that it becomes very difficult not to believe the content. It is filmed in a documentary style, the word 'portrait' is quite suitable in this context.However, something's missing in this film. There's always a reason why a person kills another creature. It can be an act of revenge, jealousy, enjoyment, financial reasons or another reason. None of this descriptions fits for Henry. Henry lacks a certain mental consciousness of the difference between good and evil. He knows that he is committing crimes (that's why he always changes the killing method, because he doesn't want the police to find a pattern) but he doesn't feel bad about it. A human life does not have any value, there's no reason for Henry to protect it. The film doesn't fully succeed in explaining this attitude of the killer but it is still a successful attempt to describe the impulses that drive a serial killer.I recommend this film to everybody who can stand the scenes of violence.My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"no other movie like it","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry is such a graphic film,that at times I feel totally compelled to remind myself the kind of person Henry is.Michael Rooker gives a chilling performance as the psycho who kills just for the fun of it.The movie hit me as a moviegoer and I was really interested on how the character became that way.In the tradition of such films as The Silence of the Lambs and Seven,Henry is far more brutal to our senses.The film is one of my favorites because it's more true than any other serial killer film I've seen.I really was so into this film that it was truly disturbing.Great film but not for the weak hearted.I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"A gritty, hard, and excellent film about a serial killer","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you first see the title, you probably think Chuckie, Freddy, Jason, or Michael Myers.  Don't.  The story of how the film was made is interesting.  John McNaughton, an aspiring director, was trying to make it big into show business.  The producers of this movie were more interested in making a low budget, schlock horror film.  John was always interested in Henry Lee Lucas, and his pal, Otis, who were real serial killers.  He sold the idea to the producers, who bought it, and gave him the money to do it. The result is one of the most intelligent horror films (?oxymoron) to come out.Yes, the movie is brutal and very disturbing in content.  It includes images of incest, necrophelia, and disembowelments.  That should not stop you from watching this film.  Instead of watching this film with the mentality of Oh, that's sick!, watch it as a character study of how serial killers are made.  When we see scenes of the Holocaust on TV, we don't say That's gross! and leave it at that; we examine what made people do such horrible acts and learn from that.  Similarly, this movie can be seen as a documentary on a life of a serial killer through his eyes rather than the third person approach that most documentaries on TV take.  It will give you a different perspective of what's wrong with American youth.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Makes you identify with his urges.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At times it was hard not to let yourself get sucked into the idea that this was a documentary.  Much of the story and acting and scenery is believable as such.  Only when one murder scene had me cheering the murderers when they wasted a jerk who was ripping them off -- and rude about it to boot -- did the idea that this was a fictionalized movie sink in.  Several of the audience left at this point.  Now I would never do something like that to anyone, nor would I cheer a real murder, but this film had me identify and empathize with the hero/victim so much that I took his side in this, if only in part to lessen the increadible tension the director developed. This is as close a real life depiction of a real life serial killer that I have  ever seen.  It also reinforced my opinion about judging someone before walkining a mile in their shoes (esp if the judging involves death)  Most viewers couldn't stand to watch 90 minutes of Henry's life, much less live a day of it. "},{"Title":"Forget BLAIR WITCH ... This is the SCARIEST movie of all time","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is raw cinema.  Director John McNaugthon and actor Michael Rooker pull no punches at all with this film.  The film is brutal  and scary, not the way of a Hellraiser film, but in the way of real life.  Henry is portrayed as your next door neighbor, or maybe the guy driving that construction van that looked at you earlier today as you were stuck in traffic, or that guy that cat called your daughter today at the school bus stop.  All of these guys are Henry.  Henry is not some certifiable cinematic looney a la Dr. Hannibal Lecter.  Henry could be any anonymous person that looked at you today.  And watching this film, you will see that the scariest thing is not being able to do anything at all but watch, wait, and pray.  Watching the film, and you will feel helpless about not being able to reach into the screen and stop Henry and his co-conspirator from doing what they do (and what they do is too much for words to describe).  They say that FIGHT CLUB will become an American classic ... if it does, then so should this.  The copy that I viewed had a warning on the cover ... take this warning seriously, for the film is not for the faint of heart.  But if you are brave enough to pick up this film, wait until dark, turn the lights off, and let Mr. McNaughton and Mr. Rooker scare you to hell ... you will not walk away from this film unchanged.  This is the scariest film since Alfred Hitchcock joined with Anthony Perkins to give us PSYCHO. "},{"Title":"An unpleasant and sick film","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hmmmm...here we have another grade-z horror flick about a psychopath slashing, stabbing, electrocuting, and raping women and men alike.  What's the hype about?  Henry... is a very disturbing icky little movie, and in the end you will hit yourself for actually sitting through this.   "},{"Title":"The film those sucked in by the Blair Witch hype ought to see.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I sit here this evening, reading comments for a film I endured years back at a midnight showing here at the Music Box Theatre in Chicago.  I'm compelled to write, because I'm appalled at the fact that the overly lauded Blair Witch Project has 112 comments (mostly positive, one profoundly negative from me, albeit anonymously), while this vastly superior film has only 24.It's proof positive that true horror is not only a rare commodity, but is also one in very slight demand.  Over and over again over the past months I've read of how Blair is a film that follows you home, it's the most terrifying film in years, yada yada yada.It's most assuredly not.  This film is.And one has to call it a film, not a movie.  A movie is pleasurable, entertaining.  If a horror movie, it provides a nice roller coaster ride for an hour or so, and a healthy catharsis.This film kicks you in the teeth.I saw it at midnight, as I said earlier, at a theatre in Chicago.  It was the dead of winter.  In the lobby, the distributor was selling one-sheets. My friends and I purchased one each, and sat down for the show.When we first witnessed Henry explode from his heretofore seemingly impenetrable nothingness into shocking brutality, I set the poster down on the dirty theatre floor.By the time Henry and Ottis were enjoying their trophy from the home invasion, a choking fear had settled in, as I remembered my wife (back then anyway) usually forgot to lock the front door.  And she was home alone with the baby, while I was some distance away wallowing in the worst the cinema - and reality - had to offer.After the movie, we all silently and unceremoniously tossed the posters in the trunk. And left them there.This film is unmistakably true, gut-wrenching horror.  It follows you home, if you're foolish enough to go with it.  If you watch through a veil of cynicism or as a jaded cinemaphile, perhaps you'll miss the point.And good for you.  Better to be able to dismiss this as amateurish, or even as trash, than as the harsh reality it is.  People do live as do Henry and Ottis and Becky; stuck in a mindless tedium from which their only escape is the television.  And what do they do when it breaks...As a sidebar, some prints of this movie omit the intro paragraph before the opening credits.  If you missed it, the film is based on the confessions of Henry Lee Lucas, who, if he's to be believed, is by a substantial margin America's most prolific serial killer.And this serial killer most certainly did not work alone.  Ottis Toole is a real person, and as in the film he's more bent than Henry.  In interviews, he presents as bone-chilling a persona as Manson.  Strike that, he's more so.  Manson still has a philosophy.  Toole is simply evil.And if you doubt any of this, check out John Walsh's book (host of America's Most Wanted).  After years of investigation, he's concluded the most likely suspect in the grisly murder of his young son is that same Ottis Toole.Anyway, if you're looking for real horror, steer clear of films that rely on gimmicks, and try to pass off piles of stones and bundles of sticks as scary.  Pick up this one, and leave the front door unlocked while you watch.Bet you don't forget to lock it when you're done... "},{"Title":"Brutal and all-too realistic portrayal of a day in the life of a serial killer.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember it well...December 31st,1996...11 pm..snow on the ground....a delightful little New Year's Eve party complete with Dom Perignon, 6 friends, lots of food, and several films to watch. Unfortunately, one of them was Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer. I cannot discount my own responsibility in choosing it. But I wish I had not. My experience tells me I must be at least a LITTLE objective...and write positive as well as negative feedback. So, here goes. Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer is remarkable in that it manages to portray a side of life so perverse and depraved (so well) that it may change lives, change emotions, change the part of town you live in....Whatever it is, it is surely a film that will cause a reaction in all who see it. (Except, perhaps, someone like Henry.) I consider myself a TOTAL film buff..and by that I mean an objective, arty (but not TOO arty)objective, films-of-all-decades type of gal. However, my reaction to Henry was to run to the restroom and vomit into the toilet. (Just for the record, I had had only 1 glass of Dom) I held up pretty well during the snuff-style murder of a family, the video-for-kicks portrayal of rape and murder, the EXTREMELY realistic depiction of decapitation, a brother raping his sister, and a very, very, chilling (but brilliant)ending to the film. However, what came after the credits is what caused my stomach to turn and made me feel guilty for even watching the whole film. HENRY T-SHIRTS!!!! HENRY-MUGS!!!! HENRY MEMORABILIA!!!!! Hmm....is this where we are as a society? On ebay last week, I noticed hundreds and hundreds of serial killer memorabilia being sold (and bidded on) by equally large amounts of people. The overall admiring and encouraging tone made me sick. After watching Henry, I had to ask myself what reason that film was made. Shock value? No...A portrait of justice? LOL--definitely not...there was no punishment, policemen, or justice of any kind. Bill Kurtis, Sinofosky&Berlinger, and Errol Morris have already covered the gamut in regards to documentaries on killers. Why then, this disgusting film?Peeping Tom, Psycho, Bergman's The Virgin Spring, and several other films deal with similar topics. But there is resolve, or revenge...even in Wes Craven's absolutely barbaric Last House on the Left (which cheaply mimics Bergman's The Virgin Spring) leaves us satisfied. Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer is not exactly satisfying. But it is gratuitous. And I suggest you pick a more redeeming way to spend a New Year's Eve. (or any evening, for that matter)Suggestions Peeping Tom, Rashomon, Psycho, Rope, Funny Games, The Vanishing, The Virgin Spring, Hour of the Wolf, Angel Dust, Paradise Lost(the documentary), Brother's Keeper, Element of Crime, M, Citizen X, or The Reflecting Skin. "}{"Title":"Portrait of  not only one sick individual!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I expected a bit different, cause I thought the portrait of this serial killer displays only the murder himself and the crimes he committed. But what really is shown is the sideline life of his, the living with Otis, a guy who is totally nuts and his poor sister. There are better movies of serial killers, i guarantee. Also that flick got a little touch of Natural Born Killers. Not really a stunning flick! "},{"Title":"We will never understand serial killers.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie gives you the feeling that a documentary crew is following Henry around and we are the voyeurs. The gritty quality adds to the impact of the film. We see Henry kill to obtain material possessions, for fun, for the purpose of having a video to view and enjoy afterwards, to tie up loose ends, for the sport of killing prostitutes and self preservation. He is an omnivorous killer and follows the cardinal rule of not having the same modus operandi. For a person with a relatively low I.Q. this is a chilling fact that makes Henry so very dangerous. He is not focused on killing a certain type of girl like Ted Bundy. He does not focus on young men like John Wayne Gacy. Both of these men were executed. I believe that we will never understand serial killers unless we study them seriously. If certain frustrations trigger these people then I believe it would be prudent to know the warning signs and head them off at the pass before they start their rampages. This obviously is not happening. The people they kill may have someone who loves them. When Ted Bundy was executed a lot of the victims families received no closure because Bundy did not tell where they were buried. The real threat is that I believe that Henry represents the fact that there are a lot of men like him wandering around killing with impunity.   "},{"Title":"Scared the hell out of me.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are certain movies I love to watch over and over. I never get tired of Danny Kaye in the Court Jester (The pellet with the poison . . .) or Martin Short as Hans the Wedding Consultant in Father of the Bride.On the other hand, there are movies, like Star 80 and Schindler's List, that I'm glad I watched, but have no desire to see again for a long time. Because they're too real, too horrifying, too painful to watch a second time.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is another movie to add to that list of only see once. I'm glad I was able to make it all the way through. It's not easy. I left the theatre stunned and a little frightened.This movie is so real, so authentic, it's not for the faint of heart. You almost forget you're watching a movie. But, if you want to get inside the head of a serial killer, to try to understand the why behind these despicable acts (the point being there is no why) see this movie. But don't watch it alone or if you get queasy at the sight of blood or defenseless people being tortured to death.  "},{"Title":"A REAL look at the life of a serial killer","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the serial killer sub-genre of film. Films like Seven, The Silence of the Lambs, and Kiss the Girls were all quite good, but Henry takes a departure from any serial killer movie that I have ever seen. Usually serial killer movies are suspense thrillers, with the plot involving a police man hunt for the killer. Not in Henry. In fact, there is no sign of police anywhere. This film is a portrait of what Henry a ruthless killer does in his every day life. The reality is that serial killers never see or hear from the police until they are breaking down their front door and they're caught. But before this, there is much time for the killer to live a lonely, heartless life, where he feeds upon his innocent victims. This is where this film spends its time.Henry is dark and grainy, very low budget and so violently grim, that I would call this the most disturbing film that I have seen. I normally can handle watching violence, but this film really struck a nerve, which is surely what director John McNaughton's intention is. It looks as if, and I'm sure it was filmed with a video camera. This movie is so intensely real that it feels like watching a snuff film. It feels like a documentary, whereby the title characters of Henry and Otis have asked someone to follow them around and film their carnage. Perhaps McNaughton should have directed 8MM. It then would have perhaps dealt with the notion of snuff films more honestly and realistically. 8MM crept around the edges of snuff film with out actually diving into it, which is what I expected. Henry hits it dead on the nose. Sure the film is a depressing way to spend 90 minutes of your life, and it leaves you queasy at the end, but this is where the true genius of this film lies. It is able to provoke this feeling in almost everyone. And it should provoke this feeling. Some view it as good film-making, and others see it as disgusting or even evil film-making, as if some people would actually go out and follow up upon what they saw in Henry. Believe me, I've heard comments like this. I believe that people project their uncomfortable experiences at movies onto the morale of society as a defense mechanism (ie, This movie made me sick, so it must be to the detriment of the rest of society to see it.). I think this is utter nonsense. Not all films have to have happy endings and light subject matter. Films like Henry are informative, and not necessarily entertaining. I can't say that I enjoyed watching Henry, but I respect it as a film because of what it accomplished. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If this true story doesn't disturb you then you are disturbed yourself. This isn't told from the point of view of the law trying to track them down it simply shows the unbelievably sick life of a real life serial killer.  It makes no apologies and pulls no punches.  The low budget of this film added tremendously to the realism.  Not a Hollywood version of a Hollywood Serial Killer, this is the real thing! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And you thought HALLOWEEN was scary? NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET gave you strange nightmare? FRIDAY THE 13TH made you afraid to go to summer camp?This movie will make you scared of the guy next door.Henry isn't a bad man (or so it seems) he just is a little disturbed. He murders for fun and it is SO scary. You only see a few murders but you hear more and they are the worst. They scare you SO bad.If you are sensitive I suggest staying away from this movie. It is not for the weak at heart.Not Rated is not a good rating for this movie. It should XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX (with a bar notation). No one should be allowed to see it due to its content, however, it is an amazing movie and I give it two thumbs up (in memory of our friend Gene Siskel) "},{"Title":"Nothing in the world like it","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not that I've seen, anyway, although Funny Games is supposed to be sort of like a feature length version of the videotape scene. Clearly, if you've been reading these reviews, but you haven't seen the movie, you assume there are some pretty horrific scenes in this movie, and indeed there are some. Henry and Otis kill a good samaritan. Henry and Otis kill a sedentary electronics dealer. Henry and Otis invade a home. And of course, the stunning, remorseless ending. The mere thought that such a movie could be made with ANY basis in fact gives this film a frightening resonance like few others can boast. Cut to the chase. This movie is excellently made, and the cast, led by Michael Rooker (who, sadly, has kept a pretty low profile), lend a great deal more credibility to Henry by showing us characters we've all seen before, in real life or other movies. But Henry is a remorseless, heartless killing machine, and Otis may well be just as screwed up as Henry, if not more so. Which, of course, upsets any previous notions we may have had about them. These are truly disturbed, empty individuals, and the movie is an important social document for merely stating dangerous people like these really exist. However, if you have any doubts about whether or not you can stomach the violence in this movie, odds are you will be severely upset by it. This movie pushes every envelope of terrifying movies to the breaking point. It had a picture to paint, and it delivered like a sledgehammer to the forehead. A truly unique, bizarre wonder of a movie that proves slasher movies can be socially relevant, while at the same time proving most previous ones were exploitative filth. This movie earns its chills through sheer mastery of the craft.  "},{"Title":"This is a scary one!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not your typical slasher film, this one doesn't try to be stylish and is more frightening perhaps because of this.  Lots of graphic violence, and an unexpected ending(?).   "},{"Title":"The horror of reality","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Written _ex vacuo_ around a spare budget of US$100,000, HENRY is a true horror film. Eschewing canonical horror elements, such as monsters, spirits, and the cat that jumps out of the dark, this film shows what true horror can lie in unembellished reality. The scant budget probably enhances the film by restricting the sets to stark urban landscapes and  austere interiors, and the cast of (then) unknowns portrays members of a perennially hopeless class of Americans all too well. One wonders how many starving actors live in digs like those shown in the movie.With no money for special effects, stunts, or gory makeup, the director is forced to remand most of the graphic violence to off-camera venues, which makes them even more unspeakably horrific. Not since I saw THE EXORCIST in the 1970s have I been so disturbed by a horror film.The DVD release has a lengthy and interesting interview with the director, and a few morsels of printed trivia are thrown in as extras.There is one maddening technical problem with the DVD the sound and picture are slightly out of synch (this is true both in the director's taped interview and in the film proper). Hopefully this will be fixed if the DVD is ever remastered.  "},{"Title":"Shakes you to the core","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, this movie was freaky! I can't think of a more disturbing way to spend 90 minutes than by watching Henry. After being deluded by repeated viewings of everything from Scarface to Reservior Dogs to Goodfellas, I thought I had become pretty numb to on-screen violence. Seeing Henry was like being slapped in the face. As iron as my stomach is, even I had to cover my eyes during that awful home invasion scene! Overall, it's a soul-shaking movie experience that you will not forget, no matter how hard you try.    "}{"Title":"Never seen anything like this...","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I rented this movie I didn`t really know what it is about. So I watched it and I have to say that it was very interesting. I have never seen a movie like this before. The plot is quite strange but, hey, what do you expect when watching a portrait of a serial killer! Sometimes it looked a little bit like a documentary but, I think, that created the atmosphere of the movie. You`re right in the middle, you observe (almost) every killing but, nevertheless, I felt some kind of sympathy for Henry. He`s sick and he has to kill somebody (he`s kinda addicted to it) but then it was interesting to see how he developed feelings for the girl (for the first time in his life?).... Well, I could write on and on because it is a kind of film you don`t get to see that often. I love the directing in this one. The camera and the actors told everything. There was no need for excessive tilts and pans and cuts. Just simple and smooth. Good, interesting, disturbing, unusual and tough stuff which is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Not a film for those with nightmares","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I watched Henry, I had several preconceptions due to the large amount of controversy the film received when it was first released.  Generally, I was expecting a poor exploitation movie.  I was very surprised to find that Henry is really quite a good film, the actors are very believable as the people they are porrtaying, and the plot while slow at times, doesn't ever have you thinking that couldn't happen.  The film isn't nearly as explicit as I was expecting, the violence is there, but it is all matter of fact and not at all gratuitous.  All in all a good film, but don't watch it if you suffer from nightmares. "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 28","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" 28. HENRY portrait of a serial killer (horror-thriller, 1992) Henry (Michael Rooker) lives with his ex-prison buddy Otis & teen sister Becky. Henry and Becky strike up a relationship. Meanwhile, he and Otis strike up their own love for killing, setting out on a murder spree. But Otis begins to lose control of all reality, as his perverse sexual urges extend to his own sister. When Henry finds out things take a turn for the worst.Critique This graphic, low-budget venture was made in 1986 but due to distribution and rating problems was released 6 years later. The story is based on the confessions of serial killer Henry Lucas (who allegedly confessed to more than 500 murders). Since the story eschews from any reference to real life events, it is very loosely told. Writer-Director John McNaughton focuses more on the characters and their motivations for killing. The only thing we know of Henry is that like most serial killers, he had an abusive childhood. Besides this we don't really get to understand his motives for killing. As is the case with most low-budget films, the cheap footage and authentic low-budget production help it. McNaughton shows flair by the use of hand-held cameras (particularly in the disturbing 'family slaughter' scene) and realistic use of cinematography (invoking a visionary paranoia and suspense). The ending further distances us from the nature of evil.QUOTES Pawnbroker Of course it's black and white. What do you expect for 50 bucks? FV@*in' 3-D for God's sake? "},{"Title":"Indeed, a worthy portrait of one of the most notorious serial killers.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer portrays Henry Lee Lucas quite well, but the beginning of the movie is rather discouraging.  The problem with the first several minutes is that all you see is Michael Rooker as Henry Lee Lucas SILENTLY going from place to place and leaving a trail of death behind. I was wondering if the whole movie was going to do just that, and it could have easily done so for at least an hour since Lucas may have murdered as many as 200 people.  Fortunately, the silence ends, and Rooker finally does some acting when he mets up with his moronic partner in crime, Otis.  Michael Rooker is convincing as Henry Lee Lucas, but they could have put on some makeup to make Rooker appear to have a dead eye (the real Lucas was stabbed in the eye during childhood by his own brother, and his mother did nothing about the eye).  The rest of the small cast also does a good job.  Friday the 13th The Final Chapter must have read a biography of Henry Lee Lucas, as both the fourth Friday the 13th movie and Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer have a scene where a victim gets a TV smashed on his head and is subsequently electrocuted.  Of course, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer executed that scene much more effectively than Friday the 13th The Final Chapter did.  This serial killer movie is unusual in the sense that no cops are shown trying to catch the killer.  All of the scenes are devoted either to Henry or Otis.  On the other hand, most of the other serial killer movies, such as Silence of the Lambs and Se7en, have detectives trying to catch the killer.  This is a good, distinctive movie overall, and if they changed the first few minutes, it could be an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Super double excellent","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stark, cold, lifeless- and these are just the characters in the movie! Henry is a serial killer like you've never seen before. A psychopath of the umpteenth degree. He has no heart, no soul, no remorse, no emotion at all. He doesn't kill for the thrill of it- he kills because that's just what he does. But look beneath the horrific veneer of this film and you can detect a black comedy 'a la Stanley Kubrik's A Clockwork Orange and Full Metal Jacket. The amoral is the norm. If you can see beyond it's purposefully shocking facade- it's actually quite funny. The final scene is either very disturbing- or hilarious. "},{"Title":"Unsettling and Disturbing","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although there is an unsettling tone and plenty of disturbing themes and imagery throughout, the last 30 minutes of the film is when things get REALLY out of control. The climax of this film is, without a doubt, one of the most horrifying film sequences that I've ever seen. It is a dark, sickening adult drama.Michael Rooker plays Henry, a man with a horrible past who now has turned to violence. At times, he's almost the hero of the film, especially during the horribly demented finale. However, he isn't portrayed as a saint or anything.The controversy that the film has caused is somewhat understandable. Although it isn't really as extreme as other films that have come out over the years (ex Salo, A Serbian Film, and Funny Games), it certainly contains a lot of very disturbing themes. There's murder, incest, rape, etc. Yeah, its certainly a fun movie to watch with Grandma!The film has a very realistic feel to it, compared to other horror films, although some of the sound effects were a little comical to me. I know this sounds nit-picky, but some of the sound effects just took away from the very realistic tone that the film creates.Recommended to watch with the kids. "},{"Title":"I guess I love you too.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What makes Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer so harrowing, so numbing, is the absence of any judgment of the characters. The film was shot on 16mm film in one month's time for $110,000 in 1985. It did not premiere until 1990, and became one of a handful of international independent films to instigate the NC-17 rating. It does not contain buckets of blood, nor is it particularly explicit sexually. It is, from any and every angle, an omniscient portrait. Two naked women are shown dead, having already been brutally murdered, one in a field and the other in a bedroom, while a troubled man named Henry drives around Chicago. We hear their screams. All we see are their mangled bodies. That is all we need. And it is stomach-churning.Itinerant Henry and his prison buddy Otis are cold-blooded and chillingly casual murderers. Played by gravelly character actor Michael Rooker, Henry never appears or behaves like anyone out of the ordinary. We get the sense that he hardly ever thinks about murder, except for when he does it. As for Otis, played by the imposing Tom Towles, think of when you smoke a pack of cigarettes a day, versus one after your morning coffee and one after dinner. Think of the discipline and organization inherent in the latter. That's Otis's problem kind of, only he's not just the one pack a day, he's about five and the tobacco is laced with children's tears. That's why he truly brings out the things about individuals we never see. He does many unforgivably monstrous things here, but he still manages to go about his business without remorse or fear of getting caught, so we presume he's just a good ol' boy with a short fuse. And he is; he just goes a few steps further than most.Portrait is not about the thin line between good and evil. Portrait sees no line. There are innumerable films about serial killers. It is a permanent fixture in the Middle American zeitgeist. We fear them, so we turn them into our own bloodthirsty entertainment. They have become mythology for us to use in order to take our morbid curiosities and sadistic fantasies out for a safe spin. Even after this definitive film on the subject, it is not often that a movie dares to portray the real ones, unmitigated by thriller tropes.John McNaughton and his late collaborator Richard Fire do not feel the need to pigeonhole or explain them, not just as movie characters but as people. Without a frame of compromise, McNaughton defies the hankering to pump up the volume, to frame Henry in chiaroscuro or Otis with Dutch angles. When most human beings see the things that Henry and Otis actually go through with---feeling no other rationale, it would seem, than that it's simply something for them to do---our immediate reaction is to ask how someone could do such things, and why. As Nick Nolte says as a homicide detective in Ole Bornedal's 1997 thriller, Even when we catch the killer, they wanna know the how and why.That character would agree with McNaughton and Fire that people like Henry and Otis, are well beyond the need to justify what they do. What explanation could there be for slaughtering an entire random family, while recording the whole incident on a camcorder to then watch it later with the blank beer-chugging catatonia of watching an inning of baseball? Horror films, though designed to scare us, are also designed to make us feel safe. The killer was humiliated by his quarries in high school, or has split personality disorder. This film is not a horror film. Explanations are just a fiction to make us feel safe. This film does not have explanations. It has events, key moments in the lives of guys who like to drink beer, smoke weed, hang out with Otis' sister and kill random strangers. "},{"Title":"Haunting! Michael Rooker is Awesome!","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the true life serial killer, Henry Lee Lucas, 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer' is a haunting & unsettling tale of a troubled man. Its brilliantly written & Michael Rooker nails in it! 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer' is dark, disturbing & violent. But, thats the mood of the film, its unsettling & haunting. Its no-holds-barred, no-mercy storytelling, that leaves a strong impact. Its certainly not flawless, but its depiction of a serial killer is extremely intriguing. John McNaughton's Direction is note-worthy. He handles this difficult, disturbing story with an unbiased opinion. He captures every frame with a sense of repulsion & paranoia. Michael Rooker is awesome. He's award-worthy as Henry. He's truly an under-rated performer, who deserves much more than what he has received. On the whole, 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer' is not everyone's cup of tea, but those who can stomach a brutal, life-like story of a twisted of serial killer, shouldn't give this one a miss. "},{"Title":"Puts a fair amount of horror movies to shame.","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" As has been said, there's often no kind of fantastic horror that can compete with the more reality based and therefore more frighteningly convincing horror stories. Co-writer / director John McNaughton's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer mines all of its effectiveness from taking a very matter of fact approach to genuine human depravity, never judging its characters and merely presenting the horrible things they do without ever having to resort to stylistic gimmicks that the story doesn't need. Originally rated X for what censors perceived as this movie's moral code, it does indeed have the kind of balls that films of its time largely didn't have. It takes us right out of any comfort zone by refusing to ever be playful or fun. Michael Rooker delivers one Hell of an impressive debut performance as Henry (loosely based on the real life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas), holding down a job as an exterminator but whose real mission in life is to kill whenever he gets the chance. Not that he derives any real pleasure out of it, this is just something he has to do. As he puts it, it's either them or him. Henry eventually schools his roommate Otis (based on real-life Ottis Toole, an associate of Lucas's), played by Tom Towles, in the fine art of murder, taking care to stress that a killer should always change up their method so as not to establish a pattern for cops to follow, and to not use the same murder weapon twice. Otis is a major creep, as we see how he relates to a teen customer who buys drugs from him, and his own sister as well, played by appealing Tracy Arnold. It is this attraction to his flesh & blood that concerns Henry, as even a man like him can have an idea of things one should not do. All three leads are exceptional, with Rooker and Arnold sharing one memorable scene where we see where each character is coming from. The home invasion is powerful and memorable stuff, although not quite as chilling as the fact that Otis and Henry would later watch their videotape of the event for their entertainment. These damaged individuals with these damaged lives make for compelling viewing, and while the ultimate resolution is definitely depressing, it hardly comes as a surprise. And the use of any and all graphic violence here is hardly gratuitous. While the movie is obviously not to every taste, those who do appreciate it value it very highly. While it unfortunately took a few years for the movie to achieve a theatrical release, people did manage to see it in the interim, and Rooker soon went on to great acclaim as a character actor in movies like Mississippi Burning and Sea of Love. This is a standout horror film and comes highly recommended. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Terrifying Portrait","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now, we've definitely had our share of horror movies that weren't fun. From Wes Craven's The Last House on the Left to Tobe Hooper's The Texas Chainsaw Massacre to Wes Craven's follow-up The Hills Have Eyes, the 70's allowed for a time in horror when a director could write a script, choose unknown actors, and with a low budget, disturb the hell out of an audience. Those movies were classics for their ability to truly frighten. 1986's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer echoes the 70's with its loosely true story, utterly believable lead, and a kind of violence that would intimidate even the most jaded horror fan.The plot is so simple, yet very well-executed. Inspired by real-life murders, the film revolves around Henry, a quiet human being who is a closeted serial killer. He roams the night streets of Chicago, ready to pick off his next vulnerable victim while at other times, he lazes around his apartment with his perverted roommate, Otis, whose sister Becky is just visiting after marriage problems. While Becky begins to develop attraction towards Henry, he keeps his life under wraps, but soon exposes Otis to his actions, getting him involved in his murders.A film like this could never get past the MPAA, not even as a script. However, Chicago native John McNaughton was able to pull it off. The movie certainly does its job. Unlike the Friday the 13th films of the slasher craze at the time, the violence in Henry is nowhere near entertaining. The film does its job and pulls no punches.The script doesn't seem to take any sides, and leaves its characters for us to judge. But for some strange reason, we almost do take a side. Both Henry and Otis are equally as monstrous, without a doubt. On the other hand, after all of the murders Henry has committed, one scene boils it down for us to understand how Henry became that way. Is his life story true? We don't know. His sexuality is definitely questionable. When it comes to Becky being a love interest for this antagonist, Henry pushes himself away. Whatever happened to him in his childhood obviously has an effect on the way he feels about women, and his lack of kindness or compassion makes him a very frightening character.As for the acting, McNaughton chose a cast of newbies who knew what they were doing. Tracy Arnold provides us with a sympathetic performance as Becky, making her a likable and fragile character. Played by Tom Towles with a shocking realism, Otis becomes a person who goes from subtly creepy to downright horrifying.But Henry really belongs to Michael Rooker, whose portrayal of the title character set him up for other classic horror stereotypes to come. While horror movie villains nowadays bring about goofiness instead of real fear, Rooker knows better. He understands that Henry is a madman without a motivation to kill, causing him to become the role. He never smiles. His eyes never twitch. And his unclean hairstyle as well as his expressionless eyes contribute to the movie's fear factor. Basically, Rooker is incredible.That doesn't go without saying that the film is flawless. One component holds it back from complete believability, and that's the music. The score at times helps to set the mood of the movie, but other times, it's just not attractive to me.Otherwise, there's nothing much else that could be a cause for failure. Henry succeeds in disturbing us and making us uncomfortable. Its awareness of its gruesome subject matter and the performance of Michael Rooker leave you with a lot to think about after the movie is over. You never truly know the people surrounding you in your environment, and the film's disquieting content proves for the most real, most palpable kind of horror. "}{"Title":"Great Low Intensity Disturbing Film","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some of the reviewers of this film who aren't shocked by it, and think it is dull, have been blatantly bludgeoned across the frontal lobes by today's slasher and shocker flicks. Its low intensity comes across as boring to those who who want to see blood shoot out 3 feet and chainsaws take off heads and limbs and people chained to the floor in torture houses. Well. scr*w them. This is a really, really good film by a good director and the breakout of Michael Rooker. Also shot in Chicago, my favorite town. Fire King Gas For Less, Sun Motel, most of the old landmarks are gone. But GMV 407 the license plate of Henry's car, lives on in the lyrics of Jag Panzer's 1994 song GMV 407 from the Dissident Alliance LPTried to pass you by &#150; couldn't do a lie From the inner mind &#150; a dead passer by Take ya from the back &#150; out like a light Can you taste the kill &#150; she's screaming in the nightGonna get you real &#150; licking up your thigh B*tch is gonna do &#150; or she'll tell a lie Bathe in your blood &#150; naked in your sin Don't you know she dies &#150; cause she's f*cking all the menBast*rd wants to cry &#150; raped as a child Bast*rd wants to die &#150; psycho driven wild Bast*rd sends a chill &#150; cry to your heaven Bast*rd wants to kill &#150; GMV 407Had to steal your life &#150; soul is gone forever Doesn't really matter &#150; so f*cking clever Feeling really good &#150; slip it to the dead B*tch is gonna die &#150;she's covered in redBast*rd wants to die &#150; raped as a child Bast*rd wants to cry &#150; psycho driven wild Bast*rd sends a chill &#150; cry to your heaven Bast*rd wants to kill &#150; GMV 407G M V 407 G M V 407 G M V 407 G M V 407Bast*rd wants to die &#150; raped as a child Bast*rd wants to cry &#150; psycho driven wild Bast*rd sends a chill &#150; cry to your heaven Bast*rd wants to kill &#150; quarter to 11Bast*rd wants to die &#150; raped as a child Bast*rd wants to cry &#150; psycho driven wild Bast*rd sends a chill &#150; cry to your heaven Bast*rd wants to kill &#150; it's all GMV 407 "},{"Title":"By Far One of the Creepiest Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Otis I'd like to kill somebody. Henry Say that again. Otis I'd like to kill somebody. Henry Let's me and you go for a ride, Otis.The only real flaw in John McNaughton's bone-chilling and unflinching exploration into the mind of a serial killer, is the first half of the movie. The beginning half is slow-moving, consistently boring and the few scenes of violence are pretty cheesy. However after the first 45 minutes, the film takes a detour and starts to become more serious, deranged and realistic. The majority of the murders that happen in the film are shockingly unsettling and surprisingly realistic considering the film's measly $125,000 budget. The actors, who made up a small theater troupe in the area the movie was filmed at the time, are very good. Michael Rooker is nothing short of impressive in his brilliantly subtle and creepy embodiment of Henry, while Tom Towles is equally as creepy as the sleazy sh__t-heap accomplice to Henry. In the end, 'Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer leaves you feeling uneasy, confused and grossed-out -- exactly the way it should. Despite a major flaw, I recommend this to any horror buff seeing as though it's superior to most of the films in it's genre. Grade B "},{"Title":"A shot to the guts","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a work of genius provided you can make it all the way through.Loosely based on...wait for it...HENRY Lee Lucas. Hence the choice of names.Henry basically is a wandering loner who falls in with an old buddy and his sister in Chicago. But he kills people. For no reason really. Like Lucas, he did it just to have something to do. And also like Lucas, did it in so many ways that the cops couldn't pinpoint him.The violence is hardly there, and most of the killings are after-the-fact, but the TONE. The tone is darkness complete. A somber and fidgety mood covers this film like a snowdrift. The casual attitudes toward killing people they never even met, for no reason than...well...they just felt like it. It will shake anyone up.The scene with the videotaped family murder was very hard to watch because of it's sadism. It WAS violence as porno. When the kid came in then tried to run, then gets his neck broke, you see it coming, and don't want to watch.The electronic salesman was (I believe) the late Ray Atherton who was a distributor for the original 'Faces of Death.' No action, gore, or much violence, but a psychological hell ride. "},{"Title":"Henry","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being released from prison for the murder of his abusive(physically and mentally)mother and her boyfriend, psychopath Henry takes up residence with dim-witted, unkempt Otis(Tom Towles). Henry, as we see through the montage of several victims' corpses shortly after being murdered(all that was left was for the police to arrive and to outline their carcasses with chalk), leaves a trail of blood, stalking and killing mostly innocent women or hookers. Becky(Tracy Arnold)is the tragic character for she enters a difficult situation(running away from responsibility and a bad relationship with an abusive husband that went sour)when her brother is introduced, through the tutelage of Henry, to the taste of killin' and likes it. The final frame as it closes shows us that NO ONE is safe from Henry. Murder is truly his only love.Unflinching, grimly realistic..the film packs a punch, especially the overwhelming and unforgettable slaughter of a selected suburban family. There is some graphic violence(Henry likes to snap the necks of those he chooses to kill)that can be shocking, such as the vicious murder of an illegal seller of goods for a cheaper price or a man who simply pulls over to see if Henry and Otis need assistance with their car(they pull over, open the hood & flag down anyone who is willing to stop and help them). Director McNaughton expressed that this film was not only a sort-of biopic on a real-life Texas serial killer, but an indictment on violence in action movies as entertainment.The film is essentially a three-character study with all, especially the mesmerizing Rooker, giving outstanding performances. "},{"Title":"Deadpan masterpiece","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Towles is probably the greatest actor nobody has ever heard about, especially since Bobby Ray Shafer got famous. It's just all so spot-on, I mean Otis is like the worst person alive(in ethics and just quality) and still I saw him as pretty sympathetical. Perhaps he's just so pathetic that you don't bother to hate him, others will do it for you. The plot is pretty limited, but it really doesn't matter because all the other elements make up for it. The greatest lines at the greatest times(Say that again) combined with a director that if that makes sense, is great at being nothing fancy, make this experience very cold and intriguing. The soundtrack also helps a great deal in this, so simple but so effective. These guys just lost their souls a long time ago, and they're not even trying to get them back. They just kill, mindlessly, with virtually no emotions, they look pretty normal to some standards. You wouldn't give them a second look when they pass you on the street, which is the creepiest thing of all. One of my all-time favourites, just so mean it still leaves an impression on me. "},{"Title":"The best low budget movie ever","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" when i first saw this movie, my boss had introduced it to me, and i just loved it, i recommend it to everyone. i think the ending of this movie is by far one of the best I've seen so far, this movie is best seen in the directors cut version, it's more gory, and the story makes more sense then it does in the severely cut monstrosity, and a word of addvice do not go rent the second one, because that one sucks more than George Takai. i made some websites for my production companies if anyone wants to check them out just check out my profile. i would really like to get some feed back so check it out. Thanks... i would really appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Very Good movie, definitely worth the money if you happen to be a horror maniac","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have read many reviews about this movie before buying this movie...They all pretty much stated that it was very realistic and violent and disturbing...It exited me very much because i don't find to get scared watching any movie that i do. My mother also happens to be a big fan of horror movies, and she mentioned that i wouldn't be able to handle it and that she would never be able to watch it again...don't know what her prob is... well her reasoning is one more reason to buy it...i watched this movie the second i bought it at home and i found that a majority of the kills that henry makes during his spree aren't shown in action..just as a glimpse after killed and raped...a little disappointing...could have been much better if shown...there is a popular scene in the movie where henry and Otis enter a home of a full family without permission and tie the husband up immobalized. During their encounter otis rapes the mother/wife of the family and kills her. Moments into the scene the son walks into the house to greet the family to find everyone dead, so henry jumps on him and breaks his neck without hesitation...Throughout the movie posts many shockingly cheezy effects, but i don't think that is rewins the movie one bit.. the movie HenryPortrait of a serial killer, is a must buy...enjoy ;-) "},{"Title":"a true feel good motion picture for all ages","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was so much fun , i really enjoyed it its a true feel good movie. Story is about henry a happy birds and bee's loving devoted Christian who spends most his time singing in the local church then his former church singing partner Otis drops by saying he'd love to sing again with henry henry says i have a better idea lets go to Africa and help all the homeless children there. Otis agrees and off they go to Africa where they encounter a horrific problem!!!! the only scary part of the movie.. (( contains spoilers!!))henry finds himself forgotten his teddy bear that he had since birth so back they go getting his teddy. Back home they first drink some hot chocolate milk cause there so tired from that intense trip they just had encountered. I cant say too much about the rest of the movie cause i would spoil way too much as is already. Go see it with your kids! It will give them a true sense of what life is supposed to be all about fun, love and care. I found it even better then bambi.A MUST SEE "},{"Title":"though dated, Henry still has an effect...","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The old, muddy MPI Video print of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer actually does the film a fitting justice--through the grainy images and near-indecipherable night scenes, an extra layer of grime is overlaid the oppressive, poverty-stricken squalor director John McNaughton invokes. It's a horrible, cold, and recessive world that is the perfect home for Henry Lee Lucas (Michael Rooker), a disturbingly emotionless man who murders without conscience, who corrupts his white-trash, ex-con roommate Otis (Tom Towles), and is stricken with both longing and fear toward Becky (Tracy Arnold), Otis's teen-aged sister. While the film has its share of unpleasant, gritty shocks (including the aftermaths of murders, accompanied by voice-over screams), and unrestrained horror (the videotaped slaughter of an entire family is harrowing), the core of Henry is the bizarre triangle between 3 unlikely characters. Initially horrified of Henry's murderous behavior, Otis becomes a cackling killer with a love for his atrocities, and Becky--the film's sole model of anything remotely resembling 'purity'--is trapped between the lusts of these two depraved characters (thus signifying an impurity of her own). Virtually plot less, Henry is a fascinating character study, more psychologically damaging than gory, and well-performed by a cast that brings the lowliest section of humanity to life. That being said, brace yourself for a relentlessly nihilistic experience. "},{"Title":"It Sucks","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is complete and utter s***, its based on a true story right well your kind of wrong Henry Lee Lucas was'nt a friendly guy as well as being a serial killer he was a really really sick man, he killed and raped his mothers dead body he was a paedophille the woman who has a crush on Henry was really a 12 year old who he run away with and had sex with her and killed her after having an argument and he was having a gay fling with Ottis Otoole.   Besides from that the film is overrated and boring theres no plot there and the film goes like a doorbell theres no real beginning, middle or ending, its not disturbing the only bit thats a tiny bit disturbing is the scene where he kills the family. I am a big film fan and I know whats good and bad and this is BAD0/10 "}{"Title":"Number 6 on top ten horror films list","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer  is a rare film, it's a horror film filled with gore that's actually scary. Micheal Rooker plays Henry with intensity often copied but never as equal. The things that Henry does in the movie are very shocking and the film isn't for those who have a weak heart. I give this film **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director John McNaughton (Wild Things), this film was featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I wasn't going to miss my opportunity. Based on the confessions of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, this is a near biographical film mixing in some fictional elements, and all the way drawing you in. Basically Henry (Cliffhanger's Michael Rooker) has a hobby for murder, whenever he is having some kind of distress or wants cheering up he will kill any random person. Henry stays on the move to avoid capture, but always returns to his flat with his old prison cell-mate Otis (Tom Towles), Henry was serving time in prison for killing his own mother with no remorse. Moving in their flat is Otis's sister Becky (Tracy Arnold) who is completely oblivious to the deadly crimes Henry is committing, she is starting to fall for him, with his good manners and looking out for her. Over some nights of drinking beer, Henry introduces Otis to his hobby when looking for a new TV and killing the salesman, and then a few prostitutes. There is no limit to how violent Henry and the now addicted to killing Otis get during their sprees, they enjoy filming their hideous acts with the camcorder as well. Otis is becoming really off the wall recently, and when he tries to make a move on Becky, his own sister, she makes a stab, and Henry has no choice but to finish him off. The couple get rid of the body and move on to avoid the police tailing them, but even Henry can't resist getting a little bit of action with Becky, not having sex with her, but killing her and just dumping her. Also starring Mary Demas as Dead Woman / Dead Prostitute / Hooker #1, Anne Bartoletti as Waitress, Elizabeth Kaden and Ted Kaden as Dead Couple and Denise Sullivan as Floating Woman. Instead of going for the typical sophisticated and devilish villain serial killer, the simplistic Rooker is a good step away from convention, Towles is a good co-murderer with his crazy streak, and Arnold has her moments as the unknowing female roommate. It has fifteen murders in whole, you see a reasonable amount of gory moments to compliment, and there is a disturbing moment involving risqué voyeurism, I can see what the critics mean by a documentary feel, it is a great chilling modernised psychological horror. Very good! "},{"Title":"Uggghhh...","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" As I have mentioned before (in my review of A Nightmare on Elm Street (2010) I hate horror films. I think they are lame and unengaging. But then a film like Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer comes along. I hate myself for liking it. I hate, hate, hate myself. But dammit, I do like this film.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is one of those rare creatures, a horror film with a genuine heart. It is effective. The characters are somewhat engaging, the music is downright infectious, and I really can't stand to say it, but the story is actually kind of fun.I am not a lover of fun movies. I tend to like dark, sardonic comedies and darker dramas, but then there is something about boyant innocence of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. It is a fun film that actually succeeds at being fun. I don't know if this is just because my older cousins (girls) used to play the soundtrack and lipsynch it to me when I was little. Of if it was because of my love of 50s rock and roll. Or even if it is because Michael Rooker looks hot as Henry. I don't know, but Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is, and always will be, one of my guilty pleasures. "},{"Title":"Left me numb","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film left me with so many conflicting emotions, I'm unsure how to comment upon it. Whilst it was a powerful, realistic and effective piece of film making it's difficult to enjoy this film. After viewing I experienced feelings of depression and numbness like no other film (except perhaps Scum) has ever come close to evoking. It's raw camera-work, gritty setting and introverted acting suit the documentary style of the film and add to its realism. The cold way in which Henry goes about his life is frightening, he kills without a second thought and feels no remorse afterwards. Michael Rookers performance is to be commended, his portrayal of Henry is more menacing and frightening than any Krueger, Myers or Vorhees caricature will ever be.This is a most extreme case of evoking emotions that few horror type movies will ever achieve. I would have to put it alongside Chainsaw Massacre and Last House on The Left for its bleakness and ability to disturb. "},{"Title":"A WONDERFULL, MAGICAL FILM- FUN FOR ALL THE FAMILY","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the best kids movie since driller killer, henry is about a freindly stranger who likes to invite people (especially women) back to his pad for tea and cakes, and to show them his furry cuddly bears. sometimes to watch a nice little family movie, shot on video camera, often involving birthdays or a nice little tea party that takes place in the front room, even hide and seek. but henry is unhappy. he is unhappy because he is lonely, that people only use him for his tea parties, and they dont really like him. This then becomes a tail of tragedy, and features a very moving performance by michael rooker. when he looks into the camera and says 'Why have they left me? Because I didn't get bring the buckaroo. Oh lord, WHY DIDNT I BRING THE BUCKAROO?' it truelly becomes a moving, heart breaking moment in modern cinema. "},{"Title":"Goodbye John McNaughton...","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" After much hype how Henry is high grade horror movie, I finally managed to find it on DVD and watch it.... and it's a huge letdown.I really hate bashing movies, and my tolerance for ****** movies is rather high, but I really have no idea why movie like Henry was ever made in the first place. It's not entertaining, it just a vampire of a movie - it will drain your life slowly for the next 80+ minutes. There's a unwritten rule that if movie doesn't suck you in within the first 10-15 minutes, you should probably stop watching it, and I was wrong not to heed that advice. From the first few minutes of Henry I never really got the sense of what movie wants to be. While there's a solid structure of the movie, scenes felt so random. It wants to be horror, yet it's not, it wants to be drama, yet it's not too dramatic, it's wants to be shocking, but it really isn't that much, even some of the more shocking scenes were rather tame. The only real shock scene is family massacre scene, but it's rather tame compared to shock scenes of modern movies. We rarely ever see something happening within Henry so it's not even a good character study like Maniac or Psycho (I should note, Michael Rooker was pretty good in this one, but bad character is still a bad character), and his buddy Otis is even worse, and you can easily tell what the ending of the movie is going to be.I should also mention that I found it rather boring, by the end I was already looking at the clock. Note, I really don't have problem with slow burner movies that take it's time to build scenes, but payoff to Henry was not worth the wait, because as I said, climax is rather predictable (hint two of three characters are serial killers, go figure out what's going to happen?). No real suspense, no real character development, no real shock, just morons with cameras killing bunch of people for no real reason that further glorifies legend of yet another real-life serial killer that this movie was based upon, and then we ask ourselves why so many of those lunatics are running around in this world. You can never buy anything from either Henry or Otis, because well, they are serial killers.Technically it's bit inept movie, but I won't judge it too much on that, because from what I understand it was shot on really tight budget.So far, I've seen few John McNaughton's movies The Borrower, which had some good ideas and some good black humor, but terrible pace and quite boring at most of the scenes (same as Henry), his Masters of Horror episode was also quite dull. The only mildly enjoyable movie was Wild Things because of erotic scenes, but overall, goodbye John McNaughton, you're definitively not a director of my taste. "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated movies of all time","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay i watched this movie after hearing everyone say how good it was and how disturbing it was. Well i watched it and i can tell you that i have seen more disturbing images on Law and Order. First the movie was shot so that it looked like it was filmed for a T.V. movie which i thought was kinda dumb. second i did not care about any of the characters remostely when becky was killed ad thrown onto the side of the road i thought she was just another woman that henry killed and i felt nothing. third there was almost no blood in the movie and when i think disturbing i think blood and gore not siccors being thrust into a dudes eye and fade blood coming out that looked ridiculous. the only thing in the movie i relatively liked was michale rooders performance that was the only thing that i felt was worthing in this movie. "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss?","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS THROUGHOUTI watched this movie by myself after my boyfriend refused to watch it with me, saying he was too disturbed by it the one time he'd seen it previously.  I figured any film that gets a reaction like that ought to be worth watching.  And I'll admit, it was fascinating, the same way picking a scab is fascinating; you know it's bad for you and can cause scarring, and it's not really all that entertaining, but something compels you to do it anyway.My biggest problem with this film was that it gives absolutely zero insight into Henry's mindset or that of any of the other characters, nor does it even attempt to.  We don't identify with anyone, not even Becky, and as such we have no investment in the characters.  A previous reviewer said something along the lines of we get to hear about the horrible events in Henry's childhood that made him what he is, and I couldn't disagree more.  There's exactly one conversation between Henry and Becky where she talks about being sexually abused by her father and how she tried to like him anyway, and Henry comes back with a story of his mother being a whore who forced him to watch her turn tricks.  Of course we know at this point that Henry is a liar and an unreliable narrator, and this is just illustrated further when Becky catches him lying about his supposed method of killing his mother.  We find out zero actual information.So where's the motivation?  If they both had such horrible childhoods, why is Henry a killer while Becky is not?  If Otis is such a psychopath, how come he doesn't start killing until Henry introduces him to it?  We don't see anything about the actual killings and how they affect Henry, what purpose they fulfill for him or why he does it.  Even when he begins instructing Otis on serial killing, we get no sense of his underlying wants and needs that might be fulfilled by killing.  We get nothing.  And I don't think that's a characterization choice, I think it's bad filmmaking.I do agree that the scene where the camera pulls back from the TV screen showing the video of the family's killing to show Henry and Otis on the couch watching forces you to examine your own status as film voyeur.  The problem with that is, it doesn't add anything to our understanding.  It makes us feel bad for being enthralled by the same footage that is enthralling these despicable men, but then it doesn't offer any alternative.  In essence, the director has merely created something fascinating to watch because of its creepiness without giving us any underlying substance.Are we supposed to be surprised when Henry kills Becky at the end?  The man has killed every other person in the movie thus far - why would we expect him to do any differently with this naive girl?  Because she said she loved him? Thptpth...You might as well write on a piece of paper, Serial killers exist.  They are out there.  They could be the guy next to you on the train.  So watch out. and then hold that sheet of paper up to the camera for 90 minutes.   But then, nobody would be titillated by that, would they? "},{"Title":"Extremely disturbing","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this and turned it off half way through. I was so sickened by what I saw. Regretfully curiosity got the better of me and I watched the rest of it which was just as sick, perverse, cruel and ghastly as the first part, and made me feel annoyed at myself for foolishly believing it might redeem itself in the second half somehow - hard to say how it would have done that but there you go. It's a revolting film, I really hate it. It stays with you, for all the wrong reasons. There is nothing good to say about it. It should never have been made. I'm quite a hardened horror fan but this was too much for me. Do not waste any time in even considering to watch it and I dread to think what sort of audience it is aimed for, not one in a civilised society that is for sure. "},{"Title":"Grim, distressing, disturbing, and unflinching","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER is one of the most notorious serial killer movies ever shot, a notoriety helped by the fact that the BBFC banned it back in the early 1990s. Thankfully in these more enlightened times they've now seen fit to release it uncut, giving me the opportunity of finding out what all the fuss was about.This is one of those movies whose low budget origins actually adds to the appeal, because it turns out to be one of the most grimly realistic movies ever made. There are no frills here, no Hollywood gloss, just a director getting down to business with his depiction of the ordinary life of a man with a compunction to kill. And very good it is too the lack of trappings allows the writer to really get into the psychology of his characters.One of the things that most surprised me about this film is that Henry is actually quite a likable protagonist. Part of that is because Michael Rooker is a very good and sympathetic actor - his supposed villain Merle Dixon in the TV series THE WALKING DEAD was another guy who it was hard to hate - but it's also due to the quality of the writing. In reality, the real villain of the piece is Otis, played to the sleazy hilt by Tom Towles.Yes, the film contains a string of disturbing murder sequences, particularly an early excursion into the found footage genre with the slaughter of a family caught on camera. But while time has diminished the impact of the deaths, it has done nothing to diminish the impact of the film itself; this is strong, compelling film-making for the ages and one of the most gutsy serial killer movies ever made. "}{"Title":"Class act","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the best thriller-horrors of all time pure and simple good film making well worth a look. Rooker (merle from the walking dead) plays the part perfectly and when I watched this film back in 86 when I was 9 years old (ah the good old days) this performance stuck with me for life and ascended the actual role , I have been a fan of his ever since just wish he could have had bigger roles by now also considering the cruddy actors of today who get better roles but that is life .Although a murder flick it also goes deep into the life and mind of a killer which is a compelling watch.In summary if you like a good plot and story along with a bit of killing then find it and watch it you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"one of the best serial killer biopics made, the movie the others want to be","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" henry portrait of a serial killer is a brilliant movie based on the exploits of henry lee lucas, a serial killer from Texas who confessed to killing hundreds of people in the 80's, this movie is based on his confessions, even though most turned out to be lies, all though he did murder at least 11 people. michael rooker is great as henry and gives a truly great horror performance. of all the serial killer biopics this is still probably the most gruesome and disturbing, with only the secret life of jeffrey dahmer and ted bundy coming close, to some of the depravity in this movie, it isn't for everyone as its very gruesome and sick, but it remains a brilliant horror movie, and a classic of modern cinema, i highly recommend "},{"Title":"More like a hearse than a Hirst!","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer (I'll call it Henry for short) isn't as crazily disturbing as I imagined. The way people were going on about it I was wondering whether or not to give it a chance! But after all the critical acclaim this film was getting I had to seek it out. That's not to say that Henry isn't disturbing because it is, it really is! It's style reminded me of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre with a grainy documentary kind of feel to it. It gives gritty realism and makes all the disgraceful images on show look even more depraved than they actually are. Henry is truly a film like no other and it's amazing that even after 25 years it still has the power to shock.The opening of Henry sets the tone perfectly so if you don't like the look of it, get out of there! (Or should that be get that disc out of your player?) A series of graphic images of people Henry has murdered with some horrible sound effects over the top of the victims dying, almost giving the bodies a sense of life, just showing the extent to how much empathy Henry has. Which isn't a lot. Sice this is a sort of case study or biography it's essential that the main character is interesting and he really is! The chat between Henry and Becky at the start is completely gripping and involving, and I found myself being transfixed throughout the film.The characters of Otis and Becky are also quite interesting with Otis being (in many respects) more psychotic than Henry is. Otis is definitely the fool of the film but that doesn't make him any less terrifying. Michael Rooker's performance of Henry is pretty outstanding. He's completely chilling and gives a haunting portrayal that will certainly leave an imprint on you. I also liked the way the film sort of gave us reason to understand why Henry commits such acts, but never does it condone his behaviour.Henry goes out of its why to de-glamorise violence. It's certainly not entertaining in the slightest and some scenes leave you spitting in disgust (metaphorically I hope!) The home invasion scene is disturbing on so many levels and is definitely the most shocking scene in the film and one of the most shocking moments I've seen on any film. It's also cleverly done though, making us horror fans question why we watch violence and how it really isn't as entertaining when done in real life. It's scenes like this that propels Henry into being one of the best serial killer films of all time.Although the film does feel directionless at times, it does carry a certain unpredictability that gets lost in some films today. It's a truly engrossing film but one not made for entertainment purposes. It gives a fascinating insight into the day in the life of a serial killer, yet it doesn't alienate us with psychological explanations, instead his actions are left ambiguous allowing audiences to make there own minds up as to why Henry is so depraved. It's an extremely brave film and one that you're sure not forget in a short while. My score of 8 is incredibly solid and almost verging onto a 9. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Much more substance than expected","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie in about 1992 when it was released in Australia. I was too young (not sure how I managed to get a copy!) and was just plain traumatised by the experience. I decided to face my fears and watch this film again as it had made such an impact. I found it much more substantial than I had remembered. I was really touched by the sister's role and by the story of Henry's past. The film shows how those who are abused and neglected repeat the cycle.The film is certainly very dark and disturbing but the violence is well-handled - there is nothing gratuitous about it; the scenes of Henry and Otis's killings have a strong impact without being gory. Sound effects and music are used to great (and very creepy) effect.Very impressive for such a low budget flick. "},{"Title":"Broken Minds","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad luck doesn't come from broken mirrors, but broken minds. That line was spoken by Udo Kier's psychiatrist in SUSPIRIA and I think it best describes the leading trio in HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER. The film is based on real-life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas, who killed around 350 people in a spree that spanned 11 states and lasted 23 years. Played masterfully by Michael Rooker, he brings the psychopath to life. The cast is further rounded out by Tom Towles as his roommate (and part-time accomplice) Otis and Tracy Arnold as Becky, Otis' sister. As the movie progresses, we learn that all three suffer from serious problems. At the risk of sounding like a pop psychiatrist, I'll give it a shot Henry's nonchalant cycle of random killings stems from childhood trauma spurned on by an abusive mother who forced him to watch her perform sex with clients. Hence why many of his victims are women, specifically prostitutes. Otis has unresolved sexuality issues, and harbors incestuous thoughts toward his sister. Also, between Henry and Otis, there's an underlying homosexual tension that Becky disrupts. As for Becky, she was abused by her father, married a creep just like her father, and seems to waver between jobs and men. At one point late in the film, Becky says she loves Henry, and he responds I guess I love you too. Becky's love might be able to save Henry, if all three characters weren't so broken. Now, in terms of the killings. Mercifully, most of the deaths occur offscreen, and the style is unique. For most, the camera slowly pans over the body while in the background we hear their struggled gasps, cries and muffled screams. When it comes to showing on screen violence, the deaths are mainly brutal but brief. Overall, the movie is quite a chilling account of a very evil man. Whether it's historically accurate or not, it's not important. Because the filmmakers want to allow us into the broken mind of a serial killer. And this film is even more disturbing than SILENCE OF THE LAMBS or SEVEN, because there's no attempt to sympathize or glorify Henry (or Otis for that matter.) While I rate this movie highly; admire and respect it as a masterpiece, I can't say that I like it. However, I do recommend it with a strong word of caution. "},{"Title":"Misleading but all in all Better Then Expected","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I gave this movie a 6 as from my previous experiences of it, I have always felt that the problems with it really are embedded in the macabre-esque feel that it has; macabre doesn't fit something of which is realistic; or at least replete with something along those lines and yet it actually does work in places. The movie, I think, does owe slightly to King Vidor's Crowd with respect to camera techniques; not really in the plotting, but rather the scale of the plotting, where everything is altered to people mystifying and rather unrequited in their care towards anybody; then it boils down to the odd ones out. Likewise with this movie - the beginning centres on the body (which was wasted by the spoiler that this is Henry Serial Killer and the famous Yeah. I kill my Mama slur that is associated with the film). Henry is released from prison and is back taking the job as an exterminator and the beginning chronicles on his car isolating it from all of the other cars, as the camera panels around his car and it's as if he's chasing somebody and certain chained events sort of alarm us that he is... And then he hinders his journey, but we're now in his spot and knowing he is a ticking time bomb.I will also address, to any purists looking for the truth out of the story, that it was BASED on true events and that John McNaughton is working with this story in his reconstruction of the events in dramaturgical ways; I understand if this does misguide people, as it certainly misguided me in a view ways, which is the reason why I think my experience was modified by knowing how crudely this movie was sold (I got it with a quote saying He's not Freddy. Or Jason. He's real and then it just all entailed and actually was better then my expectations were stalled up in being... First of all, it's all about the surface; I was rather disappointed with this approach as it could have been a bit more profound and perhaps even lyrical for the audience to really feel the character's psyche, but we know it's been done before (Not in a biopic of a man, though, but it may have been pretty interesting to witness).Positively to me, it really is a signature movie outside of the others like Jason, Freddy, Michael Myers, Norman Bates - Movies like Omen, Rosemary's Baby - any horror movie that was circulating at that point which almost distinguishes itself from any other horror, which will most likely disappoint horror fanatics.I can look at this movie on its merits though; It is oblique and bleak in its plot which I think is a way of making us interested in understanding the character; the gritty, old fashioned style of film making, while old, shows how successful Halloween was in low budget movies being able to push the bar for movies, like this, that are not quite as schlocky. It was said that actors were employed with people who had no acting experience, so I did find this to be a new take on it. There is a study that you can exert mentally to Henry Lee Lucas' character as well, as you notice how he kills prostitutes, sleeps with women (contradicting himself with the first one) and then he eventually commits homicide for the sake of thrill rides... this shows that prison doesn't always truly rehabilitates people; it can sometimes drive their appetence to new extremes. There's another thing; based on a true story, it does make you wonder how this guy was let off Scott free as well.Another merit for me was the characters he was affiliated with and how they shed a more positive light on him. Michael Rooker gives the character such warmth and such a very tame demeanour and yet underneath he can still make that deep surge of malevolence lurk within in some of the most interesting ways possible.This is not a character study or portrait of a killer as the title suggests; it's actually a modicum different from that sense all together , and I think that this movie was missing that point; really it should have been called Henry Serial Killer's Roots or something, as it only study his antics and not of why he does as McNaughton sticks to reconstructing the events. It is a film with some good parts in it and it can be viewed. For me the biggest problem with viewing it though is the fact that focally the movie is sort of lost; what I say to unease me of this notion is that Everything is on the surface - overshadowed by undercurrents - but still it is on the surface, and it shares to you what this guy is and leaves it for the viewer to contemplate about it. "},{"Title":"Grisly & disturbing look into the minds & lives of a madman","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a real life serial killer HENRY LEE LUCAS, HENRY PORTARAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER, follows the title killer & his pal OTIS who murder a series of people in very violent & very grisly fashion. The film is a harrowing & very interesting look into the mind & life of a mad man & there's equal amounts of grisly & unpleasant violence, making this unsuitable for the squeamish. Director Mcnoughtan shows some talent behind the camera & the actors really made their characters believable (Especially actor Rooker as Henry) however the film's ending is a major let down & the film has an cold look to it, still it's interesting & viewers can rest easy knowing that the real Henry was caught in real life for the crimes. Worth a look. Followed by a fictional (Though obscure in a lot of places & unmentioned in a lot of film reference guides) sequel released in 1996 called, HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER 2 *** stars "},{"Title":"Excellent horror-thriller about a serial killer","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being that this is based on a notorious American serial killer, I couldn't help but wonder if it was any good; I can't say how many serial killer pieces I've found and wondered about just the last couple of weeks... Gacy, Bundy, etc. My interest in psychology and the human psyche has convinced me to see each of them, good or bad, just to enjoy and embrace the psychological aspects of them. So I found this; Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer... I first found it in my local video/DVD store a few weeks ago, and thought, hey, it's not that expensive; maybe I should give it a shot. So earlier today, I bought this, The Mangler, and Jackie Brown(each of them being films that I've wanted to see for a while). Not long after reading up on the three films, I quickly found out that this was, most likely, going to be the one that I would enjoy the most. Jackie Brown looks like the typical Tarantino-flick, which can be enjoyable, but is a little too often less than great. The Mangler looks like a cheap, low-budget B-movie, which I also enjoy, but rarely on the same level as a good, psychological movie. So I put this on, sat down, and almost immediately, I realized the genius and talent involved in the film. From one of the very first frames, the film sends a powerful chill down your spine. This film redefined what disturbing can be. The pure level of disturbing, chilling and directly disgusting violence and gore in this film is definitely horrifying in itself. The main character, his actions, his reactions, the very look in his eyes is unsettling and disturbing. Think Hannibal Lecter, but more unpredictable and less, well, annoying, not to mention more terrifying. The cinematography is excellent. I found it terrifying to see the aftermath shots, the slow, developing shots of an inanimate person, while we hear sounds in the background, and suddenly, we realize that the person is dead, and what we're hearing is his or her death. That was quite possibly the best way this could have been handled, as they couldn't, simply because of the budget, show every single killing that was going to be in the movie. The plot is very good; it follows Henry, the serial killer, during a small portion of his life, gives background details, and leaves him pretty much in the same position that it picked him up in, with no direct conclusion. This will probably disappoint some wanting a more in-depth portrayal of Henry's life, and a few who can't accept a movie with no direct, clean-cut ending. I am not sure if I was disappointed with the end; I do not belong to any of the two aforementioned groups, as I saw this mainly for the psychological aspects, rather than a portrayal of Henry's entire life, or a standard Hollywood mainstream piece. Also, as the director, John McNaughton, explains in the interview also on the DVD, they were breaking rules with the film. They didn't want it to be like every other horror movie. The characters are well-written and credible. The acting is great; Michael Rooker is fantastic, very chilling. I doubt I'll ever be able to look directly at a picture of him and not think of his psychotic gaze as Henry. The special effects are very good, for a low-budget late 80's horror film. Actually, when I was watching it, I didn't realize that it was low-budget. None of it seemed like it had been forced down to a lower scale, nothing seemed like it was there in place of what should have been there. It really feels like the director put pretty much everything he wanted in the movie, into the movie. It never felt, for one moment of one scene, that there was a single detail where the director, if you mentioned it to him, would go, yeah, we couldn't really get that to work properly. It's obvious that the director knew exactly what to do, and did it. This proves that he really has talent, not something I would have thought of someone who directed the confused mess that Wild Things was. A great piece of film. The only things that keep this film from a perfect score of ten, is the pace and the various unresolved issues of the film, one of those being the ending(which, admittedly, does leave a bit of a sour taste in the viewers mouth, and leaves him feeling a tiny bit unsatisfied). The pace is somewhat slow, bordering on very slow at times. When the dialog wasn't interesting, and there wasn't anything worthwhile going on on-screen, it tends to be a little boring and dull. The film also does feel a little bit unresolved, as the ending doesn't really conclude anything, but merely marks the ending of the film. I don't know if the director didn't think too much of the importance of a good ending and a conclusion to the story, any conclusion, or he just didn't have any good ideas on how to end it, so he just decided to stop it once the final scene was done, without any actual conclusion to the story. Who knows. Anyway, as I said, these are minor, almost marginal complaints, and don't really take away from the enjoyment of the film, any more than just dragging it down from a ten to an eight. Nothing more. I recommend this excellent, psychological portrayal of a serial killer to just about anyone interested in the subject, who can stand the violence, which, believe me, will shock and disgust many less than hardened individuals... hell, I even found myself, more often than not, having a hard time looking at the screen, something that very few films and film-makers have accomplished. I am what most would define as very hardened, yet I found many scenes more disturbing than I thought was possible. What is interesting is, that while it was hard to look, it was even harder to look away. Henry is the darkness that exists inside every single human being. I give this movie an 8/10, and I'd like to thank anyone who's had the patience to read this whole thing. Sorry for rambling on like that, but this film really got to me, on a very deep level. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Realistic and Frightening","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" this is a classic movie that outshines most others of the serial-killer/true-crime genre. the performances are believable and disturbing, and unlike some other reviewers, i believe the low-budget feel of the movie helps add to the realism and atmosphere or the film as a whole. it also tackles some very gruesome scenes and subject matter with a surprisingly small amount of gore, which i personally found impressive. Another point of contention i have with some of the other reviewers is that they're upset that we don't know why Henry is the way he is. The simple answer is that SOME PEOPLE ARE JUST F**KING CRAZY!!! i'm aware that most serial killers are a product of their childhood and environment, but these same people are missing certain basic human emotions that would allow them to control their behavior. other reviews state that there is no redeeming value to this movie and that there is no happy ending. NO S**T!! this is a Portrait of a Serial Killer - not a Portrait of a Reformed Serial Killer Who Has Decided To Change His Ways And Start Breeding Kittens. In my opinion, the only goal of the director and stars is to show to the general public a form of evil that truly exists today, and to do so in an unflinching and unapologetic fashion (which this movie does beautifully). Highly recommended, definitely not for everyone 8/10 "},{"Title":"Independent Film-making","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this type of film is not my cup of tea, it was interesting watching it from the point of view of how to make a low budget movie. Using unknown actors certainly reduces the creative spending of the budget, and the subject matter says a lot of warped state of small town America. "}{"Title":"A probing character study of a serial killer","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John McNaughton's haunting portrait of a madman is loosely  based on real life serial killer Henry Lee Lucas.  The film follows the life of Henry and the trail of bodies he leaves behind.  When Henry meets his friends sister he seems to be happy and in the end he says I guess I love you too.  Will the love of a woman break Henry's murderous tendencies?  The film is a haunting character study of a serial killer with no conscious.  It rewards the viewer with a disturbing look into the subculture of a madman.  You can only pray there is no Henry in your neighborhood, but if there were, you probably wouldn't notice until it's too late.  The most disturbing aspect of Henry is that he can be you or me. "},{"Title":"Haunts Me.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think I will ever forget the rape scene in this movie.  Some scenes always stick in your mind, and brutally force you to realize the horrors of the world unblemished.  This film does that perfectly.  Anyone who has a love for violence ought to watch this film and realize how horrific some people can be. "},{"Title":"This film is not entertaining!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am constantly disturbed by the fact that people rent this film to be entertained and by the fact that it is often placed in the Horror sections of video stores.  Henry is not a Horror film, if anything it is a Drama, about the lives of some very sick and unpleasant people.  This film is not meant to entertain or to shock, but to reflect on what kind of person does these things.   It is a commentary on the Slasher film and the Serial Killer film, where the killer is some kind of anti-hero and perhaps even someone likeable or entertaining.  Henry is niether, he is not witty, nor is he even particularly intelligent.  He is dull, ugly and boring.  He is not some doomed and tragic genius, nor is he driven by some misguided vengeance or supernatural force.  The only way that he can make his own life interesting is by killing and torturing other human beings, because he is so ill himself that he cannot interact with people in any other manner.This film wants us to understand that our image of the serial killer is a false one.  That Henry is the type of person that is glamorized by the media and that the only way that this person could ever have come to our attention was through these horrible acts that he perpetrates on humanity.  There is no romance, no glamor and no exploitation here.  This is a meditation on the ugliness and violence that our culture tries to pretty up with explanations and romance (Hannibal Lecter comes to mind, or Freddy Krueger).  Henry has no reason for what he does, it is simply all that he knows.   "},{"Title":"Interesting flick until half way through ...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow. That's basically all I have to say about this. It starts off as your typical serial killer flick and stays like that until half way through.** SPOILER **The part i'm on about is the blurred video camera scene where they are watching themselves murder a family. Truely disturbing but excellent scene.** END SPOILER **Also has possibly the best and most disturbing ending ever. But i'm not going to tell you how! "},{"Title":"This was supposed to shock me??","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was all ready for the worst with this one...big NC-17 rating on the box..a mess of warnings...all for that?  What i saw was a boring low budget slasher flick, that was supposedly based on a real person.  There's nothing to rant and rave about...very VERY tame for what i expected.  I was more shocked when i saw Clockwork Orange for the first time than i was with this...and im sorry, but i laughed and made fun of it while i watched Henry.   (Henry, how can she love you when she loves chicago so much?). The music was good and the male lead was good also...but hard to understand why this is a cult fave. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the century!!!!!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well it's not really the funniest of the century. It's not funny at all but, then again it's not supposed to be. But Henry is a rare gem. This movie is a truly powerful look into the mind of a zany guy and his even nuttier friend. Micheal Rooker does a find job as Henry, a sociopathic madman with a relatively normal personality. The beginning of the movie moves slowly and kind of boring, but this adds reality to the film because life does move slowly. Life isn't a highlight film. Shot on low budget with low quality film and amatuerish camerawork adds to the gritty feeling of the film, as though it was filmed by an investigative news team. Love the scene of Henry and Otis killing the TV salesman. Otis (played by Tom Towles in a great performance) seems to be more sick then Henry but with less intelligence to back up his silly ways. Give this movie an 8 or 8.5. Best line F**k the Bears. Ditka might want to avoid this Packer fan. "},{"Title":"This Movie Might Truly Be Morally Wrong(I am against censorship)","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brian Fairbanks user comment(read above) on this movie was almost perfect. I can't improve upon his review of this movie. I will just put in my 2 cents worth of impressions. I first saw 'Henry' a few nights after I watched all the horror fests on TV Halloween night, with people like Rob Zombie and buddies presenting John Carpenter's Halloween, and the great Wes Craven's 'Elm Streets.' I scanned my TV for the requisite numerous gorefests, such as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre movie franchises and Friday the 13th franchises and got my usual half-thrill from these used-to-be-shocking horror films. That was when I came across 'Henry' on IFC. I started watching, vaguely remembering a shocked reviewer's comments about the movie years ago in a long-forgotten arts weekly mag. For the next hour and a half I watched Henry, my mind reeling with what I was witnessing. My blood-pressure got dangerously high. I had to pop pills to stop myself from peeing my pants. 'Henry' left me disturbed for weeks. I think there should be a real debate whether this movie could permanently scar vulnerable people's psyches. I am still wondering if this movie should be made illegal. My guess is that real serial killers would get turned on by this movie. "},{"Title":"I STABBED HER... NO, I SHOT HER...  I KILLED HER WITH A BASEBALL BAT...","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's heavy, dark and gloomy. It's sad, insane and repulsive. It's everything that you never wanted to see and hear. Henry starts as a low production b-horror movie and ends up as a perfect study of a cold blooded serial killer mind. It's a drama about the children of the damned, it's a tale of perverted instincts, it's a story of a man, that never got any loving satisfaction from his mama... This drama is not only sad in a way what you fell about the main character, but it's also a horrific example of lost feelings and alienated love.Henry Lee is not just a movie. Henry Lee is not just a serial killer. Henry Lee is not just a tale. Henry Lee is something that lives in every human soul. 8.5 stars. "},{"Title":"The ultimate portrait of the horrors of the human mind","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Is there an actor in existence that could have embodied the character of 'Henry' any better than Michael Rooker did here? Before he has even lifted a finger, we can see that he's evil. It's his persona, his atmosphere, he breathes a sense of malice; but yet he's not so detached from reality that he doesn't have a human element about him. During the scene in which he admits to killing his mama, despite what he is saying being evil; he draws you into his character, and although you know that he is a bad man; you can almost feel for him when he tells his story. And it's this meandering emotion that makes this a great and ultimately shocking film.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a thoroughly unpleasant film. Many sequences in the movie are uncomfortable and therefore difficult to watch; but that is definitely a good thing for a movie like this. The theme of the movie is unpleasant in itself, so credit where credit is due as the film fully recognises this fact and makes the best use it can of it. The movie is very shocking in the way that it portrays the murders, however. It's not that they're particularly bloody; some are, a man is stabbed to death, a family is killed together, and there is a scene in which Henry removes someone's head; but a lot of the graphic stuff is left to the imagination. The real shock, however, comes from the way the killer reacts to crimes he has committed. He not only shows no remorse, his reaction is the same as if a sane person has swatted a fly; he ditches the bodies from his car like you would eject rubbish from your house; it's so cold and it's shocking that someone could react to murder in this way. However, later on we find out that his reaction isn't so cold, which only serves in making it more shocking; murder excites Henry. This is shown with the line in which Henry claims it's always the same but it's always differentThe movie is loosely based on the story of real-life serial killer; Henry Lee Lucas, but other than that basis, it is fiction. The other two central characters in the film; Becky and Otis are mostly fictitious. The other two characters have very defined roles in the film; Otis is very sick, maybe even sicker than Henry. Henry is a murderer, but he obviously still has some morals (shown by his affection for Becky); Otis, on the other hand has none. Becky is the only character in Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer that inspires any affection from the audience, and it through her that Henry gains his humanity and he is made into a more complete person. The ending doesn't draw the story to a close, but it is as shocking as anything else in the movie. After the audience have seen Henry's more affectionate side, he shocks us one final time by showing us that he really is incapable of love... on that note; the movie is what it says it is; a portrait. A lot of is left to the audience to decide; the film gives you the picture of a serial killer, and you have to answer the questions yourself. So just maybe Henry isn't human after all.  "},{"Title":"Henry A Putrid Portrait Of A Piece Of Pure Excrement","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" *Spoiler Alert!* If this film was really supposed to be an example of an in-depth character study of a serial killer, then, as that study, it was utterly worthless 'cause Henry literally had no character to study. Nope. He sure didn't. He was completely void of any character.And, with that in mind, just because Henry had a sick and diseased mind, did that have to mean that he had to be portrayed in such a way as to make him out to be a completely colourless, humourless and one-dimensional non-entity? Surely (just like everyone else) serial killers also have some notable character dynamics that could be called a personality (or a reasonable facsimile there of). But this wasn't the case with Henry. His personality was nil.I also found it rather puzzling that the approach in which Henry took to killing people was like that of one performing a totally hated job. I got the clear impression that killing someone was the most unfulfilling thing in the world for him, instead of it being the other way around.I cannot figure out why this serial-killer business seemed to be such a drudgery for Henry (and for me, as the viewer, as well). If killing people was Henry's thing, his lust, his passion (and this seemed to be the case), then, why didn't this lust & passion show in his murderous actions? I would think that after each adrenaline rush of a fresh kill, Henry would have been absolutely elated like someone who's flying high on a powerful drug. But throughout the entire course of this film, Henry came across as being a complete and utter dullard who was not worth paying the least bit of attention to.And, to me, this whole argument about the insufferable dreariness of Henry and his murderous actions was this film's biggest and most damaging downfalls. It ultimately rendered this ugly, vicious and nasty film to the level of being one of the s-h-i-t-tiest portraits of anyone that I've ever seen.And, on top of all of the above, here are a number of other points about this pointless story that just about killed me to pieces - (1) Henry (who had already spent time in jail) wasn't in the least bit concerned about leaving tell-tale fingerprints, here, there, and everywhere, around each site of every single murder he committed. (Sheesh!) (2) Henry's amazingly deadly ability to snap a person's neck (thus instantly killing them) by applying the same effortless force that one might use to simply snap their fingers.(3) Never once, in the entirety of the story, was there any involvement, whatsoever, of a police alert and/or an investigation into this rash of sadistic murders. (Ho-hum!) (4) The clear fact that Henry was completely repulsed by sex yet a number of his female victims were found to be nude as though they had been raped.I certainly realize that Henry was no dummy (he managed to continue with his murderous activities indefinitely without any concern about being caught) - Yet, time and again, he behaved in such a blatantly stupid fashion which defied logic and common sense. Henry's actions, for the most part, defied the basic instinct for self-survival.All-in-all - This decidedly unpleasant movie about a brain-dead serial killer and his brain-dead friends and his brain-dead life (none of which I cared one bit about) gave me a serious case of brain-freeze right from the very first moment I was shown the first of Henry's many victims lying dead and naked (and seemingly posed just so) near a pond in some remote woods.On top of all of its stifled dialogue, its annoyingly wooden performances, and its recklessly seedy production values, Henry Portrait Of a Serial Killer was nothing but a predictable paint-by-numbers picture whose intended shock-value completely missed its mark and inevitably failed to deliver much of a worthwhile jolt. It only aggravated and bored this viewer to pieces.So, there! "}{"Title":"Very poor acting, very poor script, very poor film!","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've always found serial killers to be a fascinating subject, whether as a field of research or just a topic of discussion. Just what in a person's psyche makes them capable, willing and wanting to perform such heinous acts? Therefore, I've always liked films about serial killers, and always preferred those that were biographies and not fiction.OK, so I realize Henry was released 26 years ago, and that at the time it made a real serious impact on account of the scenes there that had been considered graphic and violent more than had ever been seen on screen. I realize that might have been the first time the audience was confronted with a real monster, a living murderer with no remorse and such a selective conscience. I also realize that Michael Rooker was (and still is!) one fine actor! And still, after watching this film today, I think it wasn't good at all.First of all, Michael Rooker was excellent as I said, but Tom Towles really wasn't, and Tracy Arnold was just terrible! Add to that the atrocious script, and you get some scenes that leave you speechless and shocked (not because they were shocking, but because they were so unrealistic, unconvincing and without lofic). The dialogue between Henry and Becky at the diner table is a perfect example. Tracy Arnold speaks of how she cares about her daughter and how her father used to rape her using the same voice intonation and the same face expression (not to mention she had that same expression throughout the entire film). Then suddenly out of no-where Otis makes a pass at his sister?! I mean what the hell did that have to do with anything?! Perhaps it was an attempt to show Otis wasn't exactly normal either, in order to explain his connection with Henry...Maybe it's been too long. Maybe at the time these things weren't noticeable because the audience was so shocked for seeing women's breasts outside of porn and scenes that had been considered very graphic for the time. Or maybe I'm just being over judgmental, I don't know. What I did like about the film was the slight artistic touch of describing most of Henry's murders, showing him converse with someone, then in the next scene showing that someone dead and the audio of the act is heard without thw visuals. That, and Rooker's acting. That's it.If you like watching serial killer biographies, I'd advise you to go watch Dahmer, Gacey or From Hell. Henry is simply... well, not good. "},{"Title":"This movie was SO FAR from the truth!","Date":"25 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" How it got a 7.1, I'll never know. The facts were SO WRONG. Henry didn't kill Ottis Toole's sister, it was his NIECE. Becky was Ottis' niece, why would they portray her as his sister? Henry did NOT kill Ottis Toole, he died in prison! I mean, they portray it as Henry killed and dismembered Ottis, when none of that even happened. The acting in this movie was CRAP. There was so many important points they could have made in this movie, that they left out. Like the fact that Henry and Ottis were lovers, why did they leave that out? This movie is a 1, and that's at it's best. Don't bother watching this movie! Don't bother watching this "},{"Title":"what's all the fuss about?","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" maybe i'm just desensitized from years of horror movies, but i just don't see what the big deal was. after hearing so much about this one, i was expecting to be in for something a little better than this. the pacing is very slow, and i found myself trying not to fall asleep through half of the movie. i kept waiting for all the disturbing scary parts to happen-to no avail. lots of driving around and boring dialog though. there is basically no gore, except for the bathtub scene, which was the ONE scene in the movie that i found truly effective. i found rooker to be fairly decent in the role of henry, although he didn't have too much to say. the supporting roles of becky and otis were played very poorly. otis was especially bad. not horrible, but definitely highly overrated imo. "},{"Title":"Good basic idea wasted on unspectacular story.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't like this film. I think it lacks of substance. I say that while 2 of my top 10 films are Falling Down and American Psycho...please keep that in mind!I think it's so respected because it's probably the first serious film about a serial killer and nothing more. Only his deeds. No moral. I like the idea but the result is dull. And it's not even a true story. It's based on the real serial killer Henry Lee Lucas but in fact Henry barely has anything in common with him. Did I mention the sloppy direction? But it has an excuse The budget. That's why it gets5/10 because it's not a waste of celluloid but (in my opinion) a waste of time to watch. "},{"Title":"I just do not understand the hype","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I may seem to be missing the point on this film. As I trawled through most of the IMDb users reviews for this film (as I normally do because generally they are reliable, I thought wow, I have to see this. Being an avid horror fan I was looking forward to this very much, and then I watched it. I don't understand why everybody was so shocked, disturbed, scared, scarred etc, etc, etc. There are many movies out there that are far scarier/disturbing than this (Bill Moseley in The Devil's Rejects was much better than this). I just felt bored through the whole film and could not wait for it to wrap up. The ending was fairly obvious and could easily be worked out right after they left the apartment. Anyway, this is my opinion so no hard feelings. I gave this film 2 points, purely for the clay head, eye stab scene that made me chuckle briefly ;) "},{"Title":"Dull, unrealistic, no plot, worthless.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  This movie had no suspense, no plot, poor acting... the screenplay was unrealistic, dumb and without any redeeming value.  Come on... this guy kills a girl's brother, and 5 minutes later she's telling him she loves him?  After she sees him cut her brother into a bunch of pieces?  Hey Beavis, huh huh huh uh huh... cool.. huh huh.  So what if he was into abusing her... a normal reaction would have been to scream and run out of the room.  Also, she falls in love with him after she learns he killed his mother?  The most intelligent line in this movie was Honey, get me a beer.  Most of the murder scenes looked phoney, especially one at the beginning that was obviously a female mannequin.  It's utterly beyond me why this movie got some positive critical reviews.  D-grade trash.  I rated this 1/10.  Two thumbs down with a vengeance. "},{"Title":"A very shocking and highly effective study of the serial killer(s).","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HENRY is so downright true in its subject matter that not every single one of us can take the agony. To make this sound very simple, these adjectives fully illustrate and describe this deeply accurate film set in the dark and grisly location of Chicago. It isA)DETAILED in its spoken dialogue and events that provocatively discusses and portrays violence!B)UNPREDICTABLE with the mysteries and secrets behind the gruesome acts of brutality!C)DISTURBING in its photographic material containing horrible scenes of graphic proportions!D)DEPRESSING in such a dramatic and ugly way that it is not for the squeamish or faint of heart!E)CONTROVERSIAL in the way these events displayed in this film still continue to rip through the pages of our newspapers!This is not entertainment, but a perverting example of living life as the vicious criminal, based on masterful directing work. A simple little B-movie is hard to put down; it provides examples and situations at the highest possible extent of our reality. HENRY is often liked by the cult movie crowds because of its horror-like imagery of blood and flesh, and that isn't so. Simply put, it's a heavy-handed truthful account of a messed-up society gone wrong. Another guilty pleasure from yours truly, but use extreme caution if you're a weakling! "},{"Title":"Grim And Pointless","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" The real life evil of convicted killer Henry Lee Lucas has been well documented elsewhere. This film is a semi-fictional account, based on Lucas' confessions ... for what they're worth. In the film, Henry lives with his ex-prison buddy Otis, and Otis' sister Becky, played well by Tracy Arnold. The setting is Chicago. The historical time period is unclear.Most, though not all, of the murders take place off screen, mercifully. It's still, at times, a grizzly affair. Much of the film is like a diary, in that we see Henry, Otis, and Becky engaged in slow, lengthy, pointless conversations, amid drab surroundings. Oh it's grim.This is supposed to be a character study. But there is no arc. Henry's robotic life is so monomaniacal as to preclude dramatic variation or change. What little substantive material there is could have been presented in thirty minutes.The film's pace is slow. Scenes are very, very drawn-out. Screen time is consumed with characters eating grim meals, playing cheap cards, and driving around in a rundown old car. It's as if the scene on page 62 of the script could have been switched with the scene on page 16, and viewers would never know the difference. It's all just an unending grim ... sameness.The film's images are grainy. Lighting is subdued. Music is appropriately eerie and creepy, but manipulative.Real-life serial killers are too diverse in backgrounds and personalities for this film to offer any generalized insight. And the film conveys little understanding of Lucas himself. Sometimes a film that is grim can be entertaining or insightful. This one isn't. It's just pointless. "},{"Title":"Made me sick","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the only film, I've ever watched where I decided to leave the cinema. I felt incredibly disturbed by the film, and I couldn't let go of the imagery for days after - and not for any good reasons at all. I sincerely regret that I ever watched it. It's a long time ago that I saw this film - I think it was in 1992 or so, but some of the nasty imagery is still locked in there. What's the point in that.I generally enjoy horror and psychological thrillers, but I like my imagination to be in control of the imagery rather than this attempt at very realistic and graphic depiction of (I hope) extreme violence.It saddens me - well almost angers me, that folk can get a kick out of watching this film. It should never have been made, and should never have been screened. "},{"Title":"A cold, gruesome tale","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently saw the movie on TV and there was only one question I asked myself at the end and that was why? It is a cold, gruesome tale of an insane mind that apart from some very superficial references to an unhappy childhood, uses this pretext to create just yet another horror story. Even the most gifted psychologist will agree that the unraveling of a sick mind is a practically impossible task that belongs exclusively to the field of professional psychiatry.In order to avoid a deeper insight into insanity as a mental disorder ( an impossible task for any movie maker)the makers of Henrylimit themselves to portraying the possible consequences of madness such as in this case violence and murder.This approach can be considered as both hypocritical and amoral and leaves the viewer with a feeling of distrust as to the true intentions of the makers. "}{"Title":"pointless","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" although the slow pace of the movie i painfully watched it entirely, as the title claimed to be a 'PORTRAIT of a serial killer. i expected some psychology, some labor of research, but it was a bland exercise in trying to shock the viewers, i believe you get more information and insights on half a page of a popular daily newspaper, you can tell in advance that serial killers are immoral people with affective problems so what is the idea to show their daily inept lives, without trying to get into their minds ? and it does not qualify even as a horror movie (there is no suspense, no emotions, not even blood) nor a controversial, original movie, I stand alone is quite impressive for example, and many documentaries have better treated the subject, don't be intrigued by the title, this is not worth spending time watching "},{"Title":"overrated","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OVERRATED flick is actually well acted and nicely made but crude harsh and depressing i did not enjoy this film one bit it made me cringe and depressed me over and over now i do recommend this but this is not for the squeamish ** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Sad and Chilling.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" This isn't the fictionalized story of Henry Lucas or anybody else. Henry (Michael Rooker) is a kind of generic serial murderer. The movie was made just about at the height of the public's fascination with serial murderers. I suppose that's why this rather raw but not unintelligent film wound up with a title out of the junk bin and a musical score to match. The latter hits us over the head with a crowbar so that we don't miss the horrifying scenes of violence while we're chug-a-lugging energy drinks or playing grab-it with our teen-aged pals.Rooker, as Henry, is out of the slams and murdering people more or less at random when he looks up an old friend from Cell Block Eleven, Otis (Tom Towles), who is now on probation, and moves in with him. Towles has a face out of a Saturday-morning cartoon, all buck toothed and goggly eyed, as if he might have once been an endearingly odd-looking child. He's retained his juvenile appetites too.Poor Rooker doesn't look like an ex-child at all. He looks like our idea of a serial murderer. And with a suitably raspy voice. At any rate, he teaches Otis how much fun it is to murder strangers. It's even more fun when you steal a video camera and record the acts. The two of them sit on their shabby couch, getting hammered while watching the video, which Otis wants to continually replay.There's a girl in the picture too, Otis's sister, Becky (Tracy Arnold), a pleasant, trusting young blond who is on the run from an abusive husband now in jail. Becky develops a crush on Henry, who may be a bit inexpressive but not, after all, mean. Alas, Otis has an eye on his own sister and one night, when Henry return to find Otis raping Becky, he snuffs Otis in a most unpleasant manner, graphically displayed, disarticulates the cadaver, and disposes of it in the Chicago River in several Hefty Bags.Henry and Becky take to the road in the general direction of San Bernardino, where Henry has some prospects. I love you, Henry, confesses Becky. He replies, I guess I love you too. They pull into a cheap motel where Becky sits and plucks at Henry's guitar, saying she hopes things work out for them. Yeah. Well, I guess we'd better go to bed. Next morning we see Henry shaving with a straight razor. Then we watch Henry drive away alone in his old car. He pulls off the highway, opens the trunk, removes a sizable suitcase and leaves it in the winter-dried leaves at the side of the pavement before he drives away. The camera lingers on the shabby, stained suitcase, leaving us in no doubt of what's inside it, and the score, for a few blessed moments, is silent, with no sound other than the vehicles whizzing uncaringly past.It isn't spooky. The presentation of events is pretty matter of fact. No monster's point of view as Henry creeps up on his prey -- none of that kind of clichéd crap. In fact the film is reasonably intelligent and apparently made for adults. Otis and Henry may cackle over the slaughter of a middle-class couple but the viewer does not. It's revolting. And the disposal of the innocent Becky so dispassionately by Henry, just after the two had apparently developed the simulacrum of a relationship, is especially sad.It's inexpensive but reasonably well developed. Don't let the foolish title mislead you. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, the subject matter is chilling. Yes, the movie makes you think. But the writing and acting is laughable, making it quite difficult to appreciate the seriousness of the matter. It was too distracting to have any kind of disturbing effect on me, which was disappointing. I had hoped to catch a glimpse into what makes such a serial killer tick, but this film only observes his actions. It doesn't touch on his motivation or upbringing in the slightest.If you don't know very much about serial killers, then this could provide a decent wake up call to you as far as what they're capable of doing. But if you're looking for an interesting look into their lives, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Same Idea Done Better Elsewhere","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kudos to Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer for taking its subject seriously and not resorting to schlock effects. Prepare yourself for an unrelentingly grim film that will leave you feeling awful (it did me, anyway). It's well acted and fairly well written, but for all that it still didn't really leave much of an impression on me. It's certainly not one of the scariest movies ever made, as many people attest.I guess I was disappointed in the film maker's choice of a subject. I'm fascinated by the psyches of serial killers, but Henry wasn't the kind of serial killer that most interests me. I prefer to read about the more ritualistic killers who kill to fulfill a basic need. Henry killed more as a way to cope with challenging emotions, and there was no pattern to his actions. He wasn't a serial killer in the conventional sense we've come to associate with serial killers.Obviously, the film makers wanted their audience to be freaked out at the prospect of killers like this walking among us all the time, checking us out in parking lots, riding next to us on subways, exacting their own brand of revenge on a world that has treated them ill. However, for a more complex and satisfying look into the internal mind of someone teetering on the brink of madness, rent Taxi Driver. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just got done watching this and I got out of it that there was a plot but then again, there wasn't.The plot is (obviously) Henry is a serial killer...but we're only brought into that from the title and him and Otis killing the two hookers.We're not really given much insight into Henry or Otis' background (which I found annoying.) It's an extremely gruesome film and disturbing too (especially when they videotaped killing that family.) I guess my only problem with this movie is that I wish that the director gave us more insight into the characters' backgrounds and that would've explained why Otis & Henry liked to kill others (well, obviously for pleasure) or how they met other then saying they met in jail. This was a bad film in my opinion3/10 "},{"Title":"Missing an eye.","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought that this movie was suppose to be about Henry Lee Lucas but in real life Henry Lee Lucas was missing an eye. How could the people who make a movie about Henry Lee Lucas miss that? Also, this movie is the most boring serial killer movie I have ever watched. It only gets good in the bathtub and that isn't even accurate at all. Yet, it is extremely disgusting. I just wish I hadn't had to wait through the whole movie to see it go from somewhat boring to somewhat interesting. For the first hour and fifteen minutes they sit around in the kitchen and eat or play cards. Then Becky gets a job as a shampoo girl. That is so boring and it doesn't belong in a movie about a serial killer. I will be happy to rename this movie Becky Portrait of a Shampoo Girl. "},{"Title":"Decent but dull serial killer film.","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer tells the story of Henry (Michael Rooker) who is a serial killer living in Chicago with his ex inmate Otis (Tom Towles), Henry introduces the pleasures of killing another human being for no reason whatsoever to Otis when he kills two prostitutes they are having sex with. Otis likes it, he likes it a lot & together they kill some more people &, erm well that's it really.Co-written, produced & directed by John McNaughton this is apparently a controversial film based on the life of Henry Lee Lucas, I'm not too sure why because I thought it was alright but nothing more. The script by McNaughton & Richard Fire is actually rather bland & ordinary in the sense that nothing really happens between the murders, it just portrays Henry & the people around him going about their normal boring everyday life. Now this sort of thing obviously excites some as Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer is a well regarded film although I was throughly bored. I didn't like the dialogue either, I mean Henry & Becky sitting down at the diner table for the first time & then just going into a senseless ramble about their difficult childhoods including how Becky's father raped her, yes that is the sort of thing you tell someone practically the first time you meet them. I didn't find the film disturbing or particularly effective & the only real emotion I felt was apathy, I watched it to the end & it was decent enough but I didn't think it was anything special at all. At least it's short.Director McNaughton was obviously working on a low budget so that's the reason it looks horrible, there are a few dead bodies on show, someone gets the end of a comb (!) in their eye & there's a decapitated head but nothing spectacular. I suppose the film has a depressing & dark sort of tone as it's one senseless killing after another with no sign of Henry being caught, in reality he could never operate that openly & get away with it. This has a bland look & feel, it's set in some dingy apartment where the camera just films these people's ordinary boring lives, there's no scares, jump out of your seat moments, no atmosphere & there's no tension either.With a supposed budget of about $111,000 the film is reasonably well made but totally bland & utterly forgettable in every way, there isn't a single second of style in the whole thing. The acting is alright with Michael Rooker standing out.Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer for me was nowhere near as disturbing or controversial as many make out, it's a largely dull film about three people living in an apartment & two of them just happen to occasionally kill people for fun, that's it really. Good but not great. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"   There seemed to be quite a fuss about this film when it was released but why? This film is neither scary or gory or disturbing.  What it is is dull and pointless. I wouldnt say this was a B movies because it does not deserve that status. I was expecting a film that gave us an insight into the mind of seriel killer but we see nothing of the sort. What we do see is dreadfull acting ,especially from Tom Knowles who plays Otis. Where did they get him from?  We see people who apart from the deaths are obsessed with sleeping with their own families . (Remind me not to go to Chicago). Over all this a a film made 15 years ago but looks like it was made in the 60's such is the bad camera work. Totally forgettable. Dont believe the hype. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"stupid movie","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie sucks......its awful....without good screenplay...and really it has been directed bad.........please don't waste your time watching this movie....i don't know how this movie has got a 7.1 rating here....please explain wad was GOOD in this movie....that it deserved a 7.1 rating........the background music was so awful....it was just so bad......i don't know wad good to say about this movie......well i would just say with better screenplay, better BG music...and with more intensity this movie could be made better.....the director tried to just be too too creative in his work......which really made this movie stupid. "}{"Title":"Lots of violence, but it's meaningless and without an explanation.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all - it wasn't nearly as shocking or brutal as the covers warned. It wasn't scary at all. The music was ridiculous, in the way it underlined the scenes. There was lots of violence, sure, but all of it was meaningless and mostly without an explanation. The ending was unsatisfying. Even a tiniest dash of humour would've made it better, but no. It was mostly boring experience. "},{"Title":"I'm appalled...","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm appalled, not so much because of the movie (hey, folks, there's only one word for this movie, and it appears next to the numeral 1 on your rating scorepads).  The movie itself doesn't pretend to be anything more than the ridiculous, idiotic, irredeemable crap that it is.No, what's most appalling here is the average rating it's gotten from users on this site.  NEVER, EVER have I encountered something SO bad and get THIS high a rating.  Not even close.  You people should be ashamed of yourselves.Actually, I was wavering between giving this a 1 or a 2, for what pitiful effort there was by the filmmakers to make this tedious, slobbering junk a little entertaining to watch, but I told myself, 10 minutes remaining, to hell with it, if Henry doesn't get killed as he deserves to, and make this world a better place for everyone (himself included), this is getting a 1/10 for sure.  And sure enough . . .I've rated over 300 movies on this site by this point.  This is among the select three films out of 300+ to get numeral uno.  "},{"Title":"Like Gargling with Drano","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that pretty much sums up my opinion of this movie, it was boring and didn't seem to go any where. that could be the point the director was trying to make, kill people and your life could be as brooding and tedius as Henry.There was a shot where Henry was driving in a car with his friend and it was just the one shot of behind the moving car for 3 minutes, 3 mins is alot of time looking at a bumper. it's the only thing in the movie i can realy remember that I was waiting for a cut for 3 of the longest minutes of my life. Count to 180 see how long it feels. "},{"Title":"THIS IS A SAD EXCUSE FOR FILM MAKING!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I can say is that this was a wasted hour and a half of my life that I will never get back!!!!! This film was predictable, lacked ingenuity, and the actors were horrible, with the exception of Michael Rooker, I must say he was believable as being disturbed!  As a fan of horror/serial films, I have to say that I was expecting better, but this film just never reached the level it was aiming for.  This seemed like a high school film project gone awry!   Almost no budget, grainy and colorless (even if that was the intent it came off cheap), and the effects were so shoddy! I would not recommend this film to anyone!  WHAT IS MOST DISTURBING IS THAT THERE IS A PART 2!  "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is terrible.  Except for Michael Rooker, the acting is embarrassing.  The music is cheesy and sounds like John Carpenter at his worst.  The script is boring and goes nowhere.  The dialogue is sophomoric. It's hard to believe that Mad Dog & Glory was directed by the same person. The only innovative approach to telling the story is when we see one of Henry's dead victims and hear the sounds of the murder.What's the point of this movie?  A serial killer develops feelings for a woman and protects her.  Then he kills her for no reason.  If there isn't going to be any character development and nothing is going to get resolved in the film, then we might as well watch the news.  I promise you, the news is much more entertaining (and free).   "},{"Title":"do not kill me","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" Them are a blast! The film is moving in your face Halloween will burn your strawberries and you will finish swallowing the cream off your scotch-butter balloons! WE know you are capable of this classic cult film released in 1986, without a referent- the movie is et in the interior boundaries of the DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIROR where they are still waiting for a UFO surprise! The UFO's indeed and in fact is your TV speaking to you in your living room! If you think a PEPSI can roll on you suck-lets under that belt, think again it will blast your cranes in a terrifying adult classic cult movie. The plot is as follows a young gun is assaulted by a net of coordinated jewels who speak to him incessantly about the difference between money and monkey who got here first, money. It does NOT grow on paper you signatures, i.e., Greg Louganis, the hunk of the 80's is not your MAMA WRISLEY rocking your chair a-la KUNG-FU ... he is an international Olympic star, now assailed by the HIV + virus. The film is set in the decorum of an average middle-class young rural white professional, and he has cream to share with you at one point of the movie, there is this guy who is running up and down (he has no imagination) and he scares the HELL out of him because he does not speak Spanish it is either -m'edico- or -mec'anico-. Watch your popcorn and PEPSI and get in your bumper stickers as fast-fart as you can before he grabs you. A mesmerizing, unforgettable, artful, art film for History. "},{"Title":"Too many liberties from the real story","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a serial killer buff. I've read every bio I can get my hands on, including Henry Lee Lucas' bio. My main problem with this movie is the liberties they took, for whatever reason. For instance, in real life, Henry met Becky when she was 12, that's when their sexual relationship began. In the movie, they don't meet until she's 15, and when she comes on to him, he shys away. Very wrong. Then Henry kills Otis when he catches them together. When in reality, Otis died in prison years after all these events took place. Henry didn't kill him. Thats not a detail you can just dismiss. Not if you're looking for at least a fairly true account of the life of Henry Lucas.There is also no mention of Otis' past as an arsonist. That's what he was big on when he and Henry met.Henry also seems to be humanized to a level that was beyond the real Henry Lee Lucas. While Roker does a great job, Lucas was never as human and emotional as he portrays him to be.I can excuse that and any small details that they want to change. But major plot errors like the nature of Lucas' relationship with Becky and the killing of Otis I cannot excuse. If you're going to make a movie about real people, you need to get the story straight. Otherwise, choose a fictional story to make a movie about. Buffs like me don't appreciate writers/directors changing history.This movie does not stand alone well enough to be a good movie and buffs will not appreciate the story being manipulated. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Jaw-droppingly, heart-breakingly, head explodingly, TERRIBLE .aka. the worst film ever!!!!!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HUGE FAT SPOILER ALERTWithout doubt THE worst film I (and the three fellow viewers I endured this with) have EVER seen. Now I'm not stupid, I understand that the film suggests that  the relative mundane nature of Henry's life is vastly different  from how murderers are usually portrayed in horror movies. The film has a kind of documentary style approach which does not attempt to glorify or explain his actions. I suppose it is similar in outlook to American Psycho (the book version), but less intelligent and more boring!!!!!!!!! I don't care what the message is... the film is dull, dark, about as exciting as watching paint dry, I didn't  find any depth to the characters or story so it was neither frightening nor interesting. Without doubt the most soulless, cheap and pointless film I have ever seen. Beware...  "},{"Title":"Sick Rubbish","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":" What Sky were doing showing this gratuitous, violent, exploitative and tasteless rubbish is beyond me. I had the misfortune to record this by mistake and cringed through it's awfulness. The one star vote I gave for the film was earned for 'The End' which came up on the screen not before time. I have never felt so sick watching a film before. It's violence was so gratuitous that I found it hard to believe what I was watching.There is enough real life sickness without film makers wallowing in an orgy of violence like they did in this waste of celluloid. I think anyone connected with this tripe should feel ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"Fiction is Scarier than truth.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why anyone would spend the time, effort or money to put together such a bland, uninspired display of absolute boredom is completely beyond me. This film is supposed to be based on a real life serial killer.  Who knew that being a murderer was so dull?  Give me a camera, some cash, and a beat up Chevy, and I will make a scarier (or at the very least more exiting) movie than this.  No emotion.  No fear.  It was as thrilling as watching a hair-restoration clinic commercial.  All I can say is that the cover on the DVD fooled me (again) into renting a complete waste of time. "}{"Title":"Terrible. Avoid. Do not see at all costs.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel it is my duty to all moviegoers worldwide to warn them about this sorry piece of crap. I couldn't even bear to sit through it, and i'm really not that hard on movies. It was so bad i'd rather just bang my head against the wall for an hour and forty-five minutes. AVOID for your own sake.  "}]