[{"Title":"A vaguely original horror idea","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"71 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The basic premise of Flatliners is fairly simple. Several medical students put themselves at the point of death in order to find out exactly what the brain does during the fact. It sounds like something a mob of bored students would do for a joke, but it forms the basis of some very creepy substories. In today's world, where Hollywood has to mine foreign markets for the ideas to make a horror film, Flatliners is one of those rare gems that show Hollywood can make something different when it tries hard enough.What separates Flatliners from a lot of films based on this premise that would come out today is that it does not stoop to being condescending or arrogant. Flatliners recognises that people go to films to be entertained, not moralised to. In this kind of supernatural thriller, the difference this restraint makes is really incredible. What's even more incredible is that Julia Roberts appears without being annoying or demonstrating that she can only play Julia Roberts. The theory of obscurity, that performing artists do their best work with the smallest audience, is in force here.The subplots concerning what the characters find during their loss of pretty much everything that makes them alive, and how it comes back to intrude on their present time, are done surprisingly well. The moments when William Baldwin's character finds his personal videotape collection coming back to haunt him are especially intriguing. That William Baldwin seems so perfectly cast in the role says a lot either about the script or the direction. I am not sure which.Kiefer Sutherland, on the other hand, really shines as the lead. One really feels for him as the mystery of what past experience is intruding on the present and why unfolds. As Kevin Bacon's character goes to find an old school pier whose life he made hell and tell her how sorry he is, it becomes clearer what the film is about. We can try to change the past as much as we like, but it's what we do with the present that matters most.Another good aspect of Flatliners is how it achieves an atmosphere without the use of expensive, elaborate visual effects. Quite unusually for what is essentially a horror film, Flatliners did not expend its budget in places where it did not need to. Much of what we see during the more surreal sequences is a case of professional pretending, simple trick photography, or stock footage. Sometimes the simplest things are the best.If there is a problem with the film, it's that it feels about ten minutes too short. The ending seems more perfunctory than conclusive, as if someone in the studio asked the director to wrap the film up so they can bring it out at a certain market time. Of course, many films have been left with sore spots for this very reason, so Flatliners shouldn't really need to be any different. The hundred and fifteen minutes we do get is highly satisfactory, though not overly brilliant.I gave Flatliners a seven out of ten. It works well as a date flick or a kind of late-night popcorn film. That aside, it makes a good reminder that low-budget horror shows weren't always sad pieces of garbage. "},{"Title":"Everything we do matters....","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"50 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been intending to write a review of this film for some time, but only now have I actually managed to get my thoughts down for the perusal of others.I never had the pleasure of seeing this film on the `big screen' which is a shame, as it is often visually stunning, but I have revisited it on video numerous times over the years, enjoying it immensely every time.  It definitely is on my personal list of favorite movies, and for more than just starring Kiefer Sutherland and Kevin Bacon, two of my `actors to watch.'Perhaps I appreciate this film so much because it appeals to my slightly off-kilter taste in entertainment.  I like my movies a bit left of center - unpredictable and fresh.  And whether or not you `believe' the story line of the film, you have to admit, it is different!Everyone has different tastes and opinions, but my impression of some of the negative reviews of this movie is that the viewers never really saw past the surface level of this film.  They got caught up in technicalities, `Why would there be green lighting in a subway?' or `Why would medical students pull such a stupid stunt?' and failed to see the artistry and psychological depth of the piece.Yes, there are some medical and technical aspects that do not make logical sense, but if you are willing to suspend disbelief just a tad, this can be a very engaging film.First, a note about the artistic quality of the movie.  Some have complained about the murky lighting, and the illogical nature of the sets - but for me, the use of innovating lighting techniques, the plastic and sheet draped sets, the unusual settings in old buildings and dank, dripping tunnels, the use of statuary, rain and billowing curtains - all add a poetic flavor to this film, a haunting beauty that suits the dark nature of the questions being asked about life, death and forgiveness.I will focus on just two examples; in an alley scene, a change in lighting allows for certain elements of the set to come dramatically into focus, then to fade away once lighting returns to normal.  It is an innovative means of conveying a shift in the `reality' of the moment, and works beautifully. We are also allowed to see the interior of the character's apartments - contrast the warm wood, bright colors, golden lighting and cluttered comfort of Labraccio's rooms with the stark, white void of Nelson's.  Both are reflective of the characters themselves.  Nelson's lack of `objects' reflect our lack of knowledge about his past. and his carefully constructed mask that keeps his companions at a distance.  His past, we come to learn, is one of chaos and conflict.  He has determined to leave that behind in favor of an uncluttered emptiness. unfortunately, the emptiness is also reflective of his relationships with others, a realization he comes to along his personal journey of self-discovery in this film.Flatliners is not your typical horror film.  Nor is a typical drama or suspense movie.it is rather more of an amalgamation of all, having the best elements of all genres intertwined in a complex, suspenseful plot.This is an ensemble piece, and the cast does an excellent job of breathing life into their individual characters.  Your immediate impression is that the characters are each representative of a well-established `stereotype' The female ice queen, the slightly neurotic 'physician', the playboy and the socially conscious `nice guy' etc.  However, as the film progresses and the characters are further fleshed out, they take on multiple dimensions and depth.Most interesting of all is Sutherland's character of Nelson.  Nelson is not a character that is easy to like - indeed he is a bit of a b**tard, a master manipulator who definitely places self-interest above all else.  Yet, Sutherland plays him with a hint of insecurity that lends him a certain appeal.  As events unfold, you come to realize that much of Nelson's unpleasant personality is a smokescreen, a protective mask behind which hides a very uncertain and vulnerable young man burdened by a terrible secret.By revealing bits and pieces of Nelson's complex personality throughout the film, the writers, directors and cast gradually lead you towards a greater understanding of and sympathy for him.  The character who started out as a `jerk' becomes important and valued in his own right - as you learn to `forgive' his previous behavior in light of new information.  Your journey of discovery with Nelson reflects the characters own journeys towards self-understanding, as they too come to realize that everyone has value, and `everything we do matters.'Which leads to my final comment.  Although many of the posters here have picked up upon the theme of defying death.. few seem to have touched upon what I see as the main premise of the movie - the importance of forgiveness, and the need to be cognizant of all you do, because it does `matter.' "},{"Title":"An Excellent Thriller With An Excellent Cast","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"40 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first watched Flatliners, I was amazed. It had all the necessary features of a good movie the cast was superb, the plot was superb, and in the case of thrillers, there was genuine thrills throughout.Keifer Sutherland offered a marvelous performance as the male lead in the piece, portraying a scientist who believes he can find the answers to life and death by killing himself and then coming back to life, essentially stealing death's secrets away. Kevin Bacon offers an excellent performance as the more morally decent counterpart to Keifer, while Julia Roberts offers her most convincing role. William Baldwin portrays a student who excels in class and, apparently, intercourse. And Oliver Platt, in another outstanding performance, portrays the voice of reason for the group and the most innocent.The story is relatively simple, yet original, and the acting is refreshing-- definitely a stand out film for the genre, and one that has set the standard for measuring other thrillers for me.8/10. "},{"Title":"Good premise into well-told story","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"32 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flatliners has all the ingredients of a good Joel Schumacher film - intelligent, youthful characters, stunning cinematography, a gripping story, and excellent performances. It's escapist fun but it's done very well and resonates with a positive spiritual message despite the unnerving precedings.Schumacher has a knack for spotting talented young actors, and all of the main five here have gone on to greater things (see the cast list). Their believable performances help to raise this movie well above average. Kiefer Sutherland shines in his egotistical med-student role.The cinematography really stimulates the right side of the brain, which is what I love about Schumacher; his use of light and location create images that stick. A disturbing nightmarish atmosphere is created which unsettles you while you watch the film and haunts you when you go to bed - reminded me of The Lost Boys.This is a film that takes an awesome premise - curious students want to find out what's after death, and successfully follows it through into a scary, gripping tale of redemption. One of Schumacher's best; highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A dark, original thriller","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmmm.... Since I love Kiefer Sutherland so much, my review might be a little biased. He was, however, pretty good in Flatliners. A wonderful idea for a movie, and a great gothic-type thriller. Sutherland's guilt and fright at the return of boy he taunted terribly when he was young (I'll try not to give away the rest) seemed genuine, especially since he seems drawn more often than not to act characters that are a**holes (there was really no other way to put it). As a young medical school student, his research into life after death draws his friends into dangerous situations and a great finale. The medical school did seem a little sub-standard, though, I will admit. Kevin Bacon is great in Flatliners, as is one of my favorite sarcastic actors, Oliver Platt. William Baldwin's also a cutie and did okay, and though I'm not a Julia Roberts fan, so did she. The plot will draw you in and keep you on the edge of your seat, and there's an interesting dark atmosphere pervaded by a lot of red and blue for emotional impact. A good movie.. I'd give it at least an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Flatliners builds a Suspension Bridge between Life and Death, then starts walking on it","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Countless TV displays and the memorable appearances from 4 of today's mega-stars(plus Hope Davis's screen debut) keep Flatliners still in prudence. The plot is about a non-academic research of five medicine undergrads pursuing one's crazy idea on discovering the secret of death, and learn what's after death, then come back to life again. Yet the storyline hasn't been designed as fascinating as the idea of the plot.There are popular stereotypes to develop a regular teen-slasher script in Flatliners. There is Nelson who creates the idea of decoding death, pretty but introverted Rachel, David who cuts the Gordian knot on luckily not to be dismissed from the school, ladies' man Joe and finally the smart guy Randy(I did not come to medical school to murder my class mates no matter how deranged they might be). They join hands altogether in an experiment where Nelson's heart will be stopped and rerythmed. Then they decide to continue this experiment in strict confidence at night times in the campus. Not long after Nelson's experience everyone starts a race over having the wildest and the longest death experience, risking their lives one by one. Yet, soon they realize their daily life becomes affected from those experiences they had. The visits to the afterlife brings back their delinquent feelings from their childhood memories. Depolarizing their deep subconscious watchfulness, they begin having somatic delusions and visual hallucinations.When the point comes where the explanation of subconscious, director Joel Schumacher skips that every humankind has a subconscious personality which they are not aware of. This inner personality keeps one from altering into identity loss. If you lose or if you depolarize this subconscious personality you certainly lose your identity instead of refreshing childhood memories. I wanted to add this as a movie mistake, which already has been mentioned via movie critics in the earlier 90s'. Obviously here in this movie Schumacher made the actors have it least affected. Then why do they hesitate continuing on the experiment after learning their lesson, as if death is designed indiscoverable by God? David had been introduced as an Atheist, now he turned out to believe in God when he recalled a flashback from his childhood. After witnessing this 180 degreed change in David, it's clear to see that Schumacher's film was so conservative and lily-livered; that's ultimately why it's never classified as a work of science fiction. Alas! It had a good potential. It even tried to tell the unconscious maturation from having a death experience, beginning to believe that death is so simply natural and it's only a part of a human's life.More than what's in the movie, it was also memorable to recall what's with the movie. Jan de Bont as the cinematographer, who had worked almost every time with Schumacher, creates an dreamy atmosphere like it's being an Gothic horror movie. The blue color schemes all over the walls reflecting into the actors' faces deliver first class of lighting, that suits perfectly with the film. The close-up shots of the gargoyle statues in the campus buildings, Catholic frescoes in the walls, stop-motion cameras, and the dynamic camera speeds were all belong to Bont's skills.Flatliners became a cult movie in time with its sociological pen-portrait of the X-generation juvenile especially via its futuristic editing style with storyboard connection sequences like being part of a video music clip so much aesthetically. Those were the times where fast-paced and multi-sequenced video music clips were on rise. This style was very rare to come across in those years after its pioneer Tony Scott's The Hunger(1983). "},{"Title":"One of Schumachers better ones","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recall seeing this movie three times, first in the early 90s, then 00s and now I just saw it again and each time I've grown more fond of it. There is something in Schumachers style that drags me into it. The story is OK, nothing really remarkable. It's one part ghost story, one part medical thriller, one part love triangle.What really makes this movie worthwhile is Schumachers direction. He's got a very good eye for this Gothic style. One might wonder why the school was so poorly lit, or what exactly was the place they did their experiments at, but it's all for the mood, it's all style. Sometimes style does go over substance, but in this case they work hand in hand. The Gothic architecture and gloomy late autumnal Chicago are just what this movie needed. Just like The Lost Boys IS small town sunny California. Schumacher should've stuck to this style which clearly is his forte, but sadly he has since had a very varying career with only occasional hits.The cast is great, all of the stars have gone a long way since. Makes one only wonder what could've become of William Baldwin had he made better career moves. He is very good in this movie. I've always liked Kiefer Sutherland as a movie actor, and he does a remarkable job here too. I really would've rather seen him as a full time movie actor rather than going for TV.There is only one thing that bothers me in this movie and it's the story in all it's simplicity. If people have had near death experiences before and have come back to tell, what new did this crew try to achieve? If not only have personal experience of death, but I got the idea most of them were in it for the science. Why risk brain damage and gamble with life for something you will not get any proof anyway. Especially given that they are medical students, the story is not 100 % believable, but like I stated earlier, watch this movie more for the mood. I'm glad it's already been so long since the 90s so one can start appreciate the movies of this decade again without getting caught on the hairdos and such. "},{"Title":"Hello, I'm nice, he's nice, we're both f**king lunatics. Can I come in, please?","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Im usually wary of movies hovering around the 6/10 mark on IMDb. Id like to think people know what they are talking about and know what they like. I guess the trick with reviewing is to take an approach of Hey, if i liked types of movies like these- would i give it a higher score than i am about to give it now since I don't like these types of movies Then again people judge differently , basing more value on acting, or perhaps story or directing. Anyway, landing the plane here- i had rented this movie out before and hadn't had time to watch it, this morning i did.Wow! See this movie. I am personally interested in the paranormal/have read a bit about near death experiences, so automatically i was hooked. I am unsure about some of the comments here saying that a quality cast here was wasted - i disagree- the acting here was superb from all- i think this is the only time i didn't mind Julia Roberts, it was good to see 24's Kiefer Sutherland (Currently at the time of this review, serving a jail sentence for DUI), and Kevin Bacon sporting an interesting hair style.Overall- i liked the direction, the atmosphere, the acting, and the story line most of all- particularly the idea of karma, and , to quote Nelson Wright Everything we does matters So true.10/10! "},{"Title":"Early Bacon, W. Baldwin, J. Roberts & K. Sutherland Semi-Sci-Fi Suspense","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five medical students (Kevin Bacon, David Labraccio; William Baldwin, Dr. Joe Hurley; Oliver Platt, Randy Steckle; Julia Roberts, Dr. Rachel Mannus; Kiefer Sutherland, Nelson) experiment with clandestine near death & afterlife experiences, (re)searching for medical & personal enlightenment. One by one, each medical student's heart is stopped, then revived.Under temporary death spells each experiences bizarre visions, including forgotten childhood memories. Their flashbacks are like children's nightmares. The revived students are disturbed by remembering regretful acts they had committed or had done against them. As they experience afterlife, they bring real life experiences back into the present. As they continue to experiment, their remembrances dramatically intensify; so much so, some are physically overcome. Thus, they probe & transcend deeper into the death-afterlife experiences attempting to find a cure.Even though the DVD was released in 2007, this motion picture was released in 1990. Therefore, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin, Julia Roberts & Kiefer Sutherland were in the early stages of their adult acting careers. Besides the plot being extremely intriguing, the suspense building to a dramatic climax & the script being tight & convincing, all of the young actors make Flatliners, what is now an all-star cult semi-sci-fi suspense. Who knew 17 years ago that the film careers of this young group of actors would skyrocket? I suspect that director Joel Schumacher did. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't say that the movie flat-lines, but it definitely has a weak pulse.","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Keen to see what happens to someone after they die, reckless medical student Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland) talks four of his friends (played by Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt, Kevin Bacon, and William Baldwin) into helping with a dangerous experiment on himself, first inducing brain death, followed by resuscitation after a minute on 'the other side'. When the procedure is a success, the other students take it in turns to have a peep at the afterlife, not realising that when they return to life, they have brought their sins back to haunt them.As much as I like the cast of Flatliners (with the exception of Julia Roberts, who I find irritating) and admire director Joel Schumacher for his sterling work on The Lost Boys, Falling Down and 8MM, this film doesn't do an awful lot for me it's the 90s equivalent of so much of the anodyne teen-centric horror-lite garbage that passes for scary these days, with a good looking young cast and lots of flashy visuals, but very little in the way of substance, fun or thrills.The first half of the film proves very repetitive, as four of the five students 'flatline', and experience a dreamlike afterlife; the second half sees the group suffering the consequences, which for three of the four, amounts to little more than a few colourful hallucinatory 'nightmares' that are easily resolved. Only Nelson ever seems to be in real danger, but in keeping with the lame PG-friendly nature of the film, he survives with just a few scars to show for his ordeal. "}{"Title":"Movie is about living not dying, giving and receiving forgiveness","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fair warning- this review will contain spoilers.... Each of the characters who flatline and come back are haunted, not by real or imagined ghosts from their past, but rather by guilt. How each deals with it is unique and fascinating. David, who cruelly bullied a girl from his childhood, finds peace by personally seeking her out and saying he was sorry. She initially denies remembering the taunts but it becomes clear that in fact she does and his apology and her acceptance of it is important for both of them. Her scars were on the inside and though unseen they were painful and unhealed even though her physical body had grown up and moved on. Joe, the one who videotaped women in his life without them knowing, does have a reckoning of sorts but different from the others. Other reviewers may claim that the movies fails in part because Joe didn't apologize for or properly address his guilts from the past but I disagree. The fact that he loses his fiancé when she discovers his tape collection gave an example of what happens when we do wrong to others and fail to make things right. Nelson was haunted by guilt for his role in the accidental death of a boy he was taunting in his childhood. He wrongly assumed he had paid his debt by going to reform school. But that was his punishment which is different from saying sorry to those we have done wrong to. Unlike David he couldn't go and apologize to Billy, if fact he keeps running from his past and eventually wishes he was dead himself and finally says sorry just before he would have died permanently while flatlining and then comes back to the living. Rachel is visited by her dead father, but while she feels guilt, her case is different from the others in that she truly did not do anything to deserve her guilt. Her guilt was placed on her by blame placed on her by her mom over her dad's death. But she was a child when her dad died and Rachel understandably couldn't work through that. Instead of her apologizing to her dad she dealt with her guilt by forcing herself to visit her dad and see him at his moment of shame that he felt for letting her down. But in this case it was actually her dad who said he was sorry- sorry for letting her down, sorry for his daughter suffering with guilt that never was hers to bear. Her acceptance of his apology and showing him that she still loved him as her father allowed her to finally release the pain that she carried. I'm not a film student or anything, can't speak with knowledge on lighting and steam effects and all that. All I can say is the hair stood up on the back of my neck at points in the movie so I think the director did a good job with his cast and crew. It was a good story and one I saw back in the 90's on cable and then late last night again for the first time in at least, what, 15 years? I appreciate more now the true forgiveness message of the film. "},{"Title":"Great Premise That Becomes Predictable And Formulaic","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite its occasional lapses into silly self-consciousness, Flatliners is one of the most intriguing and well-constructed supernatural thrillers of the 1990s.It is a thriller that features Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin and Oliver Platt as medical students using physical science in an attempt to find out if there's anything out there beyond death by conducting clandestine experiments with near-death experiences. It is written by Peter Filardi and it is directed by Joel Schumacher.A group of brilliant medical students decide to literally play with life and death. They put themselves in suspended animation, electronically inducing a near-deathlike state and then pulling out of it at the last possible moment. Things get hairy when one of the students becomes obsessed with the notion of really dying, the better to experience the Afterlife before being revived--if he can be revived.The film has a great premise that had the potential to be really interesting.Unfortunately,it falls flat as it fell into a series of clichés and formulaic elements that have been used in other movies.The cast obviously had the talent to be brilliant but unfortunately,they were never fully capitalized upon. "},{"Title":"I have this flashback of Wednesday Addams about to electrocute Pugsly while playing a game called Is there a God?","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every time I think about this film, I have this flashback of Wednesday Addams about to electrocute Pugsly while playing a game called Is there a God? The premise of the film is that one could view the afterlife and come back with the ability to report on their findings. The idea that a medical school would admit or retain anyone who had these tendencies, let alone allow a sizable amount of expensive equipment to go unaccounted for, is ridiculous. Given that, I have to say the film has merit, but it is certainly not the merit of a sound plot.The acting, however, is superb, and every cast member should be applauded for their ability to rise to the occasion in this somewhat palatable horror film.Kiefer's ability to maintain his character's persona is exceptional, breaking at just the right moment in the film.Julia Roberts certainly gives us a performance rivaling her work in previous films, as well as adding an interesting perspective to the idea of guilt and redemption.Kevin Bacon is the glue than binds this band together, with his ability to maintain the focus of the five on the problems they are facing.Oliver Platt provides an interesting sort of comic relief, and William Baldwin brings his boyish demeanor into play with his particular sin, although you have to wonder how that character ever got into medical school.The sets really give us the horror feeling, and you have to give Joel Schumacher his props for his camera angles and framing of the these spooky rooms and buildings.Rated R for violence, sexual references and scenes, and language, definitely not one for the younger set. Wouldn't want to give anyone ideas. Not particularly collectible. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller flick!!","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Can't get much eerier than Flatliners. This deep, dark film had my heart pumping throughout. The lighting is dark and will get you in the mood for a death defying experience, literally. Keifer is in top form as he is today in 24. He's a great actor and he plays a very convincing and shocking role you won't forget for years to come. And what can you say for the rest of the cast? An all-star lineup, Julia is hotter than ever, Will, Oliver, and Kevin light up the stage in this thriller that will keep you gripping your seats. It's a refreshing sight to see a true thriller, with top notch professional actors. You won't regret seeing this 2 hour seat bender. -JL "},{"Title":"Take a trip into the afterlife with Flatliners","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners is a remarkably audacious, wildly original exploration of one of the taboo topics of science and religion. As far as direction, acting and suspense are concerned, few films rival Flatliners in its all-around splendor. Underneath a deceptively linear and seemingly simplistic script, there is much symbolism and underlying subtlety to be found in Schumacher's brilliant vision. This is without doubt an intriguing premise and the movie does well to focus on the horrific hallucinations that the group experience rather than on the religious connotations.Yeah, there are some medical and technical aspects that do not make logical sense, but if you are willing to suspend disbelief just a tad, this can be a very engaging film. First, a note about the artistic quality of the movie. Some have complained about the murky lighting, and the illogical nature of the sets - but for me, the use of innovating lighting techniques, the plastic and sheet draped sets, the unusual settings in old buildings and dank, dripping tunnels, the use of statuary, rain and billowing curtains - all add a poetic flavor to this film, a haunting beauty that suits the dark nature of the questions being asked about life, death and forgiveness.However, this could have been done better, and there are several holes in its plot such as the innocence of children and whether they really deserve to be haunted by what they did when they were younger. Plus the fantastic cast can all be remembered in better roles, especially Kevin Bacon, who is outstanding with whatever role he's given. Still, 'Flatliners' is entertaining enough when it resides in horror, and if it's placed in this genre then it's relatively intelligent.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Has a few grey areas but is entertaining","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sadly in Hollywood, when you end up making one of the worst movies ever according to some viewers, your reputation is forever soiled. For director Joel Schumacher, people always remember him as the man who ruined Batman by making Batman & Robin (1997). Yes, undoubtedly it was a poor film but Schumacher's career cannot be represented entirely by that project alone. Before and after this particular golden royal blunder of his, Schumacher had been and continued to make a number of attention grabbing movies. Critics enjoyed Tigerland (2000) and Phone Booth (2002), which came after and also The Lost Boys (1987), which came before. However, it seems as if there are some other products that don't receive as much credit. This is one of them. One particular thing that Schumacher loved to use in his films were controversial topics. Of his movies, one of his touchier topics was that of 8MM (1999), and it's not a large group of people that are comfortable with it. This plot here isn't as taboo but it still raises a lot of curiosity.The story revolves around a group of graduate students who end up taking a huge gamble with their lives. That gamble is scientifically stopping their heart, experiencing death and then defibrillating themselves back to life. The idea is to experience death and to determine whether there is something beyond death. As they play around, they soon discover that this kind of scientific practice may not be in their best interest. This is a sadistic mentality; who thinks that's even a remotely good idea? Credit is due though because there isn't much of any other way to experience it unless you die. The screenplay was penned by Peter Filardi, a writer who would only write a little more and then fade out by the mid-2000s. The idea itself though is unique; very few scientific films bother with contemplation of life after death. Especially with death, the action is taken for granted more times than not and no viewer or screenwriter probably every bothered to consider it.Filardi's script isn't perfect unfortunately, but then again, not many are. What Filardi forgets to work out are some subplot elements. Each graduate character has their own particular issues and over time they have to confront it. That is except for one character that confronts it but is never directly stated whether it was fixed, it just disappears. The only problem with the writing is that after the midway point, the genre to this movie jumps from the sci-fi thriller, to the fantasy horror genre. It's not that this change is abrupt or drastically different but some viewers may expect to see a certain kind of consistency through and through. This isn't something to truly get frustrated over though because who's to say what would really happen if one were to experience death like they did. The dialog itself isn't anything that sounds extraordinarily special but the actors are what keeps the story interesting.The cast of actors who play these graduate students are Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland), Rachel (Julia Roberts), David (Kevin Bacon), Joe (William Baldwin) and Randy (Oliver Platt). Together, this small cast can play off each other nicely. Sutherland plays his role more chaotic than the rest and rightfully so since he's the one coming up with the idea of testing temporary suicide. Bacon as David is the skeptic, the one who will not believe what happens unless he knows himself and is the grounder to anyone who needs the help. Joe is the playboy (how appropriate for a Baldwin), who enjoys videotaping his late night escapades. Platt as Randy is the sensible one, the guy who knows the level of danger they enter but is smart enough when not to follow. Lastly Julia Roberts is decent too with a fascination with the idea of death. The thriller and horror elements are effective most of the time. The horror components aren't so much gore but more on a psychological level. This although not graphic, can be scary.Behind the camera for this project was Jan de Bont. Yeah, we all know he's not the greatest in his directing skills with Speed 2 Cruise Control (1997) and The Haunting (1999), but he has been the cinematographer for movies like Die Hard (1988) and The Hunt for Red October (1990). Here, de Bont's work is nice and fluid. There is no shaky camera-work and the lighting helps highlight what de Bont wants to get across for each scene. Especially for the near-death experiences, the visions somewhat resemble that of the ending to Disney's The Black Hole (1979). Finally, the musical score was composed by James Newton Howard. Up to this point in his career, Howard was only known for a part of one popular movie and that was Major League (1989). This is really Howard's big screen entrance and it's gloriously beautiful. Howard creates such an odd yet effective religious horror score hybrid that is hard not to admire. The horror cues are noteworthy as well as the wonderful church like themes.The script does have some genre changes at the midway point and not every subplot is concluded the way it should be. However, the main cast is likable, the plot itself is originally different and the musical score is harmoniously compatible with the playout of the story. "},{"Title":"Kiefer Sutherland's finest performance in Flatliners","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Great movie. It's a horror movie. If u like horrors u would like this one. It's 114 minutes and it has good acting. I like IMDb ratings but this one they rated so low. I gave it a 8/10. It has good actors- Kevin bacon, Julia Roberts and kiefer Sutherland. It's about kiefer Sutherland is not a afraid to die he's an ambitious , charismatic medical student who persuades classmates Julia Roberts and Kevin bacon to take part in a reckless experiment. To see if there is after death, they will kill themselves temporarily shut down (flatline) their heart and brain functions to briefly experience clinical death. It's in English, Spanish and French. I love horror movies, I highly recommend you to watch this movie if you like sci fi too! "},{"Title":"Don't try this at home, kids.","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Is it possible to die just a little bit and come back without getting hurt by any evil spirits? Is it smart to monkey with death? These medical students decide its worth the risk. I mean, its only a movie. Of all the movies I've ever seen, this one should absolutely have a disclaimer to not try this at home. Of course the movie also deals with this in the course of its narrative one doesn't simply watch Flatliners and think wow, yes, please, hand me a barrel of near-death experience. To the right individual, Flatliners is a fun movie with a gripping central premise, an excellent sense of momentum. So how come its not heralded as one of the best movies of all time?Well, its by Joel Schumacher so everything is ratcheted up to 11. There's wind machines indoors, everyone speaks corny dialogue in elevated tones, lit by extreme primary colours that give an air of alternate reality. Some movies are about whether two incredibly good people can stay together, or whether a suburban Barbershop can be funny. Flatliners is about something truly important we are built to die, everyone does it; what are we put on earth for and what happens afterwards? Flatliners is highly original and unique, and though it may not quite live up to the lofty questions it raises, this is a really cool and watchable movie, recommended. "},{"Title":"crossing over for redemption has risks","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" well Joel Schumacher film when he could make a good film with a young and up and coming all star cast with Julia Roberts William Baldwin Keefer Sutherland oliver platt Kevin bacon they play characters who are medical students who like to take wild risks they are ambitious students who want to experience whats on the other side they want to embark on experiment to kill themselves with the other 5 they get arrogant about what will happen so with a range of 1mins 30 to 11 minutes they get to discovery the truth them selves but in doing this they have brought back their ghost of there past plus relieving there bad pasts and risking everything in there humanity for redemption's as they find things in there lives changing there present lives and harming themselves in the process great moral story and chiller thriller with an 1hr56mins its brilliantly done with a great cast and a great scary movie of sorts "},{"Title":"Coming back from the dead","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Joel Schumacher took over the reins of the Batman films from Tim Burton , I felt at the time he would be a good choice based on the strength of Flatliners and The Lost Boys. Well I got it wrong there.Flatliners has an up and coming cast of late 1980s and early 1990s cinema and William Baldwin. Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt Kiefer Sutherland are young medical students who decide to push the boundaries of medical science by inducing death and then getting revived which soon becomes a competition of how long they can flat line before being revived. The side effects being that past neurosis begins to haunt them.Joel Schumacher employs a stylish Gothic streak to his directing with strong use of lighting, plenty of visual flourishes and a baroque feel in the set design.However the script is rather hokey. Right from the beginning we have Julia Roberts talking to people who have had experience moments of death but after their own near death experiences they boast about pushing the frontier of science like they are gods. Then there is Kevin Bacon's mullet never mind all the long trench-coats which might be more to do with the Chicago weather.The film has a rather eerie feel to it, a psychological edge with each student facing up to a traumatic past, some of it looks a touch camp now. Kiefer Sutherland gets haunted by visions of a boy in a red hoodie, his father Donald was haunted by a girl in a red hooded cape in Don't Look Now. "}{"Title":"One Of My Favourite Kiefer Sutherland Movies","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joel Schumacher has directed some great movies like Falling Down, one of my favourite movies The Lost Boys some over rated movies like St Elmo's Fire some awful movies like Dying Young and sadly he also directed George Clooney in Batman & Robin.Plot In A Paragraph Nelson Wright (Kiefer Sutherland), convinces four of his medical school classmates &#x97; Joe Hurley (William Baldwin), Dave Labraccio (Kevin Bacon), Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt) and Rachel Manus (Julia Roberts) &#x97; to help him discover what lies beyond death. Nelson flatlines for one minute before his classmates resuscitate him. While dead, he experiences a sort of afterlife. One by one, his classmates all flatline too and are brought back. But they never return alone. This is one of my favourite movies starring Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin and Oliver Platt. I like all of them to a certain extent, with Sutherland appearing in some of my favourite movies. Stand By Me, Lost Boys, A Few Good Men and Young Guns I'm always amazed his career went in to decline in the early to mid 1990's as he was a very talented director. I'm glad he is now enjoying success in the TV show 24. As for Roberts she went on to become one of the worlds most famous actress's, I lost interest in her and her movies a long time ago, I have only seen five of her movies since 2000, but that rest of the cinema going public clearly didn't. "},{"Title":"The arrogance of medicinally inclined youth!","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember coming out the theatre after having seen Flatliners in 1990 and being really annoyed. The premise of the story is so superb and was ripe for a terrifying horror film, but Flatliners then, and now, is not terrifying, but that actually doesn't matter.In 1990 some of the more bright young acting prospects were off making Memphis Belle, the other half that was made up of potential Brat Packers like Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, William Baldwin, Oliver Platt and Kevin Bacon, were joining director Joel Schumacher for this delve into life after death experiments. The tyro medical students, led by a darkly egotistical Sutherland, begin inducing their own deaths to see what awaits once the flatline has been reached. Seems great at first, but as the students push the time limits of being dead still further, what comes into their real worlds is actually not welcome.Pic is never close to being frightening, but the thematics involved are chilling and the big message at its heart is loud and clear. At times it's an uneasy blend of supernatural dalliances and medical science, but the breezy cast hold engagement, while cinematographer Jan de Bont's misty lenses are perfectly in the realm of the ethereal. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A terrifying and melodramatic thrill ride that draws you back for multiple viewings","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Joel Schumacher's Flatliners during Summer vacation while visiting my father. I was dropped off at the theater and remember the movie being tense and frightening. I was curious how well it would stand up on a watch twenty five years later. Five students at a prestigious medical school want an answer to one simple question Is there life after death? After hearing several first-hand accounts from other people, they decide to experiment on themselves. Each one crosses over from life into the beyond and return. Now the question they want answered is, What have we brought back with us and what do they want?Flatliners is rated R for violence, language, adult situations, and nudity. It gets a bit brutal in some places, but nowhere near like most movies today. Without the unnecessary nudity, this very well could have been PG-13.Boasting a great line-up of actors who went on to do great things, Flatliners captures them in all their fresh-faced glory. It's a melodramatic thrill ride that draws you back for multiple viewings. Although some of the horrors the group members bring back from their near-death experiences seem silly, the concept as a whole is endearing. The Gothic settings, dark ambiance, and elegant lighting add more reasons for you to re-visit the film or see it for the first time. "},{"Title":"Middle-School Script with Cheese","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a good reason why I've never seen this Luke-warm junker. Indeed Flatliners averagely directed by Joel Schumacker suffers from badly sitcomish, clichéd writing masquerading as thrilling. With lines like Common Boys, Salvation just ahead, it's subject matter tries to hit way above it's own weight. It offers trivial and superficial explanations amidst it's supposed tension. It has an expensive production value and several well known actors, but it is a parlor-tricks movie brought down lower with bouts of garbagey dialog. Many of the scenes and music are pure Linberger cheese. It has one original idea that the writer and movie- makers could not build upon. A dud 4/10. "},{"Title":"A wild ride","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Four medical students are coerced into Nelson's dangerous experiment of experiencing the afterlife by flatlining themselves. Each one of them manages to make it back, but things start to go awry in the lives when their past comes back to haunt them. I loved this movie. I've always wanted to find out if there is really an afterlife. Not any time soon, obviously. I enjoy living, and I could never do what these guys did. It is strange, considering how much i've heard about it over the years, I had yet to see it. Sure, there is more they could have done with the scenarios, involving the afterlife, but they did a tremendous job as far as i'm concerned. Not only is it fantastic visually, but I was into everybody's plight. The entire cast is terrific. Julia Roberts proved she had more than just star power with her strong showcase. She was able to bring out the perfect amount of guilt from her character, and her character was very sympathetic. Keifer Sutherland is outstanding as the arrogant Nelson. It is hard to feel sympathy for him, especially with what he goes through in the end, but he's so talented, you're able to like him. Kevin Bacon was awesome. The most noteworthy is William Baldwin. His sleazy performance stole the show. What boggles my mind is that Alec Baldwin has gained so much notoriety, despite not being nearly as talented as William. William should have been a star. The ending is a tad contrived, but it was done very proficiently. Overall, this movie will make you think. It's suspenseful, emotional, extremely well acted, and a great film. Don't let it pass you by9/10 "},{"Title":"Great actors","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five ambitious medical students run a dangerous experiment to try to glimpse at the afterlife. Rachel Mannus (Julia Roberts) is the sympathetic girl with a dark childhood trauma. David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon) is a renegade who has been suspended. He's a skeptic who doesn't believe in the afterlife. Joe Hurley (William Baldwin) is a womanizing douche. Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt) is the most cautious. Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland) is the leader Dr Frankenstein-type who finds something is going wrong with the experiment but doesn't tell the others.These are some of the best young actors of the time. All five leads are wonderful. It's a little melodramatic but I like it here. There is some overacting especially Julia Roberts. It goes with the set overdesign. I love the art deco of the Museuem of Science & Industry exteriors. I love the artwork behind them when they're dissecting corpses. I love the ridiculously darkly lit hospital. It all has that surrealism.On the other hand, it's not really a horror film as was advertised. Director Joel Schumacher can't find any scares even though they are many opportunities. That's not in his skill set. It's more a suspense thriller. "},{"Title":"The Deadfast Club.","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this one, I was impressed by the given of the film and genuinely scared by (among other things) hooded Billy chasing and bashing Nelson. That must have been more than twenty years ago. Last night, the shine of this adolescent classic has pretty much faded, with the forced arty approach (blue light, red light, people carrying paintings in the street, the parade) making it all rather corny and obvious - with some terribly corny dialogues to add; Kevin Bacon who sarcastically says sorry to God, for instance.Still, I don't want to punish this film too hard; I can appreciate this gathering of (big) actors and some of that old shine (read the nightmarish aspect) hasn't completely worn off - Billy is still moderately scary, even. And a film being corny is hardly ever really a bad thing.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Near-Death Melodrama.","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joel Schumacher directed this yarn about five medical school students(played by Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin, Oliver Platt, and Julia Roberts) who repeatedly undergo near-death experiences by having their hearts stopped, then revived. This soon becomes a dangerous game of oneupmanship, as each tries to have their heart stopped for longer and longer periods, while they experience strange flashbacks to their past where they relive traumatic experiences of either their sins, or sins committed against them, and find that the people in them are somehow following them back into the real world...Slick but superficial film has a compelling yet inherently self-indulgent premise that never convinces, and characters become difficult to endure, though film remains oddly watchable, yet dramatically detached. "},{"Title":"Too weak answers for the very challenging questions it asks ...","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Because the most fundamental, Death is mankind's most defining question, as we all owe the rules that have been governing our lives, individually or collectively, to the very awareness of our mortality. Indeed, no culture, no civilization, hasn't been conditioned by its interpretation and fear of what lies beyond death allowing philosophers and religions to battle over the truth for centuries. But the need 'to see to believe' is proper to man and suitably, what stimulates our interest on Joel Schumacher's Flatliners, a Sci-fi drama about five medical students who want to succeed where philosophy and religion failed by creating artificial conditions for near-death experiences. The French title is 'the forbidden experience', and after watching the film, I think it perfectly conveys the subversiveness of the project. It's morally wrong because of its clear implications of murder and ethically, it's the ultimate outrage to God by trying to imitate him. And Schumacher deliberately fills the film with religious imagery solemn statues, gargoyles, the clandestine atmosphere of a gloomy church as a setting for the macabre experience, as an implicit way to show that only God has the power of life and death. But the protagonists are physicians; they don't think it's wrong to kill because the experience's success precisely relies on their capability to resuscitate the dead. They're part of the experience because they're the best, and believe in their success. And lastly, as scientists, they have an even stronger need to see to believe, to have a physical before a mystical experience. The consequence is that fear of death can't be an option since death is the key of the mystery, and the whole suspense depends on the revival's process, where Flatliners proves its effectiveness as a thriller, not only intellectually challenging but surprisingly emotional. The film opens with the line today is a good day to die uttered by Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland), the words have a whole other meaning than Little Big Man, because there's the implicit certitude of 'coming back'. And the delivery leaves ambiguous whether he's speaking alone or addressing God in a defying way. He's not alone; he coerced his comrades to follow him for that crazy project. Julia Roberts is genuinely fascinated by near-death experiences, William Baldwin is the egomaniac womanizer, Kevin Bacon the hardened skeptical, Oliver Platt, the cowardly voice of reason. We know the differences are only made for dramatic purposes, the line between their medical ambitions and the 'mad scientist' syndrome gets thinner as the story progresses.Then, we're not surprised when the first experience turns into a competitive game consisting on raising the delays of unconsciousness, which also allows accentuating the suspense for each resuscitation. The film creatively avoids the redundancy of defibrillators, adrenalin injections, mouth to mouth, and strikes of panic by inserting different visions to each character. Sutherland has a flashback of a childhood episode where he's chasing and attacking a helpless boy, a similar yet less dramatic episode for Bacon, Baldwin has erotic visions and Roberts relives the death of her father. These visions are made of interesting imagery but their unoriginal content leads the storyline to a conventional format, unworthy of the film's premise.Yes, we want to belief that it is possible to kill and resuscitate people, because, in our human subconscious, we're curious to know what comes after. Are we rewarded or punished by our actions? Do the light and tunnel really exist? The subject fascinated me because I used to have my personal theory many times, I'm so sleepy I can feel the switch to the sleeping phase, whose sensation consists on my body floating over the room, in the dark, in a sort of sleep apnea as if I was drowning into another world. And when I focused my mind, I could perceive new images or even get back to the dream I wanted. I've always thought sleep could provide some of the most interesting insights about the afterlife, and maybe I wished Flatliners would explore death like a dream-like universe. The problem with flashbacks is that they make sense on a screenplay but it's too rational for reality. All memories involve sad events and traumas, and Nelson's experience has the most uncontrollable effects because he's physically wounded by his vision, but the film isn't fantasy and doesn't leave this plot point unanswered), but all these traumas lead to too many convenient resolutions it's all about peace in mind and making amends. It's not that I don't believe in inner demons or immanent justice, but it betrays the very daringness the film was taking, as radically as the way Bacon turned from an atheist to the most spiritual of the group. The positive side is that it makes us care for the characters, they're not just a well assembled cast meant to appeal to a young movie audience (not just that anyway) their transition from cocky students to resentful human beings works as a collective character's arc. But the film was supposed to place us in a position to question our vision of death, at the end, it was all about their vision of life.I guess like all humans, I fear death because I fear the unknown. I'm not scared by nothingness, but by the possibility of its perceptibility, which would be absurd, since nothing also includes 'no perception', but what if it could? What if our souls were really floating on the dark? Can there be consciousness of nothing instead of nothing of consciousness? Flatliners didn't appease my torments, as if its intellectual challenge was so ambitious, it finally surrendered to the common denominator of religion and philosophy tending to what is moral when the truth and beauty are unreachable. Well, at least, the film's conclusion is moral, and even poetic, but the whole challenge was to make the perception of the afterlife 'plausible', a pity the screenplay went to it the easy way. "},{"Title":"Flashy and empty","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a shallow movie, as Joel Schumacher's films tend to be, and as an extra treat it's also pretentious. The plot a group of medical students take it in turns to die for several minutes; upon revival they discover that their sins have manifested themselves somehow or other. As some of the characters are visited by dead people and some just seem to be haunted by their guilty consciences it's not quite clear exactly what the connection is, but the visions do all look like sixth form art films. Why the students treat their experiment as some kind of grand journey that'll make them famous is a bit of a mystery because the results are completely unproveable and, as the movie mentions several times, have been documented plenty of times before anyway. Still, it's nice to see Schumacher practising for his Batman trainwrecks with a bit of the old neon paint and coloured lightbulbs. "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" By this point, Flatliners is know as a cult classic and one of the first major roles for Julia Roberts. There was little doubt that the performances in this film would be off the charts good, as for the film itself, not so much. Five Med. students, at the top of their class, decide to experiment with near death experiences to see if there really is an after live, and what they find, was not at all what they expected. The premise of this story is terrific and you couldn't have a better cast or Director, but for me, the film never really clicked. As with sports teams, just because you have the most talent, it doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to have any chemistry, that was part of the problem here. While all the cast members were terrific in their individual roles, they were so different, that when they got together it didn't really work out so well. As for the movie itself, it has a very unique plot, but the story doesn't do it justice. As a viewer, I was expecting a lot more to happen especially when they keep dialing up the drama. Elements of the story build and build, but ultimately fall flat. The premise was a good one and the performances were terrific, but the story of the flatliners falls well short of expectations. For all you die hard cult followers, don't worry you'll soon have something to complain about too, as a remake for the 25th anniversary of the films release is already in the works. "},{"Title":"Interesting In Terms of Originality","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie Flatliners centers around five young medical students as they experiment each other's journey into the afterlife to actually go as far as to die to see what happens after only to discover startling revelations that continually haunt them. Kiefer Sutherland plays Nelson Wright who has aspirations of becoming a celebrity once the project becomes a success. Julia Roberts plays Rachel Mannus who's surefire into thinking that life after death is a wonderful place. David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon) the rebel of the group is emotionally curious by the whole experiment. Philandering intern Joseph Hurley (William Baldwin) adds some comic relief is also in quenching his curiosity about one of life's most mysterious questions of life after death. And Oliver Platt plays Randy Steckle who's the level-headed member of the group who seems more reluctant to get involved with the experiment. The whole idea is quite original in terms of story and premise as it not only boggles the mind of these young doctors, but also through the minds of the audience as well. What irks about is why is the emphasis of their journey centered around their sins? That's where the story becomes disjointed. Maybe they were trying to make the doctors confess to their sins almost the same way as when a Christian goes to Church and and you walk into the confession booth and hope that your sins will be expunged and find forgiveness from the big man upstairs. But I went far as to anticipate into thinking that these doctors were asking for forgiveness through their minds in the approach of atheism. Performance wise, the acting was fulfilling, but not anywhere near Oscar worthy. The locations were very authentic in terms of classical medical school thrillers which had a nice touch of dark Gothic to go with it. The scenes were as a whole well staged and easy flowing, but there were still scenes that weren't always coerce. When Billy Mahoney (Joshua Rudoy) was running after Nelson it felt a bit incoherent at times. In addition to that were times when director Joel Schumacher tried to overplay the darkness of the movie, sure the tone was designed to be dark, but to assume that life after death is only focused on how our sins from the past could come back to haunt you is a misnomer on his behalf. Maybe the afterlife could feature a more positive life form and probably it might be the final cleansing of one's sins.If you are one of the inquisitive minds who are curious about life after death then this movie is highly recommended. Sure it may be a bit dark in content, but if you are able to stomach the grim goth, then you should have no problem watching Flatliners. If you are squeamish about the material in the movie, then maybe this movie isn't the right one for you. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I was hooked- it is absolutely brilliant! The basic idea was its main strength, but the script, acting and casting only served to improve it. Oliver Platt turned in a brilliant performance (as usual), Kiefer Sutherland's portrayal of a man beset by guilt was totally believable, and basically it is a great film. "},{"Title":"Great premise, poor execution","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The premise--a group of medical students resolve to, effectively, kill and then rescusitate each other in order to research the afterlife.  Let's face it, this is a very fascinating premise for a movie, brilliant even, but unfortunately the rest of the movie does not live up to expectations.There are so many issues here that are raised quite early in the film.  The ethics of doing something like this, for example.  The nature of death and the existence of an afterlife.  God, even.  But FLATLINERS, as if it was too afraid of the questions it was asking, abandons ship and opts for a run-of-the-mill supernatural thriller plot instead.Don't get me wrong--as supernatural thrillers go, it's pretty skillful.  The med school where most of the movie takes place is wondefully creepy, as are most of the settings and art direction for the rest of the film.  However, because of the intriguing setup, most viewers will be left cold--the film just doesn't deliver on its promises.Another fatal flaw is the repetition of the rescusiation scenes.  This was suspenseful the first time, but each subsequent time it loses a lot of its punch.  To combat this, the screenwriters jack up the risk a litle bit every time, nudging our heroes closer and closer to death.  Unfortunately, it doesn't work.This one's not worth it, but I would like to see a remake.  One that's a little more intelligent, perhaps?  "},{"Title":"Ah yes...the 80's!","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nostalgia isn't always the best reason to watch a movie. More often than not, the movies you loved as a kid will disappoint you as an adult. While there are exceptions to this rule, it's hard to justify owning a DVD of Krull, regardless of how many insightful the director's commentary may be. But stay sharp Gen X/Y'ers, because the dozens of disappointments dominating your trip down memory lane, might stop you from stumbling across one worth revisiting.One surprise film worth another look is Joel Schumacher's Flatliners, the supernatural thriller starring 80's popcorn heavyweights Keifer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts and Billy Baldwin. You would think that a stew comprised of this cast, the flamboyant flair of Schumacher and the über slick eye of cinematographer Jan De Bont would result in something sickeningly stodgy, but calories aside... Flatliners ain't half bad. Even though it's production design is inexplicably over-the-top and the photography is achingly over- stylized (replete with neon soaked streets spewing endless billows of steam), Flatliners still manages to be an effectively dark and compelling thriller. If there's an explanation why Flatliners was forgotten, it might be because 1990 saw the release of another, far superior, supernatural thriller Jacob's Ladder.Had Flatliners been released a year or two after Jacob's Ladder, it's likely Schumacher's flashy thriller would have been dismissed as a toned down, commercialized rip-off of Adrian Lyne's nightmarish masterpiece. But with these films being released in the same year, Flatliners enjoyed a different fate, tripling JL's take at the box office despite being a watered down version of a similar premise. The passage of time hasn't been as kind to Flatliners, it has been lost atop a dated heap of throwaway 80's Brat Pack dreck, while JL has cemented its reputation as a timeless classic. Fates aside, JL is seamlessly terrifying and it manages to keep audiences guessing right up until the last frame, whereas Flatliners falls victim to over- simplification and Hollywood conveniences that drag down the final act into a predictably tidy denouement. Comparisons between the two movies is unfair, and ultimately overlooks Flatliners ability to represent the 80's at its quintessential best. Released at the end of a decade of shallow excess, Flatliners will always be dated by its hairstyles and clothing styles, but in fairness, it should also be remembered as a well executed movie at (or at least near) the top of its particular heap of dreck. For intents and purposes, it's an entertaining walk down memory lane. "},{"Title":"Very Academic And Made In A Very Good Year!!","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The bevy of box office big league stars is phenomenal in this movie!! William Baldwin, Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon and Julia Roberts!! This movie was made in one of my favorite years too, 1990!! I am a Chicagoan, and the setting in Chicago was very identifiable and artistically expedited as well!!I liked this movie, and the agitation which motivated the climax in this picture was a powerful element to the plot which was utterly sensational!!Flatliners centers around a group of disgruntled pre-med students who want to be flat lined as a way of attaining some sort of societal vindication!! When life does not make sense, it would appear very illogical to get curious about apocalyptic nightmares!! At the same time, once their desultory curiosity has gotten the better of them, there is no turning back!! The king of the hill, (so to speak) is the one who vehemently shouts I WILL DO TWO MINUTES!! WHO ELSE IS GOING TO DO THAT!! ANYONE WANT TO TRY FOR TWO AND A HALF!! Ultimately, all of these newly arrived and very unwelcome recriminations now have an extremely ubiquitous disposition in these re pro-bate's lives!! The consummation to their justified or unjustified pathos required a full 360 degree perspective on the issues they were agonizing over!! Whatever purpose all of this reckless and academic chicanery serves, it is definitely an original approach for asserting your personality!! I liked this movie, 1990 was a good year for me too, things seemed to fall into place that year!! When I saw this movie some night in November during the year 1990, I was very glad that I did!! "},{"Title":"Chilling, Eerie, & Good","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although Flatliners is 15 years old, tonight was my first time ever seeing it. I had heard about the movie Flatliners, but there was never a buzz about it to make me go out and rent it or make a point to see it period. Well, I caught it on one of the premium channels and I must say that it was very good.This movie was about some brilliant young medical students deciding to explore death. They have figured out a way to cause a person to die briefly and bring him/her back to life. Besides the all-star cast, this movie had some serious bite to it. Just the very thought of exploring death is riveting enough, but I really thought the writer & director did an excellent job in giving a different yet hair raising view. This was no generic attempt to thrill, frighten, and make one's mind race... this was the real deal.Instead of making it an empty, superficial, star-studded thriller, this movie had substance. A nail-biter, white knuckle, edge-of-the-seat, hard nose thriller. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Pushing the boundaries of thrills seeking to the very limit","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Five talented young students at university hospital school of medicine decide to push the boundaries of life in the search for knowledge and the ultimate thrill. They take turns to die (Flatline) for as long as they can in an attempt to see what lies beyond death. It becomes somewhat of a competition between them to see who can stay dead the longest; but they soon discover that crossing over to the spirit world is not free of consequences.Joel Schumacher directs this quite stylish thriller and with a very fine cast of young and talented actors - Keifer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt and William Baldwin; we have a pretty fresh well made thriller, that is certainly worthy of your attention.6.5/10 it wasn't quite as good as i had been led to believe. "},{"Title":"Help me become a flatliner.","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was awesome, the story line was fantastic and found that it kept me glued to my seat through out the whole film. I am a massive Kevin bacon fan and this was one of his best movie's the only other one better than this was Footloose. The casting on this film was excellent and all the actors play a important part in the film. Since watching this movie I have found myself wondering if there is anyone out there that would like to take part in such a experiment and if there is any doctors that would take part as well. Such a great film which makes you think about allot of things. I would love to find out whats after death. Sounds strange but I would love to become a flatliner. "},{"Title":"Really neat film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cocky medical students play chicken with process that simulates death, in attempt to get a (hopefully temporary) view of the afterlife.  Certain plot twists and themes are a little off the mark, and the acting occasionally goes over the top.  But the underlying message - about God's and others' forgiveness for our real or perceived sins - is positive and unique in cinema, and the cast is very very good.  The last sequence between Julia Roberts and her father is so effectively done that, years after having seen it, I still get chills thinking about it.  Highly recommended.  "}{"Title":"Apart from the cast - not impressive","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It may well be that Flatliners was an advanced and state-of-the-art movie in 1990, but in 2012, I found it rather uninteresting; especially if considering Joel Schumacher's later works. Flashbacks connections with childhood traumas have also been exploited quite a lot. Of course, I am not a science fiction fan/freak, but the screenplay is too hectic and the sci-fi lies first and foremost in moral and medical issues, not in technology, extra-terrestrial issues etc.But acting is brilliant and all the stars of the movie are later and current biggies - beginning with Academy Award and Golden Globes winner Julia Roberts as well as Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin, Oliver Platt. Thanks to them I could watch the movie until the end (rather predictable) and have no bad (only apathetic) feelings. Success of this movie is probably based on the star concentration. "},{"Title":"Nice idea, saw it too late.","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film I really feel as though I should have watched sooner. The idea seems so genius to me I don't know why it took me this long to watch it. Flatliners focuses on a bunch of medical students that briefly kill themselves and bring themselves back to life in order to explore the afterlife. However, they each bring back a sin from their past that now haunts them. The idea of experimenting with death is a fascinating one, and I feel like they could have done more with it. Perhaps exploring the nature of time, and mortality itself. Instead we get a very heavy handed anti-bullying message. Quite what near death experiences and past sins have in common I'm not sure. Had the characters been classified as terminally ill and wanted to make a mends themselves, that I could understand. Instead, as we see four characters do the experiment, it becomes very repetitive, and after Bacon comes to peace with his past it doesn't seem all that dangerous. I loved the early 90's feel, and some of the bizarre visuals. Why exactly is the medical school in a cathedral or something? Why does Kevin Bacon abseil down a wall when he leaves school? A film where I would actually welcome a remake, as long at it took the core idea and explored it in a different way. "},{"Title":"A Superb Entertainer!","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Flatliners' is A Superb Entertainer, that appeals from start to end, thanks to the rock-solid screenplay. Also, the terrific direction, the stylish cinematography & impressive performances, only add to it's booty. 'Flatliners' stars Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin & Oliver Platt, as medical students using physical science in an attempt to find out if there's anything out there beyond death by conducting clandestine experiments with near-death experiences. 'Flatliners' is sharply written & executed. Being a Thriller, it offers the correct amount of twists in the goings-on, and holds your attention completely. Peter Filardi's Screenplay is rock-solid. Joel Schumacher's Direction, is absolutely Terrific. Cinematography by Jan de Bont, is very stylish. Editing is good. Art Design & Make-Up, are fair.Performance-Wise Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts & Kevin Bacon are hugely impressive in their respective parts. William Baldwin & Oliver Platt are equally good. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Flatliners' is a winner all the way. Recommended! "},{"Title":"You Mean There Could Be a Billy Mahoney Waiting for Us All After we Go?","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very suspenseful, surprisingly intelligent film about five medical students flatlining themselves and then being resuscitated to share their experiences of death and what lies beyond. Joel Schumacher directs with some skill - creating some very eerie scenes as well as particularly beautiful ones. The visions of death are not what viewers might expect nor is that which awaits us all when we go - thanks to screenwriter Peter Filardi who really did an outstanding job coming up with this story. While the creativity of the story is impressive, the story has many holes as well, particularly in the logic department and believability factors. Notwithstanding all of that Flatliners is a good effective film because of the script, the direction which again is very surreal at times, and the acting which brings four very talented actors and William Baldwin together. This core of actors acts and reacts off each other very nicely. Keifer Sutherland does a very impressive job as the head of the group - the one who comes up with the idea to die and be born again. He also manages to portray a man- a young man - with a damaging, destructive secret from his past. Kevin Bacon is fine as the most pragmatic and skeptical of the group. Oliver Platt is really good as the voice of reason and human fears. Platt has some really good lines and plays the paranoia well. Yes, Julia Roberts is here too and very good. the actors do best though by playing off each other and making us believe they are such good friends. I was duly impressed with much of Flatliners but more than anything else the story affected me the most. The scene with that dog hobbling around the street just one of those powerful images evoked as were many of the flashback scenes. "},{"Title":"A great Film","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watch this move recently on Encore channel. What a great film, a great cast as well. Flatliners is very suspenseful and unpredictable. The movie has a great opening scene by the ocean then to a series of scene establishing the questions about life after death which provide a very strong upfront story involvement. Therefore Nelson played by Kiefer Sutherland was the first to go through the test to die and come back to life. Then it's gets very dramatic by bringing back his wrong doing from the past to life. Then all of the above mentioned characters went through the same experience except for Randy steckle played by Olliver platt. Then the story unfold into a resolution and basic understanding about life and the presence and meaning of God. David Labraccio played by Kevin Bacon an atheist end up questioning his own belief about God. It's amazing to watch Julia Roberts along with Kevin Bacon, Oliver platt, William baldwin and Kiefer Sutherland at such a prime time of their careers. One can ask how come we don't have such great movie produced anymore. This is one of the best productions from Joel Schumacher. I really enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"To Know Life Beyond Death","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the heart and soul of a talented cast, brilliant writing, and a perfect example of a classic movie, Flatliners breaks ground in our hunt to know what lies across the divide between life and death. The storyline carries us through flickering, illuminated lights of experience, the past lying in red, and into the darkness, where the ghosts are waiting. We are carried along waves of passion and dedication by actors bringing their characters to life, and they captivate us in their struggle against what lies in wait. And the music lifts our spirits, touches our hearts, and carries us off in the end, and this movie marks forever a deep impression in our hunt to know life beyond death. "},{"Title":"deeper them than what's on the surface - SPOILER","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Giving away what the hidden theme is in a film amounts to a ***SPOILER*** so read no further if you have not seen Flatliners. Explaining the theme in any regard involves talking about the story or plot so if you are looking for a critique about acting, cinematography, and direction but not any revelations about what happens this is your last chance to skip this entry. A bird's eye view of the plot can be described as a group of people try to cheat death. They do this by trying to experience clinical death and then revive themselves with the help of each other. In the context of the movie they are not trying to cheat the Grim Reaper like Mandy does on Cartoon Network but they are curious enough to want to experience it. I think I can say they are trying to cheat death. They all are haunted by something or another after the experience and in the end the only way to win and free themselves of want is haunting them is to forgive themselves or someone. In other words the only way the cheat death is to have forgiveness. May His Grace be with you. "},{"Title":"Ethics deftly smuggled into a horror script","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a fantastic example of how to smuggle subjects of intellectual depth into a film that might be seen by people not typically interested in topics like ethics and religion. Peter Filardi should be given a medal for writing a Hollywood screenplay that has some depth, as well as a cool and chilling concept.I loved this story, specifically because of these elements in the script. Reading through some of the other reviews here I notice that several people were frustrated by the challenge of actually thinking during a horror film, and a few others did notice the ethical details but didn't like the fact that the story didn't take the easy route of posting rhetorical ethical questions and then just leaving them floating in the breeze unresolved.The central point of this story is that all of our actions have consequences. What we do matters. Our ethical decisions actually have real effects. This is not very PC in our modern American culture that claims that no matter what you do, we all end up the same in the end. Talking about ethical consequences is so 18th century.In this story this modern assumption is wrapped up in a horror fantasy and spit back out at the audience, who usually isn't prepared to answer the questions, since they thought they were just watching another horror film. Watch this film, think about the issues, and thank the screenwriter for believing that there are some horror fans out there who like to stretch their neurons with ideas of depth, as well as watching creepy little kids beat up on Kiefer Sutherland.I give it 4 out of 5 start. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Terribly frightening, excellent atmosphere and mood","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	With Flatliners, Joel Shumacher established himself as a serious director, in that the film is far from anything but a horror, with some of the best use of colors and lighting in any film I've ever seen.	The atmosphere is incredible and partly because of that the film is tremendously suspenseful, one of the most exciting, plausible, original thrillers to date.	The story has never even been touched or poked by Hollywood, which has completely stayed away from this genre entirely, making Flatliners a very risky film. I'm not sure how it did in the box office, but it certainly deserved to become a runaway hit.	In the acting department, the whole thing is like a chain with five links. Roberts is easily the worst, but is never bad enough to break the chain. Not suprisingly, Bacon is probably the strongest, followed by Sutherland. As for Platt and Baldwin, they're just along for the ride, never given any key scenes on their own. "},{"Title":"A good way to waste 2 hours.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" KIEFER SUTHERLAND plays a bright young medical student who isn't afraid to die, in fact he's curious about what lies on the other side, is there really life after death & if so, what's it like? Kiefer decides to find out by dying, with the help of his med school buddies he flatlines for about a few seconds to a minute, after the test is successful & he is able to be brought back, the others try to beat his record by flat-lining for longer periods, however after they come back they don't come back alone, as each is haunted by people from their past, that may be hallucinations, dreams, ghosts, demons or something else. Soon each med student must confront his or her past, the things that they done, the people they hurt & dark secrets soon start to rear their ugly head. Eventually the medical students figure out that in order to possibly stop what's happening to them they must confront their past sins, but that ain't the way to end it for some of them, who's sins from the past are much, much worse...FLATLINERS was a smart thriller, it perfectly balances splendid acting, interesting characters & well crafted writing & directing, to create a great thriller that will keep you glued to you're seat & slap you in the face with several interesting plot twists. The subject matter is fascinating & always interesting. The film however is a bit overlong & the look of the picture (The cinematography) is somewhat cold & unattractive looking (Though that may be due to the films subject matter) as each frame of the picture is bathed in blues, blacks & oranges, still it's a fun film & worth you're time to watch. Definitely recommended! **** stars "}{"Title":"Intriguing concept, the result is a well-made, well-constructed, well-acted film","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I confess I had never heard of Flatliners before today, so when I came across it by chance sitting there on the landing bookcase, I was like this looks interesting, and popped it into the video recorder. And you know what? I really liked it. It was a little slow to start with and the ending is rather inconclusive but it is entertaining, dark, deep and suitably chilling that is well made with a great concept and an excellent cast. Joel Schumacher does direct efficiently in one of his better films as director, or so I think anyway, and the script isn't bad at all. The film looks great too, not elaborate special effects like in Star Wars but simple but effective camera work and a beautiful use of oranges and blues. As I have said already, I loved the concept, it was like a Gothic mix of old dark house and hi-tech laboratory as ambitious medical students try to find out is there life after death by inducing their own deaths. The afterlife sequences are quite chilling to say the least and there is an authentic atmosphere. The performances are excellent, Oliver Platt is a tad underused but he does a good job. Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon and Julia Roberts are all very good and interact well together. Overall, I enjoyed Flatliners, I feared it wouldn't be my thing, but I ended up liking it. See the difference when you give something you think you are not going to like a chance and find you like it? 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A little gem, still remembered today","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Flat SPOILERS* Five med students, Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland), David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon), Rachel Mannus (Julia Roberts), Joe Hurley (William Baldwin) & Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt) decide to attempt an experiment; dying for exactly 5 minutes (it is the maximum amount of time somebody can do this before being risk of brain damage).Almost everyone does this experiment, Randy being the lone exception, but they begin to have unwelcome visitors; David sees a little black girl shouting crude insults to him, Joe sees all the women he has had sex with (and which he videotaped) asking him why from the TV Screen, Rachel relives her father's suicide and Nelson faces a little boy with murderous intentions.Why are they here? And how will they get rid of them? This tense and interesting movie, set in an hallucinated city and into a Gothic Med School, is quite the experience, both for the story and the characters, played by then-budding stars such as Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt, Kevin Bacon and William Baldwin.The director is Joel Schumacher, who had already worked with Sutherland in 'Lost Boys', and this second cooperation is even better than the first.A must for psychological-thriller-horror buds and metaphor lovers (this story is about forgiveness and righting of past wrongs), this is one of the minor classics from the '80s that get respect even today, like the mention by Rebecca Gayheart in 'Scream 2' or the Tru Calling episode which used the movie's premise.Flatliners 9/10. "},{"Title":"interesting and original idea","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie brings a fresh story line with a convincing cast including kiefer sutherland, kevin bacon and julia roberts. In the movie five med students begin an experiment which entails killing themselves and them being brought back after a few minutes to discover what happens after death but living to share their findings. all but one of them has a turn at the near death experience. however soon after nelson (kiefer sutherland) begins to see visions of billy mahoney a child he picked on in he's past. billy is capable of physically harming nelson but he does not tell the others. one by one the group begin to see visions of their past and must make amends to stop the visions. I wouldn't say this film is particularly scary but more psychologically freaky. The concept it was makes this movie interesting as it is original. However i think the idea was wasted a little. More could have been made of the story and the ending is predictable. I personally thought the movie fantastic and i gave it nine out of ten. but i am a fan of most of kiefer sutherlands work! well its definitely worth a watch so that you can decide for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Gains points from originality","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to give this to Flatliners. The idea of the movie is original. They explored a virgin ground. Also the basic plot was decent and the moral of the story useful for everyone. But there is another thing in a movie called the implementation. Here we have One dimensional characters, pompous and repetitive direction (weird real life scenery and all this colored lights stuff), sentimental exploitation and bad acting, especially from the usual suspect Julia Roberts. The worst part for me was the happy ending, so cheesy. I was left with the feeling it could have been a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is great from start to finish about a group of med students that get together and literally kill each other by stopping their hearts and then revive themselves. They then research what happens from the near death experiences. As each one goes through the experience, they become haunted by their deepest fears that seem to materialize as reality. This ranges from dead kids with hockey sticks to dead fathers that seem to be upstairs.The cast is first rate and Oliver Platt is hilarious in one of the best roles of his career. I am not a big Keifer Sutherland fan but even he does an excellent job. This is a movie that I can watch over and over! "},{"Title":"Back from the afterlife.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nelson is a medical professor who wants his four students to put him to death and then bring him back to life so that he can prove that there is an afterlife. So they do and soon enough all of the medical students want to know if there is life after death. The afterlife isn't about pearly gates and lights at the end of the tunnel but something more sinister.Past ghosts come back to haunt them and surely this movie will haunt anyone. It has some pretty scary moments that could translate into real life and it makes people wonder somewhat about what happens when you die. It's a good movie to see when it's raining and you're feeling down. It's also a little weird.See it with a haunted past. "},{"Title":"Flat Flatliners","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A medical student named Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland) hatches a plan to explore death by briefly killing himself in a controlled environment then having his friends bring him back to life minutes later. Four fellow students join in the plan, taking turns with their explorations, competing with one another to see who can stay under the longest. What will the consequences of this dangerous game be? Without a doubt, the premise of Flatliners is intriguing. I can't speak for the medical veracity of the idea--I'm sure it's ridiculous--but it doesn't need to be realistic to provide fodder for a good film. Unfortunately, this isn't a good film. It's not quite failure, but it's damn close. It's as if somewhere along the line the film was brought back from the dead, but with severe brain damage.One of the primary problems that director Joel Schumacher does not overcome is that these actors just do not seem like medical students, and the setting just doesn't seem like a medical school. In addition to Sutherland, the other students are Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin and Oliver Platt. With the exception of Platt, the other four seem more like models who got lost on their way back from a Vogue shoot. Platt seems like an overacting fussbudget who got lost on his way to a Steven Spielberg set. Writer Peter Filardi gives them more model-like dialogue, except when they're flatly reciting the medical terms they've memorized.The school, for some bizarre reason, is an old church/monastery, filled with Gothic statuary and modern construction accoutrements, such as scaffolding and those thick, transparent plastic sheets they hang in doorways. It does look cool, but it's difficult to buy the set as a medical school.That might not usually be a problem for me--I love absurdism, after all, but the plot seems to hinge on the verisimilitude of the characters and their setting. What we're left with are actors going through medical student ritual movements and speech as they work their way through a formulaic series of events. Formulaic because much of the film consists of the same scene over and over, our cast of pretty boys (and a beautiful girl) simply take turns around the chair of honor, a bit like they're square dancing. The first time, when Nelson goes under, it may be pretty exciting, but by the fifth time, it's just more ritual--there is little suspense.The genre listing claims that Flatliners is a combination of horror, thriller and sci-fi. None of those seem to fit the film very well, although superficially, it makes some sense. But the scenarios are really just drama heavily imbued with symbolism and metaphor. The fantasy elements are intriguing enough at that, but the gist of the film consists of characters having to adjust their karmic balances. They're trying to right various wrongs, or at least perceived wrongs, towards persons from their pasts. It's fairly overt; there isn't much subtext here. The karmic imbalance material is the best of the film, but in a case of life reflecting art, Schumacher has a karmic imbalance himself--there is far too much empty ritual in the film and not enough meaty material. "},{"Title":"character development","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although I enjoyed this movie, it is definitely not one of my favorites. Firstly, I didn't think the characters were developed well.  Perhaps because there were two many to focus on.  Two much time was spent killing them and reviving them minutes later.    The idea of seeking atonement for a past wrong, ending the after death visions is a good idea. However,on this note I didn't feel that William Baldwin's character was followed through like the others. Julia, Keifer and Kevin's characters seem to resolve their past issues.  What about William?  Will he still have his visions? Is his past resolved?  Is it by refusing the girls?  Just like all the visions were different, perhaps the way they are dealt with is as well.  On the whole it's an original idea, but not a movie I would intentionally see again. "},{"Title":"Flatliners A PC Thriller","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I must start out with an apology usually I'm a sucker for all movies and on those rare occasions I don't like something I usually won't say anything about it. But this movie warrants an exception.A group of Yuppie medical students who've lived unbelievably bland lives fall all over themselves to take turns killing each other and getting resuscitated just so they can study death and presumably write a peer reviewed article about it, which will naturally win them the Nobel Peace Prize for stupidity. The problem they have all committed Politically Correct sins and their PC demons return with them and force them to experience hell on earth.The greatest sin Kevin Bacon's character has ever committed is that when he was a boy he...teased a black girl (melodramatic gasp!). This is absolute worst thing he ever did in his life - he never hurt an adorable looking animal (a PC felony), stole anything, cheated on a test, played doctor as a child with neighborhood girls, or hurt anyone in any manner. For this sin he has hypnagogic hallucinations of her teasing him until he redeems himself by tracking her down (she's now a woman) and apologizes.The attitude of women is particularly patronizing women are portrayed as child-like innocents who are incapable of sinning or complex thought. The absolute worst thing the Julia Roberts character ever did in her entire life is open a door she wasn't supposed to when she was very young, which naturally caused her father to kill himself because she was about to see him shooting heroin. William Baldwin's character is almost looked upon as a pedophile and he's tormented not because he's a serial fornicator but because he lies to get into the pants of gullible women who were evidently too stupid to consent to the sexual act. Also, he video-tapes every performance for his own personal use, and the women are so enraptured with the experience they don't notice him mugging for the camera; they could have made it more interesting by having him review the tapes with some like-minded pervert friends (I guess it was too early to post to the internet). Given the mindset of the writer, the age of consent for women should jump from 18 to 90.Keifer Southerland's character is the only one with a moderately interesting past as a child he bullied a kid who climbed a tree, then after throwing a few rocks that kid manages to die instantly after falling less than 10 feet. The kid's dispossessed spirit stalks and attacks him throughout the movie, providing some intense scenes that were a welcome relief in this otherwise tedious movie. When the kid attacks him in his hypnoidal state, he has physical manifestations of the violence when he wakes up.The PC goddess (Hillary Clinton?) doesn't allow for moral diminished capacity, punishing adults as if they should have known better when they were children. Hospital patients are, for some reason, stuffed into a museum and when they die due to the substandard care they're presumably cut up by the medical students. This film could have used some zombies that inadvertently escaped from hell by following them back through the portal from the afterlife.I'm giving this a very generous 2/10 "},{"Title":"One Joel Schumacher Movie That Actually Has a Pulse","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Joel Schumacher film doesn't sink to the depths his films usually do, if that praise is faint enough for you.A bunch of medical students play around with death, each taking themselves to the brink to see what it's like. Each brings something back with him, a memory, a piece of unfinished business. It's a pretty good premise, actually, and a director who wasn't a hack could probably have made a minor classic out of it. But Schumacher is not the go-to person for classics (his best film to date is Phonebooth, for God's sake).Of course, no movie with Kiefer Sutherland in it can ever be above a certain level of quality, so the project was somewhat doomed from the start.Grade B- "}{"Title":"An ambitious film, but unfortunately not ambitious enough","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never been a huge fan of Joel Schumacher. I've seen enough of his films to know one thing about him. All he cares about is visual style. There's no substance to his stories when you get beneath all the flair and breathtaking cinematography. And after what he did to the Batman franchise. That was just unforgivable. His two entries are completely awful compared to Tim Burtons. Burton is a director who also has a keen eye for visuals, but in his vision of Batman, he was able to tie the visuals into the dark psychology of the characters. Schumacher by comparison turned Batman into an overinflated freak-show.Still, occasionally Schumacher can turn out decent films, especially ones where he tones down his flamboyant style. Films like Falling Down and Phone Booth were very good, because he seemed to care about those protagonists. And in the case of Flatliners, Schumacher attempts to meld his theatricality with people we can empathise with. With limited success.Flatliners has a great deal of potential. The trailer sold me on it when I saw it back in 1990. The film attempts to answer the age old question...what lies beyond death? There are a great many angles Flatliners could have explored in one of life's greatest mysteries. But unfortunately, it only scratches the surface, and instead gives us simplistic solutions to lofty dilemmas.Focusing on five medical students, Nelson Wright (Kiefer Sutherland), Rachel Mannus (Julia Roberts), David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon), Joe Hurley (William Baldwin) and Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt), they band together for a highly risky (not to mention reckless) experiment.Nelson is obsessed with death, and comes up with the idea of simulating it. Stopping his heart for a few minutes, and basically seeing what will happen. One by one, they go through with it (except for Randy, the only one with any brains), recklessly betting for longer periods of time, until they are revived. Each one has an experience. Usually unpleasant childhood memories. As well as the sins of their past.Although all are successfully revived, their near-death experience has consequences. By going somewhere they had no place going, their long forgotten pasts manifest in the present. And want retribution.Flatliners is a fairly creepy film. There's no question about that. Schumacher manages to invest the film with an unsettling atmosphere. Like in the case of Nelson, he is haunted by the spirit of a child he accidentally killed. A child who is very peeved to say the least. There's a marvellously paranoid sequence when Nelson is in David's van, and briefly sees the boy outside. He shuts all the windows. Locks all the doors. Only to find he's locked himself in with his pint-sized stalker. And the brief image of night cyclists passing through Nelson like they were apparitions is eerie to say the least.But as usual with Schumacher, he gets carried away with the visuals. Some parts of the film are drenched in neon colours as if we're experiencing a supernatural acid trip instead of a horror film. Although I liked the moment in Julia Roberts' experience where she makes peace with her late father, and the colour of the room changes reflecting upon the mood of the moment.But elsewhere, the emotional payoffs for the characters are contrived and utterly predictable. David is tormented by a girl he used to pick on, and his moment of redemption is simply to ask for forgiveness. Which is the same with Nelson. The fact it signifies the end is such a lame cop-out. I was really disappointed with the film's lack of imagination. In the case of Joe, his personal torment is different girls he made love to while secretly videotaping them. His story arc gets no closure, as if Schumacher lost interest in it.Despite the intensifying nature of their personal horrors, its difficult to sympathise with people who are really a bunch of reckless thrill-seekers not fit to be called doctors. In the case of Oliver Platt's character, he arguably gives the best performance of the five. Because he is the only one who sees what's really happening. His sense of moral outrage at the events is the closest the film gets to thought-provoking.Although Flatliners has impressive set design with Gothic cathedral architecture, an oppressive atmosphere and a wonderfully haunting musical score, its essentially undone by Schumacher's preoccupation with fancy light effects and gloomy evocations. The possibility of an afterlife leaves room for fascinating dimensions, and the intricacies of the human soul could have been explored to much greater effect. But in Schumacher's hands, it only emerges as a tripped out light show. Very nice to look at, but not a single shred of human feeling to sharpen the focus. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, finding out what happens near the moment of death.","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recall when this movie came out all those years ago, but only now found a copy of the DVD at my local library. I also seem to recall that it didn't get very good reviews, but I found it to be a nicely interesting movie. The main characters are all in medical school, and I suppose in their mid 20s, although the real age of the various actors varied quite a bit.Anyway, one of them, Rachel (Julia Roberts) has a keen interest in those who have experienced near death and were revived, and interviews as many people as she can who say they have been there. All this prompts one of them, Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland), to try an experiment -- lower his body temperature than administer a drug that will cause him to flat line, become technically dead, then after 1 or 2 minutes warm him up and revive him. Against their better judgments he recruits his 4 friends to help out. After Nelson, each takes turn trying it, and each has a distinctly different experience. None of them experience hovering over the bed then being drawn to a beautiful light. Instead, they must confront something particularly unpleasant from their past, sometimes even from their childhood.Other young doctors include Kevin Bacon as David, William Baldwin as Joe, and Oliver Platt as Randy, the most level-headed one and the one who does not try the experiment. This also was Hope Davis' first movie, and she plays Anne, Joe's girlfriend. "},{"Title":"A Creative Movie W/Some Good Ideas and Nice Film Techniques","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Of course, this is so far-fetched that a group of medical students would ever even have the spiritual curiosity to even wonder about life after death and explore it via near-death experience.  Then to explore it using stolen equipment and having life-threatening experiences like these is doubly non-sequitur. But beyond this ludicrous setting is the idea that of course you find your own past waiting to come to terms with your present, waiting for you in your subconscious, if you dare to explore it. Nice acting for such ludicrous roles.  We all know preppie wanna be upper-class med students do nothing to threaten their status as doctors; that's the Dr. Frankenstein story but doesn't translate into modern medicine and the classists you'll find in any med school.Creative fairytale, well worth watching and enjoying. "},{"Title":"Today is a good day to die.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Flatliners is a creepy, cool movie with a big Hollywood cast.  Kevin Bacon, Keifer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Billy Baldwin, and Oliver Platt star.  That should be enough to grab the average movie-goer (it's also a crucial maneuver for Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon).  Flatliners brilliantly executes an original idea of medical students crossing over into death, exploring, and coming back.  But there's a price.  You bring something back with you Your darkest secrets and biggest mistakes and you must pay for them.  The cinematography is sometimes very stark and beautiful...and very blue.  The dark tones and moody colors really put you in a state of fear.  It's like you're ready to be scared.  And if you don't believe that this movie can scare you, I've got two words for you Billy Mahoney.  You'll find no monsters here, but little Billy Mahoney is all you need.  If you're a horror fan more of the psychological variety, then Flatliners is a must-see. "},{"Title":"great chill...","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie sheds a new light on the Near Dead Experience. and it's not a pleasant one. unlike the tunnel with the great light people are talking about, this one brings up the sins the actors characters have committed. Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, Oliver Platt and William Baldwin are the stars of this great movie! i've been a Kiefer Sutherland fan for quite some time, and this is one of the best movies i've ever seen! thumbs up! i recommend this movie to everyone who hasn't seen it yet! i give it 8.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Group of medical students experiment with death and kill each other off so that they can experience what the after life is like and then bring each other back to life. However, things don't go so smoothly when visions from there after life experiences begin to mix into their everyday reality. Feels a bit fake at times, but there is some geniune emotion in the proceedings. It also manages to scare, touch you, and make you think all at the same time while covering many universal themes. Something movies rarely are able to do these days. Julia Roberts stands out in the the hot cast.Rated R; Violence, Profanity, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Scared me when I was a kid","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Five medical students are so fascinated and curious about the life after death, that they kill each other to find out what happens. After a few minutes they revive the dead person and then asks how it was. At first they are very pleased with themselves and even competes in how long they can stay dead. But then they discover that ghosts from their pasts has come back to haunt them. The actors lined up here are certainly impressive, at least it was back then. These days it is only Julia Roberts who´s a star, although she is indeed bigger than ever. All the actors in Flatliners do a job well done, especially old favorites of mine like Kevin Bacon and Kiefer Sutherland. Oliver Platt is less irritating than usual as the only sane person in the group and the comic relief. William Baldwin does a good job, he also being better than he normally is.Director Joel Schumacher has chosen dark environments and slick camerawork, to compensate the somewhat flawed script. I remember watching Flatliners as a kid, and it certainly spooked me. The scary scenes are still scary, but as a whole the movie feels a bit unsatisfying. It doesn´t really evolve the whole life-after-death-thing after the beginning of the film, which is a bit disappointing. Flatliners is still a well-acted thriller, with an interesting story. And some charming humor as well. I want to die first!, No, I want to! Fun stuff, indeed. 3/5 "},{"Title":"A slightly incorrect, a little too ethical and religious, but great movie.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There were some thins in ´Flatliners´ that didn´t really make sense. For example the lights, al kinds of colours in illogical places, the dark empty streets and crowded ally´s. But what I really don´t understand is what the connection is between a near-death experience and the obligation to make up for things in your past. The only thing that really bothered me so though, were strong ethical and religious aspects, suggesting there is a god, who makes people pay for their mistakes, wich I had preferred to keep a little vage.Still, I loved the movie. The strange scenery mentioned above created a dark, almost scary ambiance, wich made the movie worth seeing. Other then the religious ****, it was a great story, since there´s no real knowledge os the possible existence of live after death, everything could happen. And because nothing was made really clear in the beginning, it was exciting to see what wat going to happen and why. I don´t think I even have to mention the cast, wich was simply excellent.Although it had it´s flaws, ´Flatliners´ is one of the better movies, I´ve seen.  "},{"Title":"A VERY WELL MADE THOUGHT PROVOKING MOVIE.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the most original horror movies, I have ever seen. It explores life after death in a very dark and disturbing way. Which makes this movie very frightening to watch. I really enjoyed this movie even though it got a little to morbid at times.Okay heres your basic plot summary. A group of med students are led into a gruesome plot to experience life after death, by a some what twisted Kiefer Sutherland. Who gives a superb performance as an overly ambitious medical student. Who decides to play God. The experiments get more dangerous as the students begin to realize that cheating death is starting to make there worst nightmares come true! They all begin to loss touch with reality as things spiral out of control. A great movie with good performances from all except that thing what's his name? Oh yeah Oliver Platt he can't act. Just ignore his character and you will more then likely enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Don't try this at home","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The premise of this horror lite venture in movie making is that if one is dead for only a few minutes and then brought back to life before the brain damage sets in, one might very well experience what it's like being dead, and that experience might be glorious and one might learn something nobody else knows, or at least something to tell them about on Sixty Minutes. Anyway, this is what med student Nelson Wright, played with energy and intensity by Kiefer Sutherland, thinks. Somehow he convinces four other med students, Joe Hurley (William Baldwin), David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon), Rachel Mannus (Julia Roberts), and Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt) to help him out.Problem number one is that I don't think director Joel Schumacher sold this shaky premise sufficiently. We really need to believe that this group of med students could be flaky enough to risk their careers and their lives for an iffy few minutes of a supposed after life experience. For me it just wasn't happening, and I think that is why this movie starts slow and remains relatively unfocused for the first twenty minutes or so.Problem number two is the casting of Julia Roberts as Rachel Mannus. This was the same year she did Pretty Woman (1990) with Richard Gere and became a box office sensation. She looks gorgeous in the dark red and blue tinted lights, but it's not enough to put some specs on her and make us believe she's a daredevil pre med student. And let me ask you this, mightn't all that serious hair get in the way when she slices into those cadavers? She is one of my favorites with that face like no other, but her work here was limited, inconsistent and a bit preoccupied. Still Julia is always worth watching.Problem number three is the lighting. All that dim lighting just doesn't mesh well with med school chic. Med students like to see what they're doing when they're digging into all that viscera. And if your job is to bring a friend back from the dead, you want a clean, well-lighted room, please.Okay, putting all that aside, and accepting the premise, just how bad was this movie? Well, not all that bad really. The cast does a good job, particularly Sutherland who was apparently psyched for the part, and Bacon. The idea that we are responsible for our actions and must pay the consequences for evils done to others is a compelling notion well illustrated. I particularly liked the haunting of Joe Hurley by all the girls he hustled and told lies to and videotaped without their knowledge. Those babes are looking a little ugly now, dude. Call it karma. The little boy who stalks Nelson Wright is chilling and Rachel Mannus's depressing father is very sad. After a bit the movie even gets a little scary. But I had a thought en route What if we substitute the post death experience of the participants in this little star chamber club with some bad acid trips? How much would their experience differ, really?Bottom line I don't think TV's Fear Factor is going to be featuring this one anytime soon. But wouldn't they love to do it? Think of the ratings. Anyway, this is a mild diversion for a rainy afternoon, thanks mainly to a fine cast. "}{"Title":"Illogical because they have no proof","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How stupid could be medicinal students who kill themselves to find out whether there ist life after death? Even if they had a near-death experience, which is probably caused by hallucinations of a lack of oxygen, they would have absolutely no way of proving that, just as other persons haven´t.Evaluation 6/10  "},{"Title":"From an excellent idea to a cheap melodrama&#133;","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Watching this movie I felt a gradual deception In the beginning, my hopes for this movie were very high because I was expecting a metaphysical movie about life and death, with probably some interesting and new ideas about what could be an eventual life after death (I was expecting that because of what I've read and heard&#133;); But then I got a bit disappointed when I realized it had nothing to do with that, because it was turning into an average horror/suspense flick. The death is coming back to get you type (a kind of FINAL DESTINATION of the early 90's&#133;). It was a bit frustrating seeing an excellent initial idea turning into a film like that, but OK, it was my mistake to expect a different kind of movie done by Hollywood, and by Hollywood stars&#133; But it was right then, when I though it couldn't be more disappointing, that it got even worse! A cheap and irritating melodramatic final was expecting me! Oh my God, can't you guys from Hollywood make a film without these moral pseudo-lessons? I can't stand anymore these beautiful and so comforting endings, trying to show us the good moral values (In this particular case was the redemption of their past&#133; They all said I'm sorry to the people they had hurt, and death forgave them&#133; Oh! Isn't it so beautiful?!)&#133; One more time I see an interesting movie concept turning into a mediocre film! "},{"Title":"a good entertaining thriller","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Someone i know said that there was this film called flatliners that was probably up my street. I was told about this movie after watching final destination 2 and watching the extra feature about near deth experience.I bought the DVD of flatliners at the modest price of 5 pounds. Got home and watched it. And i could not help but smile and feel good wondering how this film hadn't been in my life before. The film is about a group of medical students try to see what it's like after near death experience. But then there sins come back in reality and can harm them physically.Acting from Kevin Bacon and Keifer Sutherland is great as you would expect from the pair. And Joel Schmacheur made this a great movie like he did with the lost boys.This is an edgy and stylish thriller bound to please nay type of film fan. "},{"Title":"Death can sometimes be a better Teacher of Life!!","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hollywood is one of the best and the beautiful things that had occurred in my life. I admire and am very much fascinated by the way Hollywood generates ideas and implement them. It makes me wonder about the scope of human brain. I saw Flatliners a long time back but the story, direction, cast and of all acting is still fresh in my mind. The story begins with our lead actor Sutherland saying during sunrise what a beautiful day to die. For all of us, It's a story which shows emotions that are sometimes withheld in our mind during our entire life. Never able to understand few things in life. It shows us to get motivated and to improve our quality of life. Anyway I suggest it to all that watch it once. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got recommended this film by a friend, we both love Keifer Sutherland. He watched this for that reason and liked it. Trusting Keifer would make the film i took his advice and watched it, hoping that i do not see his character as Jack Bauer all the time.I didn't. It was great, Keifer played his character; Nelson, brilliantly, and i totally forgot about 24. The casting was great, Julia Roberts didn't annoy me so thats a change and i also didn't want to kill Kevin Bacon. Another good change.The idea and plot line caught me straight away as i think about these things a lot and its very psychological, but then again it can be freaky after the death experiences.It has a lot of secret depth in this film if you look hard enough. This is a good film, its not the best film in the world or one of the greatest, but its a bad director made good by the cast and plot line. "},{"Title":"Interesting theme!","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners left quite a noticeable impression in my head. The story is quick paced and leaves you constantly absorbed and at many times quite tense. Its about five remarkable student doctors (notably Julia Roberts and Kevin Bacon) among whom, one of them has devised the mechanism of remaining dead (or getting flat-lined)for a few seconds and then coming back to life.The procedure is quite 'complex' involving a plethora of medical knick-knacks - injections, electric blankets, oxygen masks and a variety of esoteric medical terms. I strongly suspect doctors coined all these words so that they never need to get layed off. But funnily they follow the KISS (Original version for engineers Keep It Simple, stupid) (Extended version for doctors Keep it Stupid, Simple) philosophy as well. At the risk of getting euthanized by some revenge-taking doctor reader, let me continue.So the first guy who gets flat-lined hopes to find the answers to life which philosophy and religion cannot convincingly answer. He hopes to get it answered (and become famous) through applied science. He flat-lines for around two minutes and then comes back into our world left quite shaken. During death, he has a vision of an incident, when he was young, which left the strongest impression on his life. He killed another boy when he was kid, by accident, and he still feels responsible for it.With the success of the first flat-liner, the others follow suit each of them extending their flat-line time further and further to test the limits of how long one can remain dead and experience life after death.Meanwhile monsters from the past and future, keep coming back to haunt them after their flat-line experience. The first flat-liner is haunted by a young kid who tortures him when he is alone. The second who camera-ed all the women he took to bed, sees television sets all over playing his videos. The third is haunted by a young girl who he teased in school. The fourth is haunted by her suicide-dead father, for whom she feels responsible.All of them are driven insane by these haunting and obsessions and think that the past seems to want to take revenge on them. The main focus on getting flat-lined is that your entire life passes through your eyes, at the moment of 'dying', whatever stage that is, and you are left mostly with the strongest impressions of life in your mind. Since they didn't die these strong impressions have somehow resurfaced and have become the focus of their lives.All of them somehow come to terms with (and extinguish) their past demons. All of them except the first one who realizes the only way he can move on through life is getting flat-lined AGAIN. During this flat-line session, he sees himself getting flat-lined the first time and also sees the boy he killed, trying to kill him this time round. The boy kills him this time for a few minutes and in doing so has sought revenge. For a few minutes in the movie one is left wondering if he gets to come back. Thankfully (because most of us like happy endings) the boy absolves him of his past and he comes back to life again. "},{"Title":"Good idea backed up with a weak adaptation and mediocre acting.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of medical students purposely flat-line themselves to receive and near-death experience but are haunted by nightmarish visions afterwords.This movie includes a stellar cast with Keifer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon, and William Baldwin but failed to include effective performances from the actors. As interesting as the movie was, I was not drawn in nearly as much as I feel I should have been for a movie that was intended to be a thriller. It did not keep you guessing or surprise you in any way. But the movie was still quite interesting. I never felt the need to watch something else or stop paying attention. The topic was so interesting and continues to interest me now, a year after seeing the movie. Any movie that could have this effect on me deserves a recommendation for effort alone. I don't really know what it was that made me enjoy the movie at all. Maybe it was the great editing and lighting or maybe it was just the idea. All I know is that this is just one of those movies that you just don't really know why it was so interesting but was and was therefor a decent film. Overall, this movie was very mediocre but applies mainly to a sci-fi/ thriller audience.I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Worth Repeated Viewings","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Worth Repeated Viewings Eerie. Sorta. A very very interesting premise, pretty well done. You have to accept that they live in the creepiest city ever, so that every single scene must be really scary-looking. And you must be able to be frightened by a big-mouthed little black girl. I didn't like or understand some characters or their motivations (particularly Keifer Sutherland). Overall, it's good; just a bit mis-handled, yet enjoyable throughout. Special Features None Similar Movie It has a pretty similar feel something like The Devils Advocate, in reveals and twists, etc. However it's filmed pretty similar to The Lost Boys (another Schumacher). "},{"Title":"Open Minded.","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners starts off quite well and looks interesting, but getting further into the film is when you see that it isn't going to be as good as you thought it would, although I'm sure it could have been a lot worse. The way the story unfolds I find quite confusing, because you don't really understand it completely until you have seen the end of the film. I liked the film because some of the characters are a little bit quirky which uplifts the film a little, but even the funny-ish type moments don't really make the film much better at all. It also has Kiefer Sutherland in it, I am a fan of him I think he's an amazing actor. But the film really needed a better storyline. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE WITH A HEART! GREAT CAST!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an excellent sci-fi movie with a HEART. The movie is as robust as The Lost Boys, but also has the ability to be as tender as Powder. The cast is superb! and they all worked well together in the film. This film gives you a sense of purpose and wonder. A great movie, see it today! Congrats to Julia, Kiefer, and Kevin! "}{"Title":"Deep thoughts and touching performance from K.Bacon","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've found the theme of the movie really interesting, concerning questions about our inner self. Nice music. The five actors were very nice, but I liked most K. Bacon's performance. Anyway, it's a film good to choose. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie  10/10","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just finished watching Flatliners for the second time. The first was when it was new at the theatre. I LOVED this movie back in 1990, and even more so now. It really makes a person think about right and wrong and their life. This is a movie that everyone needs to see. With each viewing, more is revealed and understood, also in ourselves. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie !!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie has Everything... its thought provoking.. scary.. it makes you really think.. and that the past can come back and haunt you... which it does in all the cases.. Keifer and the rest of the cast do an Excellent job in this picture.. You never knew what was happening next..i Highly recommend this movie.. watch it and you'll have the pants scared off of you !!!! "},{"Title":"Amazing performances, great direction, haunting set, fascinating screenplay and incredibly beautiful music!!!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Warning This review gives away some elements from the movie.Flatliners is the best movie I've ever seen, maybe because it deals with a concept that really fascinates me death or shall I say what happens to us once we die. And what's great about that movie is that it only gives us clues to answer that question but no real answers. It doesn't try to convince us that a belief is better than another or that any religion holds the truth, you come out with your own conclusions. But Flatliners isn't just a movie about death, it's also about taking the responsibilities for your actions and how far the feeling of guilt can bring you. This perspective is shown throughout most of the film. In short, the story is about 5 medical students who decide to experience death, then come back and live to talk about it for the sake of knowledge (and stardom). The problem is that once revived, each Flatliner starts having visions (and some of them become very painful even physically) of everything they've done wrong in their lives... But they experience it from their victim's point of vue! Some of those visions can be taken more lightly and even seem funny to think about (Joe starts seeing the images of girls he has videotaped while having sex without them knowing on every video screen he puts his eyes on) but one guilt trip becomes a real threat for one of the Flatliner's life.The acting in this film is excellent, especially for Kiefer Sutherland who plays the lead, Nelson Wright. In my opinion, Nelson's the most complex, intense and fascinating character of this movie and he keeps dealing with quite mixed and opposite feelings. First of all, Flatlining was his idea (and he lets us know it) but here comes David (Kevin Bacon), the good guy, who sort of takes the control of the experiment (because everyone trust him more than Nelson) and falls in love with Rachel (Julia Roberts), the girl Nelson had a crush on. So, Nelson will try to take back the control of his idea and win the heart of Rachel, but he does it in the wrong way. He will project the image of the scientist and the person who is sure of himself and in perfect control of the situation. He'll become aggressive towards anyone who will reproach him anything and try to look as if he is not affected by what other people says. In the movie, Nelson comes out as an extremely vulnerable character, but always on the defensive and unable to express his feelings, even to his closest friends. The more he'll receive comments like at least when I get into troubles, I don't drag everybody down with me!, the more he'll take his distances from the group and become arrogant, but at one point finally, the weight of this guilt is way to heavy for him. He really ends up believing that he is the only one responsible for everything that has happened to his friends and, to think he's not even worth living... Kiefer Sutherland was so amazingly good and believable portraying this character that I think it's one of his best performances until now. The other characters (David Labraccio, Rachel Manus, Joseph Hurley (William Baldwin)and Randal Steckle (Oliver Platt)) are also well acted and each of them get a chance to shine in the movie. Add to their performances a great direction, a haunting set, a fascinating screenplay and some incredibly beautiful music and this movie becomes one of the most entertaining and interesting movie that has ever been made...  "},{"Title":"Near death is not so pleasant","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Instead of seeing the soothing white light that supposedly comes with near death experiences- each of these characters experiences regret, revenge or retribution for past actions.  The movie is dark- as well it should be. Kiefer Sutherland is very good as is Oliver Platt but the performances of Julia and William Baldwin left something to be desired.  Kevin Bacon's character seems to be the only one that learned a valuable lesson from their foolish antics.  Not an easy movie to watch but it conveys the idea that you can't play God.  "},{"Title":"An oddly inspirational film","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is dark and disturbing - and yet, it has a wonderful sense of hope not normally present in this type of movie.  The cast makes up for one-dimensionally written characters by expressive and insightful acting, particularly Kiefer Sutherland.  This is an excellent and uplifting film, but it requires patience. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller that will make your heart race from start to finish","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" FLATLINERS, in my opinion, is an excellent thriller that will make your heart race from start to finish. The only thing I didn't understand was why the school was so poorly lit. However, if you ask me, the performances, production design, and direction were flawless. As a matter of fact, everyone involved did a superior job. One thing I didn't like it when certain characters were wearing glasses. The only other thing I didn't like was when people were having the machine tested on them. All in all, if you ask me, this excellent Now, in conclusion, if you're a fan of anyone in the cast or like thrillers, I highly recommend this excellent thriller that will make your heart race from start to finish. "},{"Title":"flat, yet quite round","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back when Joel Schumacher was still making good movies (that is, before he got into Batman and Robin and such things), he directed the eerie Flatliners, about medical students conducting experiments in which they make each other temporarily dead. But what if their experiments go too far? Admittedly, this is one of the most improbable plots ever, but it's still a very good movie. Kiefer Sutherland, with his menacing face, is perfect for the lead role. It's interesting to see Julia Roberts before she got all obsessed with looking perfect in every role. Other cast members include Kevin Bacon, William Baldwin, Oliver Platt and Hope Davis (in her debut).All in all, you may be nervous about conducting any kind of experiment after watching this movie. Like Frankenstein and Jurassic Park, it shows that we shouldn't get too confident with science. Very well done. "},{"Title":"I don't want to be buried on a Saturday... it cost's $150 more to be buried on Saturday. Average horror/thriller.","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners starts with a young idealistic medical student named Nelson Wright (Kiefer Sutherland) convincing four of his fellow students to help him perform an experiment in which he hopes to experience the afterlife by killing himself under strict conditions & then having his friends revive him. The night of the experiment arrives & Nelson along with David Labraccio (Kevin Bacon), Rachel Mannus (Julia Roberts), Joe Hurley (William Baldwin) & Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt) prepares to die, for a few seconds anyway. The experiment goes as well as could be expected with Nelson being successfully revived after being clinically dead for a short amount of time, the friends wax lyrical about all the fame, fortune & praise that will be heaped upon them by the media & medical professions. Joe is next to undergo the procedure as they need more data, then it's David & finally Rachel. However experiencing death & the afterlife first hand doesn't come without it's problems as past sins come back in physical manifestations to haunt & terrorise the friends. Somehow they must find a way to appease their sins, or be haunted by them forever more...Directed by Joel Schumacher I thought Flatliners was an OK way to pass a couple of hours but was nothing particularly special. The script by Peter Filardi moves along at a reasonable pace & isn't overly dull but it didn't really grip or engage me, I didn't really care about any of the character's or what was happening to them. The basic central idea behind Flatliners is quite original but the way it presents itself is rather lacklustre & it seems to have almost no ambition in tackling the issues it raises, the way Joe, Rachel & David overcome their past sins is very low key & Nelson has a ridiculous fight with his in the afterlife while he is dead but you just know his friends on the outside are going to revive him even though he's been dead for what seems like an eternity. Flatliners seems convinced that to make up for past sins all you have to do is confront them, apologise & that afterwards everything will be perfect, I thought Flatliners was a horror film not a feel-good Disney film! Flatliners obviously tries to say things about religion, the afterlife, past misdemeanours & friendship but it doesn't do a very good job. Oh, & as you would expect the clichéd romantic sub plot is present & correct. There's no real blood or gore & the only violence is Sutherland being beaten with a hockey-stick wielding psycho kid. One question though, why is a medical school situated in what looks like a Cathedral or Church, sure it's Gothic & it looks cool but it felt odd somehow.Director Schumacher doesn't know the meaning of the word subtle, he lights everything with bright neon colours usually cold icy blues & contrasting warm glowing oranges. The entire film looks so staged & forced when something more natural looking might have been better. Having said that the film does look sumptuous with some fantastic lighting & photography that gives Flatliners a classy feel throughout. Schumacher fails to generate much tension, atmosphere or surprise & really should have done more with cast & material he had. For some reason Schumacher depicts the afterlife with aerial shots of snow covered mountains & people running through grassy hillsides.With a supposed budget of about $26,000,000 Flatliners is technically excellent especially it's visual qualities. The special effects are good as is the music & it's generally a very well made film. The acting is pretty decent by a good cast but Kevin what's with that bad 80's hairdo?!Flatliners is an OK film, it won't knock your socks off or change your life but it's definitely worth at least one watch & you can probably catch it on TV all the time for free these days, like I did. "},{"Title":"Don't be deceived on the title","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really wanted to see this movie. I mean the idea is very interesting. Medical students tasting death and coming back to solve the mystery of death. The first 15-20 minutes of the movie is good. But that's it. The rest of the movie is really ruined. You have a quite interesting idea to make a movie and you make a below-standard horror movie. Totally disappointing. Even myself could write a really better scenario with this idea.And some absurdities. You kill someone on purpose. Stays dead for 2-3 minutes. Turn him back to life. And go to have breakfast on the same morning. ) Does it make sense? I'm a molecular biologist and keep the cells at least at -20 degrees cold to keep undamaged. I don't think that you can prevent the brain damage with a cold blanket. I wish they had a better medical adviser.  I don't recommend this movie if you just want to watch this movie because of it's name and tagline... "}{"Title":"Crazy experiment nurtured by boredom","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film that reveals the unease of modern men and women in life when confronted to death. We are beyond the simple religious belief in the afterlife, and what's more in any kind of hell or heaven. Religion is declared dead. Yet human beings are more obsessed than ever by death, especially since we can push it away for quite a long time. What's more the scientific and technological development of our societies leads us to believe we can explain everything, know everything and do everything. That was quite typical of the end of the 20th century. Today things are changing, especially when the president of the United States himself, Barack Obama, in a public speech to journalists speaks of their search for truth and qualifies that truth as being of course relative because it is more a quest than a final end, objective or achievement. The film shows the end of the good old metaphysical thinking that was starting to evolve into a truth obsession, an obsessive conception that truth was unique and irreversibly reachable. Post modernism had not reached Hollywood yet, though today it seems to have reached the White House. So some young doctors and medical students decide to go into death and come back. Technically it is possible but the result is not surprising. It reactivates old guilty feelings and frustrations that had been buried into the unconscious. One has to do with a drug addicted father of a Vietnam veteran who commits suicide, another with a young boy who was stoned to death by some others the death tripper included, another still with a young black girl who was victimized and bullied in grade school out of racism, sexism and hatred if not fear in front of her shyness. It is so naïve that you could cry out of shame for these young adults who are highly qualified and behave like babies who are crying for their bottles of edulcorated fruit juice. The film though is interesting but in something quite different. The setting and the shooting and every single detail or treatment of any detail is baroque, morbid, decadent, quite in the style of Death in Venice or Greenaway, or some other works of art that deal with making friends with the basic enemy that death is. Of course that does not save the film but at least that makes it worth watching.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the story of 4 med students playing with death. Of course they soon discover that what they have gotten into is no game.Really impressive features >lighting cues for flashback scenes >complex character backgrounds >simple yet believable near-death experience momentsYou will be kept guessing and on the edge of your seat. I recommend this movie to anyone who wonders is there life after death? (not that the movie provides a clear answer). **Spoiler** Nobody dies permanently, but that fact does not diminish the haunting nature of this film by its end. Kiefer Sutherland's dementia is some of his best acting and he really lives up to the challenge of being lead actor over other big name stars. "},{"Title":"Boy, did this movie SUCK!!!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie and its director seemed to be in love with trying to make the movie LOOK creepy with different lights, camera angels and props but there was not a single scary moment in the horrible movie. Is it just me, or does that medical school seem a bit....weird??  With clear plastic sheets hanging EVERYWHERE, blue lights not only in every room but every part of the city, dark corners....this movie was just plain horrible.  A terrible script wastes the talents of an all-star cast.  The only redeemed quality of this movie is the intriguing storyling that should be re-done in hands much more qualified than Schumacher's. who has WRECKED the Batman frachise.  A rating of 3 out of 10 was given.  "},{"Title":"Joel Schumacher window-dresses death.","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only thing more full of holes than this movie's premise is its script. Flatliners is the ideal showcase for Joel Schumacher's glorious, flamboyant, brazen lack of talent. The plot is totally illogical but super fake-ponderous and everything is art-directed within an inch of its life in the most clichéd, overheated way. I love how the med school autopsy room is a cavernous vaulted marble mausoleum low-lit in red with huge Rembrandt paintings hanging from the walls. I love how Keifer Sutherland drives a canvas-backed army jeep. No one in Joel Schumacher's movies lives in an un-eccentric manner. It's always an alternate universe where everyone is young and painfully hip, but hip strictly and obsessively according to an out-of-touch middle-aged billionaire man-child's idea of hip. And holy crap! The part where Baldwin brother #16 dies and comes back to life and then is haunted by all the women he's slept with who intone I'll call you and I just need some space is the funniest friggin' thing in the whole universe!!!! What kind of a world do we live in where Joel Schumacher gets to keep having people throw money at him? Flatliners made me want to review the man's entire oeuvre solely for the kind of high-quality yuks contained therein. "},{"Title":"Dying to Learn More.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Highly intense and interesting thriller which has five college students (Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, William Baldwin, Oliver Platt and Kevin Bacon) trying to gain insights with near-death experiences. Four of the five (all, but Platt) literally have their hearts stopped on purpose and see disturbing images concerning events of the past that have haunted each. A fine line between life and death is breached and the safety of the group becomes a legitimate concern. The near-death experiences eventually begin to translate into trouble in real time. Flatliners is not the most enjoyable film ever produced, but it is a head-scratcher of a movie that serves its purpose in the end. Director Joel Schumacher's pace raises a sometimes contrived screenplay to higher ground. Roberts, in particular, shines among the nice ensemble. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was unfortunate enough to see this movie on television the other night - it was terrible! The beginning was interesting (what happens when you die), but what happened to the Flatliners after they came back from the dead was just preposterous, and the last hour was appalling.Arrogant, unsympathetic performances from so-called Brat Pack actors (I was disappointed when they managed to revive some of them after their deaths), appalling direction from an artless hack, and a terrible dated late-80's soft rock soundtrack all add up to an absolute turkey.I'll give it 3/10, and I'm being generous because the first 30 minutes were reasonably interesting. "},{"Title":"A medical school WITHOUT LIGHTS?","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...And if that were the only problem with this overblown tripe, it would be forgivable. Factor in an embarrassing script, paper-thin characters, a ridiculously bad fit of somebody's idea of pop psychology onto a convoluted plot, and torpid, limp performances, and you've got a stinker, ladies and gentlemen. That Joel Schumacher continues to get work as a director amazes me.  "},{"Title":"Loved it in 1990; hated it on 2nd viewing (2001)","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Greetings All,Isn't it amazing the power that films have on you after the 1st viewing ?I was so delighted by the first viewing of this film, I couldn't stop talking about Flatliners to all my friends for weeks - mind you I was a very impressionable 18 year old back then and my taste in films have become a little more conservative since then.Then somehow I forgot about this film until I saw the DVD in my local department store and remembering how great it was I thought Right ! I'll pluck you off the shelf when they bring out the Special Edition.Last week, I was overjoyed when my best friend invited me over to watch Flatliners on DVD. The expectation was that I would love this film even more on 2nd viewing.. How wrong I was !Verdict after 11 years my view on this film had changed from a very scary 1st class movie to total junk which overplays on the religious and supernatural side of things ratherly superficially.I have never been a big fan of Julia Roberts' acting (excepting for Erin Brockeridge in which she deserved her Oscar) I think the problem with this film definitely lies with the director and a so so mediocre script. I left this film feeling it had no real substance or potential, and just a couple of scarey cheap thrills which weren't very well done at all. Not even the score by James-Newtown Howard, who I rather like as a film composer, could captivate and thrill me.In 1990 I would have given this film 9.5 / 10;  but in 2001 I'd be lucky to give it 2 / 10 at best. "},{"Title":"Above average but way off the mark","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Joel Shumacher seems to run at a fifty percent success rate. Enjoyable and confronting films such as Dying Young and Falling Down spring to mind as two of his better efforts, yet he's also been responsible for StElmo's Fire and this below par thriller, Flatliners.Five gifted young medical students decide to experiment with the hereafter by temporarily shutting down their respiratory systems in order to become brain dead and taste death. None of them can possibly anticipate what is in store for them, but they all know they're playing with their lives.The young cast do a reasonable job in a movie designed more for thrills and scares more than serious, contemplative cinema. And while Mr. Schumacher does succeed in frightening us, he fails to effectively use Peter Filardi's original, though irresponsible, story in any way.We never get the feeling that the young medicos shouldn't be doing what they're doing, and each time one of them successfully 'cheats death' it's as though they've won some sort of morbid game with an ultimate price that they really ought to pay, but don't. Schumacher should have given the film a harder, more realistic ending to drive home a point that he never even bothered to make. And Flatliners finally resolves itself poorly by suggesting that mankind can redeem himself by atoning for his own sins. This doctrine is of course a terrible fallacy, and is (as was The Seventh Sign) very misleading indeed.An above average thriller which is disappointingly way off the mark.Saturday, January 22, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"This brings back bad memories.","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I watched Flatliners, a part was shown with Kevin Bacon when he saw a playground where he used to play as a child and remembered a incident that happened there. The incident was Bullying an innocent little girl in a verbal way by saying she is stupid.This brought back a bad incident that happened to me at school and every time I go to that place where I was bullied in a psychological way ,I could see what happened to me on that day. It was so painful deep down inside of me that, I never forgot it and never have since,and today, I still CANNOT let it go!This is a bad memorovie, get it? A bad memory and a movie.7/10.  "}{"Title":"A unique plot very well thought up and a cast of gold","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a plot worth more then its given. The director did a fine job with the idea. I do feel that the director could have made it better with one death scene involving the cheating husband. The idea of the movie itself the entire plot just grabs you. As it is described 5 doctors test life as they kill themselves to experience death its the crazy life or death plot. The scenes in the movie were very cool and were very Gothic. This movie can make you question the thought of life in itself it has depth to it. There are a couple parts left out that i noticed, but i will still give it the O.K..The cast was great and they filled there positions fully. I will watch it again and it will go into my movie library. I'll rate it a 6 out of 10. With the classic line Today is a good day to die  "},{"Title":"Places morality over horror, with mixed results","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flatliners, itself, is an OK movie, with great sweeping shots, some nice acting (By Kiefer Sutherland, Oliver Platt, and Kevin Bacon, respectively.), and a very origional story. But, for every right the movie gets, the movie gets two wrongs. Julia Roberts seems out of place, and doesn't give much to the film with her acting, and William Baldwin, while excellent in some of his 'seeing things' scenes, is wasted. The movie also uses too much of the blue lighting to set the mood, almost making you want to yell out We get the point, already!. It mostly gets in the way of, instead of adding to, our emotions about the film.The movie also has some hard to believe moments. Kiefer Sutherland's visions about seeing a kid he accidently killed in his childhood that beats the living snot out of him are very chuckle-worthy instead of disturbing, and are only helped out by Kiefers acting, which only make the scenes go from 'Bad' to 'Camp'. The film also cheats it's viewers by giving in to the happy-go-lucky ending, leaving way too many plotlines lost.The movie shows shadows of a great horror movie, but it's failure to continue in the horror route, opting for a moralilty story about sins and repenting, gives it a better story but leaves the film as lackluster. The scene showing Julia Roberts seeing her dead dad, blood covered and all, in the mirror for just a second, and William Baldwin's visions of his sex tapes making him get in the way of things during one of the controlled death scenes, show great promise, and the part with the shade flying up during the same death scene adds to the thought that this movie could've been something much more A movie that doesn't say that you meet your sins when you die, but says that death is something you better be prepared to go through with. Great 'What The Hell is Going On?' scenes could've been added, like scenes from 'The Shining', but the chance is wasted on having to make everyone feel better about themselves at the end.Also, more wasted potential ensues when Baldwin's character sees the visions of his sex tapes (Outside of the aforementioned death scene.). They could've made both the audience and Baldwin ask themselves Huh? What is going on?, but instead opt for Baldwin to just stare and look stupidly at the visions, almost smiling to himself.Flatliners could've been something much more, something that people could remember as a classic, or atleast a good scare, for a long time, but instead it becomes a forgettable thriller with only sprinkles of promise. It could've challenged us, but instead only bored us.**/**** "},{"Title":"A lot of smoke -- literally and figuratively.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the idea for the movie was really good. Schumacher got carried away with the lighting and the smoke, although the cinematography is great. It made me think of Requiem For a Dream is the sense of style over substance, although this movie had more substance. It's hard to tell if the script was weak and Schumacher jazzed it up to what he thought would be thrilling, or the script was good and Schumacher messed with it and made it hard to believe. But I'm guessing they didn't click. Because it starts off plausible and then makes a left turn into another dimension, which is I guess what some movies do, but by the time it got to that other dimension, I had lost interest and started to think things were funny when they weren't supposed to be.The locations looked really good. The religious undertones were kind of silly, and didn't quite connect. Ah, it's an ok movie. Didn't feel much come the end, cinemetography buffs should peruse. I dug that shot that went underneath the swingset. Kevin Bacon's hair is awesome. (you couldn't get away with that anymore) "},{"Title":"HEY! IT'S MY TURN TO DIE NEXT!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess you're familiar with the plot a group of medical students with issues devise a contraption which will enable one of them to die briefly, then be revived by their colleagues before brain damage occurs, and report back on their experience. Anyone who watches movies regularly would guess that this is a BAD IDEA, but these are ambitious young students remember, and their curiosity gets the better of them.I know there are people out there who don't like this film, and I have some sympathy with them. The premise is ridiculous, the near-death experiences are unconvincing, and the development of the plot is unsatisfactory. Some of the students experiences (particularly Billy Baldwin's) are just lame.But what makes this film special for me is that it is SO DOWNRIGHT CREEPY. So forget common sense and lose yourself in the chill of the supernatural.  "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as people make it out to be...","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so the whole medical school in an old church deal isn't quite accurate. So what? This movie is pure fantasy, and if you can accept that fact, you'll really enjoy it. It's one of those films that, if you have the right mind-set, will put you in an introspective mood for at least a few hours. And if that fails, watch it for Kiefer Sutherland and Kevin Bacon. Their performances are excellent and the two play extremely well off of each other. "},{"Title":"Why it was beautiful...","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although the movie seemed chaotic at first, it's realistic. Things that happened after the experiment could happen for real. Don't you think that sins will be compensated behind the line? The end was very beautiful and you know what, I cried. All the characters did what they had to do. "},{"Title":"An Original Movie","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was a very original thriller/horror which dealt with an issue which few movies deal with. I read some very bad reviews about this movie which i really thought they were absolutely wrong. Come on people every moviegoer today is always grumbling on the lack of originality in movies. Here we have a subject which i think fascinates every single person in the world. What happens after we die ? The movie gives a very original answer to this question, although i personally don't believe in the answer the movie gives, i still thought it was a great movie. Kiefer Shuterland gives a very good performance (not usual of him) and so does Kevin Bacon. I thought Julia Robert's performance wasn't as bad as some critics said it was I think the problem with it was that we aren't accustomed to see Julia Roberts in such a character. She is America's sweetheart after all and there is nothing sweet about her in the movie. I am not saying this is a masterpiece but it is a very enjoyable movie which certainly doesn't lack of originality. "},{"Title":"Something different..........??","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think I liked this movie for the subject that it dealt with more than anything else.  I think most people just put their own very inevitable death at the back of their minds, but most if not all people wonder............what happens when we die?Not only does the movie provide only a pretty simplistic view, but also projects an idea that goes against any research conducted so far on the subject.  Still its nice to see a movie that has some morally decent message for a change.Also, since I have watched this movie, I have been racking my brains to think of a similar movie I saw in the early nineties which deals with the subject of death as well.  I just cant think of the title.  In that movie someone invents a device that can record your thoughts and replay them........someone then actually dies while wearing the device so the experience is recorded.  I cant remember what happens in detail, but if anyone remembers the title, please let me know........ "},{"Title":"a 90's film that feels very 80's","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Schumacher shoots a film that has a very similar feel to his 80's classic's 'St Elmo's Fire', this time with a horror slant.  The college graduates have been changed to med students experimenting with death - flatlining.  Although the overall directing is not exceptional but functional the photography is excellent with a haunting gothic feel.  The cast are exceptional with only five main players holding the film together.  Kiether Sutherland gives a very under estimated performance, Kevin Bacon is his normal excellent self, Julia Roberts is far better than many of her other films, William Balwin is so-so and Oliver Platt is just there.  They all fit there roles perfectly and without them the film would of been 'TV movie of the week material'.  The DVD edition of the film is very good, well worth the investment for the crystal clear print alone.   "},{"Title":"Excellent amazing thriller","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Since I am a huge Kiefer Sutherland fan, it is very hard for me not to adore this movie. Kiefer is in this from start to finish and is absolutely mezmerizing in this gorgeously filmed Joel Schumaker film. It is a pyschological thriller with handsome blue lighting and gorgeous actors--eerie gothic-like settings and the thrill and fear of death. Who could ask for more? I think is is a fantastic movie. "}{"Title":"Dark, young cast in a well-scripted, wrapped in an even-darker, thrilling script","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is there life after death?  Perhaps, says FLATLINERS.  The rather generic cast (for the time, i.e. Julia Roberts, Billy Baldwin, Kevin Bacon) is thrust into God's hands when they decide to tread on God's turf and come back from the dead.  Keifer Sutherland lends his acting to this thriller, a definite plus.  Though the plot can tug and drag for a moment, this movie is devilishly dark, happily twisted and a complete ride. "},{"Title":"Takes you to the other side and back!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good gothic structure. Kiefer Sutherland is amazing. Keeps you on the edge of your seat. Very exciting and unpredictable! "},{"Title":"Not too bad, considering the idea of the movie","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen Flatliners, and I didn't think it was that bad.  I think the idea is original, and the acting wasn't bad.  I think this movie got a bad rap.  How many movies do you see with a plot like this?  I must admit, it isn't the best movie in the world, but I think it is decent.  "},{"Title":"Great pitch, shame about the film","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's under-lit and over-produced. The jokes aren't funny and the shocks don't. But, this is an example of a great pitch holding up a weak production. The characters are no more than living script-notes....let's see, megalomania....check!...nerdy genius...check!...and you don't really care about their plight. But the idea's a good one, with a great intensifying repeat - the descent to flatline. Wrapping theological ideas of responsi-bility and redemption in a sci-fi wrapper is as old as Shelly's Frankenstein, and so there's something reassuringly simple about the story. Pity Schumacher didn't play to this strength.  "},{"Title":"Flat storyline","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The overall plot is that a bunch of scientists kill themselves one by one while the rest resurrect them was interesting but there is a problem; not enough to work with but they could've come up with something better than the sins of the formerly dead coming back to haunt them was insane.Now here brings me to my next problem, them saying sorry to them, with Kevin Bacon's character saying it to the real version of Winnie hicks I have no problem with but Keifer Sutherland and Julia Roberts apologizing to the hallucinations then it being okay was the WTF moment for me.This movie as far as movies go was not good but there are worse films. "},{"Title":"Flat Liners","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely a good movie unlike what other people are saying. Peline and I have both seen the movie 3x and the end is cheesy but that is part of the package... to experiment with death is the same as trying to defy it, so the movie is cool. For those who wish to see a classic Kevin Bacon movie, see this please. take care greeting from Istanbul. we will write 10 lines if you really want us 2 but we think it is a waste of time bye. The rest of this review should not be taken seriously because we just wrote it to fill the 10 line requirement (which is crazy) but we are kind people and will therefore adapt to the rules that are set out for us. So people watch this movie not because we wrote 10 lines, but because it is good. and by the way we wrote 12 lines!! "},{"Title":"Flatiners","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners is an intriguing movie, about five medical students who experiment with death by flatlining themselves. After each character goes under, they begin to re-experience a traumatic event from an earlier point in their life. Together the friends attempt to atone for their past sins and find an answer to death, and to life, itself. Kiefer Sutherland portrays Nelson, the student who convinces the others to also flatline and Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts, William Baldwin, and Oliver Platt star as Nelson's fellow medical peers. Flatliners is a good movie that teaches about karma and what what goes around, comes around. "},{"Title":"style over substance","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A medical student (Kiefer Sutherland) convinces four other students ( Kevin Bacon, Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt and William Baldwin) to help him with a experiment, to shut down his heart for a short time to experience death. After the success of the experiment and the others give it a go, but the joy was short lived when they discover they didn't come back alone.From the Gothic campus setting to the surreal death experiences, it gives this film a generally dark and unsettling atmosphere. The film looks top notch but the problem was I couldn't careless what happen to the majority of characters. The characters and as well the story seemed to be undeveloped. The film's pace was alright with a few slow parts, but it definitely could've been shorter. Sutherland's character is the saving grace of the film and as well as the sin that haunts him. Bacon and Roberts are really bland and seem to be sleepwalking throughout the whole film, there sins are dull to make matters worse. Platt is the bystander and plays second fiddle to the others, he plays the more conservative guy that has second thoughts about the experiment and though annoying at times he might have been more interesting if he participated in the death experience. Finally Baldwin's character is fairly interesting and has an amusing sin. Well what could I say, It looks good but has little substance. The film is alright but it definitely could've been better.3/5 "},{"Title":"Interesting idea","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Flatliners' has a great idea for a movie but unfortunately settles for the simple thriller elements. It is about some medical students and they want to know if there is something after you die. They want to find out by keeping someone braindead for a minute and then bring him back. The idea comes from Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland) and he is the one who will die and live again.The others succeed in bringing him back and then they all want, except for Randy Steckle (Oliver Platt). Nelson was dead for a minute, Joe Hurly (William Baldwin) wants to be away for a longer period of time. He is also still alive when he is brought back, but Nelson and Joe start to hallucinate but they don't tell the others. David (Kevin Bacon) is next and after he is also still alive he starts to see things as well. He does talk about it but in the meanwhile Rachel (Julia Roberts) has had her turn as well.They hallucinate about things in their past, things they did wrong. They are haunted by the people they used to haunt and now they have to find a way to make it alright again. I have to say that this creates moments with suspense but I think there is a way this could be really good movie with a very interesting idea. Especially the ending is kind of typical for a movie like this, and therefore it is very predictable as well. Still, there are some very good moments and with the actors we have here it is all pretty convincing. "},{"Title":"Flatline!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I didn't understand this movie when I saw it, it was eerie and tense and looking back upon the performances, I think they were credible enough to stick in my mind for over 10 years. Kevin Bacon teases a little girl and makes her life miserable, the demon of that girls' humiliated face comes to haunt him as she sings a spectral tune deep into his psyche turning the tables as well is the little boy that Kiefer Sutherland abused as a child and almost probably killed, guilt never fades, though buried under latter adult experiences Kiefer also has to suffer a harrowing pounding at the hands of the little boy who maims and almost kills HIM, Julia Roberts never forgave her father for being a heroin addict and committing suicide in front of her, this is the ghost she has to deal with, and lay to rest. The women that William Baldwin taped while having sex come back to smear his memory. Oliver Platt is the one who stands by and suffers with them. I found the theme actually more haunting than any other aspect of this movie and that has remained with me till date. Laying the past to rest isn't something which comes easy. 3/5 "}{"Title":"Smoke The Movie","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ALL MY REVIEWS CONTAIN SPOILERS.  EVERY ONE OF THEM.I say that because never have I seen a movie with more smoke.  Smokey streets, foggy locations; after a while, it becomes ridiculous.  Who directed this, Rod Serling?  Trust me folks, I live in Chicago-- and although my good friend Violence runs throughout these streets, this is not a haunted city.  But if you watch this movie, you'd think Chicago was the setting to every episode of Scooby-Doo.Joel Schumacher, who hasn't made one good movie since D.C. Cab, serves us all up a heaping helping of crap on a platter and calls it Flatliners. He tries to hide the weak script by giving us an attractive cast (save the horrendously ugly Kevin Bacon) but we catch on early that this movie just plain sucks.  The movie begins in the Vatican, I mean Chicago, and it's about 5 medical students who are fascinated with the afterlife.  Their leader is Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts plays the damsel in distress, Kevin Bacon is the sensitive one who, of course, gets the girl in the end, William Baldwin (at least I think it was William) is the slick ladies' man, and Oliver Platt is...um, well...Oliver Platt is f***ing useless.  What's the point of this character?  If you take him out, the movie is identical; he doesn't do ONE thing!!!Early in the movie, Julia Roberts learns about the afterlife through one of her patients whom we'll call Yoda.  This old woman is afraid to die, and understandably so.  Just look at her.  Death is about 2 and a half minutes from her.  This woman is so old, it's a miracle she finished her scene. So in order to cheat death, these med students kill themselves, then zap themselves back to life after so many minutes.  It was cool the first time, but after Kiefer does it, the movie becomes so repetitive it's unbearable. Soon, the students are arguing over who goes next.  I wanna die!  No, me next!  I was yelling at the screen No, ME next!  For God sakes, somebody kill ME!!!Basically, nothing happens in this movie.  The students die and when they do, they see people they hurt in the past.  What a dumb idea.  If they would have died and had some kick ass demons chasing them once they were brought back, the movie would have been cool.  And I don't mean human demons that teach a lesson.  I mean monster demons that eat flesh.  But instead, we get the following skeletons  Kiefer teased a little boy, Bacon teased a little girl (I guess Schumacher couldn't think of 2 different situations), Baldwin video taped sex with women without them knowing, and Julia Roberts has the dumbest skeleton of all....she opened a door.  That's it, folks!  She opened a door!  So this is the worst thing Julia has ever done?  Gimme a break.Then in order to resolve these skeletons, it is implicated that they all must face their pasts and apologize.  Well, this makes sense in Kevin Bacon's case.  He finds the girl he bullied and apologizes.  But Baldwin never apologizes to any of the women he taped, and his demon fades away all on its own.  And both Julia Roberts and Kiefer's demons are dead, so how do you make amends?  Even this movie isn't sure, and it doubles back and changes its own rules that it has set up.  At the end when you see Julia hugging her dead daddy, you'll barely be able to retain the rising vomit in your throat.Is this supposed to be a thriller?  It isn't very thrilling.  After all, there isn't one drop of nudity, and the sex scene is done off camera.  Is this supposed to be horror?  Hell, the scariest thing in it is Kevin Bacon's face.  Is this supposed to be a comedy?  Bingo!!  I laughed throughout the whole thing.  The funniest parts involve a kid about 10 years old beating the dog snot out of Kiefer Sutherland.  I think he was the kid from Stand By Me getting his revenge.  But anyway, he beats him up over and over and although these scenes are also repetitive, they are welcomed with open arms in this crap fest of a flick with hardly any action anyway.  Nobody even dies in this movie!  Come on folks, this is a horror movie, give me SOMETHING!What this movie needs is some kick ass demons who eat people, a graphic sex scene (if Julia's not willing to do that, maybe we could have a scene with all the guys discussing death at a strip club or something), and we also need more little boy whuppin' Kiefer Sutherland.  Oh yeah, and somebody getting killed violently.  Preferably Oliver Platt, but this movie is so dull, I'll take a death scene from anybody they give me.  As I've always stated, I am a reasonable man.Zero stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A movie with a great story","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was glued to my sit while watching this movie on cable last night. Besides actors who can act, good atmosphere of the scenes, this movie is more than just entertainment.  I think it makes people reflect on themselves also by going thru with those characters.  It reminds people that they are responsible for their actions, esp if one have hurt the others.  Even if the other party might have already forgotten or brush it off, eventually it is the person who have inflicted the pain that suffers as guilt will stay with the person.This is a movie that has a deeper meaning than just actors and story. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flatliners was a very chilling and horrific movie with an interesting plot. This movie was good enough to scare me and a boring Saturday night.  Also, if you are a fan of Julia Roberts I'd recommend seeing this movie just because she is in it.  I would recommend you check it out.  It is worth it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and thought-provoking","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, is this a horror? I don't think so, even though it did frighten in a couple of scenes. It is not a real action movie, either, even though you will find plenty of action. Is it Science Fiction? Mostly, it is. But it is also a drama, a tale about spirituality, competition and human nature, in general.This was certainly one of the few movies where the characters acted humanly they expressed the need for not being alone, the need for forgiveness, curiosity, vanity and many more, which Hollywood movies usually just gloss over. Certainly you don't find this sort of insight into the real feelings and behavior of people, in a Science Fiction movie! Maybe that's the reason some people don't like it they expect a classic Sci-Fi, and this movie is a bit shocking because it contains some finer qualities.If, watching your average Hollywood movie, you find yourself wondering why would he/she do that?, then this movie is for you, because it has portrayed a group of people with very natural and believable emotions and actions.Also, the subject is interesting and unexplored the few moments after the death of the brain. Kudos to the producer on the bold move. "},{"Title":"Dark, underrated entertainment","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Flatliners has a fantastic cast, all very well suited to their parts, and they all play them excellently. For once a film which actually is scary, with no cheesy scenes or bad dialogue. I got hooked on this film the first time I saw it and its clearly enjoyed by those of any age - it was watched by an eleven - year old child who quite rightfully found it chilling but awesomely entertaining at the same time. Flatliners has a unique and very clever plot which is not tarnished in any way. All in all, I was very much impressed by everything about Flatliners, right from the skillful directing of Joel Schummacher and the wonderful acting of the cast to the excellent filming and well - chosen music. Even when I try to find something wrong with this film I can't... I think it has been highly underrated and hugely recommend you go see it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie deserved a lot more Oscar nominations than just ONE!!!  The acting was excellent, and the movie overall was incredibly entertaining, with thrills and many things to think about.  This movie made me want to go out and make amends with every person i ever hurt.  Keifer Sutherland was AWESOME, and Julia Roberts played an awesome haunted person.  On a scale of 1-10, this movie is an 11. "},{"Title":"Such a brilliant idea!","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The whole idea of the movie is so original and still so even after all these years and the actors all did a real good job. I remember this movie was one of my dad's best movies. A group of students with obviously unique characters and different story each gather to try something alone which nobody else but them should know about to see what no human being on earth was able to see and that is life after death. Imagine yourself offered this ultimate chance! I just love how they picked each others, got in that room and started challenging each others who would last longer! Amazing movie!Each actor is a genius of his own and they all shine in this piece of art. The story of each one of them give him/her the right span of time to show his/her capabilities.Also, there is a scene where Bacon is confessing his love to Julia and how beautiful he thinks she is, makes me realize that in every movie there is always a reference to the distinguished beauty of Roberts. Like in Ocean Eleven when Damon says he waits every day at 500 the time she goes down the steps and in Pretty Woman and in Runaway Bride. She is a real beauty. "},{"Title":"Never reaches the full potential of the ingenious premise, but entertains as a solid thriller.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I eagerly awaited seeing Flatliners again after many many years since my first viewing as a youngster. Back then, all quality I searched for in a movie was encompassed in this one, hard to define word cool. And even haters must admit, the premise of Flatliners intrigues. A group of medical students, smart at the worst of times and brilliant at the best, coast through life without intellectual challenges. As the Roman philosopher Seneca points out There is no great genius without some touch of madness. Nelson (Kiefer Sutherland) devises a daring experiment which raises some eyebrows with his friends when he tries to recruit them for it stopping the heartbeat in a controlled environment (a school lab) and swiftly resuscitating, allowing the guinea pig a peek behind the curtain of death.Script writer Peter Filardi gets his mustard from the controversial near death experiences that, as stated in the movie, are the same for a lot of people regardless of religion or other variables. The most glaring similarities are talk of a bright tunnel of light and the presence of loved ones. Here's the juncture where Filardi takes a sharp turn in the darker direction.The dream sequences during death, in Flatliners, deceive with the pleasant form they manifest themselves in(peaceful images such as a Himalaya peak or a summer meadow) as they make real life into a nightmare. Each student gets beleaguered by incubuses, victims of past sins who've come to avenge their wrongful treatment. The first time when a student gets thrown into the lap of the gods, it makes our pulse race. The second time, it still excites. The third, fourth and fifth time are overkill. So that's flaw number 1 the pacing. Flaw number two is harder to forgive or even turn a blind eye to a serious lack of imagination in the second half of the movie. For any movie that's damaging, for a movie dealing with the exploration of the afterlife it's a bullet through the heart. The revenge and atonement story exists only by the absence of an interesting route to depart on from the near death experience scenes. The movie doesn't pay off, it neglects to deal further with the issue it addresses at the beginning. A definite solution to the mystery of death or near death experiences can of course not be demanded, but Peter Weir's Fearless has shown a middle route exists when dealing with unsolvable issues. Weir has a sleight of hand to craft a satisfying, lingering pay off through ambiguity, Shumacher doesn't manage to make the ambiguity work for him so he casts it aside.Never the less, I had a good time. I enjoyed it as a straight-forward supernatural thriller. Sutherland convinces as the infant terrible of the group, comedic actor Platt gives a surprisingly good dramatic performance and the rest of the cast hold their own (except for the insufferable William Baldwin). The Gothic locations and colors (heavy reds, yellows and blues soak the screen during intense scenes) lend a sultry, dense, stifling ambiance to the movie. At one point we hear ghostly howls and see a wounded dog emerge from out the blue mist. You either experience the chills and thrills of such scenes, or you miss out on them. Same goes for Shumacher's camera handling style. Just like in 'The Lost Boys', he stalks the victim with the camera a lot, a technique you either frown upon as cheesy or agree with as creepy. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but fairly solid horror thriller","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In his early days, before the Grisham adaptations, before the various attempts at serious film-making (with varying success) and most of all before the Batman disaster, Joel Shumacher was best known for two pictures he made with Kiefer Sutherland, whom he also went on to cast in A Time to Kill and Phone Booth (a good choice on both occasions) The Lost Boys and Flatliners, which revisited two horror conventions (vampires and ghosts respectively). The Lost Boys has become a cult classic (and the only Schumacher film, besides Falling Down, that everyone seems to love), Flatliners a little less so, perhaps because the director wan't fully certain of what kind of picture he wanted to make (more on that later). However, it remains an interesting and very enjoyable thriller, thanks in large part to a well assembled cast.The story is that of five medical students, Nelson (Sutherland), Rachel (Julia Roberts), David (Kevin Bacon), Joe (William Baldwin) and Randy (Oliver Platt), who get together one night to carry out a crazy experiment Nelson wants to flat-line so that he can find out, once and for all, if there really is an afterlife, and the others are there to make sure he comes back from the dead. The experiment is considered a success, and so the others (apart from Randy) decide to try it themselves, each one staying clinically dead a little longer as the experience goes on. Unfortunately, none of them expected to be tormented, emotionally and, in some cases, physically by spirits who hold a grudge against them. Pretty soon everyone's life is at stake, and it is very clear that Nelson wasn't quite right when he said It's a good day to die..The strength of Peter Filardi's script is the new angle he provides on the age-old subject of vengeful ghosts. In fact, one can say Flatliners is a new spin on the Frankenstein story, with Nelson taking the famous doctor's place as the one crossing the line imposed by nature (and he's actually referred to as Frankenstein in one scene). In a way, this makes the movie a religious allegory in horror flick disguise, and that's the film's main problem, namely Schumacher's inability to juxtapose the two aspects convincingly he never quite knows what to do with the spiritual subtext (and this shows in a laughable moment when Bacon's character talks to God), putting all his energy in the scary material. And there he succeeds the ghostly sequences are creepy without ever going over the top (and prove that Jan de Bont was a better cinematographer than he is a director, Speed remaining the noble exception), and James Newton Howard's music adds a lot to the nerve-wrecking atmosphere.Also, Schumacher can almost never be accused of directing actors badly (the Batmans notwithstanding) Roberts (still a relative unknown at the time), Bacon and Platt are as good as one expects them to be (Platt in particular being the usual voice of reason/terrific supporting actor he has proved to be in TV shows like The West Wing and Huff), Baldwin, though nowhere near as good as his more famous older brother, manages to pull off a sympathetic effort (shame he hasn't managed to do that again), and Sutherland, the charismatic leading man, justifies all the faith the director had in him (although, as seen in Phone Booth, he is better in smaller roles on the big screen; 24 is a whole other story), conveying the right mix of smugness and charm.To sum it up, Flatliners isn't the groundbreaking genre movie it set out to be, but it deserves some re spect, if not love, for being one of the better titles on Schumacher's alarmingly uneven resumé. "},{"Title":"Interesting material coupled with the wrong director...","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Director Joel Schumacher takes a good screenplay and junks it up with the kind of MTV-like nonsense akin to the 1980s. Too bad, because this story of med-students experimenting with life after death had tremendous possibilities--some of which are brought to the screen competently. Each student who 'dies' briefly is haunted by past guilt and secrets, and this is something we can all relate to. Kevin Bacon's story (he made fun of a little black girl in school) is the most moving, Julia Roberts' segment (about her father) is left a bit too vague, but Keifer Sutherland as the ringleader who has done the most damage is given far too much screen-time (I feel I never have to see another Keifer Sutherland movie--this just about covers it). The picture is minor, but it resonates with the audience by not making its supernatural themes too extraordinary. The kids are haunted by what they've been through and most of them deal with it matter-of-factly. This is a neat concept which is then wrongly dressed with silly, show-off ingredients; Schumacher isn't right for this material--he's too fancy, and too concerned with appealing to the youth market. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"one of Kiefer Sutherlands best movies","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 2nd movie in my Kiefer Sutherland movie marathon.This movie is great and this movies about how some medical students experimented with death and each of them start to have weird visions from there childhood.There is an all star cast in this movie with great actors and actress like my favorite actor Kiefer Sutherland,Kevin Bacon who is great in this movie,Julia Roberts,Oliver Platt and William Baldwin.Over all this movie is great and Kiefer Sutherland acted so well in this movie and if u liked Kiefer in this movie u should watch one of his other great movies like the lost boys.My rating for this movie is seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Interesting Movie","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this movie was pretty good. I went to see it with my wife the first week it came out and have seen it many times on cable. I thought the story line was pretty unique and very interesting. The cast in this movie was pretty amazing and I thought they did a nice job with their characters. I admit that some of the scenes at the medical college were a bit over the top, but it did add to the coolness and slickness of the movie.The movie is not as scary as The Ring, the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre, but it is very thought provoking and interesting. "},{"Title":"Dying To See This Movie","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flatliners is a very original,despite it's morbid theme, and in a way uplifting movie. It shows it's audience that things that we do to others in life that for the most part we may have long forgotten about will come back to haunt us in death. The difference in the film Flatliners is that those who died and were hunted by their past sins were given another chance to come back to life and correct or rectify them to those persons who they killed and abused. Person who were victimized by Nelson, Kifer Sutherland, who killed and David, Kevin Bacon, who abused. As well as Joe, William Baldwin,who betrayed and in the case of Rachel, Julia Roberts, drove to their death.A secret experiment was dreamed up by Nelson and his fellow medical students to see if there's really a life beyond the grave. The students put themselves under, getting clinically flat-lined, and then being brought back to life tell and record what they saw when they were Dead. Each student who was put under saw things that they did in life that they thought nothing of and long forgot about with the exception of Rachel. The dead and then revived students then spent the rest of the movie trying somehow to make amends for what they did in order not to have them go insane with guilt. Admittedly unrealistic the movie has the students get all the medical equipment and drugs that they needed for their experiment and preform it on each other. Right under the noses of the doctors nurses and attendants at the hospital they were at! The students being able to put each other under, from one to five minutes, and then revive themselves was really a bit too much to take. Still you have to give Flatliners an +A for originality. Even though the movie had trouble convincing you that the goings on on the screen could have been at all possible in even in the most modern medical facility in the world.Still Flatliners does at least try to confront one of the most profound mysteries, of science and theology, in it's own very strange and peculiar way. "},{"Title":"A film worth seeing more than once...","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I have had this movie on tape for a long time. I always reject the immediate urge to view it while looking through my library. I can't say why that is exactly, because I have much worse than this film. Actually, it's a pretty good flick and was a good vehicle for Roberts and Sutherland. Where it falls short is in its assessment of things Karmic or the notion of atoning for one's sins. All that is pretty much rushed through and cleared up in the end in a somewhat cheesy fashion...I think to appease the average viewer. There is a lot more this film could have explored, but was perhaps bound by traditional Christian dogma. I personally would have liked Joshua Rudoy to have actually spoken and given us some more insight from beyond the grave. What a sweet looking boy, I wonder why he exited film making?  "},{"Title":"Splendid idea","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really was awestruck when I first saw Flatliners.The idea behind the movie is so intriguing that I wonder why nobody has actually done something like this in real life... I mean, there are always enough ambitious physicians...Anyway, not being a Julia Roberts Fan, her part was a little bit of a downlet, but I loved Kevin Bacons Part.Unfortunately, the movie's moral advice (be good to everybody or they will haunt you when you are dead) was a little bit too simplistic for me, especially when you compare the bad deeds of Sutherland (being responsible for the death of a young boy), Baldwin (hurting countless women by videotaping them during sex) and Bacon (mocking a girl while he was still in elementary school, oh my, what a b**tard -) ...). And just saying I'm sorry is enough to stop the ghosts of future past? Well, all this prevents me from giving the movie a nine or ten. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The life-after-death experiment made by young medical students goes horribly wrong these worthless people don't suffer enough! The characters of Kevin Bacon and Kiefer Sutherland are immature Beavis and Butthead clones - a schoolbully and a murderer, anyone? -and both they and the film's dialogue rationalising their crimes belong in the toilet. There is not any decent or even slightly interesting character, and the plot is frustrating to the extreme. The film has anodyne, if slickly professional visual look supposedly fitting to the medical theme and when this ugliness to the senses and - especially - morals was over, I was in the brink of sending a spam message to the screenwriter! "},{"Title":"flat plot line","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This may be the only Joel Schumacher movie that holds any potential but being from Joel it's still a mess. Kudos to whomever came up with the Chicago-based update of D.W. Griffith's creative geography; in which editing two completely different locations together produces a new geographic reality. In this case various Chicago interiors, a set in Hollywood, a real location on the north side... end up being inside the Museum of Science and Industry way south of the Loop. This is the most enjoyable aspect of the movie. An obsessive production design which highlights building repair and fragmented statues is also intriguing. The space created in this movie is dark and interesting.However Schumacher, who came into his own in the coke-sniffing seventies, doesn't really have the vibe of any other period; and has always had really stupid ideas about what was a complete script; none stupider than St. Elmo's Fire. I'm sure that Schumachers dream project would be an even shallower remake of Xanadu. Ooooh just imagine all the pretty colors!The premise of this movie is Let's find out what happens (experientially) at the moment of death. Schumacher comes up with The most difficult, regret-filled moment of your life flashes before your eyes and follows you back into your life to torment you. ...Meh! Maybe a decent writer could do something with that, but here it's super limp and unsatisfying; Why didn't the plot enliven the lore already in the culture about what occurs at the moment of death, instead of inventing this option? The worst thing you did in your life was pick on a student? Oh, heavens to betsy! I myself live with the horrible regret of stealing some gum once from a convenience store. My evil is really, uh... tearing me up; Hey Schumacher! What was your 2nd, deeper, more sensible idea about the after-life? The movie ends up being some compelling visuals in search of a decent script and plot.I haven't seen a single movie where Oliver Platt shouldn't be shot for his terrible acting. True to form, you should hide your gun before viewing this. He's excruciating. "},{"Title":"Top-notch cast wasted","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joel Schumacher proves once again that he is a highly untalented director (save the occasional good - e.g. Falling Down) by basically ruining this rather interesting idea about a group of medical students who become so fascinated by death that they allow themselves to die for about a minute, then be brought back by colleagues. However they soon realize that the process seems to bring back old memories and scarring events and as they try to delve deeper into their pasts they take more and more fatal risks.Overall I expected a clever horror-thriller and even satire. Had this film been an allusion to drug addiction (e.g. death becoming addictive) it would have succeeded very well. If it had turned into a Michael Crichton-type story where they're all normal human beings who become addicted and start going crazy and bumping each other off (read the book Prey to understand what I mean) it would have succeeded as well, and would have been much more fun and suspenseful! But due to poor writing and very mediocre direction by Schumacher (who, to his credit, at least has a very distinct directorial style - albeit an extremely flawed one) it's nothing more than a top-notch cast (consisting of long-time Schumacher collaborator Kiefer Sutherland and Julia Roberts, Oliver Platt, William Baldwin and Kevin Bacon) wasted on material that isn't in the same league as they are.A huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"One of the Dumbest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What a dumb movie!!  What a bunch of childish medical students who like to play a virtual Russian roulette with their own life.  Don't these fools realize that they are not performing a valid scientific experiment--allegedly to prove or disprove life after death--but really a scientific game of chicken?  (Who can stay dead longer!!)I am glad that this is a work of fiction.  I don't want these juvenile delinquent medical students to be operating on me.   In fact, I don't want to share the same planet with this kind of imbeciles.  Why don't these bunch of fools just stop each other's heart and stay flatlined?  No one will miss them.    "},{"Title":"Schumacher's play with fire","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  They made me watch this twice at school! Yes! In religion class! Back then I found it not too bad in some way, but as far as I could recall it, it sucked completely. Nevertheless, I decided to watch it again as a whole, in private, today, so I could tell everyone what a crime it is. Living out masochistic tendencies. -)The first twenty or thirty minutes made it up to my expectations a real puke movie! Flat but still unsympathetic characters, cynical disgusting despicable would-be cool quotes under the most macabre circumstances, the worst and most annoying performance I've ever seen from Kevin Bacon and a patheticly recycled Julia Roberts stereotype character I wanted to kill.But then it turned out, Joel Schumacher has the ability to get the maximum effect out of his (or somebody else's) sick ideas. His use of special effects, blue and red twilight, and his manipulation of our (my) emotions is masterful! Though I couldn't care less for any of the characters in the film, he almost makes me cry at terms, and though the story is completely silly and unrealistic, he somehow takes me to the edge.Kiefer Sutherland and Oliver Platt are the only glimpses of light in the beginning of the film, as it continues, the both of them plus William Baldwin give very good performances. Even Julia Roberts and Kevin Bacon are developing. Still, Bacon looks like an as*hole with his long hair and tight jeans, and was much better, much more of a character and much more of an actor in anything else I've seen him in, and I have a psychological aversion against Julia Roberts that not even an A-bomb of a movie could cure. And the most annoying part is a pathetic and Hollywood typical attempt to make the two of them look like heroes.In reality, if the intention of the movie was to make all five  characters despicable maniacs, so that you ask yourself why you go along with them, then it has quite a huge deal of power. Just make more tasteful and appropriate dialogues, plus replace Julia Roberts and Kevin Bacon, it would be a good and special movie. It starts out pathetic and disgusting, but the core is very dark, Kiefer Sutherland being the central point. His character is evil ever since being a child and remains evil by fate, played non likeable, but it's very worthy acting.The macabre, disturbing basic idea, which speaks against the movie, also makes room for a very good, innovative and suspenseful horror movie!My rating is 6 out of 10! From the artistic point of view, I say give it a chance whatever you think during the first minutes.From my *moral* point of view, I say everything about it is cheap and if you want to have a nice or at least productive evening, avoid it.To draw a comparison, it is better than both A Time To Kill and Batman Forever, though it clearly has much the same elements as both. I'm tempted to claim here that Schumacher's work is temptation and manipulation. "}{"Title":"flat as its title","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Joel Schumacher's film about teenage medical students 'flatlining' each other (i.e. bringing each other to the point of death) is very hit and miss - a good premise and an intriguing plot, but in the end, it just doesn't deliver.Early appearances from the likes of Julia Roberts, Kiefer Sutherland, Kevin Bacon, and William Baldwin help a bit but this film is as flat as its title. One of those movies which tries to be clever and develop a thin set of sequences into something important and memorable, but which really is 1990s flotsam like so many others of its period.'Flatliners' is OK, it passes the time, but it is disappointing. Too much Hollywood gloss and half-baked ideas kills it. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Give me an L! Give me an A! Give me an M! Give me and E! What you got? Lame, and what you gona do? Not watch this. The film industry comes out with film craptogarphy all the time. Flatliners is one of many forgettable films of the past and regrettably many more to come. I was dating my wife at the time, and found the date more interesting than this. At least I got something out of it. A very undeveloped idea with by the numbers acting. Not a awful film like 'Day of the Dead', but lame. Destine for the 5.99 DVD sale. Don't waste your time, unless you have time to waste. My Flatliners nightmare would be have to watch this film again after I die. 5 out of 10Many notable actors that were under used Roberts, Sutherland, Bacon etc  "},{"Title":"Terrible movie...","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really hated this movie, i tried watching it but i just couldn't get into it. i really think julia roberts really sucked in this film as did baldwin. If you call a thriller a boring almost fall asleep movie then this is most definitely a thriller!!! i mean come one thrillers are supposed to be mystery, murder, on the edge of your seat kind of stuff not this.... i really believe i could have wrote better then the terrible director. i know no one will agree with me on this comment but i believe that i am right... i usually like basically every movie i see but this one just ticked me off and i hated it! oh and by the way, kiefer sutherland was okay... i really think he should stick with the show 24 which i really like! but no not this movie i really think all the acting was poor *cough cough* baldwin face it the guy is the worst out of the baldwin bros! PEACE "},{"Title":"Almost complete junk","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie perfectly exemplifies two things SO wrong with modern American cinema, in the forms of Joel Schumaker and Julia Roberts. Joel Schumaker is one of those directors I hold largely responsible for the cultural dumbening (to borrow a 'word' from Lisa Simpson) of the US. His films so perfectly embody the very attributes that make stereotypic 'American Movies' the symbolism is heavy-handed, the actors are weak, the effects are big and the technology is misunderstood but overused! This man should have been stopped long ago, but I understand that people want to see this kind of popcorn chow garbage. Garbage like that has given freak-of-nature Julia Roberts her entire career, which now seems (thankfully) pretty well over. This woman overacts every line she's been given, chewing up the scenery with that gaping maw of hers and over-emoting every scene. This film joins these two paragons of modern cinema for a bland and nearly unbearable journey to the other side. Only Joel Schumacher could've taken such a large and (all things being relative) promising young cast and made it into a sub-B-movie schlockfest like this. Don't get me wrong I REALLY don't like Oliver Platt, can barely stand looking at Son-of-Skeletor Kevin Bacon, and think Keifer Sutherland has been typecast to DEATH. That said, I still think a film like this shouldn't happen to a cast like this. I mean, I just don't like these guys, but I'm not saying they don't have their place (Kevin Bacon's supposed to be great in 'The Woodsman' and Keifer may be typecast but he does make a fun villain). A movie like this shouldn't happen to a DOG! The strange thing about 'Flatliners' is that it's not a bad idea, it just goes SO horribly wrong. The writer clearly had a very slim grasp of religious belief (and the lack thereof) and an even slimmer one of medical technology (EEG, ECG, who cares?). And, of course, Schumacher's not happy unless you KNOW he's there! Movies can be over-directed, Joel. Back off once in a while. The only reason to see this movie is for nostalgia (it is SO dated looking, and from a time Schumacher must've been a fan of Michael Mann) or for a loved one. In my case, it was for a loved one's nostalgia my wife had fond memories of this movie from her teen years, but by the end even she was irritated by this pile of dung. I rated this movie at a 2, though, because at least it's not 'Manos The Hands of Fate.' "},{"Title":"Pathetic ethic","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't much mind the factors that others here have objected to - acting, lighting and so forth. For the most part, these things were executed well enough to carry the film and put its points across. It's just a horror film, after all.What bugged me were the points themselves. Because this is a deeply moralistic film, and its morality is deeply tacky. In fact it's actually fundamentalist Christian morality, and this is a fundamentalist Christian film. Look at the 'sins' * Sutherland's character picked on a kid at school when he was a pre-teen, leading to his accidental death.* Baldwin's character used masculine wiles, persuasion and good looks to shag quite a few women, some of whom he videotaped. Ooh, the swine! How unlucky for him that women are such passive, gormless creatures that they had no complicity in the matter.* Roberts' character's dad came back from Vietnam a junkie, so ashamed to be caught shooting up that he kills himself. Yes, what a terrible sin! Why couldn't he have just become an alcoholic like all the others?* and Bacon's character picked on another schoolkid. How awful! The fact that he was a child himself apparently counts for nought. Children, it seems, are divinely judged by adult criteria.Well, maybe lots of people support this level of moral absolutism. It certainly seems to have gone unremarked in this movie's comments. Does everyone just buy this stuff? At least human laws treat children differently from adults, recognising that their ethical sense is partially-formed. This film has no such qualms, and I find that pretty objectionable. Ditto the notion that women are helpless, fluffy creatures before young men's evil lusts. Or that a Vietnam vet driven to drug addiction is so shameful that suicide is a valid option. Pathetic. "},{"Title":"I walked away from this feeling like I needed to go to Confession","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What I came away with after watching this movie was a guilty conscience. The film itself has a rather intriguing plot line and premise to it, but unfortunately it is a movie that you cannot watch with out being bombarded with pornography. If you plan on viewing this and have a moral problem with the degradation of the marital act for the viewing pleasure of an audience then you are making a big mistake. This is not the type of movie with the token sex scene that you can skip on your DVD player. Near the beginning of the film Baldwin's character is video taping his sexual exploits without the knowledge of his partner. This tape and others like it continue to pop up throughout the movie at unpredictable times. It appears that the film is attempting to make a statement about the dignity of women. Ironically in doing so they made multiple women into prostitutes. I only gave it a 2 instead of a 1 because had they handled Baldwin's promiscuity better it would have been an interesting film. "}]