[{"Title":"A thinking man's James Bond - One of the best films I've ever seen.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"101 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's almost 10 years now but I am still awed by the caliber of the film. McTiernan has made a moderately good book by Clancy into an outstanding political thriller.The complexity of the film is particularly challenging.  Clancy plots are notorious for beginning with several different threads that interweave somewhere in the book.  Screenwriter Larry Ferguson takes apart those threads and models a film based on dual protagonists, Connery and Baldwin. The myriad of supporting actors (including current TN Sen. Fred Thompson) that appear on screen subsequently all have distinct but nonetheless crucial roles to the plot.Baldwin, in what is and will probably be his career best role ever, shines as the intelligent and patriotic Jack Ryan, a thinking man's hero.  Connery lends incredible presence, as usual, to his interpretation of Ramius.A pure masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"A submarine classic","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"84 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'Red October' did for modern submarine warfare what 'Das Boot' did for WWII.  It took a concept that is inconceivable to most people (living in a boat underwater with people trying to blow you up) and brought it up close and personal.  The resulting suspense and excitement for this type of film is always extremely entertaining and this film delivers nicely.Tom Clancy's thrilling novel converts well to the big screen.  Clancy is a master of making improbable tales of international intrigue seem plausible.  This story of a Soviet sub commander who is trying to defect to the U.S. adds a unique twist to the suspense normally associated with submarine films.John McTiernan, who is building an enormous reputation in the action/adventure genre did a fabulous job as director.  This film focused less on the submarine and its crew than its cousin 'Das Boot', and more on the international intrigue angle.  McTiernan is very effective in keeping up the pace and giving the viewer riveting suspense as smart torpedos chase subs through the murky deep.As always, Sean Connery was powerful as the defecting captain, determined not to allow this first strike weapon to start a nuclear holocaust.  Connery gave his character both a conscience and a ruthless commitment, stopping at nothing to reach his goal.Alec Baldwin turns in one of his better performances as Jack Ryan.  Unlike Harrison Ford who made Ryan into an action hero in other Tom Clancy adaptations, Baldwin seemed better cast as the CIA nerd who was thrust into a field situation without any real experience.  In this way, I felt he was a better representation of the character as Clancy originally wrote him.This is a highly entertaining and engrossing film that will keep most action and suspense viewers on the edge of their seats.  I rated it a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"The captain of all submarine movies","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"68 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Because of the intrigue this film offers, the circumstances involved tie up neatly in a very convincing way. Needing all of the variables to fall into place if his defection hopes to be successful, Soviet (although Lithuanian by birth) submarine Captain Ramius (Sean Connery) is a very worthy submarine captain. Never cracking under pressure and carrying out his duty professionally, Ramius is the perfect ally to the west in keeping the balance between the super powers in their military endeavours.Alec Baldwin is good as Jack Ryan. I wish he had stayed on as this character in 'Patriot Games' and 'Clear and Present Danger', because although I like Harrison Ford better as a movie star/actor, Baldwin just seemed better for this role. Too bad he left.Director John McTiernan uses a smooth pace and lets the screenplay speak louder than his role as the man in charge of it all and the film's photography is tense along with the editing and sound. An Oscar winner for sound effects editing, 'The Hunt for Red October' will put a submarine in your living room if you have the DVD 5.1. surround sound. It's positively realistic! "},{"Title":"The action-thriller to end all action-thrillers","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"54 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After seeing this movie, you'll wonder how Hollywood manages to turn out so many junk-action movies, now that they've figured out the right formula. To be fair, the vast majority of action movies don't have the benefit of Tom Clancy's greatest novel (granted, 'Sum of All Fears' was a very, very close second, for me). High tension and realistic (emphasis on that last word) depictions of modern warfare make for an excellent story.Nonetheless, there are a few key qualities that shouldn't go unnoticed to today's directors. First (again) is the basis of a good plot that actually captures your attention, makes you think, and puts you on the edge of your seat. Second is the high caliber of actors James Earl Jones, Alec Baldwin (I'm a Harrison Ford fan, but I still think Baldwin was far better for the role), and - last but certainly not least - Sean Connery. I'm sure this wasn't cheap, but when you look at the product produced by three of the best professional actors, it's worth every penny. Third, is the great music; nothing too over the top, but well-orchestrated, and featuring a great set of pieces by a Russian men's choir (hard to go wrong!). Lastly, the great use of special effects, from which George Lucas himself could use a clue or two it smoothly supports, and doesn't take the place of or interfere with, the development of the plot.This is my #2 favorite movie of all-time, but you don't have to take my word for it. See it yourself! You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Fasten Your Seat Belt, Comrade","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy is a gearhead whose books I find nearly impossible to get into. So it's a surprise to find one of his novels, adapted on screen, is not only good but as enjoyable and riveting as is The Hunt For Red October.Sean Connery plays a Soviet sub skipper, Marko Ramius, who at the height of the Cold War is put at the helm of his navy's most advanced creation, the Red October, a nuclear-missile carrier with a propulsion system that enables it to elude sonar. After he puts out to sea, Ramius has a letter delivered to a senior Soviet official that sends the U.S.S.R. into panic mode. The U.S. wonders why. Has Ramius gone nuts? Will the U.S. be able to stop him before he has the ability to park his missiles along the Eastern Seaboard? Or is CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) correct in suggesting another reason for Ramius's aberrant behavior?Some have speculated this story is not completely fictional. Watching this film, it's easy to understand why. The Hunt For Red October, on screen, moves with uncommon verity for a spy yarn. With a zest for detail and the human equation, director John McTiernan examines the inner workings not only of the Red October but of the subs, ships, and helicopters chasing it as well as the corridors of power where the fate of the Red October and perhaps the world must be decided. You get the feeling at times you are not just watching an ace popcorn thriller but sitting in on some undocumented bit of history.The movie's chief strengths are its moody lighting, its unrelenting pace, and especially its deep bench of acting talent. Connery suggests a note of uncertainty to Ramius that keeps the audience on its toes. For the longest time, we don't know what he's up to. Baldwin plays Ryan in a very realistic way that establishes his basically gentle, bookish nature but underscores the depths of his heroism as he pursues an increasingly dangerous path no one else believes in. Scott Glenn is terrific as a crusty U.S. sub commander, while Stellan Skarsgard glowers effectively in-between cigarette puffs as a cagey Soviet. Richard Jordan, in one of his last roles, steals every scene he's in as the National Security Adviser.There's a nice bit of business between Ryan and Jordan's Jeffrey Pelt where Ryan sticks his neck out and Pelt pounces, telling the analyst that if he believes Ramius is defecting, he should go out there and try to collect him. Pelt's no humanitarian, understand, he just wants to keep his options open Listen, I'm a politician, which means I'm a cheat and a liar, and when I'm not kissing babies I'm stealing their lollipops. That's the best thing about the movie. Even as it ups the ante on what's at stake, and feeds you with outlandish moments of humor and drama, the motivations of the characters, and their reactions to increasingly hypertense situations, are kept grounded in reality.The ending comes off a bit pat, and the behavior of Capt. Ramius and his officers seems at times questionable, but the film doesn't slip in any discernible way, unless you're Russian and notice Connery's Lithuanian brogue. In fact, it's a rare techno-thriller that not only holds up with repeat viewings, but manages to be even more exciting the more one understands what is going on.McTiernan is making a guy film here, but he does a nice job providing some brain food, too. Notice how the transition on having the Soviet characters speak Russian to English turns on the word Armageddon, or the clever interplay between Ramius and his questioning crew. There's a lot going on here, and it makes the film worth treasuring. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Jack Ryan Films...","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October is taken off of military-expert Tom Clancy's gripping novel. Tom Clancy has a knack for the inner-psyche of our fears. He doesn't openly thrill us, but rather opens our minds to the potential hazards in the US government. Most government/military thrillers skim the surface and gather us a few good things to make us go, Whoo, but Tom Clancy's books make us fall over in amazement. The man has an incredible knowledge of the government and its subsidaries, and his novels show this.His film adaptations normally make good. All four are at least good, and one of them, The Hunt for Red October, is taut, tense, and powerfully moving. The plot of the film is fictional, but it is right out of the headlines.It is about a submarine, a Russian, and an American. It sounds like the setup for a bar-joke, but it's not. The Russian man is named Ramius (Sean Connery), who, along with his crew, takes a Soviet submarine out to the North Atlantic ocean. The sub is the best-of-the-best, with an all-new propolsion system (it's faster than other submarines), and uses advanced techniques to literally disappear off radar.After a few days out at sea, the submarine vanishes off radar, and the Russians, frantic, tell the American government that Ramius has taken the sub to America's mainland to launch a missile attack. However, CIA Analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) thinks otherwise. He believes Ramius is defecting to the States along with his crew. Further, he believes the Russians don't want to admit this for fear of losing their best submarine.The film is directed by John McTiernan, who brought us Predator, Die Hard, The Thomas Crown Affair (remake) and Die Hard with a Vengeance. All of the preceding films are very good, most of them great, and The Hunt for Red October qualifies as very good.Sean Connery gives a commanding performance as the leading character, Ramius. His second-hand-man is played by Sam Neil, faking a Russian accent very badly. But Neil is lovable in his role, despite having the worst Russian accent ever. Tim Curry joins along for the ride on the misfortuned sub as well, and Alec Baldwin gives his best performance as Jack Ryan.As much as I don't like to admit it, Harrison Ford isn't the ideal Jack Ryan for me. He differs too much from the character in the novel. Neither Ben Affleck nor Alec Baldwin take the cake, either. But if you look past the book persona, you will enjoy the performances in all the films much more.I don't tend to like military thrillers most of the time. Most likely because they are put together sloppily on the whole. But The Hunt for Red October isn't sloppy, careless, nor boring. It's thrilling, exciting, and entertaining.But the book is better.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Best Film of Tom Clancy","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie never fails to entertain me.  Smartly directed, well written, and acted it always brings a fresh newness no matter how many times I've seen it.  It could have been the beginning of a franchise for Alec Baldwin.  He is very much centered and controlled.  Sean Connery is also standout.Could recommend this to anyone without hesitation. On DVD it's a visual feast.  Just a great looking movie.  Wish that all the other Clancy books had been adapted so well.    "},{"Title":"Cold War hokum, but hey, it's Hollywood...","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"67 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's been argued that any viewer knowing anything about navies, the Cold War or the Russian language will be disappointed by this movie. Well, that's rather like saying that anyone who knows anything about the fine-details of cartoon animation or the biology of rodents will be disappointed by 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit'.'Red October', an emaciated version of a chunky Clancy novel, is a tight, sweaty thriller supported by a sterling cast;I mean, with the exception of maybe 'Beetlejuice' where else can you watch Alec Baldwin without wanting to slap his fat mug? McTiernan cuts all the flab from the base novel to present a lean little movie, and who in their right mind can possibly reprimand Connery for his accent? The man's played a British spy, an Irish cop, an Eygptian immortal and a Russian submarine captain all with the same brogue- who cares? He still portrays the role with all the nobility and world-weariness the part deserves. "},{"Title":"Classy and very solid in all departments","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A Russian submarine, rigged with a stealth drive to hide the noise of the screws, has slipped silently away from it's planned course.  The Captain, Ramius, has left a note indicating that he intends to defect to the US.  Desperate to stop the US acquiring the stealth technology Russia inform the US of Ramius' plan to attack the US and engage their help in stopping him.  However CIA analysist Jack Ryan suspects Ramius may really be defecting and sets out to help him. An underwater game of cat and mouse ensues.The first of the &#145;Jack Ryan' films is almost the best.  Not only do we do without Ford's rather dull and workmanlike performances, but also has a good story and sense of time.  The story is solid &#150; it isn't flashy, but it delivers well.  The only time it seems weak is when it goes away from the action to try and give a character background, eg Ryan with his family etc, then it is cheesy and forced.  However when it is with the action it manages to be tense without being really exciting.  The story never plods but at times it does move slow, however this is well played as tension and makes it more enjoyable.However the film's main asset is simply put &#150; Connery.  Despite playing a Russian with a Scottish accent, Connery is magnificent and dominates the screen no matter who he shares it with.  He manages to make us care more about him than any of the American characters.  Baldwin is good, he wasn't a star at this point but he makes a better Ryan than Ford did.  The rest of the cast is deep in quality &#150; in both big roles and small roles.  Sam Neill, James Earl Jones, Joss Ackland, Richard Jordan, Tim Curry, Courtney Vance, Stellan Skarsgård, Jeffrey Jones etc (even a small role for McTiernan's dad).  The deep cast helps add a touch of class to proceedings.Overall this isn't a fantastic thriller, however it is classy and very solid in all departments.  It may lack a certain spark but it is solidly entertaining throughout. "},{"Title":"A great submarine movie","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"52 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"       Fortuneately, this movie is not entirely true to Tom Clancy's vision and book.  Tom Clancy is an American superpatriot and nationalist.  He loves to gush about the superiority of the American military establishment and its high technology.  This movie puts a more sympathetic face on the Russians and the commoner's point of view.      Sean Connery plays a very likable Russian Submarine Commander.  Of course, Sean Connery is always going to steal the show in any movie.  He's kind of like the John Wayne of the last twenty five years.  But the supporting actors are also engaging as well.  Scott Glenn, Fred Thompson, and James Earl Jones all do very well at commanding our attention.  These actors always give strong, interesting, and dynamic performances.      With all the high technology and military hardware in this movie it is interesting to note how a simple seaman(an enlisted man at that!) solves the great technical puzzle in this movie.  All the officers, admirals, computers, aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and what have you are clearly stumped.  But, Jonesy, with simple reasoning and a keen intuition, solves the riddle that is the Red October.  Yes, he uses a computer to help him, but most importantly, he uses his mind!       The strength of this movie is that with all the gadgetry and high technology, the human element is not lost but is always on top.  Plus, it does not degrade into pro-American propaganda.  Because of this, I think that people who know nothing about the military or who don't even like war movies will find this movie enjoyable.   "}{"Title":"Edge of your seat suspense from a master storyteller.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Clancy's tour-de-force turned into a great movie, with a great cast. Sean Connery IS Marko Ramius--he steals every scene he's in.  Alec Baldwin is solid as Jack Ryan.  And the supporting cast led by James Earl Jones, Scott Glenn, Sam Neill, Fred Dalton Thompson, and the late Richard Jordan is supurb. This is a suspensful thriller from the word go.  The action is almost non-stop.  The combat footage--both above and below the water are excellent.  Hitchcock would have loved this one!   "},{"Title":"A surprisingly action filled submarine movie.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it sounds like a weird combination. A submarine movie with exciting action. Still The Hunt for Red October is a movie filled with some superb underwater action sequence's that were brilliantly directed by action movie veteran John McTiernan. The underwater finale is really 'edge-of-your-seat' stuff!With this movie McTiernan shows once more that he is the best action movie director alive, along with James Cameron. Still the movie has more to offer than just action. The story is also what makes this an excellent political thriller, making this movie perfectly watchable for both the action movie lovers and those of political thrillers. Of all the Tom Clancy novel movies this is my personal favorite and best so far.The cast consists out of some big names. Connery is great as Russian submarine captain who talks Russian with a Scotish accent. Alec Baldwin is a wonderful Jack Ryan. Other actors that stood out to me were; Sam Neill, Tim Curry, Stellan Skarsgård, Jeffrey Jones and Scott Glenn. Only too bad about the Beaumont character, that was just annoying and unnecessary.The phenomenal cinematography was done by Jan de Bont. The likewise phenomenal music was composed by Basil Poledouris who's name I can't still spell right without having to look it up. Poledouris truly is a criminally underrated composer and with this movie he once again delivers a true masterpiece.It's the combination of all these great things that make The Hunt for Red October a brilliant and tad underrated movie, that is perfectly watchable for a wide range of people.9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great Memorable Film of 1990!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Rated PGGenre Action/Adventure/ThrillerStar Rating ****1/2 out of 5Red October is a new Soviet Submarine. When the Americans are given photographs of it, they are extremely curious as to why is it so special. Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin), a CIA analyst, consults with a friend, who deduces that it's equipped with a new engine that can make it run virtually silent and with such a device, they can position themselves on the outskirts of any coastal city and launch their missiles and not give their target any warning. Marko Ramius (Sean Connery) the sub's captain kills their political officer after they open their orders which basically has them conducting routine maneuvers but he kills him and burns their orders and replaces it. He then tells the crew that they are going to test their new engine by positioning themselves by New York and run missile drills. Ryan is then called by his boss to attend a briefing that concerns Red October. It is at this briefing that they discover that Ramius sent a letter to high ranking Soviet official, who after reading the letter went to meet with the Soviet Premier and it was shortly after that meeting that the Soviet navy was deployed to find Red October and sink it. Everyone assumes that Ramius has turned rogue but Ryan who once did research on Ramius assumes that he might be trying to defect. While everyone dismisses him, the National Security Adviser tells Ryan to go out there and find out for sure if he is right cause once Ramius is in position to fire his missiles they have take him out. Ryan reluctantly goes and is not use to fieldwork, is having a hard time coping with the sea. At the same time someone in the Red October crew knows that Ramius has deviated from his assignment and is doing what he can to stop him! Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery do a great job together in this movie! This movie got Oscar Award for Best Effects and Sound Effects Editing. I think this movie should of won an Oscar award for best picture and have Sean Connery for best actor and Alec Baldwin for supporting actor. I highly recommend this movie!BOTTOM LINE FANTASTIC!  "},{"Title":"This movie was filmed on my submarine.....","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was attached to the USS Portsmouth when this movie was made here in San Diego, at the Point Loma Submarine Base; some of my closest friends were cast as Soviet sailors in the movie. This movie is amazingly accurate on many levels (granted, there are goofs here and there...but nothing that a non-submarine sailor would be likely to catch). I actually had the pleasure of serving onboard two of the subs featured in this movie; the second one was the USS Blueback (SS 581), which was the last diesel submarine in our navy. The scene where the submarine flies out of the water is actually the Blueback, during an emergency surface; a little scary the first time I did it, but incredibly fun every other time I did it. This movie brings back so many memories, and I hope that everyone enjoyed it as much as I have. "},{"Title":"Cold war simplicity","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is entertaining alright, but when you look at it more closely, the story is superficial, unrealistic and dull. For one thing, it is clear almost from the beginning that Ramius does not intend to nuke the United States but is trying to defect. So much for keeping the viewers in suspense. Then the National Security Adviser, who can't be at all sure about this, accepts the risk of nuclear Armageddon on the off-chance that he will have the opportunity of inspecting a state of the art Soviet submarine. I think that any US administration would simply decide to blow the submarine out of the water at the very first occasion.The world depicted in this movie is a nice place to live. Somehow all the key figures are flawless geniuses Ramius, who knows how to perfectly deliver his submarine into American hands; Ryan, the academic who used to dislike flying but somehow manages to survive a helicopter flight, then drops into the ice cold water of the Atlantic, helps navigating a submarine with no experience whatsoever, and finally wins a gunfight with a Soviet saboteur; Mancuso, commanding the USS Dallas with admirable ease and taking the unlikely ideas of Ryan as well as those of his sonar-man seriously; and finally, Jones the sonar-man who happens to have the best ears of the Western Hemisphere. All five of them are brilliant and do not make a single mistake. Quoting Avon (Blake's Seven) Suddenly we are hip-deep in heroes.To make up for this all Soviet officials are stupid, cruel or unpleasant in general. With the exception of Captain Ramius &#150; but then he is not Russian, is he? He is from Lithuania. "},{"Title":"The real hero is the cook","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Poor taste and naive patriotism. Imagine American officer who is trying to defect and heroic cook who is trying his best to maintain military dignity and real patriotism. Imagine showing dumb American sailors. Just reverse every figure and you will find that this movie contains nothing. Primitive attempt to squeeze some adrenaline and some sympathy for a man who lost his dear wife. Tough American cowboys in uniforms and A. Baldwin as a sympathetic figure. Now tell me what is great about this movie except political correctness and cute poses of the leading actors. I wanna go to Montana. this is exactly the thought that comes to mind instead of watching this cartoon of course. The only heroic figure is the cook, who fought to the end. "},{"Title":"Totally implausible","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"22 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that there is only one negative comment for this film. Anyone with a deeper knowledge of the subject will point out to you that the movie is greatly flawed, and at times hilarious at its portrayal of Russians. For example, singing the soviet national anthem on a sub is pure Hollywood. The political officer is not the second in command. The crew would not be so quick to cooperate with the captain. Plus if you knew some real history you'd know that something like this happened in 1975 only with a ship, and the captain wound up being shot by a firing squad. The guy wishing to live in Montana is simply ridiculous. Next we get the numerous technical problems, like there is no way a sub could do a turn in several seconds. Have you any idea how big these things are? It would take several seconds just to start its propellers rolling. I won't even get into the caterpillar drive's ridiculousness. Lets just say that even if it did exist it would not be any quieter then a propeller. Finally for a movie that seems to aim for accuracy, the Russian pronunciations in it are simply horrible. I know it might not matter much to most of you, but they should have at least tried to make it believable. This could go on forever, but I'll spare you. If you want a good believable sub movie, watch Das Boot.  "},{"Title":"Seen it  8 times -- and it never gets old","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let's talk about some of the things that make a movie a classic.Acting? Check. Just look at the stars.Script? Check. Based on book by Clancy back when people read books (and dinosaurs walked) and Clancy OWNED his niche.Cinematography? Direction? That it takes place on a sub means it is distinctive and memorable from the getgo. Something about the claustrophobia of a submarine reflected in the claustrophobia of a movie theatre.Most of important of all is the pacing. There are few films that I have seen this many times and the reason is that the story builds so beautifully. With such a great payoff. Story telling at its finest. So tricks, so attempt to sucker punch the viewer, not even any pretty girls to distract from the weak scenes. Because there are none.A classic. And under-rated. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love Red October.  Sean Connery does an excellent job as the captain of the sub, despite his accent.  I can watch it all the time and it will never get boring.  A truly great movie that is suspenseful, and casts stars before they were really big (Sam Neill in Jurassic Park, and Alec Baldwin). "},{"Title":"Stunning submarine movie about a defection that causes a possible nuclear confrontation","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Jack Ryan's first entry with lots of action , tension and high-tech thriller. This exciting picture deal with an atomic underwater sub and the problems originated for the crew defection to West. Russians make a new atomic submarine that sails silent due to a revolutionary propulsion system . Sub skipper named Marko Ramius (Sean Connery ) defects, aim of taking it to the United States to avoid the Russians from utilizing the sub to wreak atomic war against the U.S.A . Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin), a CIA high officer is assigned by his superiors (James Earl Jones , Richard Jordan ) to solve the risked complications . Ryan get involved in the tangled chase of the Russian's newest high-tech atomic submarine that runs silent across oceans.First installment of the Agent Jack Ryan with lots of twists and turns , rattling action, suspense and intrigue . The yarn is interesting though based on fictitious deeds. There are suspense, thriller and action, but the scenario is mostly into submarines . Runtime film is overlong , the flick is slow moving but is interesting . Amount of minutes are superfluous ,it has half hour of excess, however the movie is quite agreeable . Extraordinary nail-biting scenes, specially when there happens the final battle on some amazing images. Sean Connery performance as sub admiral is excellent, he hands perfectly the role , Ford has gotten the best character as obstinate captain trying to defect to the West on his ship. Sam Neill acting as the second-in-command is first rate. And of course Alec Balwin is good as agent who must figure out the true motives for approaching the U.S. , this character results to be one of the his best films . This blockbuster is an excellent adaptation of the novel by Tom Clancy , companion to ¨ Clear and present danger¨ with Harrison Ford taking over the role of Ryan from Alec Baldwin and the second part ¨Patriot games¨ again with Ford , who's becoming the king of trilogies ; furthermore , the last entry titled ¨The sum of all fears¨ with Morgan Freeman and Ben Afleck as Jack Ryan . And it belongs to modern sub-genre about atomic submarines as ¨Red Crimson¨ with Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman and ¨K19 , the Widowmaker¨ with Liam Neeson and Harrison Ford. Interesting screenplay plenty of twists and thrills by Larry Ferguson . Spectacular musical score fitting to action and suspense by the maestro Jerry Golsmith. Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Jan de Bont . This handsome picture is lavishly produced and masterfully directed by John McTiernan . He's an action expert director with hits, such as ¨ Predator, Die Hard , Warrior 13, Basic and Last days of Eden ¨ again with Sean Connery , and some flops , such as ¨Nomads , Thomas Crown and Rollerball¨. Rating  Above average, the flick will appeal to Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin fans . "}{"Title":"The Face That's Put On The Outcome","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first novel and the first screen adaption of a Tom Clancy novel is the thrilling and fast paced The Hunt For Red October about a Soviet submarine and her captain and Clancy's intrepid hero Jack Ryan.That particular submarine is a stealth submarine equipped with a new technology that will allow to creep up to the USA shoreline without barely a trace of sonar contact. It can only be used, it's only purpose is as an offensive weapon.Which troubles her captain Sean Connery who with his officers decides to take it to the USA and defect. You might ask why Connery is command of the vessel. He's not Russian, he's Lithuanian and very simply he's the best they've got, a kind of Soviet Hyman Rickover.But Clancy had the foresight to see the breakup of the Soviet Union with its various nationalities forming real Republics. The book was written beforehand, but the movie came out just when this was happening.The action proceeds on two levels, a cat and mouse diplomatic game involving the Russians through their ambassador Joss Ackland disseminating a lot of disinformation about Sean Connery. The second level is the military one with Admirals James Earl Jones and Fred Dalton Thompson trying to divine Connery's intentions and Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan offering an alternative view. Later on Baldwin is transported on a rough sea to an American submarine captained by Scott Glenn whom he also has to sell. Baldwin is truer to Tom Clancy's conception of Jack Ryan who he creates as a policy wonk for the Central Intelligence Agency. It's a different Jack Ryan than Harrison Ford's or later Ben Affleck.Action fans will love the final confrontation with American and Soviet submarines and the outcome and the face that's put on that outcome. "},{"Title":"The last good movie Connery and Alec ever made.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I know I talk about them like they're dead, but seriously - each actor gave a tour de force performance in this film and then lost his respective ability to pick scripts.  Alec was by far the best Jack Ryan with his affable persona - Harrison was dull dull dull, and Ben Affleck was just a little too frat-boy.  The screenwriter took an excellent 500-page book and almost miraculously condensed it into a coherent two-hour story that was just as taut.  This one makes my own personal top-fifty list. "},{"Title":"A memorable hunt, indeed","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As Cold War thrillers go, The Hunt for Red October is probably as Hollywood as they come. Then again, this is a movie that stars Sean Connery as a Soviet, so who's coming to this for accuracy? The movie unfolds piece by piece, with the actual substance - Ryan' trying to intercept Ramius - not really kicking in until after the halfway mark. And yet, the movie's methodical pacing up until that point never makes for a slog. A slow-burn, sure, but between the cast (solid), the overall visual (the movie looks great) and the tense underwater gambit, this is one entertaining film.As far as Jack Ryan goes, Alec Baldwin has always been my favorite. he's got just the right mix of steely determination and boyish charm that makes him seem an unlikely military presence (we believe that his superiors write him off as just an analyst). And as for Sean Connery, the guy's screen presence speaks for itself. He owns his scenes, and it's not even an ostentatious role.All around, a great movie! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Superb adaptation of the Tom Clancy Novel","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Has it really been 25 years now since its release its shocking to think about it. I am still in absolute awe by the calibre of the film. The Director McTiernan has made what was an averagely good book by Clancy into an outstanding political thriller.The complexity of the film is extremely challenging. Tom Clancy's plots are notorious for starting with different threads and of course they interweave with each other somewhere in the book. the Screenwriter Larry Ferguson manages to take apart each of those threads and models the film based on dual protagonists, played by Connery and Baldwin. Each of the supporting actors (including current TN Sen. Fred Thompson) that appear on screen subsequently all have distinct crucial roles to the plot.This is by far Baldwin's best role ever, he truly shines as the intelligent and patriotic Jack Ryan, he is a true thinking man's hero. I should say that Connery lends incredible presence, as usual, to his interpretation of Ramius.A pure masterpiece absolutely superb! "},{"Title":"Perfect Debut Novel & Movie for Tom Clancy","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Captain Marco Ramius of The Red October is a brilliant Captain, strategist and tells of a game they'll play getting close to the American fleet undetected The action heats up as Americans realize that the ship has a quiet propulsion system that makes this possibleCIA Analyst Jack Ryan is thrust into this when he has a theory, but he has to prove it in a world of uncertainties. The Americans want Red October and the Russians will do anything to get her back. Plot twists and turns heighten the action as the USS Dallas joins in the chase.Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin play Ramius and Ryan in a movie based on a book so realistic, both the Americans and the Soviets swear that it never happened.The book of course is better, and I couldn't put it down. With this movie, I can hardly look away "},{"Title":"The ultimate in thriller suspense...","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's ground-breaking (and arguably best) novel comes shimmering to life in this epic thriller. A combination of top casting, a superlative script and some terrific screenplay ensure that The Hunt for Red October won't fail to disappoint fans of military action/suspense pictures. Sean Connery steals the show as Captain Ramius, an experienced Russian submarine commander given control over the navy's latest creation. Connery lends his vast acting knowledge and expertise to the role, creating a truly well rounded character who often anchors the scenes in which he features. Noteworthy efforts are also made from Sam Neill and Alec Baldwin, with the latter translating Jack Ryan on to the screen brilliantly. Fans of realism will instantly feel at home thanks to the movie's script, which has the cast delivering believable dialogue and doesn't shy off technical naval jargon. Some of the film's scenes are truly heart-fluttering moments, many of which are thanks only to great screenplay. Those who enjoyed the novel shouldn't be disappointed, as the film remains largely true to Clancy's original plot. Often referred to as a thinking man's film, The Hunt for Red October carries forward its smart plot and superb acting with apparent ease. The situation is realistic, and so is the action, so if you're a fan of military thrillers, this one is definitely for you. Give me a ping, Vasily... "},{"Title":"well put together exciting thriller","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1984, A Typhoon-class Soviet sub surfaced just south of the Grand Banks but is mysteriously sunk. Marko Ramius (Sean Connery) is the captain of the new innovative Soviet nuclear submarine Red October with an almost-silent drive. He hand picks most of his crew like Vasili Borodin (Sam Neill) and intends to defect. The Soviets tell the Americans that Ramius has gone rogue and intends to launch a first strike. Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) is an analyst expert with Ramius and the new sub. Admiral Greer (James Earl Jones) brings him in to do a presentation and decides that Ramius may actually be defecting. He is sent out to find a way to help Ramius defect before they have to sink him. Meanwhile, the captain of the USS Dallas Bart Mancuso (Scott Glenn) starts tracking the Red October with the careful listening of Seaman Jones (Courtney B. Vance).This is the first movie with Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan character and it hits it out of the ballpark. Director John McTiernan does a masterful job of stitching the complicated spy action thriller. It has a bit of Bond but the Jack Ryan often proclaims that he's just an analyst. Sean Connery has a great presence but the audience has to accept that he's a Soviet. The submarine work is great. It's all well put together. "},{"Title":"A thrilling undersea adventure with a solid cast","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My rating 7.5 out of 10 (I really liked it) I've read so many reviews of 'The Hunt for Red October' that argue over whether or not it portrays submarine operations believably, that criticize the actors for their inability to speak Russian or mimic the accent; but to focus on these things is, in my opinion, to really miss the point of going to the movies.The point of movies is fantasy, not realism. You see, real life is usually pretty boring. I wouldn't want to watch a movie that was too close to real life. I love movies precisely because they take me away from real life; they create another world and then immerse us in it for a couple of hours. Therefore...So what if real submarines aren't capable of some of the things we see in 'Red October'? So what if a Russian captain speaks English with a Scottish accent? If 'Star Wars' and 'Star Trek' can create worlds where you can actually hear lasers, explosions, and ship engine noise in the vacuum of space, then I say 'Red October' can create its world however it wants to.'Red October' is a very well-made film &#x96; nothing particularly deep or profound, I suppose, just a suspenseful thriller and rousing adventure that keeps your interest from start to finish. It's very much a plot-driven movie. There are all kinds of movies &#x96; some that move the emotion, and some that engage the mind. 'Red October' is in the latter category...a movie that entertains us by putting a group of highly skilled characters into a series of dilemmas and then letting us observe the fascinating ways they get out of the dilemmas. As such, you won't find any character studies here because there just isn't much time for them; the script calls mainly for stereotypes. I don't say that as a criticism in this case; with a complicated plot, a large cast, and a lack of time to develop the characters, stereotypes and typecasting become somewhat necessary so that we the audience can more quickly and easily identify with them. And despite the possible pitfalls with this approach the performances are very competent, for the most part avoiding clichés, the leads so naturally charismatic that we easily care about them and root for them despite any lack in character development. Really, I'm probably making too much of this whole character development thing; the truth is that you really don't miss it in this case because the details of the cat and mouse game are just so interesting and absorbing.If I have one quibble with the movie it would be regarding an action that Ramius takes early on. I won't spoil anything for anyone reading this, but let's just say that this deliberate action directly results in his entire crew very nearly getting killed, on multiple occasions. If he hadn't done it, his plan could have been carried out with complete ease, very little chance of danger...and of course, then there wouldn't be much of a movie. But still, it seems hard to believe a man in his position would really do this considering the potential cost, despite his very flimsy justification. Oh well, it didn't affect my rating at all, and I'm perfectly willing to concede that even highly intelligent people sometimes do very foolish things.All in all, a very fine film that aims to keep you on the edge of your seat and succeeds. I give it seven and a half stars. Why no higher? Well, it's not because there are any glaring flaws. It's just that, like I said at the outset, 'Red October' is engaging but there's certainly nothing deep or profound here. Not that there has to be in order for me to enjoy a movie, of course. I guess it's just like food &#x96; everyone has their favorite kinds but that doesn't mean you don't sometimes feel in the mood for other things, too. My favorite movies are those that move the emotions, or better yet, both the emotions and the mind. I love the genres of science fiction and fantasy. I love great character studies. And no, 'Red October' isn't these things, so it will never be my favorite. But sometimes, after I've eaten my favorites over and over, I find I have the appetite for a good old-fashioned adventure, and 'Red October' more than satisfies. "},{"Title":"It was just alright.  Nothing special.","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw this in the theatre with some friends, and then a couple more times on HBO, although I have to say I don't recall sitting through another screening entirely. When it would come on I would tune it in, watch it for a bit, then head outside.The problem with submarine movies is that you have to know how a submarine functions, and not just on a everyday level in terms of how the sailors live (although that would have been welcomed in this poorly researched piece), but in terms of the larger scheme of things of what it's strategic and tactical roles are. There are two forms of subs, and Red October is the behemoth SSBN version, not the long thin fighter attack sub kind. She's there as a deterrent to any power that would challenge the might of the USSR; notably the US. Why is this important, you may ask. Because without knowing the destructive power of a boomer, the average movie goer and his date become mildly clueless as to why this underwater behemoth is so important. Oh sure, they know it's a weapon of some-kind, and the Russians own the thing, but other than that it's a nebulous artifact of the film.Part of the film's limitations are in the fact that the Soviets weren't in the habit of letting film crews aboard to let everyone know how they operated and did things. It wasn't going to happen, not at one of the high points in the Cold War, when reform was on its way as the Soviet economy was coming to a ruin. The CCCP needed the money, ergo letting Paramount's camera crew do some impressive exteriors of whatever K- number it was that played the part of Red October.So, when we finally get to have a look inside the pride of Mother Russia's undersea fleet, we're treated to a very glitzy Hollywoodized shmorgasbog of big shiny submarine controls. A far cry from the drab and confined interiors of the real Typhoon class of subs, where berths and various rooms are separated by wood paneling. But that's nitpicking. What about the acting? The drama? Surely they're okay, right? And the climactic sub battle? The acting is solid. You can't expect less from Connery, one of my favorite actors. But the drama itself that unfolds is again given many coats of Hollywood gloss that it essentially becomes unbelievable at times. Almost canned.I have yet to see a real good technological thriller. Okay, not entirely true. Wargames was more of a teenager film with a technological bent; i.e. sci-fi, but it put you on edge with a computer run amuck. Similarly the Bond films with Connery during the 60s were palpable entertainment. I can't think of many others that have really tackled hard military issues and successfully put them on screen. Firefox with Clint? Not really. Red October gives it an old fashioned Golden Era Hollywood try, and succeeds for the effort, but only just, and again with the previous caveats in mind.A better film would have been one that might have spared the expenses of building the colossal stage in the photo essay published by LIFE magazine just prior to the film's release. Maybe recasting with no-star actors could have brought some grounded performances. Tons of ways to improve this thing from what it is.But, the audience wants spectacle. Ergo The Hunt for Red October is what it is. A big splashy (no pun intended) military thriller with tension of the underwater realm that has been very difficult to capture in the past and put up on screen. Red October delivers in terms of entertainment, but for me the ultimate sub film will always remain Das BootGive Red October a chance. It's worth a night's viewing. "},{"Title":"Very, very  good submarine movie","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong, this is actually a very good movie. And this is coming from a 16 year old schoolgirl! It is fast paced, not too long, and while the story is a bit confusing sometimes, it is one of the few movies that maintains our attention all the way through. Director John McTiernon ensures that the tension rarely slips, and is fairly faithful to the novel, which needs a great deal of understanding especially in the descriptions of the submarines. Though some of the characters especially Dr Petrov have a more significant role in the book. Speaking of the character, many said that 43-year old Tim Curry of Clue fame, looked young and that it was insane casting. He was only in 15 minutes of the movie, but he is so important, and I was impressed by the depth of Curry's performance, it's different to any other role he's played, and how the character turned out in general. As well as the submarine and the odd visuals, the music was phenomenal as well as the look of the film and the sound, with a conveniently Russian feel to it. It was also very musical with what was going on. The acting is what holds the film together, with a charismatic performance from Sean Connery,(in one of his best post-Bond roles) and a career best from Alec Baldwin. Sam Neill also gives a moving performance, as well as the ever-excellent James Earl Jones, who is in my sister's favourite film the Lion King. I recommend this movie highly, if you're a fan of Tom Clancy. I'm not, but I enjoyed it, because I like films that are tense and I like a lot of the actors in the film. 8.5/10. Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Very cool technological thriller with wonderful music","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***Spoilers just ahead*** Why cool technological thriller? In one of the highlights of the movie, Sean Connery, the coolest submarine captain since James Mason's Captain Nemo, decides to navigate blindly thanks to an exact cartography of a narrow path between underwater mountains. His officers reluctantly accept they know it's difficult but possible for a prepared crew. Few minutes later, the captain enters the bridge and orders a faster navigation this implies fast recalculations for which, again, the crew is well prepared. Then they are attacked by a torpedo, which implies even more recalculations, stopwatch in hand, by Sam Neill, the perfectly confident and loyal first officer, while you hear a solemn and thrilling music. That's cool enough for me.Why wonderful music? Basil Poledouris has been very successfully inspired by the Russian classics, but at the same time knows what to do in a McTiernan film. Some of the background tension music is symmetrical in time it sounds exactly the same played backwards, and perhaps this explains why it sounds so enigmatic and familiar at once. Truly classical.Action and music merge effortlessly in a Cold War film where Russians are portrayed as human beings and not as clumsy villains.9 1/2 out of 10 for McTiernan and his crew. "},{"Title":"Very few submarine movies could equal this masterpiece","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best among all of the Tom Clancy  movies still stands up despite the fact the  Cold War is long gone and Russia isn't  a viable military threat. Virtually everyone  who was casted in this movie was  excellent, from the likes of Alec Baldwin,  Sean Connery, Sam Neill, Tim Currie,  Stellan Skarsgard, Joss Ackland and  Scott Glenn. The pacing, the cinematography  and the general suspense of this film  made this a classic in my mind, setting  itself apart from the typical action driven  big budget film. Hopefully, a special  edition DVD will come out for this film,  simply because a great number of the  stars in this film have had success after  this film and are generally respected as  solid actors. One of the best submarine  movies ever. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I never get tired of watching this movie.  My husband and I can quote most of the lines, and do.  We have the DVD, but we watch it also every single time it comes on cable.  Sean Connery is one of my favorite actors, and Alec Baldwin is cool too.  There's lots of humor in this movie along with suspense.  A good choice for everyone! "},{"Title":"Not perfect but enjoyable","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although there are a few glitches in the Red October saga, none of them detract too much from the overall effect. Sean Connery is excellent (as usual) as a Soviet submarine commander who is at odds with the Mother Land, the United States, and some of his crew, and yet remains perfectly calm in the face of near-catastrophe. Unfortunately, I did not like the faltering accents in Red October.  Sam Neill, one of favorite actors, does not handle the Russian well here.  The same goes for many of the Red October crew; in places we might as well be aboard the USS Enterprise--it sounds the same. The Russian crew does speak almost entirely in English, which of course is crucial to an American movie without subtitles, but naturally that makes it less believable, however unavoidable. Some critics have compared Red October to Crimson Tide, another taut underwater thriller.  But these similarities are drawn solely on the submarine setting, and these films are hardly alike after that.  It's like compared The Godfather to You've Got Mail because they both are set in New York City.  While I liked Crimson Tide better for its all-around stronger cast and suspense, Red October stays afloat on its own. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, which keeps the attention and excitement","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For some reason this movie keeps getting my attention, making me forget everything that is around me and just enjoying all the plans and subplans that are developed, that make the story quite intriguing. The characters are well-defined, and occasionally quite touching. "},{"Title":"A DAMN good film","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching this film in a Scottish hotel about seven years ago.  I was ill at the time and it was the only in-house video and my family and I watched it about 20 times in a few days.  Now, we still love this film and we all think it's brilliant.  It's one of Connery's best performances I have seen.It's a damn good film! "},{"Title":"Brilliant piece of cinematic achievement!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Great plot, great cinematography, great acting, a brilliant cast.  If you like to see a movie for action and good acting, this is it.  If you like to see a movie to pick out goofs and non-era items, forget it, go watch a Disney movie. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite films. I love the action, the under-water adventure, the great Russian music, the great cast and the story. To the original poster, you're missing the forest because of a tree! "},{"Title":"Best of the Ryan films - Good film overall","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first film in the Jack Ryan Franchise. This is another great film by the underrated director John Mctiernan (of Die Hard 1&3 Fame). The plot is also good as is the Main cast.Sean Connery is excellent and chilling as the unpredictable captain Ramius and Alec Baldwin is perfectly cast as Jack Ryan. San Neill, James Earl Jones, Scott Glenn and Tim Curry also turn in solid Performances.Also watch for Stellan Skarsgard (Ronin, Pirates of the Caribbean trilogy) in an early role.a good start to the Ryan series.7/10. "},{"Title":"A Bit More Than Trivia","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt For Red October is a film which has aged quite well. It is one of the few DVD's I own. Those I retain I watch over and over; I consider that a good test for a movie; this movie meets it just fine, at least as far as I'm concerned.I don't care about the so-called trivia pointed out by others concerning this film. To me, they make no difference whatsoever to the enjoyment of this movie.But there is one slip-up I do kind of mind. The Captain of the Soviet Alfa-Class Attack sub (which belatedly hurries off to intercept The Red October) orders a depth of 900 meters. I think this is way too deep for the mission he was initiating. Alfa subs had a usual cruise depth of 350 m, a test depth of 800 m. Test depth was probably 2/3 of crush depth, making that absolute limit 1200 m. Any Alfa sub Captain ordering a prolonged submersion at 900 m while making heavy speed was just asking for trouble for no good reason. If nothing else, this depth would impede a sub's progress in a hurry to intercept Ramius.By the way, an Alfa's submerged speed was unique in the history of submarines until that time, as far as I can ascertain. Speed (submerged) 20-25 knots tactical speed, 44.7 knots (80 km/h) burst speed. Burst implies a speed attainable for only a short time. No other submarine could touch that performance at the time the Alfas were operating.For interest, according to an article on Alfa's in Wikipedea ... (Alfas) were never actually used in combat, and didn't perform any important tasks except power demonstration, but the Soviet government made use of (its) high characteristics, exaggerating the planned vessels' number. The US replied to Alfa (not until) 12 years later, by SSN-21 Seawolf, which still was less capable in an underwater dogfight, but was a little quieter at its cruise speed. Some parity was reached with ADCAP torpedoes were introduced, which are faster than Alfa-class submarines. However, Seawolf class submarines are three times heavier, don't have the Alfa's characteristic automation, and cost over 2 billion dollars each, therefore being a very costly response to an initiative that didn't actually go beyond experiments. Their construction was halted when the last 705K submarines were decommissioned.Anyway, The Hunt For Red October is a fine, sea-worthy movie. "}{"Title":"best sub movie ever","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" First of all I love Sean Connery so I love any movie he is in. In this movie the first time you see it will be the best viewing. A lot of movies must be viewed many times to totally enjoy, not to say multiple viewing is not enjoyable in this case. The one thing that never comes out is why he wrote the letter to the Russian authorities telling them of his intention to defect to the United States. I believe he knew the Russians would send the fleet after him and this would alert the Americans that something was dreadfully wrong. Rameaus did not want to take the chance of being blown out of the water by the Americans if the Russians wanted help from the U.S. to destroy him. Like he said they had one chance in three that the U.S. would figure out what he was up to. When Red October and Dallas surfaced for a little pow-wow you see him fall away from the periscope when he knows the Americans are on to his intentions. I believe that was in relief. If you have'NT seen it do see it. It's great. "},{"Title":"A Masterful Adaptation","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is easily one of my top ten favorite movies of all time, just because it's so flawless. I mean, yes, there are plenty of entries on the 'goofs' page for it, but I mean as far as character, plot, and overall structure of the story. Maybe Tom Clancy is solely responsible for that and maybe he isn't (I've still never read the book), but I must've watched this movie over a dozen times since I bought it a few years back, and it keeps getting better every time I see it.It's the subtle touches, really. The way Greer gently moves his hands over to Ryan's when Ryan is laying into a U.S. General with a little too much gusto. Or the way Ryan has an entire conversation about a stuffed bear-- it's not relevant to the plot, but it fleshes out the characters and the real lives they all have beyond just the events shown in the movie. Or the Russian/English transition that was particularly ingenious, so much so that it was badly copied years later in The Mummy Returns. Isn't imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, after all? ...For a time I really admired director John McTiernan, because this film, along with Die Hard and Predator did such an excellent job of creating a real literary world, with tension and compelling action/character, and if there were any holes, he did such a great job of covering them that you never noticed. After I watched any of these three films, I felt like I had just read a really great adventure novel. Of course, I don't think McTiernan has made a great movie since these three, so I have no idea WHAT happened. From Medicine Man to Rollerball, he clearly has lost his edge somewhere along the way.But this film is just so utterly enjoyable, and was cast perfectly. I watched whichever was the next Jack Ryan movie (with Harrison Ford) when it came out, but wasn't overly impressed... this is the one that will always do it for me, with such a great mixture of bewilderment and determination on Alec Baldwin's face at any given time. This may have been the peak for Clancy, McTiernan and the submarine genre all at once, and hey, I can't complain. One flawless movie is better than ten mediocre ones. "},{"Title":"Not my ultimate submarine movie, but a very good second","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When I think of the ultimate submarine movie I still think of Das Boot. There really isn't another movie of this kind which is so able to keep me on the edge of my seat like that one. However, The Hunt for Red October certainly qualifies as an excellent second. It's a little bit difficult to compare both of course. Das Boot takes place in the second world war while this movie is situated in 1984, in the middle of the cold war crisis. And the time isn't the only difference, it's also impossible to compare both ships (and the room the actors had to do their job in). The room in the German U-boat was a lot smaller than in the Russian sub, giving the German actors less space to do their jobs.I can't compare the movie to the book, because I haven't read the book yet. What I can say is that the actors did a very good job. It really feels like you know what these men are going through. The same about the technical aspects. I don't know what a nuclear submarine should look like but it sure looked realistic enough to me. It helped me believing the story.All in all The Hunt for Red October is well worth a watch. It's a well acted and directed action thriller which may give you an insight on how the cold war could easily have turned into WWIII. I reward this movie with a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Wonderful!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see HFRO the day it came out & have been watching it ever since! I'm probably in a minority, but I truly believe this is THE best movie ever done...maybe topped only by the Lord of the Rings movies. Clancy's technical knowledge comes through fairly well in the movie & the cast works wonderfully well together. It's hard to go wrong with Sean Connery in a movie anyway & he truly shines in this one. Scott Glenn, Sam Neill, James Earl Jones, Courtney Vance & Fred Thompson are all wonderful actors whose characters all seem believable in this. While I don't really care for Alec Baldwin and think Harrison Ford is a much better Ryan, he does do an excellent job with the character. The underwater fight scenes between the 3 subs & the aircraft carrier still have me on the edge of my seat every time I watch Red October. The haunting soundtrack adds to the atmosphere without overwhelming the movie. I watched this movie so many times my husband finally hid my tape of it !! "},{"Title":"It hooked me to the books.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was awestruck.  I didn't follow the plot very well, but I really enjoyed it a lot.  The film got me hooked to the book (like most movies based on novels, the book is better) and now I'm a Tom Clancy fan. Watching the movie a second time was less enjoyable but the naval action is still exciting.  It's still interesting what goes on inside the Red October. I hate to nitpick but there's one scene and it is one of those kind of scenes that trouble me to no end when I think about the movie.  It was how the Soviet ambassador to the US gives in to tell the truth.  Although the situation is critical for the Soviets, it's not dire enough for the ambassador to give in immediately without permission from his superiors.  And giving in is never done due not just to political reasons.  Given how complex the book was, I could let it slip.The verdict 3.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Die Hard In The Water","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film about a Russian commander defecting to America is a superbly directed thriller from the director of the greatest action film ever Die Hard. Sean Connery is as usual excellent and Alec Baldwin is also good.Definitely one to recommend. "},{"Title":"Almost better than the book","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As an avid reader and fan of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan novels, I eagerly watch any films derived from them. I think this is possibly the best book for making a film that sticks to the book storyline without compromising the requirements of Hollywood.Later Clancy derived films used Harrison Ford in the Jack Ryan role, but I actually think that Alec Baldwin is more credible in this film. The main character is played fabulously by Sean Connery (I know he gives the Russian a Scottish accent, but so what?). He gives real weight to the performance and character. He makes the audience sympathise, respect and cheer for Marko Ramius and dominates one of the strongest casts in many a film.This one one of the earliest videos I bought after investing in a Dolby Surround system and I just love the whale noises, etc. Early on as the Russian sub leaves port and Connery (Marko Ramius) allows the crew to sing, the atmosphere is electric and the surround sound really helps get the hairs on your neck raised. Sometimes I play just these 5 minutes of my (DVD now) treasured copy with the volume wound up high just for the feel good factor.But best of all, the story is a cracker, the suspense held until the end and the underwater sub chase sequences masterfully done. The casting is generally superb (the casting of James Earl Jones as Greer is one of the all time actor/character match works of genius) and the film is pretty faithful to one of the best books of its genre. "},{"Title":"One of McTiernans best films.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I find this movie to be one of John McTiernan's best for many reasons.It is a political thriller which still shakes us today, it is a masterpiece of story telling and portrays very powerful performances indeed.I doubt that any other sub-film reaches its standards (Crimson tide comes pretty close) and I believe that it will take much more than fancy special effects to do so in the future. What to say about the score then? - incredible. The perfect blend of good acting, good script writing (thank you mister Clancy!), good music and good directing - The perfect film therefore? Maybe. Its definitely  in my top 5 that's for sure. Rating*****(excellent) "},{"Title":"One movie I'll stop and watch when I happen to catch it.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can count the number of really, really good movies that I've ever seen on just two hands - and this is most certainly one of them. One real proof is that when I'm channel surfing, if I happen across this movie, I have to watch it to the end.   What's to like? Well, what's not to like. Great cast, great story line, a nice but bitter-sweet ending and nonstop excitement. Sean Connery is excellent at the maverick Russian Captain Marco Ramius. I like his line that goes something like  there's some things in here that don't react too well to bullets. An excellent Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan then does a pretty fair imitation of this line minutes later. The rest of cast is up to the task of playing the usual characters found in this sort of movie. The shoot first ask questions later commanders, the unnaturally gifted radio operator, the doubtful-yet-willing-to-listen buckaroo. If you have never seen it, put it at the top of your list to rent. If you have seen it, well, I know you'll be watching it again, I sure will. "},{"Title":"An excellent and engrossing thriller","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Based on the 1984 novel of the same name by Tom Clancy, this is an excellent and engrossing thriller. I have never read the book but I understand that it follows it quite closely. Given the significant improvement in US-Soviet relations in the few short years between the novel being written and the film being made, it was probably for the best to make it a period piece by setting it in November 1984. The text at the beginning of the film even specifically points out that it was before Gorbachev came to power so as not to ruffle any feathers! In any event, the script by Larry Ferguson and Donald E. Stewart is extremely strong and cleverly written. Some of the more technical matters relating to submarines and the like went a bit over my head, to be frank, but I nevertheless liked the fact that it did not talk down to its audience. John McTiernan's direction is superb and he is able to maintain a high level of tension for most of the film. My biggest criticism of it is that it things quite some time to get going and does not really hit its stride until about 30 to 35 minutes into its running time.The film stars Sean Connery in an excellent performance as the world weary Captain Marko Ramius, the commander of the Soviet Typhoon-class nuclear submarine Red October which has been equipped with a revolutionary caterpillar drive which shields it from sonar detection. Although the US authorities fear that Ramius is a madman who intends to launch an unauthorised nuclear strike on their country, they could not be more wrong as he intends to defect. One year after the seemingly sudden death of his beloved wife Natalia, Ramius has been placed in command of one of the deadliest weapons that humanity has ever developed. He is deeply distrustful of the militants in the Kremlin who seek to turn the Cold War into the Third World War. Conversely, Ramius has no desire for conflict and has grown tired of a war without battles or monuments, only casualties. He yearns for the simplicity of his childhood when he would spend hours on end fishing in his native Lithuania with his grandfather. I think that most people can relate to wanting to live a simple, quiet live with no responsibility. As such, Ramius is a very relatable character.I have never been a huge fan of Alec Baldwin but he is great in the role of Jack Ryan, a CIA analyst with a doctorate in US Naval history and the only person on the American side to realise Ramius' true intentions. He served in the Marines before a severe back injury forced him to take a desk job but, as far as the Navy is concerned, his expertise lies in the theory rather than the practice. Although he is thrown in at the deep end, he is able to find his sea legs quickly. (Yeah, those puns were intended.) In all seriousness, Ryan is a very brave, intelligent and resourceful man who is justifiably confident in his determination of Ramius' character. He is not afraid to speak his mind and this attitude earns him the respect of many people, meaning that they are willing to listen to his theories even though they may seem far-fetched at first glance. He puts his life at risk several times and even manages to tackle his extreme discomfort when he becomes to flying in turbulence. He and Connery don't have much screen time together but they have a nice, easy chemistry.The film also has a very strong supporting cast. The best is certainly Sam Neill as the Red October's first officer Vasily Borodin who dreams of settling down in Montana with a round American wife. Like all of Ramius' handpicked and personally trained officers, he is loyal to his captain. He has a great deal of respect and affection for him but he is not afraid to tell him if he thinks that he made a mistake, though he would never do so in public. The fact that Ramius instilled his trainees with a very sceptical attitude towards the Soviet Union indicates that his wife's death was the impetus for his defection rather than the cause of it, incidentally. Scott Glenn is perfectly cast as the tough-as-nails but reasonable U.S.S. Dallas commanding officer Captain Bart Mancuso, who initially doubts the accuracy of Ryan's assessment of the situation. The film also features strong performances from James Earl Jones as Admiral James Greer (who, uniquely, reprised his role in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger), Tim Curry, Richard Jordan, Joss Ackland, Stellan Skarsgård, Courtney B. Vance, Peter Firth, Daniel Davis and future US Senator Fred Dalton Thompson, who sadly died last November. Gates McFadden originally had a small supporting role as Ryan's wife Caroline but her scenes were mostly deleted. As such, there is no woman in the film who has more than a few lines of dialogue!Overall, this is an extremely well written and intelligent film with many moments of terrific tension. Were it not for the somewhat weak first part, I would have given it full marks. "}{"Title":"Pretty interesting and suspenseful.","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I hate to be picky, but the main problem I had with this movie was a technical issue dialogue clarity. There were way too many times where I couldn't hear what the characters were saying. In a vacuum, that isn't a huge problem, but when pretty much the entire movie progresses through dialogue it becomes a problem. I was able to pick up enough of each conversation to get by, but there was still an inexcusable amount of unclear dialogue where the characters are talking so softly that it's impossible to make out their words. It's almost as bad as it might be if 30% of the shots with characters in them showed only their shoes. No matter how amazing the scene is, it won't actually have any effect if you can't hear or see it.Apart from that major gripe, I thought it was decent. The idea of Marco Ramius using the decoy of the most dangerous submarine ever built, Red October, to gain freedom for himself and his crew was pretty interesting. The plot wasn't that hard to follow either despite some of its more complicated elements. I had a relative sense of what was going on in most scenes, again limited by the aforementioned technical issues. They did a good job differentiating between the interiors of the few different submarines so that you could tell which one each scene took place in.Marco Ramius' full intentions are meant to be mostly ambiguous for most of the movie so that doesn't allow for very much development of his character. However, his motives are fairly interesting once they are fully revealed. I kind of liked Jack Ryan, not because of any particular qualities that he possesses, but because of what kind of protagonist they made him. He's not an action hero by any means, but he's also not one of those unskilled characters that somehow survives everything (e.g. Grant from Jurassic Park, Robert Langdon, Brody from Jaws, Jackson Curts from 2012). He has skills, but they aren't the kind that we usually see glorified in action movies. Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery haven't impressed me that much in the other things I've seen them in, but they did fine here. The rest of the characters are mostly unexplored, even those with more screen time. You don't get to know them personally though. You just think of them as that guy who did this or the one with the whatever.Even though it feels like an action movie, there really isn't that much action in it. There is certainly suspense in the couple of submarine chase scenes through perilous straits, but the only true action scene comes at the end. It teases you with situations that you would expect to have action, but they don't. It's not necessarily a bad thing. If anything more movies should do it, but it is something to be conscious of if you're looking for an action move.I would recommend this to anyone as long as you know to pay attention the entire time. If you're deliberating over whether to watch it, know that it's somewhat exciting and suspenseful, but it's not an action movie. If you do decide to watch it, make sure you listen well and pay general attention. You don't need to remember lots of details, but try to actively work out the overall plot and how it all fits together as you watch. Overall Rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Cold War Masterpiece","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the submarine movie of submarine movies. John McTiernan has the audience on the edges of their seats right at the beginning. The tempo is near perfect, things happen at just the right time and the cat-n-mouse portrayed was no game. Alec Baldwin is far from my favorite, but as Jack Ryan...he is perfect. Sean Connery can make anything sound like Scotish Poetry, and Sam Niel is the consummate XO with eyes outfitted with that dear-in- the-headlight look. One of the best movies pumped out during this time frame, I highly recommend taking a gander and formulate your own opinion. Excellent action and an outstanding story. "},{"Title":"A must see submarine themed movie, a little room for improvement.","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent submarine themed movie and I think this pretty much sets the standard on which many submarine movies are based on. Also, it is based on the first (as far as I know) novel by tom Clancy.The submarines displayed in the movie were pretty well done. We are shown mostly the Russian sub, named The Red October and the American sub named the USS Dallas. You are exposed to some real hot sub action including subs firing torpedoes at each other, torpedoes being dropped in by helicopters, aircraft and fighter jets. There was one scene where Ryan was chasing someone in the Red October, and we are shown the Red October's missile or torpedo room. It looked absolutely amazing. Phrases like Crazy Ivan and other submarine lingo are used and the close cut submarine scenes are done really well.Overall, I think it there is still a little room for improvement, but my overall impression is pretty good. "},{"Title":"A wonkish Ryan and a script that subverts expectations make this the best Clancy adaptation","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Alec Baldwin's Jack Ryan is a good hero for a suspense movie because he is not the typical invincible action hero. In his words, he's a guy who writes books, and in the words of others he's just an analyst. He spends The Hunt for Red October using his wits to convince the military NOT to act and NOT to fire their weapons, rather than dodging machine gun spray or getting into fistfights like his peers from other films. (Harrison Ford's bareknuckled take on Jack Ryan in two later Tom Clancy adaptations are partly why those installments are just OK-to-good action fare. The twenty-first century relaunches have so far been even more indistinct.) Ryan's one big stunt in Red October, which comes deep into the movie's run and involves the boarding of a submarine from a helicopter that's out of fuel in the middle of a storm, is an armrest- gripping moment because it's not something we've seen him do before. The nerdy, almost nebbish qualities of Baldwin's Ryan is half of what makes Red October a great Cold War thriller. The other half is the supremely clever script. Although later in his career Clancy would earn a hawkish reputation, in this story he delights in playing with the idea of good guys and bad guys. The U.S. armed forces are on the hunt for a Soviet sub, but Ryan and the audience have some reason to root for the Russians. The enlisted Russians on board the Red October, led by a sympathetic doctor loyal to the Kremlin, are treated with great respect, much more than is extended to haughty American admirals and bulldog brass with simplistic notions about the Russkies. Underwater action is, by its very nature, slower to unfold than action on land, but Red October's vivid characterizations of submarine personnel on all sides, well-acted by familiar faces like Sean Connery, Sam Neill, Tim Curry, and Stellan Skarsgård, make this a thoroughly fun ride. "},{"Title":"A Fabulous Thriller!","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Based on late Tom Clancy's novel of the same name, 'The Hunt for Red October' is A Fabulous Thriller! Its pure edge-of-the-seat entertainment, packed with a Solid Screenplay, Captivating Direction & Excellent Performances. 'The Hunt for Red October' Synopsis In 1984, the USSR's best submarine captain in their newest sub violates orders and heads for the USA. Is he trying to defect, or to start a war?'The Hunt for Red October' is one enjoyable ride! The thrilling moments coupled with interesting sequences make this one reach to the winning post. Larry Ferguson & Donald E. Stewart's Adapted Screenplay is solid. It keeps getting more & more thrilling! John McTiernan's Direction is captivating. Cinematography is very good. Editing is perfect. Art Design is masterful. Performance-Wise Sean Connery enacts the commanding officer to perfection. He stands out. Alec Baldwin as the iconic Jack Ryan, is awesome. Scott Glenn is effective. Sam Neill is fair. James Earl Jones is impressive. Tim Curry is proficient. Stellan Skarsgård & Jeffrey Jones leave a mark.On the whole, 'The Hunt for Red October' is vintage entertainment at its best! "},{"Title":"We play our old games....","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Soviet submarine captain Marko Ramius is the best of all the soviet navy, with there new deadly and most technologically advanced flagship nuclear submarine under his control, the Red October all seems routine. Until information begins to spread that Raimus has gone awol and is heading for the American coast. Some believe that this is an act of desperation one in which will start world war III, but one man think hes has the answer CIA analyst Jack Ryan. With time running out and questions unanswered, desperation turns to acts of aggression, the hunt has begun....Based on the critically acclaimed novel by Tom Clancy, The Hunt for Red October is a tremendous nail biting suspense filled film. The story and pacing are superb as is the technological aspects of the film. Connery delivers an excellent performance, though some criticize the authenticity of a non soviet accent, this can easily be overlooked. The action is not without merit nor is the atmosphere of tension and intrigue by the viewer as you are transported to a silent deadly world of submarine warfare. Though some might argue that this film has a slow pace, it is deliberate as its strength lies in its plot, one in which is given time to mature. When the action begins you are that much more invested within the film. The score once again is perfect within the complexity of the film and to this day is one of the finest pseudo political/warfare suspense films to date. "},{"Title":"Soviet Submarine","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" John McTiernan directed this adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel that stars Sean Connery as a veteran Soviet submarine commander in charge of a new type of sub when it appears that he may be defecting, as he seems to have violated orders and is heading straight for the U.S.A., or does he have ulterior motives? Alec Baldwin plays CIA analyst Jack Ryan, who tries to figure out what the submarine is up to, and flies out to sea to intercept it. James Earl Jones plays Admiral Greer, his boss and friend. Exciting and smart thriller with Connery a standout and Baldwin playing a younger Ryan(his only appearance in the role), as this is set in 1984. First in the series. "},{"Title":"Underwater Patriot Chess Games ...","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Forgive the ignorance of a non-Tom Clancy reader but I never knew Patriot Games was in fact the second opus of a series that started with The Hunt for Red October and where Alec Baldwin played Harrison Ford's part as Jack Ryan. Needless to say it made me feel the urge to watch John McTiernan's blockbuster. Mission accomplished.The titular vessel is a nuclear submarine commanded by Ramius, a hard-nosed Soviet Captain (Sean Connery in one of his greatest roles). While the sub is inexplicably aiming toward American seas, Ramius announces to the crew that they were assigned to conduct missile drills, but must we believe him since he's just killed the only officer on board who &#x96;besides him- knew the mission? Yet when Jack Ryan, a CIA analyst, suspects Ramius is planning a defection, we suspect he's right.But Ryan still has to prove his point and time doesn't play in his or in Ramius' side. During its long underwater journey, the vessel counts on its undetectable caterpillar drive system to travel unnoticed along the undersea canyons, but eventually catches the attention of Seaman Jones, a sonar engineer aboard the US patrolling submarine Dallas, which then keeps on the mysterious vessel's tail. Meanwhile, the Soviet government, fearing the eventuality of a strike against America, sends another Russian submarine to sink October.This is where the plot thickens; it takes a second meeting with the Russian Ambassador, before the Americans know about the potential threat represented by Red October, instantly caught in the middle of crossfire between American and Russian Fleet, both fires targeting her. And how Red October will get away from torpedoes coming from each side is one of the most exhilarating premises of the film which turns into a fascinating cat-and-mouse thriller and race against the clock with the Cold War as the perfect backdrop.And considering the political content, I feel like the title could have been Patriot Games as well. For instance, when Ramius exposes his plans, the crew chants the national hymn, their pride revived by the glorious military deed in the name of the Red Flag &#x96;ironically it's the singing that will be detected by Jones, that's how far the two subs came close one to another. USSR' credibility and American security are both jeopardized, to the point that the only patriotic move is to destroy October. After all, aren't Ramius' motives undeniably unpatriotic? And the resolution of that political and military bind doesn't only depend on the right tactics to adopt, but the capability to use them at the right moment. The feeling of urgency alone is not enough; sometimes a positive step can come from sheer good luck. To think that Jack Ryan owes his knowledge to a simple conversation provides a delightful taste of irony, yes, it's a serious film, realistically designed (although not as impressively as Das Boot) but it doesn't neglect the human factor as a significant driver of the most crucial decisions.And the mystery, the fact that we're never sure where this is heading up to, keeps our minds and hearts constantly hooked. Red October opens with a disclaimer stating that according to both America and Russia, none of these events ever happened, which enhances our curiosity. Connery seems to enjoy keeping a shadow a mystery one his role, although we hardly believe he's a bad guy but again, the film is not about his plan but the reactions it inspires from both sides, which if wrong, would lead to a disaster. That's why Jack Ryan's intervention is crucial.Jack Ryan gets aboard Dallas but her Commander Mancuso (Scott Glenn) wouldn't thank any chance and prepares to torpedo October, a process of four minutes, where Ryan only has two to convince him to give the benefit of the doubt to Ramius. Baldwin's performance is the film's hit-or-miss. Sean Connery is perfect as the leading, charismatic, yet enigmatic Captain, he exudes that kind of intimidating presence which makes you keep your guard up all through the film, but it's Ryan who really shines, as the average bureaucrat who conveniently knows better than anyone.Ryan is a former Marine, but from the way Baldwyn underplays him, he becomes an office worker, an analyst, whose intelligence and capability to anticipate Ramius' moves, are the only tools he can provide, and they are perfect within a military chess-game like this. Now, as much as I appreciate Harrison Ford, I'm pretty sure Alec Baldwyn would have been terrific in the second film, because he made that rookie-thing more believable, and his heroic involvement more appealing.The secret of The Hunt for Red October is to keep the right balance of darkness and enlightenment; enough to leave a complex plot with multiple layers of conflicts clear accessible to us. It features also obligatory heart-pounding moments, whether when the attacks against Ramius came from the outside, with the torpedoes' attack, or from his own crew, when he has to deal with the questioning of fellow officers, challenging his authority, and more seriously, some bits of sabotage that might undermine the mission.The visuals magnificently restored the ambiance of submarines' interiors (although the exterior shots were too blurry), maybe in a too perfect way, but it's easy to overlook these little details, the film again isn't a Cold War Das Boot, it's plot-centered, made of human interactions and conflicted situations. It does however confirm that the best military films are set in the Navy, for only a boat, or a submarine, can convey that claustrophobic entrapment inevitably leading to situations where life-and-death situation aren't all provoked by the enemy.Like The Caine Mutiny, Mutiny on the Bounty or Crimson Tide, The Hunt for Red October benefits from an intelligent writing, great casting (Peter Firth, Sam Nell are names to be mentioned too) and impeccable special effects, it's one of these entertaining thrillers to watch on TV during a stormy Sunday night. "},{"Title":"The Hunt for a good submarine movie is on. I think we found one.","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is a very interesting movie. Based on Tom Clancy's novel of the same name. It was directed by John McTiernan and about a Soviet submarine captain Marko Ramius (Sean Connery) that command Red October (октябрь) a new vessel that features a device call the caterpillar drive. The caterpillar drive rendering it undetectable to sonar. Ramius leaves port on orders to conduct exercises with the captain of submarine V.K. Konovalov, former student Captain Tupolev (Stellan Skarsgård). Instead of doing that, Ramius commands the crew to head toward America's east coast to conduct missile drills. The United States government officials think the Red October pose a threat, and sent the captain of the USS Dallas, Commander Bart Mancuso (Scott Glenn), to meet the enemy. CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alex Baldwin) thinks other side, thinking that Ramius instead plans to defect with the new weapon. It becomes a race of time to stop all-out war as the clock ticks down in this Cold War drama. The movie unlike all other Tom Clancy's novels turn movies is pretty tame, as action goes along. It's more made out to be a smart strategy action movie than a mindless shoot it up film. The action is limited due to it being a submarine movie, but the film use slow tense motions like what Ramius is going to do, and what the other submariners are thinking of his action to build up suspense. Nobody knows for sure, what is going to happen. The torpedoes scenes were pretty mind blowing. The film is a bit dated, and some of the talking can be a bit boring, but the dialogue works for the film. Still, I can see every actor playing their parts even if the Russian accents is a bit mediocre. It's weird to see a Scotsman (Connery), Australian (Sam Neill), and English (Tim Curry) playing Soviets. It is better that they didn't use the Russian accent when speaking English too much. Couldn't they find any good Eastern actors for these roles, still! They did their part, but it's hard to think of these actors as Russians. The way, the actors go out of Russian to English, to Russian to English is a bit confusing. The film starts out in Russian, then switches to English in an early scene as the political officer reads the passage from the Bible. The switch occurs on the word Armageddon, which is the same in both languages. I like the symbolism of that. Sean Connery and Scott Glenn are both commanding in their roles, as both had some submarining training before this film. I wouldn't change that. In my opinion, I would rather have the Harrison Ford's Jack Ryan than Alec Baldwin's. His Jack Ryan seems too wimpy for me and found him weak. Jack Ryan would go on to be the central characters of many of Clancy's later novels. One thing about the movie that I like is, how the screenwriters (Larry Ferguson & Donald Stewart) did an excellent job making a complex plot simple to follow. Tom Clancy is a great author, but one thing about his novels is how compound it can be. Being the first novel by Clancy adapted to the screen, it also serves as the best Tom Clancy's adaptation. The different between the book and the movie are somewhat wide. The biggest different is that in the book there was also a separate story involving a US spy in the Kremlin which doesn't occur in the film. The film also act more action to the film like the October has to avoid a torpedo and Ryan getting on aboard the USS Dallas that wasn't in the book. Those things work somewhat to me. It made the film interesting during the slow parts. The movie did lost it tensed Cold War feel, when the movie came out. By February 1990, just before the film's theatrical release, the Soviet government announced that the Communist Party was no longer completely in charge, effectively ending the Cold War. To compensate for the change in Russia's political climate, an on-screen crawl appears at the beginning of the film stating that it takes place in 1984 during the Cold War than 1990. The music written by Basil Poledouris was great has a Cold War theme, and bear similarity to Russian Army band songs. So it was a bit epic and scary at the same time. The movie could have better if only if the film had a larger budget. The underwater scenes model of the submarine look too much like models for me. I know they could had done better, because 4 years later, Crimson Tide (1994) came out with better effects. They could had use better use of the technology at the time to make the submarines look real than spending 20,000 dollars on Sean Connery's hairpiece. The movie did get some heat, as it did reveal some classified submarine technology at the time with the use of gravimetry as a method of silent navigation in US submarines. There are a lot of factual errors, and anachronisms to nitpick, but it doesn't bother me from the film too much. Overall the film was pretty good. Still, the main crime committed against this film was the horrendous film-to-DVD transfer it got. Frankly, this film suffer from sheer graininess that hasn't been solve in its newest released. if you like submarine movies you will like this, as this movie has some depth to it. "},{"Title":"Slick political suspense thriller","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After two seminal action films, director John McTiernan shifts towards political suspense thriller territory with very impressive results. The strength of this thriller is the a lot of the story and drama plays out through close ups and characters in confined spaces, and John McTiernan exploits this fully.The plot, adapted from the Tom Clancy novel, is sophisticated and involving, and congratulations go to screenwriters Larry Ferguson, Donald Stewart and John Milius(who did some un-credited work) for crafting a clever, suspenseful, well informed screenplay, peppered with moments of dry humour. Acting performances are fairly broad, and it is no surprise that despite a Scottish accent, Sean Connery's sheer charisma leads to yet another commanding performance that anchors the film. He is ably supported by the cast that plays his submarine crew, albeit for me Sam Neill seemed an unusual choice and didn't quite work. While in small role, Peter Firth is ideal in the political officer role, and Tim Curry is rather amusing as the slightly naïve and sycophantic doctor. Alec Baldwin is surprisingly refreshing as the slightly out his depth analyst thrown into the front line, but his character rises to the challenge and becomes the reluctant hero in the end. He receives outstanding support from James Earl Jones, Scott Glenn, Courtney Vance, Anthony Peck, Richard Jordan and Joss Ackland. In fact all these performances are grounded and charismatic, albeit Richard Jordan's and Joss Ackland's diplomatic exchanges are the main vehicle for the film's humour, which plays out very cleverly in what is actually plot exposition for the audience.The production is also expertly crafted by director John McTiernan. He makes full use of Jan de Bont's first rate photography (they had collaborated on Die Hard), and together with production designer Terence Marsh and co-operation from the US Navy, leads to some great in camera set pieces. This is fully realised by Basil Poledouris's excellent score, which creates a truly terrific atmosphere, and the Oscar winning sound effects, that also help bring the audience into the film's settings. Sound editor Cecelia Hall was already a very experienced sound effects editor, having worked on a variety of films including Star Treks 2 and 3, Airplane II, Staying Alive, Beverly Hills Cops 1 & 2,Terms of Endearment, Top Gun, The Golden Child and Action Jackson. After her success on Red October, she would on other high profile films such as Days of Thunder, The Adams Family Movies and Patriot Games. She went on to be Senior Vice-President of Post Production Sound at Paramount, and works as a Professor at UCLA. George Walters II is one of Hollywood's most successful sound editors. After starting work in Hollywood in the seventies, his CV prior to Red October included work on the first three Star Trek movies, Staying Alive, Flash-dance, Beverly Hills Cop 1 & 2, Critical Condition, Crocodile Dundee 2, Naked Gun. After Red October, he continues to rack up first rate work on yet more films including Naked Gun 2.5, Patriot Games, Star Trek VI, The War, Crimson Tide, Broken Arrow, The Rock, Con Air, Armageddon, Thomas Crown Affair, Pirates of the Caribbean 1 & 2, Enemy of the State including winning a second Oscar for best sound on Michael Bay's Pearl Harbour.Unfortunately the one failing in the film, despite all the excellent other technical contributions is the visual effects. While not terrible they are clearly not at the level of the rest of the film. Disagreements between director McTiernan and original visual supervisor Richard Edlund, heading up the BOSS fx house, led to the company being removed from the project late in post-production, and George Lucas's ILM having to come in to do a rush job to get something in place for the films March 1990 release. They had to make do with the models that had been built when BOSS was running the visual effects; using a smoked studio with the miniatures hanging from wires, and some subtle digital effects to help sell the illusion of being underwater. They managed to do a reasonable if unremarkable job (albeit the films budget did mushroom). For example the visual fx do not come close to the outstanding work that was done on James Cameron's The Abyss, whose underwater visual fx was so much better, even though that film came out nearly a year earlier(and had its own production problems). Tony Scott's Crimson Tide, that came five years later showed what underwater submarine visual fx should look like. However the film-makers do mitigate the poor quality through editing the shots in quick cuts which means they don't have the opportunity to pull you out of the story. Another clever albeit cynical approach is to blur the footage. This helps sell underwater, but sometimes makes it difficult to see what is going on, and is a way of potentially hiding imperfections in the actual shot.Nevertheless, despite this the fact the rest of the film was so good allows the audience to still get a great deal of enjoyment out of an expertly crafted political thriller.Engage the Silent Drive "}{"Title":"The most awesome war movie I ever saw","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'll admit it. I don't like war movies. But Hunt for Red October is not a war movie, its a story about an era in human history a story about comradery, friends, enemies, sober pausing at the edge of human destruction, the bomb -)I watched this movie again and was struck by its power (again!). Its all-male casting makes it a true depiction of a men's world, except here the men are not lone wolves like Rambo, but rather family men trying to avoid the third world war, playing a clever game of cat and mouse with the enemy who is not always the stereotypical savage.When I first saw this as a 15 yo, I couldn't get over the awesome music I watched the beginning credits on Sony Beta tape over and over again... I still listen to the soundtrack occasionally.If you haven't seen this, you must. You will fall in love with the intricate characters like the sonar operators, sub drivers, etc. The character performances and especially the dialog between soviet officers is absolutely brilliant.This movie is definitely way up there on my top 10 all time movies list. "},{"Title":"We shail into hishtory","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Easily the best film ever about a Russian sub captain with a Scottish accent.Actually he's of Lithuanian ancestry, but still...The first movie adaptation of a Tom Clancy novel, an adaptation of his very first one, this is also the first to feature his regular protagonist, Jack Ryan, played here by Alec Baldwin, who plays him quite well as the out-of-his-depth intelligence analyst.It is Sean Connery who dominates the film however as Red October's captain, Marko Ramius. Despite the accent, he is on excellent form throughout. The supporting cast are no slackers either - Sam Neill as Borodin, James Earl Jones as Ryan's mentor Admiral Greer, Scott Glenn as Bart Mancuso, Courtney B Vance as Jones.Underwater scenes often provide pacing problems, and while the models used never actually saw any water, there are a few moments when the pace threatens to sag. Fortunately, it never does, with some hair-raising moments such as the Dallas stalking Red October without the latter even aware they're there, and the climactic battle with the Alfa-class V K Konovolov. There are many other great scenes too such as Ryan's set-to with a saboteur, and the Red October's evasion of a torpedo launched from a 'Bear-Foxtrot'.Basil Poledouris' score is fantastic, lending the film an epic feel, while also ominous in more tense scenes.The film is not without flaws. Some of the effects weren't convincing even in 1990. There are moments when the Red October looks every bit a model, an external shot of a 'Bear-Foxtrot' never looks anything less than one. It would appear a bit of corner-cutting went on with the budget. Witness an F-14 about to crash suddenly turn into vintage footage of an old 50s Grumman F9F. The same shot of a torpedo being dropped from into sea is used twice, once for the Bear, and another for an SH-60 Seahawk.While far more believable than most spy thrillers, a few changes take away from the realism that the book's author is often praised for. The manner in which Jack concludes what Ramius is up to for instance seems awfully contrived - the evidence he bases his conclusion on in the book was actually more simple and perfectly reasonable.Caveats aside, this remains a high point in Cold War cinema, coming out just as that era was effectively over. "},{"Title":"Red October Standing By...","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt For Red October is a quality thriller from one the better action directors of late 80's and early 90's John McTiernan. It features an excellent ensemble cast, convoluted Cold War plot and Sean Connery at his very Connery best. While at times it feels dated and has some annoying clichés here and there, it's very entertaining as hell.The strongest element aside from the excellent direction, is the cast. We have Sean Connery, Sam Neill, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, Tim Curry, James Earl Jones, Stellan Skarsgard and Jeffrey Jones to name a few. The acting is top notch all around with the highlights being Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin. The only thing that bothered me a lot was the terrible line deliveries in Russian. For a person who has an excellent ear for languages, it felt so out of place and borderline hilarious. But when they start all speaking English it's fine but the first 10 or so minutes are very awkward to watch.From the technical side of things, The Hunt for Red October is great. Lots of practical effects and real locations used for great effect. If they spared the terrible early 90's CGI, it would have felt more timeless and less dated. Just like Das Boot, John McTiernan knows how to create tension and suspense without showing much. It's not as good as Das Boot but still does a fine job. The skillful direction elevates the painfully mediocre and convoluted script considerably.Plot and characters are were The Hunt for Red October falls short. The plot is beyond convoluted and there are many moments you keep scratching your head in confusion. Also some of the characters like the rock star sonar technician were too silly and just felt out place. All the problems are very minor and these small details doesn't detract from the overall enjoyment of the film.The Hunt for Red October is a quality early 90's thriller that will satisfy any fans of the Cold War themed films. By all means not the best Cold War thriller or the best submarine film, but easily of the better and more entertaining ones. If you like the cast and the idea of Sean Connery failing in Russian, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Gripping thriller hunt it down, seek it out - watch it.","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the pent up, singular set shenanigans of Die Hard comes the grandeur, submarines and warships set, more narratively driven espionage thriller of The Hunt for Red October; John McTiernan's follow up to an action film masterpiece which, itself, is a bit of an action film masterpiece anyway. The film is a nourishing piece; carrying with it a genuine sense of there being craft at hand, a two hour plus piece which rattles along because it's depicting characters and doing well with its premise. Here is the English language thriller that depicts secret agents; nuclear submarines and a general sense of chase, but is happens to be gripping and smart. Where did the process of forcing us to sit stuck in a film's icy grip of ill thought filmmaking, as poorly put together set pieces are spoon fed to us, suddenly vanish to? Aside from the obvious Soviet connotations, the film's immediate opening calls to mind Sergei Eisenstein's montage editing experiment of the 1920s, when three separate objects were inter-cut with a lone man's reaction To which item was he reacting? Was it all three? How was he reacting to each item? How do we interpret his reaction? When we observe Sean Connery's Russian naval captain Marko Ramius stand aboard his submarine, shortly before it delves below into the depths of the icy ocean and away, we are allowed entry into his 'looking' out at the snowy tips that make up the tail end of whatever stretches of land this is that still constitutes as the Soviet Union. Through a similar method to Eisenstein, McTiernan allows us this person/item/reaction structure in his editing of the opening scene. The film's IMDb pitch reads the USSR's best submarine captain in their newest sub violates orders and heads for the USA. Is he trying to defect, or to start a war? - if you know you're cinema, and with all this in mind, you might be able to work out the truth behind such a premise from this cine-literate process of montage construction, something that's revealed ninety minutes later anyway.That's not to degrade the film for being predictable; on the contrary, the film is a remarkably well constructed drama which toys with this premise and sews in a lot of other material wonderfully well. With this rouge Russian submarine loose, the Americans call in the man they have employed in the C.I.A. so as to aid them in their action against it. This man is Jack Ryan, here played by Alec Baldwin; an agent working with a government organisation and a man whose smooth named invokes the likes of James Bond; a man whose existence extends to the knowing of the precise dynamics that makes up turbulence before he flirts with a stewardess who's working on board the plane he's using to fly to The States from his home in London. This is, of course, after he's already been driven to the airport in a fancy looking car amidst all the nondescript taxis inferring pre-eminence.Meanwhile, on board Ramius' vessel, the man speaks of doom-laden bible passages and we observe through the props littering his quarters an apparent fondness for a kind of warfare via the literature and certain paintings on show. The unrest extends to the fact one of his crew does well to infiltrate the man's domain before appearing to be killed with Ramius' own bare hands. How the Soviets themselves react is through distributing a second submarine to go after Ramius, with a scattershot Stellan Skarsgård character in charge, and whose intentions are to bring Ramius down. The film will spill out into a suspicion and distrust laden piece wherein the dynamic will read something along the lines of the Soviets, who're on the ground, are too stunned by what the Soviets underwater are doing who themselves are confusing the Americans in their submarine underwater who're themselves frightening the Americans on the ground with their actions.This is cut adrift of the gunfire and shooting of Die Hard, ingredients of which indeed make up most English language American action thrillers. But here is a film which, much later on, has a character reveal a gun. Its presence is actually quite startling, if only for the fact we'd completely forgotten about the very existence of such things, and now that one has been introduced into the fray, we're so much more aware of what damage it might induce than we have most probably of any firearm in any proceedings film of The Hunt for Red October's ilk. Such a statement will sound derogatory toward Die Hard. Rest assured, how that film was made was precisely how one should go about making such a film, but this is McTiernan proving he can operate at either ends of the scale. This is one of those all-star cast American 'event' films that happen to be really good instead of empty; overly long and fragmented by this insistence to provide its audience with episodic stunts that disguise its inability to provide a congealed experience of storytelling and depiction of character. The action consists of suited men in rooms arguing with one another; the drama the ambiguity surrounding a central character's actions. "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation Of Tom Clancy's Novel","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is a thriller based on the novel of the same name by Tom Clancy. It was directed by John McTiernan and stars Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin.This was the first of several films based on Tom Clancy's thrillers that presents eccentric CIA analyst Jack Ryan.The year was 1984. Soviet submarine commander Marko Ramius sets the plot in motion when he murders his political adviser, burns his orders, and steers his submarine,Red October towards American waters, hoping to defect. The CIA, aware that the Red October was about to embark on an evasive mission to demonstrate its ability to avoid detection and fire its nuclear missiles upon U.S. installations, believes that Ramius is insane, and that he plans to start World War III. To cover their own behinds, the Russians back up the CIA's suspicion. Only Jack Ryan believes that Ramius' mission is not as apocalyptic as it seems -- and it is Ryan who is assigned to infiltrate the Red October to prove his theory.The first Jack Ryan thriller film is a supremely mounted film and well acted by Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery as Jack Ryan and Marko Ramius respectively.It was vastly enjoyable and entertaining that one will not regret watching it and spending many hours discussing about it after viewing the film.And most of all,it was a great adaptation of Tom Clancy's novel. "},{"Title":"Tom Clany's first novel explodes on the screen","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy was almost a sleeper hit, in the novel world, anyways, back in the 1980's, and this first film in the Jack Ryan movie adaptations, is a true wonder. Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, Sam Niell, James Earl Jones, and more big stars fill the screen in good, sometimes great performances that just enhance the experience. The film shines in the way that it explores submarines, not just the insides in a way like a documentary, but the mood of the sub, the way you could at almost anytime fire a missile and eliminate a city, the duty a seaman has and the pressure he is under with millions and billions of dollars of taxpayers money, and it is almost a haunting film at times, aided by Basil Poledouris' brilliant score. As for the Jack Ryan character, Alec Baldwin, I must admit, gives a realist performance as an up and excited guy who is an analyst on his first field job, sort of, that is. A great film also in its story, and a pace that is seemingly slow at times, but it works nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Review Of The Hunt For Red October","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt For Red October is a 1990 film directed by John McTiernan and stars Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery. The film is adapted from the 1984 Tom Clancy novel about a Soviet nuclear submarine which drops off U.S. scanners, prompting a young CIA analyst (Baldwin) to scramble to find out what the captain's (Connery) motives really are. To start off, I love Tom Clancy. I'm a fairly big fan of his Splinter Cell, Rainbow SIx, and Ghost Recon franchises. I had also heard of Red October and that it was directed by the guy who made Predator and Die Hard, so I was already pretty excited to watch this movie. In short, the film did not, in any way, disappoint. What kind of shocked and worried me about this is that this film was filed under the Thriller section on Netflix. . .and it's rated PG. Needless to say, this fact sort of worried me. I was wrong though - just because this movie is PG does not mean it isn't thrilling in any sense of the word. Red October is in fact an edge of your seat thriller by definition. Almost every facet of this film is excellent. The script, I found, was very witty and well written by Larry Ferguson. The acting was spectacular, specifically of course from Connery and Baldwin. The score was very awesome and appropriate for the source material. The special effects were very good, especially for the late 80's. I'd say that The Hunt For Red October is a solid thriller that will have a hard time disappointing many of its viewers. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's been argued that any viewer knowing anything about navies, the Cold War or the Russian language will be disappointed by this movie. Well, that's rather like saying that anyone who knows anything about the fine-details of cartoon animation or the biology of rodents will be disappointed by 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit'.'Red October', an emaciated version of a chunky Clancy novel, is a tight, sweaty thriller supported by a sterling cast;I mean, with the exception of maybe 'Beetlejuice' where else can you watch Alec Baldwin without wanting to slap his fat mug? McTiernan cuts all the flab from the base novel to present a lean little movie, and who in their right mind can possibly reprimand Connery for his accent? The man's played a British spy, an Irish cop, an Eygptian immortal and a Russian submarine captain all with the same brogue- who cares? He still portrays the role with all the nobility and world-weariness the part deserves. "},{"Title":"A thrill ride that will keep you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's stories are the stuff of military legend. This was his first, and it was an amazing introduction for a former insurance broker and graduate of Loyola university who never served in the military. The film offers enough technical information about the equipment of the US Navy that you have to wonder how he got his hands on it. But no matter, however he accomplished it, the film stands out as the best of the genre. Sean Connery and Sam Neill play well together as Captain Ramius and Captain Borodin, and the feeling of the day to day routine of a well-trained submarine crew is consistent throughout the film. Alec Baldwin excels as Jack Ryan, and you have to wonder why he was not chosen for the role in the next two films. His passionate flair for the role convinces you that Ryan is a dedicated man with far more to offer than simply sitting behind a desk analyzing data and writing books. Scott Glenn is exceptional as Bart Mancuso, the commander of a US Fast Attack Submarine in pursuit of the Red October. His professional demeanor never pauses, his bearing is correct for the Skipper of a crew at sea, and his commands are precise and clear. Courtney B. Vance adds a dimension as the seasoned sonar operator who persuades his captain that the submarine can be tracked. Fred Dalton Thompson gives a stunning performance as the admiral of a battle group, trying to keep his men from getting killed. The sets are perfect, the photography nothing short of amazing, and the film keeps you riveted to the edge of your seat. With the exception of a few excited phrases and a gunfight at the end, the film is suitable for the entire family. I highly recommend this film for your collection. "},{"Title":"A very good military thriller","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October has an awesome opening Ramius, a Soviet naval captain played by Sean Connery, is surveying the water from the submarine (Red October), and says a few terse words in Russian. We pull back and see a reveal of how huge the ship really is. The movie starts well and continues strongly from there. On the whole, this is an intelligent military thriller that is well-paced and well-acted, and largely deserves the unanimous acclaim it has received in the last 22 years or so.The film isn't perfect. Ramius's motivation for defecting remains unclear even at the film's end, despite a ham-handed attempt to explain it. For much of the film, this ambiguity about what's really driving the Soviet captain is exploited for narrative drama I was uncertain until at least 90 minutes in about whether Ramius's true intent was to defect. But while it's hinted that it has something to do with his wife's death and his lack of ties to the USSR, there are really no more than hints. The core question&#x97;why would a trusted officer in the Soviet military decide to turn over this dangerous weapon to the Americans?&#x97;is never answered.In addition, the pacing at the end was off. The long torpedo duel with the other Russian sub was boring, and the external shots of the submarines looked silly. For a movie that is basically a thriller, a pacing misstep during the climax is a major error. Nonetheless, it can't negate the 115 excellent minutes that came before. Four stars. "}{"Title":"A Tense, Admirably Neutral Military Drama","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A fine reminder that not all Cold War-era period pieces are unabashed feasts of propaganda. Red October admittedly paints the Russians in a very secretive light, but such treatment isn't unfair and the Americans on the other side of the ocean are hardly championed as the infallible superheroes they portray in many similar pictures (and Clancy's original book). Despite a few technical flubs, the tale is plenty smart and generally authentic, but also easy enough for a layperson to follow. It's not an easy act to merge simplistic storytelling with a complicated plot, but director John McTiernan manages to deliver both without shortchanging either. An excellent sense of timing and steady, effective pace are most responsible for that success; though a great majority of the film is lost to dialog, the action is spaced out enough to keep the audience routinely on its toes. Sean Connery is a tough sell as the Russian captain at the center of the storm, particularly as he makes no effort to hide his Scottish accent, but his charisma and conviction still manage to transform a fairly passive character into a stern, take-no-excuses captain with a pointed political message. Alec Baldwin's cautious, vanilla performance as famed protagonist Jack Ryan is less impressive, but serviceable. "},{"Title":"one ping only","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" as the first of the Jack Ryan movies Alec Baldwin will always be jack in my mind, red October on the big screen was as i remember as big as the cinema screen, with the cynical American approach to the matter in hand, the Russians hoping they can pull it off, and keep their crew safe at the same time, whilst knowing they will be hunted by their own people to the death, when this movie comes on its one of them movies thats always watched by me, its still full of tension and even though you know the story you still wait for the twists and turns and love em. Scott Glenn plays Captain Mancuso cynically listening to Ryan, then there is a mutual respect between them, the end fight is a superb climax to a chess game that ends in the natural conclusion. AS said in other reviews it seems more like a factual film that fiction, but then so many things that have happened that didn't happen and vice versa will stay locked secret and in legend for yearsIm always intrigued as to what happened to marko ramius and his crew, it would have been nice to see ramius and Ryan working together again.. perhaps thats another story to be told on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Muddled but Entertaining","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a Russian submarine heads towards US waters, tension mounts as US officials try to determine whether it's an act of aggression or defection. The plot is muddled and it tends to get bogged down at times, although it's generally entertaining and the big picture is clear for the most part. Connery is fine as the Russian captain, albeit with a Scottish accent. Baldwin barely registers as Jack Ryan, a role that was subsequently taken over by Harrison Ford, apparently because Baldwin demanded too much money despite his bland performance here. The supporting cast is impressive for the sheer number of familiar faces it includes. "},{"Title":"Connery & Baldwin rock!","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October should be one of the greatest political/espionage thrillers ever to hit the cinematic screen. Adapted from Tom Clancy's novel of the same name, it still remains in my estimation his best and most successful adaptation. I may even go further to say that the movie is better than the book, an aberration in Hollywood.And why not? When a top action director like John McTiernan of Die Hard fame is thrown together with samurai actors like Sean Connery, a young Alec Baldwin, James Earl Jones, Scott Glen, Joss Ackland, Stellar Skarsgard, Tim Curry, Jeffrey Jones, Sam Neil, to make a movie based on a top selling novel, the film has to deliver.And boy, does it deliver! Right from the opening scenes of Sean Connery's world weary eyes as he gazes over the Soviet Navy dock to the film's climatic underwater battle scenes, this movie will hold your attention and captivate you completely. Not that the film is action packed. Far from it. The film is an endless cycles of plots and counter plots, meetings, etc. But still the entire film reverberates with tension and doom that can only emanate in a world where a few men literally hold the key to dooms day in their hands.Sean Connery plays the brilliant and maverick Soviet sub Captain Marko Ramius who has been placed in command of the latest submarine called the Red October. The Red October is equipped with a hydro propulsion system that can effectively make the submarine run soundlessly. The result? The submarine is capable of evading sonar or satellite detection. As US Naval analyst Skip Tyler played by Jeffrey Jones chillingly puts it this (submarine) could park a coupla hundred warheads off Washington and New York and no one would know anything about it till it was all over Such a device could easily counter balance, if not end, US military supremacy of the seas. Naturally, the Americans consider it a serious threat to their naval superiority and want to know more about the submarine. However, there is a major problem. The submarine has gone dark, embarking on its own solo mission and deviating from the course authorized by the Soviet Navy.All hell breaks loose as both US and Soviet Governments, run around frantically, in blind panic, as they try to fathom the motives behind Ramius's action. But there is one known fact to both countries. The submarine carries several nuclear warheads and the captain Ramius is a famous Soviet hero, a strong party leader who has just been cast in a wave of turbulent emotions because of the death of his wife. The most likely scenario is that Ramius' grief has led him to seek the ultimate act of misdirected vengeance by bombing the US and thus provoking World War III.Enter CIA analyst Jack Ryan who propagates a different but outlandish theory for the Soviet Captain's aberrant behaviour. His theory is rejected as incredible and insane by the Americans and in any case they cannot risk such a ridiculous theory against the possible outcome of nuclear holocaust. It is better to prepare for war.Jack Ryan is then saddled with the unenviable responsibility to prove his theory. What follows is a cat and mouse hunt between Soviet and US navies as each has different motives to want to blow Red October out of the water. Aided by skeptical sea captains, Ryan effectively played by Alec Baldwin, has to contact Ramius in time. Otherwise what could happen is the destruction of Red October or nuclear holocaust or even both.This movie showed that John McTiernan is a master in bringing unbearable tension to the movie. Despite the fact that the film was made immediately after the cold war, it is still a cliff hanger movie which all the James Bond and Jason Bourne movies put together cannot equal.The main stars, Connery and Baldwin, also put in excellent performances. Why Connery did not win an Oscar for his electrifying performance as the world weary but exceptional sea strategist in sub warfare is a mystery to me. Baldwin too was a treasure to watch. The uncertainty on his face as he goes on a mission for which he has no training for, his fear when inadvertently put in a hunt and kill situation, and his metamorphosis into a cold blooded executioner, were simply first class. It was a shame he did not reprise the Jack Ryan role in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger (The Sum of All Fears does not count). Instead the role went to Harrison Ford who did well with the character but Baldwin still remains the best Ryan.The supporting cast also put in strong roles. Mention should also be made of Courtney B. Vance who almost stole the show playing the exceptional sonar operator.In true Hollywood fashion, the film makers took advantage of the average movie goer's ignorance of naval warfare. Clancy adopted a more realistic approach in the portrayal of Captain Ramius as a brilliant captain who is still limited by the submarine's capabilities and the natural forces of the sea, and is worried about the unpredictable dangers he is facing. McTiernan on the other created an extraordinary seaman, almost supernatural in his approach and mildly contemptuous of the forces, both technological and natural, arrayed against him and his submarine. He is ultra cool and confident, an older and more intellectual equivalent of James Bond.Nevertheless, the movie depiction, while exaggerated and unrealistic, still adds more entertainment value to the film. Tight, claustrophobic, suspense and tension driven, this film is a classic and one of the best submarines movies. "},{"Title":"It took me a while to like this film","Date":"11 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" First off, in the interest of full disclosure, I am a huge Tom Clancy fan - so much so, that this was the only one of his early novels that I didn't originally buy in hardback the week (or even the day) it came out.That being the case, there was almost no way for the film version of The Hunt for Red October not to disappoint me. And, yes, I was duly disappointed by the film when it was first released as, on a number of key points, it wanders from the novel in ways that blunt the believability of Clancy's narrative and I was furious at the choice of Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan.However, having gotten over my initial inevitable disappointment with the film, I watched it several years later and was surprised how much more I liked it. I just watched it again on Netflix and have warmed even more to it now 21 years after its release.Yes, while Clancy's story is at least plausible in most respects there are a number of small things, particularly about the Navy, in this film that make you roll your eyes. But, in all fairness, a film with high fidelity to the book would last no less than 3 hours and probably closer to 4 and be completely commercially unviable.Taken on its own merits, this is an entertaining and engrossing film that will not lose the part of the audience who really could not care less about military accuracy. Sean Connery does a wonderful job as Ramius, accent notwithstanding. He does border on the almost mystical at times (like with a torpedo chasing him in an underwater canyon) but for the most part towers over everyone else in every scene he's in. Even Baldwin is palatable in his portrayal of Ryan. I actually agree with others that he's much more believable than Harrison Ford in the role.And this is, by far and away, the best adaptation of a Clancy novel (don't get me started on the disaster that is Clear and Present Danger). As much as I've warmed to it, however, it still remains an object lesson in the old adage that if you want to enjoy both the movie and the book, see the movie first. The book's still better here. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" However, I would have liked to have seen Harrison Ford in the role as Jack Ryan and Charles Bronson, who is of Lithuanian heritage, as Marko Ramius. I feel Bronson would have given more of a realistic feel for the character given his previous appearances in similar movies such as The Great Escape and The Dirty Dozen as well as his aforementioned heritage. Additionally, though, the scene where the political officer is eliminated could be of a more graphic nature. From what I've heard, the political officers are somewhat well-trained individuals who always have a knack for constantly looking over their shoulders due to a legacy of behavior from the Stalin era which filtered through and even up into the culmination of the Soviet Union. "},{"Title":"ace Cold War thriller collapses in the end","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's underwater bestseller has been transformed into an exciting, muscular Cold War adventure, succeeding in large part because, unlike many so-called techno-thrillers, the characters and plot are as well constructed as the military hardware (and because, on screen, the script doesn't need to rely on Clancy's turgid techno-prose). Sean Connery is the renegade Soviet captain defecting with his state-of-the-art first strike submarine; the Pentagon and Kremlin give chase, but despite some disinformation about a Commie plot to nuke the Atlantic seaboard it's clear Captain Connery's intentions are honorable, because he quotes the Bible (&#x85;where I am going, you cannot follow) after killing the sub's meddlesome political officer. Clancy's revisionist attitude (honest Russians rescued by fearless Americans) is forgivable, and the action becomes waterlogged only during the over plotted climax, when the otherwise tense and credible undersea chess game is reduced to just another soggy gunfight. "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller!","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is a pretty good thriller but I thought it's overrated. People said it was one of the best films of the early 1990's. It's a good film but I wouldn't call it the best film of the early 1990's. The the main flaws of the movie was Connery's accent and too many tactical terms.This is about a Russian warship heading to America so it can defect but the Americans seem intent that the ship is going to attack them. However, Jack Ryan believes elsewise.The acting is pretty good. I disliked Connery accent in this film but he certainly had a presence. Alec Baldwin and James Earl Jones were excellent here.This is a good thriller with many intense moments. I think the tactical terms should be saved for the real thing. That made some scenes pretty dull. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery excels in this tense military thriller","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Stripped to its bare essentials, this film is a seek-and-destroy mission involving a Soviet state-of-the-art submarine whose captain secretly intends to defect to the United States while pretending to follow orders to patrol the North Atlantic with another Soviet sub. The hero of the film is Alec Baldwin as CIA analyst Jack Ryan who somehow divines Lithuanian sub captain Sean Connery's purpose and Ryan has some narrow escapes during the film's many tense moments. Connery is very good and is supported by a solid cast. Fred Dalton Thompson always has his moments and Scott Glenn strikes a chord as the USN sub captain. Too bad that Joss Ackland, with his menacing, steely glare and duplicitous manner didn't have more screen time. A nod also goes to Sam Neill and James Earl Jones. The final underwater chase sequence is a clever, well-done coda to a tense political/military thriller and is one of author Tom Clancy's best screen adaptations. "},{"Title":"Visually Disappointing But Audibly Exciting on Blu ray","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In typical studio fashion, Paramount has transfered this exact same master that was temporarily released on HD DVD early this year which was a mixed bag and not what these films, the fans of the films, or high def owners deserve. I really enjoy the first 3 Jack Ryan films, the 4th not so much because of Ben Affleck and because it's just too out of sync with the previous trilogy. The first 3 are classic political thrillers that do a great job of bringing Tom Clancy's books to the big screen. His vision and Jack Ryan character are for the most part, executed very well on these films. Many have their preferences as the stronger and better of the bunch but I like Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger individually for their own qualities and suspenseful action. I've seen all of the Jack Ryan's on HD DVD, and sure enough, the Blu Ray's are exactly the same. Which is too bad because Paramount didn't do a very good job remastering them and they just don't look nearly as good as they should in hi def. I suspect that many Blu Ray owners will be pretty disappointed with the lack of visual pop that they're hoping for. Each of the Jack Ryan's looks better than the one before it which is typical as newer films upgrade easier to high def. And at least they all look better than their standard def counterparts. The problem is, is that most hi def owners have seen older films than these look better than these. Which brings us to wonder, what went wrong here? Granted, these films are a difficult upgrade as most of the scenes take place inside a submarine, house, office, or outside on overcast days, making it more difficult to provide that 3D pop we're looking for. But there are specks and dirt in the transfers and while I didn't find them in abundance or distracting, I do feel it's inexcusable at this point in the Hi Def's life cycle, especially for these movies. There's no reason for them not to be squeaky clean by now, even if they're going to look a little flat. But they are the best transfers available and the best we'll see until they provide us a proper remastering. But one is due. The audio, well this is finally where these discs pop. And I mean POP!!! We're given some truly thunderous transfers here in Dolby TrueHD. These films sounded good to begin with on standard DVD (especially October) but these new transfers are just incredible. They easily trounce the old ones. The scores, sound effects, gun shots and explosions are absolutely thrilling. This is all moot if you don't have a proper surround system to decode and dish out the TrueHD tracks though. If thats the case, then you may want to consider keeping your standard discs if you have them because the audio is the clear selling point for the upgrade. Despite my dissatisfaction with the flimsy visual upgrades, I'm still satisfied with these discs. I'd recommend them for any Blu Ray (and home theater) owner looking for a worthy upgrade for their favorite Tom Clancy films. Again, I stress you'll be much more impressed by the HD audio here rather than the passable but not demo worthy HD video. I give this set a 4 out of five because even though difficult, I believe if they really wanted to, Paramount could've and should've given these films a better makeover than they got. The powerful audio will help ease the disappointment with the video. Overall, I still recommend them. "}{"Title":"Just a great movie!","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is truly one of my favorite movies of all time. I'm surprised it is not in with IMDb's top 250 films. John McTiernan does a magnificent job bringing Tom Clancy's story to film. The choice of actors is great. All in all, I think Alec Baldwin was the best Jack Ryan (and I am a big fan of Harrison Ford and definitely NOT ben affleck). Scott Glenn, James Earl Jones, Sean Connery, Sam Neill, and Courtney B. Vance bring great delight to the film as well. Every aspect of this picture from the special effects to the music is great. The suspense at the end of the film is terrific with the battle between the two subs and the hunt for the cook inside Red October! I truly give this movie a 9/10 and it is in my favorite movie repertoire. "},{"Title":"This is a really good, entertaining and absorbing film","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To me this is the sort of film I can watch and enjoy on a frequent basis. Its 134 minutes of sheer enjoyment and edge of the seat action. I am not interested in politics but the dialogue from the character of the National Security Adviser when he is speaking alone with Jack Ryan is spot on. His colourful description of himself as a politician is a wonderful line. This film is full of these witty observations but there is a lot more to this film than just a few lines of dialogue. I would describe this film as a feel good film. Like in life Good doesn't always triumph over evil at least not in the conventional sense, in many ways the brightest and boldest can win the day. I suspect sometimes a hunch is all you have when you are in a submarine even with all the training and technology. The film has almost everything although I would not describe it as a great film. For me it is a good hugely enjoyable film and well worth 9 out of 10. Anyway judge for yourself and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Rendition of a gripping espionage thriller","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October(1984) was the debut novel of now renowned thriller writer, Tom Clancy and is generally considered to be a landmark novel in the espionage/thriller genre. This film, which is more or less a faithful rendition of the novel on screen, while in no way the masterpiece the novel was, is no doubt a brilliant piece of cinema and a welcome change from the usual thriller film involving guns and/or explosive, often glorified violence. There is a more intellectual side to the Hunt for Red October. It tells the tale of a cat-and-mouse chase that takes place beneath the ocean surfaces, involving nuclear submarines and the tension that nearly threatens to bring the world to the threshold of nuclear war. Sean Connery, well-known as the first portrayer of James Bond on the big screen, steps away from the classic mold of the suave and sophisticated secret agent in his old age, and instead portrays a Russian naval officer, Captain Marko Ramius, who is disillusioned with the Soviet state and wishes to defect to the US, bringing along with him the latest Soviet ballistic missile sub, the Red October, as a goodwill gesture. Alec Balwin, the other lead actor of this film is no James Bond either. Far from being a hardened professional trigger happy spy, his character Jack Ryan is a family man and an ordinary joe whose only link to the obscure world of espionage is through his job as a CIA analyst. However, Ryan's theories regarding Ramius's defection to the US soon result in him having to take a more active role; whilst trying to determine Ramius's true intentions. He is a flawed hero, having doubts about his abilities and being slow to get the answers, though he does so eventually. There are a lot of exciting submarine chase scenes and even a shootout during the climax but ultimately, this movie is dominated by its brilliant plot and it is the web of deceptive strategy spun by the protagonists that keeps your eyes glued to the screen.All in all, a mind-blowing film! "},{"Title":"Good Suspense Holds The Viewer","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A good, deep cast and good suspense kept me and, I assume, most viewers guessing until the end in this tale of a Russian captain taking a submarine and defecting - or is he? - to the United States. That's the question they stretch out in this 2 hour-plus film where does this captain stand?Overall, it's a good 135 minutes of Cold War adventure in that it entertains. There is a cat-and-mouse game in here with five good actors involved Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, James Earl Jones and Sam Neill.I enjoyed the story but had two complaints a dozen uses of the Lord's name in vain and the DVD transfer was disappointing. It was way too grainy for a DVD. You would expect something better from Paramount Pictures. If and when this comes out in high-definition Blu-Ray, I'd be glad to give it another look. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery + Alec Baldwin = Success","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is awesome for two reasons Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery!Both these actors prove to play the parts very well and show how they are such great actors, but they are also well supported by James Earl Jones, Sam Neil, and Scott Glen. This all star cast all work together to make a great movie. Alec Baldwin proves to be a great Jack Ryan, out beating Harrison Ford and beating Ben Affleck's acting to a bloody Pulp.Sean Connery does a spell binding job as the Russian captain and proves that his acting skills truly are legendary.This movie has one thing that differs from the other two Jack Ryan movies, and that is that the acting is of a much higher quality (unlike Ben Affleck's) and the Stunts are not absurd like in Harrison Ford's case.So, in conclusion, this movie reduces the other Jack Ryan movies to pieces of Crap and will make you want to watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Experience the Cold War style of fighting!","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tense and real. Read the other comments for specific details. HUNT FOR RED October is especially recommended if you want to use this story as a way to teach your kid (or experience for your self) ... the real life Cold War tension between the US & the former Soviets. (Violence is moderate by today's standards for grade school on up.)Unlike the constant bombardment and battles of a hot war, the Cold War involved lots of technical and diplomatic chess moves where sometimes you fought by strategy & by figuring out the other side's next chess moves.Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin are great chess masters in this saga set near the end of the 20th century COLD WAR. Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Terrific political thriller holds your attention.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take For clever thrills and a calculating plot, you can't go wrong with this blockbuster Cold-War thriller. Since I haven't read Tom Clancy's novel (or at least any of Clancy's Ryanverse series), It is not my judgment if this is a good adaption. With that out of the way, I can still say that this is a terrific thriller, an East-West conflict with excellent photography, solid direction and terrific performances by an all-star cast. Like all great thrillers, there's much to be thrilled and intrigued in this well-shot thriller, and like all great thrillers, it doesn't give away too much of itself. It keeps the audiences interested until the end.If the plot is gripping, the performances are just as magnetic. Sean Connery makes a terrific Captain Marko Ramius, a well-respected sea captain in the Soviet Union. He is now the captain of the Soviet Navy's deadliest weapon The Red October, a submarine equipped with nuclear weapons, and a unique propulsion system enabling it to sneak in through enemies with nothing but a ripple (This thing could park a couple hundred warheads off Washington and New York and no one would know anything about it till it was all over.). Ramius is leading the sub towards the United States, with unknown plans. The Americans suspects that Ramius is planning to attack. A lone wolf CIA agent named Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin in top form) suspects a different theory Ramius may be trying to defect to the West, taking the Soviet's deadliest weapon with him.Director John McTiernan (DIE HARD) holds our attention for 2 hours of running time by making it as slick as he possibly can. The film is mostly thrills and mystery, but it can afford to provide some action, and it doesn't get unnecessary. The film is expensive, and McTiernan is not too shy not to show it. The film's millions worth of military surplus and hardware which includes battleships, submarines, jets, planes and helicopters are all on screen, and it shows what there worth. The cinematography by Jan De Bont (who would later take up a directorial career) provides stunning photography, whether it's capturing action scenes in film, De Bont makes us involved with the situation. The screenplay adapted by Larry Ferguson and Donald Stewart does justice to Clancy's print source, and they never dumb it down to a brainless blockbuster.Supporting performances by popular talents as James Earl Jones, Scott Glenn, Sam Niell, Richard Jordan, Tim Curry, Jeffrey Jones and others are perfect, some of which flawless. THE HUNT FOR RED October makes for a satisfying adult action entertainment. It's clever, slick and challenging, and, much like Jack Ryan, I like a good mystery.Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great Adaption Of Tom Clancy Novel.","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I read several Tom Clancy novels before watching this screen adaption of his work. I mostly like Clancy's works, but he glorifies the character of the members of the military well beyond my considerable experience with the subject. There are many politicians and incompetents promoted well above their abilities alongside the geniuses and heroes.That said, the film mostly works for me. The Soviet Union was disintegrating as the film was produced in late 1989. It was hardly difficult to step back a few years to the mid 80s and portray a Soviet Union starting to show visible fault lines that would lead to its collapse. There had already been an incident where a surface ship of the Soviet navy was hijacked by some of its crew and put to sea to defect to Finland. Unfortunately for its mutineers, the ship was intercepted and its crew treated to the glorious Soviet justice system. This incident may have inspired the plot of the Tom Clancy novel.The film give a fairly accurate portrayal of the tension in the US government over the intentions and capabilities of the Soviet Union. The tendency was always to err on the side of caution in diplomatic and military analysis of Soviet activities. Remember, the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan and established beachheads in Nicarauga and Grenada. The Soviet Union appeared to be gaining steadily over the US on the international scene. The inner rot of the Soviet system was invisible to all but a few.I enjoyed Sean Connery's captain Ramius. He dominated any group he was in. Even the captain of the US submarine had to defer to his judgment in a crisis. He never lost his concentration, no matter the degree of the crisis. The fact that in real life Sean Connery had bombed out of the Royal Navy for seasickness took nothing from the film.The sets for the submarines were very convincing and rang true. The technology of the Soviet Union was generally behind the US and the film reflected that fact. The fact that the Soviet Union installed political officers in every military unit to assure continued loyalty to the communist party was also illustrated in the film.There were a few glaring continuity errors in the film. The rescue submarine utilized to transfer crew members from the US sub to the Soviet sub just suddenly appeared with no accounting for how it happened to be there. The US submarine was operating without this attachment up until the moment the rescue submarine appeared. Admiral Greer appears suddenly in the command center of the US Navy surface ship that is supposed to fake destroying the Soviet submarine. How he gets on and off the vessel without notice is never revealed.The undersea visual effects were first rate, especially considering the state of the art in 1989. This film stands up well to the passage of time and ranks as the best Jack Ryan film of the four entries. "},{"Title":"Genuinely exciting, enthralling submarine thriller.","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's novels are hardly friendly for movie adaptations. The author's books tend to be at least 400 pages in length, and are identifiable for their incredibly in-depth technical knowledge and wide-reaching subplots. However, the film adaptations have been reasonably well done on the whole, and the best (and first) is probably The Hunt For Red October. Much has been made of the suspiciously Scottish-sounding main character who is actually from Russia, and others have also noted the absence of a significant female character, but in spite of these valid criticisms the film is still a hugely impressive work. Apart from the superb Die Hard, this is definitely one of the best things ever to come from director John McTiernan.In 1984, a revolutionary new Russian submarine leaves a frozen northern base on its maiden voyage. The Red October, as it is named, is captained by Marko Ramius (Sean Connery), perhaps the most trusted and respected of Russian submariners. It is an incredible nuclear submarine, with a new propulsion system that allows it to travel unheard and undetectable beneath the waves. Shortly before departure, Ramius sends a letter to a politician in Moscow informing him that he plans to steal the Red October. Meanwhile, in America word quickly spreads that Ramius is heading full speed across the Atlantic in his incredible new vessel. The American generals immediately panic, fearing that Ramius is a madman intent on provoking nuclear war by launching his warheads at the American cities. A CIA analyst, Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) has studied Ramius's career, and feels that such a crude, aggressive approach isn't in character with the Russian captain. Ryan is convinced that Ramius actually intends to defect, and that Moscow's story of Ramius plotting to start World War III is merely their devious way of encouraging the Americans to hunt him down and sink his sub. Given a mere three days to check the feasibility of his story, Ryan sets about establishing contact with Ramius before the Red October is found and destroyed. A complex and knife-edge game of Cold War intrigue begins&#133;.The Hunt For Red October has a pretty sophisticated plot which in lesser hands could easily become confusing. It is a credit to Larry Ferguson and Donald Stewart that they've made their screenplay so comprehensible, and a further credit to McTiernan that he manages to turn their script into a visual reality. Connery is superb as the Russian submariner. His accent has been discussed often enough, but I don't think it detracts too greatly from the believability of the character. Baldwin is almost his equal, in one of his few career high-points as the CIA analyst thrust into the midst of this international crisis simply because he dares to voice a different theory. The submarine sets are pretty convincing, and a level of claustrophobic tension is created within them. In particular, the ending is very exciting as the chasers and the chased converge in the mid-Atlantic. Repeated viewings lessen the impact of the climax, but on the first couple of viewings it is indeed a highly suspenseful sequence. A special mention too for Basil Poledouris, who brings tremendous drama to the proceedings with yet another of his incredible scores. All things considered, The Hunt For Red October is a first-rate underwater thriller &#150; it might not be the kind of film you'd go to see with your date, but it definitely scores as a thrilling, intelligent and claustrophobic submarine drama. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery at his best","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is in my opinion one of the best movies ever made. Russia vs. America. Sean Connery as the ultimate badass. Alec Baldwins best role ever. Nasty Submarine warfare seens. This one has no women, no love story. I think there is actually no women in it except for his wife in the beginning and maybe the stewdess at the end. Sometimes a guy needs a break from any distraction in a film and needs some good old fashion realistic covert anti-soviet operations. Sam Neil's breakout perforance. Stunning. In my opinion one of the factors jobs of acting to ever grace the American cinema.One of the greatest films of all time!!!!! "}{"Title":"An excelent adaption of an excelent novel.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First, let me say I'm biased in my review, in that I'm a huge Tom Clancy fan.You can read the breakdown of the movie/book all over the 'net, so I'll just give a very brief breakdownMarko Ramius (Connery), a disgruntled Soviet Submarine commander, decides to defect with his officers to the United States. Of course, the USSR does not want their best submarine to get into enemy hands, so sends their entire fleet to try and sink him.Jack Ryan, a Historian that moonlights for the CIA, discovers Ramius' plans, and is tasked with helping him get to the U.S. alive.That's the very basic breakdown of the plot. If you'd like to know more, check out the IMDB page, or 20x as better, read the book -) .The movie is perhaps one of the most faithful adaptions of Clancy's works, and it still isn't faithful enough for some hardcore fans. But most of what was added/removed made sense. After all, you can't include everything.You cannot really call this movie an Action movie. Almost all of the action is in the last 30 minutes or so. I'ts much more of a psychological Suspense movie. Unfortunatly, since this movie was staged in the Cold War, it has less effect on younger viewers (like myself) who didn't live through that era.The acting is very good all around. My only quibble is the Russian Accents on some of the Red October Crewmen (Connery does try his best ) ) , but it's only a minor one. I won't say Alec is the best Jack Ryan, since I've only seen 2 Tom Clancy Films (Red October and Sum of All Fears) but he does a great job in the role.An often overlooked aspect of this film, that is truly outstanding, is the soundtrack. While I'm not an orchestral fan myself, the theme to this movie is great.There's not much else I can say. Despite a few minor flaws, this movie is an excelent edge-of-your-seat suspense flick.OVERALL 9/10.James Black Wolf Johnston "},{"Title":"Book is better, but the movie still does it justice.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This riveting tale of bravery and deception mostly set deep under the Atlantic Ocean is one of my favorites. Though I did think that the book was much better with being able to go into further detail and explain more of the background information that helps the reader better understand why some things happen. In the movie for instance there wasn't much explanation for the cooks actions. But the entire movie was action packed and never had a dull moment. There are a lot of big names in this film and each actor did an awesome job. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys military films or just loves Clancy. I recommend reading the book first thought, it will supprise you how they changed the story and still managed to make it work very well! "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for the Red October is probably one of Tom Clancey's best novels turned into a movie.  The combination of suspense, Sean Connery, and the real life situation of the Cold War made this one of my favorite movies. I recommend it to anyone looking for an awesome, suspenseful movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie Action/ Adventure","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a Excellent movie, have worn out my copy on VHS. The acting was very good  Connery  was the perfect choice for the Russian Captain. This movie keeps you on edge of your seat. Having the USS Dallas chase Red October and they don't know there behind them, is what will they do next, keeps you thinking. The special effects were great.*** "},{"Title":"A classic cold war film!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  warning! may contain spoilers!!!!  The Hunt For Red October is an excellent cold war film supported with great acting by Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin!  This film was an excellent adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel about a group of Russian officers trying to defect to the United States in the newest Soviet Submarine.  This is not the standard Bond film and should not be expected as one.  It is a little more realistic spy film that you could believe actually happened.  Both Sean and Alec put in excellent performances as the defecting Russian captain and the CIA analyst who is the only one who believes the Russian's intentions are non-hostile.  This is an excellent movie of the games submarines play of cat and mouse.  I give this movie 8 stars out of 10!  This cold war film is not one that should be ignored! "},{"Title":"Brilliant - with a soundtrack to match","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This taught thriller is complemented with a fantastic soundtrack composed and conducted by Basil Poledouris. There isn't one dull moment during the entire film and the lack of a main female character does not spoil one's enjoyment. There are some classic lines mainly coming from the master - Connery at his very best. The soundtrack is available on MCA Records MCAD-6428 "},{"Title":"My 2 fav movie of all time!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie! The plot is spectacular and the best of Clancy's book, became the best Clancy movie! Baldwin is the most realistic Ryan. The score for this movie is amazing! My second favorite movie of all time(only behind Spider-Man). "},{"Title":"The Hunt for a better Spy Flick","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I'm too much of a Bond fan and having Sean Connery in this picture didn't help either. Basically because when I see a spy movie I expect to see a action/adventure film with out of this world plots. This movie has a out of this world plot but it's missing the action/adventure. In other words it's not my kind of a spy flick.1 1/2(*1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"behind every great movie, there's great soundtrack","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if you can separate the two, for soundtrack brings the spirit of a movie to haunt you with scenes everytime you hear it.Hunt for Red October is one of those films with just powerful soundtrack, reminds me a lot of Last of Mohicans soundtrack.What is it with Russian theme songs anyway (including the old anthem), they always manage to sound incredibly patriotic. "},{"Title":"'Run Silent, Run Deep'.....","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Readers of Tom Clancy's novel may grouse about McTiernan's departures from the original novel, but what we have in HFRO is a film that can be appreciated on a number of levels. First, it's a well-paced action yarn, full of witty and memorable one-liners, that culminates in a bang-up (literally) and totally satisfactory resolution. Secondly, we have a slyly-contrived parallel with that ultimate submarine epic, 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ---the Verne book, that is, and not the Disney Adaptation it's worth noting that according to some sources, Connery himself re-shaped Clancy's 40-something, revenge-driven Ramius into a nobler character more commensurate with his own age and philosophy. Lastly, thanks to those haunting images and elegant score, we have an archetypal drama of sacrifice, betrayal, martyrdom and resurrection. A film that happily lends itself to this many interpretations deserves the name of Classic.  "}{"Title":"One comment on the accents","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I noticed that a lot of commentators here had a problem with Sean Connery's Scottish accent shining through in his performance of the Sovjet submarine- captain. I dare to ask a counterquestion does anybody know what it sounds like when a Lithuanian is speaking Russian? Frankly, I have no idea whatsoever. Not having had the opportunity yet to watch Red October in the English original version, everybody in it speaks accent-free German anyways to me. -) (I consider the loss of accents the major flaw of dubbing over here- movies like Forrest Gump or O Brother Where Art Thou' should in my view be done with a Bavarian accent.)   But back to the movie in question. It seems like everybody is sharing one's personal experience here, so I will add mine here. And enough has been said about the many qualitites of the movie, as had been pointed out before.The Hunt for Red October is a memorable movie experience even to the point that I explained the whole problematic of the cold war to my sister (by then 7 years old) while being a really bad babysitter and watching the movie with her. What can I say- it is still one of her favourites (by the year 2004 she would be allowed to watch it legally in a movie theatre here).Just to complete my contribution to this forum 10 points for Red October. "},{"Title":"Great thriller!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Based on Tom Clancy's first novel (an instant best-seller), THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER is a great thriller that manages to hold out 'til the end.Capt. Marko Ramius (portrayed greatly by Connery) is the Russians' greatest captain, and has just been given command of The Red October, Russia's newest submarine.  But now the Russian's have lost The Red October, and they believe that Ramius is going to start a war. But CIA analyst Jack Ryan (a great performance by Baldwin) has a different theory.  Ryan believes that Ramius is planning to defect to the United States, and with the help of his commander (played by the great James Earl Jones) sets out to prove his theory is right.  Sam Neill co-stars as Ramius' second-in-command. While long at times, THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER holds out 'til the end.  An un-missable thriller. * * * * * * * * 8.0  "},{"Title":"One of the top 10 movies I have ever seen","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the type of movie I would normally watch, but I couldn't take my eyes off the screen.  It's too bad that some people apparently couldn't overlook Connery's accent because his acting was superb, as was Baldwin's. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  superior & intelligent spy / action","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is part of the official arcana for action movie buffs like me. I've seen it again recently, and despite the ending of the Cold War, the film succeeds in giving us a flavor for how spy / military operations actually work.The film is mostly suspense, there isn't much violence or blood. It has an intelligent plot, and while the acting wasn't Oscar-quality, I can recommend this fully. I'm not a film school type myself, but I even think those with an arty sensibility would enjoy the quality of the film's making. It is the best of the films based on Tom Clancy novels to date.Who should see this film-- Action film buffs a must-see, and your non-action buff SOwould probably also enjoy it. But don't expect a romanceas in Top Gun.-- Anyone interested in political / militaryI'll give The Hunt for Red October a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An exciting movie...Alec Baldwin's greatest!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October is one of the best movies from the past 20 years.  Sean Connery is magnificent, as usual, in his role as Marko Ramius. Alec Baldwin gives his best performance as Jack Ryan.  He is really fantastic, and I think it's his performance that makes this movie truly memorable.  If you're a fan of Alec Baldwin, you really need to see this movie.  It is a great action/adventure and a definite must see! "},{"Title":"Thrilling (and oftentimes witty) adventure (some spoilers)","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This should tell you something about whether I like The Hunt for Red October or not -- my dad and I have watched it so many times I've lost count!What do we like about it?  Well, for one thing, it has a plot that keeps us on the edge of our seats.  The Hunt for Red October is about a Soviet commander named Marko Ramius, whose suppressed disillusionment with the Soviet Union finally reaches the boiling point when he's given command of the Red October, a submarine with an (almost) completely silent propulsion device called a caterpillar drive.  Ramius knows its only purpose is as a first-strike weapon, and in complete disillusionment, he decides to defect and take the sub with him.  Most of his officers are also defecting.  Jack Ryan, the CIA analyst, is the first person to realize Ramius's intentions -- but he has to persuade the other Americans before it's too late.  And that's going to be hard, since the Soviets are saying Ramius intends to fire his missiles at the United States and want the Americans to help sink the Red October!Besides the thrilling plot (admittedly less complex than the book, but movies are less complex than books for the most part), there's also great acting from most of the actors.  Leading the way is Sean Connery, as Ramius (even with a barely-concealed Scottish accent, which I didn't really notice), but right behind him is Alec Baldwin as Ryan.  Also getting high marks on my list are Courtney B. Vance as Seaman Ronald Jones, Scott Glenn as Commander Mancusco, and Sam Neill as First Officer Borodin.  I could name others, but I'd take up too much space.But what I love most is not the thrilling plot or the fine acting, but the many memorable (and oftentimes witty) lines in the film.  There's Borodin's vivid dream of living in Montana (which makes his final line so sad); Ramius's Verify our range to target.  One ping only.;  and Ryan's Next time Jack, write a goddamned memo!; just to name a few.  But my favorite line belongs to the first officer of the Konovalov.  When he hears there's a torpedo aimed at the Konovalov (their own torpedo, too), he says, You arrogant ass!  You've killed us!In short, I highly recommend The Hunt for Red October!Belle Book  "},{"Title":"Great naval adventure yarn","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  True to the book in every way...keeps the reader/viewer guessing and hooked the entire time. Great acting by ALL.  I like Harrison Ford but Alec Baldwin is much more persuasive as Dr Ryan. Connery is also perfect.  Excellent score. Stunning cinematography.  Fun on video as well.  "},{"Title":"Better Dead than Red ! Anti-Russian propaganda disguised in a stylish submarine-thriller...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Connery the Russian Commander who forgets his own language, because some people do not like subtitles... On the other hand, the story is good, twist, action and a couple of thrills! It worths wattching mainly for satisfying curiosity... MacTiernan's work is always stylish and that's another reason but why don't watch Das Boot? if you want a submarine-Thriller? IT'S SO SIMPLE!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Intense and enjoyable thriller that will not disappoint","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is such a great film that succeeds on so many levels. The acting is excellent throughout, the direction is done well and the story based on the Tom clancey novel is fantastic. Out of the tom claney novels made to film this is by far superior to patriot games and the awful Clear and Present danger. The film succeeds because it grips the viewer from the beginning. It is a complex plot but the Mctiernen has managed to make it very easy to follow without being simplistic.It challenges the viewer right until the end and i can't think of a moment where i was bored. in an age where everyone wants action, this is a nice change as it is a tense thriller that will not disappoint any movie fan. Great film "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie !!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was Great !!! Sean did a super job.. but the thing that gets me is, he's supposed to be a Russian and he speaks with a Scottish accent?? and the same with Sam Neill hes from New Zealand and he speaks with the New Zealand accent.. Alex Baldwin did a good job, but he screwed himself out of the series, Harrison Ford is a MUCH better Jack Ryan than Alex is..all in all this movie is Excellent.. with the exception of Alex Baldwin.. i do recommend this movie, if you like action movies. this one has lots of action in it.. its well worth the money ... "}{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Easily the best of the Jack Ryan films. Alec Baldwin in the role he was born to play (with due respect to Harrison Ford, he wasn't as good as Alec Baldwin in the role). Great direction, music, acting, and well written. Extraordinary entertainment. "},{"Title":"Never a boring moment.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (May include possible detailed spoliers)The Hunt For Red October is one of the greatest films I have seen. This is not your typical submarine movie which deals with a sub getting trapped underwater and has to find some way to resurface or fix some dangerous nuclear reactor equipment or radiation will leak and contaminate the entire sub. The plot has alot to do with politics in general. The plot is basically that Jack Ryan played by Alec Baldwin discovers mysterious doors on a photograph of a sub. He goes to the CIA to inform his superiors of the mysterious structure he has found. The CIA director played by James Earl Jones takes it seriously and puts him aboard a ship to try to convince various people of the mysterious sub's exsistance. During this time Captain Marco Ramius played by Sean Connery is planning to defect his sub The Red October to the Americans. However, he does not do it very easily, he wants to make a political statement by making his crew believe that he is going to fire nuclear missiles from his sub to a major United States city. When really, he is not going to. The captain of the USS Dallas who has been trying to follow the sub doesen't believe that Ramius wants to defect. This is where Jack Ryan seriously comes into the plot to try to convince the captain that he will defect. But I won't say anymore on the plot.The beginning of the film starts out a little slow with captain Ramius standing on the Red October in  Murmansk in northern Russia, muttering a few things to Commander Vasili Borodin about the outside temperature. From there we have the main title screen and then the camera pans across Jack Ryan's collection of books on Navy related topics, blueprints, ect. We then see him doing some research on The Red October. However they used the slow scenes wisely by adding adding interested material into them as an attempt to keep the viewers awake. The characters are quite interesting. Connery being highly believeable as a veteran sub captain. I noticed that many people disliked his attempts to do a Russian accent even though he was Scottish. However, this didn't bother me at all. Another neat character was the gifted sonar man Ronald Jones. I don't recall anyone calling him by his first name. His nickname Jonsey is used often. And seeing how the crew uses his nickname I can see he is a respected and somewhat popular crewman on board the Dallas.  He has a remarkable ability to pick up sounds he believes are unnatural. He uses his talent in a scene where he is trying over and over again to pick up the sound of the Red October's silent drive known as The Catapiller. Then we have Jack Ryan, who seems to annoy the captain aboard the USS Dallas with his attempts to try to convince him into believing that Ramius is going to defect. We see a man going from a Dad to a important figure that can make an impact on the outcome of the entire plot and possibly the entire world. This is certainily not a business trip as he puts it earlier in the film.There were many good scenes. My personal favorite has to be the scene where Ramius addresses his crew. It sounded so believeable that even I could think that he really wants to attack the US but of course he is not going too. After he address the crew one of the crew members begins singing the Soviet national anthem and gets the whole crew to join him. When he suddenly begun singing it looked like it was on cue. But nevertheless, it was superior and unforgetting.\ It was amusing  to see the pleased look on the face on Ramius and the annoyed Vasili Borodin with his comment the singing, and Ramius replies let them sing, and then he joins in. It was also amusing  to see the crewmen shouting out orders over the loud singing. We also have a slow underwater scene in this part but the underwater scenes are given a extra boost of energy with the score that is used for them. The score is extremely excellent and fits this film completely. The slip on tea exuse was hillarious. Ramius goes and kills the political officer and then throws tea on the floor to make the exuse look real. But of course the officers know better. And this brings us up to another scene where the officers are eating a nice looking dinner in a cabin somewhere in the sub. You can see Ramius start to eat fast when they ask him if the political officer really slipped on tea. You could tell he was a bit nervous. Although he never directly said he killed him you can still of told on his face that he did. After the dinner he makes a comment that puts a plain look on the officers faces more tea anyone?. It was quite funny when he said that. Its these little scenes that made this movie what it is.The lighting of the subs were excellent. When they had the false nuclear accident on the sub all the lights were flashing and the whole crew were scared. Even though it was a fake accident designed to help move the plot. The scenes aboard the other soviet sub were short and typical. During the scenes abord these subs you can feel a sense of what country there from. The soviet sub felt of course like its a deadly sub coming from Russia as it did. The Red October felt neutral, and the the USS Dallas felt completely American. It also felt light and easy and not as tense and serious.Overall I rate this film with a 10/10. This film is for anyone interested in the action/adventure genere and just want to leave the typical shoot em ups and go into a more serious environment where you have to think a bit to completely understand whats going on. Depending on how fast you pick up plots you may have to watch a few the film a few times to get a full understanding of what the events have to do with the movie and plot. It took me just 2 viewings to get to know the entire basis of the film. But.. it doesen't matter just go and watch it, you may or may not be disapoined. I sure wasn't disapointed.  "},{"Title":"A real thriller","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love this one. Sean Connery speaking Russian with the Scottish accent isn't that successful, but otherwise it is a great thriller that never lets go of you. The directing, screenplay, photography, music and of course acting is pure magical enjoyment. Alec Baldwin IS Jack Ryan to me and I don't care what other people think. His performance as a more nerdy and humane James Bond is just brilliant. Baldwin's biggest career mistake was saying no thanks to continue in the Jack Ryan role, HIS part. As we all know he was replaced by Harrison Ford and now Ben Affleck will take over.But I'll always have The Hunt for Red October...   "},{"Title":"Fan favourite","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have avoided the rest of the Jack Ryan films that were cast with Harrison Ford in the role, and I will rue the day Alec Baldwin asked for more money to do the sequel after he was cast in this, the first Tom Clancy novel to go to film.  Ford is just too old for the part - Baldwin is perfect as the confident about his expertise but limited to book learning Ryan, thrust into a situation seemingly beyond his abilities and straight into his deepest fears.However, again and again I come back to this film.  It is well structured with an excellent supporting cast (among them Tim Curry, Scott Glen and Joss Ackland stand out) and no favouritism to either the protagonist Ryan or the antagonist Ramius (played with understated beauty by Sean Connery, who is the right age for his role).  The climax is followed by one of the most exciting denouements in cinema history.The man to thank for this wonderful piece of work is probably director John McTiernan, most famous for his Die Hard movies.  As I look back on his work I realize how many of them number among my favourites and how few look like missteps (although the delay in the release of his much anticipated remake of Rollerball looks like a cloud on the horizon).   "},{"Title":"A great film with an outstanding cast","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt For Red October is a great film with outstanding performances. Sean Connery is great as Captain Ramius, and like other comments I have read, I agree about James Earl Jones, he does steal the scenes when he is on, he has that great voice and whenever you hear him, you can't help but sit up and take notice.  But the one I thought was great was the late and great Richard Jordan.  His scenes as the National Security Advisor, Jeffrey Pelt were excellent.  There is one quote that he says I really like I am a politician, which means I am a cheat and a liar, and while I'm kissing babies I am stealing their lollipops, but I keep my options opened, which is so true.  And his scenes with Joss Ackland who played the Russian Ambassador were terrific, the two of them really worked well together.  "},{"Title":"A great yarn!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great story! There is enough technical detail (as everyone expected from Tom Clancy), action, intrigue and suspense to satisfy anyone. There are a couple of moments in the film where I think the acting drops off into the subpar range, but these moments are short. The Soviet sub had too much empty space in it, even for a Typhoon class boat. There are a few other irregularities, but only a person who knew much about submarines would be likely to notice. Overall, this is a very enjoyable film and highly entertaining. Take it for a spin! "},{"Title":"Sure it's American Cold War propaganda, but so what?  It's got the ingredients masterpieces are made of.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning some spoilers here. When I first saw The Hunt for Red October back in 1990, I was impressed by the stunning cinematography, and though the film doesn't stand up nearly so well among today's top caliber special-effect films, The Hunt for Red October still has something to offer which many more modern action film competitors do not an engaging plot.  The Hunt for Red October is one unexpected moment after another (even if you have read the book), suspenseful, the kind of film that for once fulfills its promise to keep you at the edge of your seat.  Yes, the film is unashamedly pro-American, but it is not completely unsympathetic to the Russian side (though granted only the defectors are shown in a sympathetic light); nonetheless, it is still enjoyable to watch.  I was also struck by what one critic said regarding Poledouris' fantastic score, that he thought this was a Russian classic; in my ignorance at the time, I also looked for Poledouris' music in Russian import shops, convinced that it was something from the days of the great five composers, including Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninov, Borodin, and Rimsky-Korsakov.  Yes, Poledouris' score is that good.  In my opinion, the stirring music of The Hunt for Red October propels the action and keeps one's attention riveted to the screen when the visual shots (slow turning of large submarines...) might begin to lose one's attention.  It is true that often the subtitles are strangely (or incorrectly) translated. True also is that Captain Ramius' (Connery) Russian accent is absolutely atrocious (with Sam Neill's almost as bad).  Neverthless, I found this didn't affront me as much as I thought it might; Connery's presence is decisive and his manner is entirely convincing.  And why shouldn't he be rebellious against the Soviet bureaucracy or have an odd accent?... Ramius is a NON-RUSSIAN, *Latvian* Captain with no real loyalties to the foreign Russian communists in Moscow who have control of Latvia...  Moreover, Sam Neill is nothing short of compelling in his portrayal of Ramius' confidant, Vasili Borodin, despite the imperfect accent.  When he says I would have liked to have seen Montana, I found myself thinking, Any other actor and that remark might have seemed comical...  Yet with a display of almost naive, exuberant charm, Neill pulls it off.  For me, his death was the most moving moment of the film.  Peter Firth (of 1979's *Tess*) is remarkable in his performance as the  political officer, and by way of comparison with everyone else, his Russian accent *is* quite good.  James Earl Jones makes a brief but notable appearance as James Greer.  Joss Ackland, another underrated actor, is also quite good as the disappointed Lysenko (his last scene near the end is marvelous).  But the best performance of this film, in my opinion, has got to be that of Alec Baldwin. Considering his liberal, democratic political views, he has done a fantastic job convincing us that he IS Jack Ryan, the unexpected hero, the smart wise guy with no field experience who jumps headlong into an international incident and saves the day with his wits, tenacity, and reckless courage.  He is the only one who stops to consider Ramius' intent, the only one who can avert a major international crisis.  His relationship with the older Ramius is intriguing... by the end, it is almost as though he is the son Ramius never had.  Yes, it all seems pretty unbelievable.  But The Hunt for Red October makes one believe every moment, and that is why this action film is so memorable.  Even if you don't ordinarily like action films, you will probably enjoy this one.  My rating 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    The Hunt for Red October is one of the best submarine war movies of all time, probably second only to Das Boot.  The plot, although somewhat incredulous, is very complex and interesting.  Submarine movies usually are the same a lone sub gets trapped under water for some various reason, the crew might throw a mutiny, or a submarine has the potential to start another war or something.  All of these plots are pretty typical.  The Hunt for Red October's plot, however, is very diverse.          The captain of the sub, Marco Ramius, seeks political asylum from the then U.S.S.R. in the United States and is custodian to not only a Typhoon-class Russian submarine, one of the most powerful military machines ever to exist, but one that can travel almost completely silently.  As in all Clancy movies, all sides of the game are shown- the defiant sub captain, the United States CIA agent determined to find the sub, and the Russian naval force determined to stop the sub.   The Hunt for Red October is a great movie.  There's plenty of suspense and action for the wandering mind to stay on task.  The plot is fascinating and developing constantly, making for a good film.  If you want to see submarine movies at their best, see The Hunt for Red October.  "},{"Title":"The measure for all Action Thrillers","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the best thriller I have seen yet, and I doubt that I missed any better ones. Maybe for the first time there is not a single question left open nor a single illogical action in a completely fictional plot.But more important, the movie keeps the audience under its spell through the whole 130 minutes. There are great pictures as well as clever detective work, gun fights as well as word fights.A special comment deserve the brilliant scenes in which the US security advisor and the Russian ambassador have their meetings, always talking on double layer, both knowing the secret meaning of the others words but unable to speak freely, with changing positions depending on the events around the boat.And, of course, as usual an excellent Sean Connery in the role of a non-Russian Russian war hero of former days, who would even kill to accomplish his last goal as the captain of this submarine called Red October. "},{"Title":"Good Clancy","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of Tom Clancy, and I thought this adaptation was done extraordinarily well done, given the time constraints. Pacing and direction was excellent, as well as the sets, and the subs filmed with assistance from the Navy. All cast members were great. Connery did the role at his usual high level of excellence. Scott Glenn deserves special mention. I loved the line by James Earl Jones, as Admiral Greer, an aside to Ryan, upon leaving the meeting of the Joint Chiefs, I told you to speak your mind at this meeting, but Jesus! A word about Alec Baldwin. His performance in this film was first-rate. I think he nailed Jack Ryan. It must have been galling for a leftist like Baldwin to play such a patriotic, pro-military role. Overall, a very good film. "}{"Title":"What makes a movie enjoyable?","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure what makes a movie enjoyable, but with home video I think I can say that, for whatever reason, movies I watch several times are enjoyable.The Hunt for Red October is near the top of that list. I bought it in LaserDisc, later in LD AC-3, and finally in DVD. I've watched it probably 15 or 20 times, and unlike a lot of replays of movies, I keep getting drawn into the story. I can't leave it on just as background noise!I know that my number of viewings don't approach Gene Siskel's viewing of Saturday Night Fever, but as that movie was to him, Red October is a guilty pleasure to me.Two things stand out for me. First is the music. Poledouris' score had me so convinced that it was classical Russian music that I was scouring the library to try and find it!Second was the extremely inventive handling of a foreign language in an American movie. The first few minutes have conventional subtitles. But soon, in Captain Ramius' (Connery's) cabin, the political officer (Firth) begins quoting Ramius' wife's bible. The camera closes in on him reading it in Russian. After reaching a closeup of Firth's mouth, the camera pulls back and Firth begins speaking English. This trick is repeated near the end of the move when Ramius and his crew speak Russian to Ryan (Baldwin), who speaks some Russian. We hear the words in English, but American sailors obviously can't understand what the Russians saying without Ryan's interpretation.There's scarcely a wasted moment in this film. And, although you'll have a good idea how the movie will end, getting there is more than half the fun. It's a lot of fun, and it will be as you revisit the characters.If you've read Clancy's novel, you'll find the movie a little disjointed. But if you see the movie first, you'll probably wonder why the book wasn't as succinct.Acting is top notch. And aside from Connery's odd behavior at the meal in the officers' mess, when he seems to ignore the concerns of the officers he chose to join him in his adventure, all the characters have consistent behavior. If the inside of the submarines don't represent subs, then subs should be changed, since this movie shows what they SHOULD look like!Rent this movie, or better yet, buy it on tape or DVD. You'll watch it many times in the coming years, and buying it now will save you lots of rental costs later.Cpto  "},{"Title":"SPELLBINDING!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I originally saw this movie as a last resort because tickets had sold out for my intended film.  Well, thank god there were no tickets available because this movie turned out to be one of my top ten movies of all time.Only Sean Connery could play a Russian submarine commander with a Scottish accent!The Hunt for Red October is one of those flicks that will keep you glued to the screen from the very start, right through to it's clever climactic ending.  The action sequences are second to none and the music, including the crew singing the Russian anthem is absolutley superb.This is definitely one of those 'feel good movies' and I dare you not to love it. "},{"Title":"Pro Americanism at it's best!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good movie. Hollywood has done something it hasn't done in a while Portraying the soviets for what they are, they are seen for what they are-the evil empire.This movie came out a year or two before the fall of the soviet union. Sean Connery plays a Russian sub caption who plans to defect to America. A cat & mouse game ensues The Americans are trying to figure out what he's trying to do. And, The Russians are trying to stop Connery from defecting.Jack Ryan(Alec Baldwin)has a hard time convincing people he works with that Connery is trying to defect. This movie is a portrayal of Americans winning against Russians-with the help of a Russian. Great Film. ***1/2.  "},{"Title":"A Well Directed movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  'The Hunt for Red October' is truly a great piece of filmmaking.  Excellent direction.  The constant moving of the camera, whip pans, sharp focus transitions were tactfully done.  It denotes tension in the film.  Lighting was extremely good, dark fortresses, hardening Actors facial expressions in the submarine, very powerful.  Alec Baldwin, Sean Connery, Sam Neill, James Earl Jones played their characters exceptionally fluently and well.  James Earl Jones was great at his often secretive roles, ie, 'Sneakers', 'Clear and Present Danger' etc.  Sir Sean Connery is one of the best actors in the world, and lays it on in this movie.  Excellent portrayal of the captain of the Russian submarine.I was bemused to notice Daniel Davis, the chracter who plays 'Niles' in the American Sitcom, 'The Nanny.'  He played his role adequetly too. A criticism about the movie is that the underwater scenes were not so believable.  Visual CG graphics in 1990 were just beginning to grow, however they are adequet for that time it was made.  Musical side was good, chorus singing and opera like music fit in nicely with the movie.All in all, A great effort!  7.5/10   "},{"Title":"Connery, Baldwin, Jones. Together - a masterpiece.","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film showed me just how much acting ability these men have. Sean Connery had an enormous screen presence as usual and played his part of Captain Ramius superbly, (even with the scottish accent and lisp). Not once did he lose character .Alec Baldwin was great as the pensive hero Jack Ryan. His personality and determination brought the storyline together. One of his best performances I've seen.James Earl Jones was incredible as the authoritive figure, his two sides of Jacks best mate and commanding figure were entirely believable and made you shudder when he gave orders with his magical voice.These actors were truly brilliant and added to an already superb story. Tom Clancy's great novel has transformed into a brilliant movie. See it and love it.You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October is an excellent movie. The story is well developed and the characters are well established, something most thrillers don't even think about doing now. Sean Connery is perfect to play Ramius, and Alec Baldwin is very good as Jack Ryan. You always want to know how the story will unfold, and the way it does isn't disappointing. If you want to see a good thriller tonight, The Hunt for Red October should be perfect for you.80% "},{"Title":"Alec Baldwin should always play Jack Ryan.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Harrison Ford is a great actor. But, having read several Tom Clancy novels, I just don't see him as Jack Ryan. Ryan is the main character in a series of Clancy military-thriller novels. Ryan sums up his character quite well in Red October, saying I just write books for the CIA. Yet he somehow finds himself deeply involved in high-risk covert military operations. He's very intelligent, but would rather leave the fighting to someone else. You could say the character is comparable to Indiana Jones. But Ford portrays Jack Ryan as too tough, too old, and too naive. He over-acts. But Alec Baldwin has Ryan pegged in Red October. Ryan is just a curious guy and sometimes his curiosity leads to an unthinkable adventure. And that's what Red October is. The submarine battle scenes leave you on the edge of your seat.  The military strategy is complex and compelling, unlike the worthless Crimson Tide. The pacing is intense, you'll never get bored.  And the cast is excellent. Scott Glenn does as a fantastic job as the captain of the USS Dallas.  Sean Connery is the renegade, yet above-it-all, captain of the Red October. Plus, James Earl Jones stars as a US Navy Admiral and Sam Neill as a Soviet officer. The movie, however, belongs to Baldwin. It's too bad he couldn't play Ryan in any other Clancy movies. Maybe that's one reason why Red October is so much better than those other films.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, but the book is better","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the movie first, then read the book, and was then disappointed with the movie! I wish they would have expanded on the role of Captain Tupolev with Stellan Skarsgard. The appearance of his sub near the end of the movie seemed a little abrupt (missing a sitting submarine with a torpedo - right!). Great performances, as usual, from Sean Connery, Richard Jordan, Tim Curry, Sam Neil, James Earl Jones, Alec Baldwin (even though I can't stand him!) and all. 8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"High suspense, entertainment","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I was on the edge of my seat for the whole experience. This is one of those movies I see whenever I pass by it on cable. If you haven't read Tom Clancy's novel yet, I recommend seeing the film first ( there are sufficient plot deviations from print to make it interesting, anyway). Despite the fact that Sean Connery makes no attempt to affect a Russian accent, he is highly entertaining as the Soviet missile sub commander. Courtney Vance and Scott Glen also captured the essence of their characters. "},{"Title":"A Great Submarine Thriller","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the best submarine war thrillers of all time. It combines high-pitched excitement, suspense, and realism to put the audience there. The movie is compared to the book Whipping Boy, which has the same great characteristics of this movie.However, there are many things that made this movie an 8. These include inconsistencies with the time period it was based on, Russian language, some realism inconsistencies, it's comparison to the book, and the excitement. The excitement was only for the beginning and the middle, then it quieted down a bit before the climatic battle scene at the end. Calling this movie a war movie is actually a misnomer. This is more like an adventure movie, since there is no war.Overall, this is an awesome movie. Das Boot may rank this movie out, but no others can. If you want a great thriller see it. "}{"Title":"Excellent suspense movie, tense action.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Can you believe, I finally got around to seeing this movie!  Actually, I was a bit disappointed, after all the hype.  Sean Connery is good in everything, and his role here is no exception. And Alec Baldwin is much more believable as Jack Ryan the writer-clerk, than Harrison Ford is in the later movies.However, after all the action during the middle of the movie, the end seemed a bit anti-climactic and slow.  I started to become borderline bored at the end, but I still give it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Great well acted movie with action and a great screenplay.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best roles Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin would have had to date. Watch out though , James Earl Jones steals every scene he is in and Scott Glen is great too. Terrific script and the underwater sub battle scenes are spectacular. Alec Baldwin does a great Sean Connery vocal impersonation in the nuke silo scene. Just goes to show that you can make an action movie which has intelligent lines that good actors can use. Excellent. "},{"Title":"scary that things seemed too real for fiction","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  the plot was good. sean connery has to be one the better actors alive. he started out as james bond in the sixties as a sauve, handsome if not believeable spy- 007. now as time as gone on he has developed into a full range actor that can come across as serious and cunning as anyone. he gives a very good performance and definitely carries this film. alec baldwin has done nothing short of giving the best performance of his career interacting with connery very convincingly as jack ryan. the idea of a global underwater search for a runaway sub isn't new i.e. voyage to the bottom fo the sea, but it is very convincing and  suspenseful especially with  today's worries about what will become of the military nuclear weapons of the former ussr. this could be happening somewhere thousands of feet under the seas as we breathe. a very realistic scenario.  "},{"Title":"A Feast for Sean Connery Fans","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A deep-sea roller-coaster ride with Sean Connery for a seat mate -- does it get any better than this? (And it's fun to try to follow the Russian without reading the subtitles.)I only wish I'd seen it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Good movie, good players but weak script","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Strong playing by Baldwin and Connery does not prevent this movie to be a little simple. For anyone who read the book of Clancy at least. Although the story is intriguing, and the movie fun to watch it misses some of the key features that would have made it a lot better. In other words, although the original story is good, and the key figures are played well, the film lacks the fantasy and courage that would have made it the success the book almost guaranteed. That it still gives you a good time is the full merit of Alec Baldwin, Sean Connery, James Earl Jones and other actors.  "},{"Title":"Very intriguing and exciting movie- I hope to watch it many more times.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is extremely good.  It goes away from Clancy's book, but the book lacked a real climax anyway.  I thought they were able to capture the finer points of the book, and added extra suspense by having more plots.  It is very, very, very, really, really, really, pretty good.  I loved it and gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"What a Hollywood movie should be!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First, I am an amateur movie buff. I see just about every thing. I own less than 20 movie tapes. Once I've seen it, I usually don't care to see it again. Hunt For Red October is a movie I watch once a year. It's not deep or profound. It wasn't best picture. It is what modern day story telling is all about. An interesting story and characters we care about. I gave it a 9 rating because it's not the best, but it's good solid entertainment. There are all kinds of movies and all kinds of audiences. You can't be everything to every one. So for just plain old good entertainment this movie is well worth your time. Also a side note. I just finished reading the non-fiction book Blind Man's Bluff, The Untold Story Of American Submarine Espionage and it made the Hunt for Red October story even more interesting. I really didn't realize how dangerous the cold war was. Is this story possible? Definitely! Will we ever know what really went on? Probably not. But that is one aspect of this movie that makes it so interesting. Really good movies are few and far between. This is a good one!  "},{"Title":"A well-done movie with a great ending, but it doesn't do the book's justice.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hunt for Red October is my favorite submarine movie and is a must-see for any movie lover or Sean Connery fan.  But, if you really want a good time, read the book by Tom Clancy.  It obviously goes into much more detail, explaining everything the movie covered with interesting facts n' figures thrown in.    "},{"Title":"Technically true and better than the book","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  An adaptation of Clancy's debut techno-thriller, Red October manages to simultaneously remain true to the novel and improve on it. Clancy's trademark passion for detail shows through, most especially in its depiction of sub warfare. Having done two tours on US submarines, the scenes aboard DALLAS took me back in a hurry. Most of the extras and minor characters were portrayed by actual Navy sailors and officers, and Scott Jones reportedly studied up hard for his role as the sub skipper. There are some bloopers in this film the Seaman Jones fluke (he's a petty officer by his chevrons), for example, but no really glaring inaccuracies, except one the Red October could have launched his missiles the moment he left dock, not in three days (I believe it says this in the novel). All in all, this is one of the most accurate depictions of the Navy on film.  "},{"Title":"A Staple of any action movie collection","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was quite surprised to see such negative comments on Red October.  While I have some small quibbles with the film, overall it is dynamic, action-packed and full of suspense (though not as much as the novel).  In many ways it's somewhere between the action-packed Top Gun and the more psychological drama of Crimson Tide, taking many of the best elements of each. "}{"Title":"A fine movie, Alec Baldwin scores bigtime!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a must see type of epic. Alec Baldwin did an admirable performance portraying a hero. You can watch this outstanding story, many times, and gleam new bits of details each time. Tim Curry shows why he is a major talent, also don't forget Sean. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but way too unbelievable","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hunt for Red October isn't the finest film out there, and surely it may be perfectly enjoyable if you suspend your disbelieves, but this may be hard, since the film is inspired on our real world's events and the characters motivations are fairly obscure.I liked the very beginning of the film. Though i think it complicates way too much for the introduction of the story,with all that weird editing quickly intercalating the events on the life of Marko Ramius(interpreted by Sean Connery) with the life of Jack Ryan(interpreted by Alec Baldwin, in the supporting role). I found it kinda weird and unnecessary, and may confuse those who are not so focused in the film. The rest of the character development is also obscure, it don't explains why Marko Ramius was doing the desertion, in the first place, and i don't see any reasons of why he didn't. It would just add to the film, and when they were about five minutes to end the film that they are really the good guys, and then, just when becomes absolutely unnecessary, he explains why he did it and it was the worst explanation for treason ever. Raimis said that earlier in the film, but at the point it wasn't clear if he was lying or not. The film of course want you to accept it. Still, the thriller itself it's interesting and may save the film for a while, but not for a much long while.And the villains couldn't be more cliché yeah, they are the soviets. They are depicted in the film(purposely)as the bad and weakest guys, and the main villain is of course soviet, which it isn't a clever one, he is the typical black-and-white cartoon villain, whose only objective is to destroy the 'good guys'. The worst fact is that every American is the good guy on this film. Cheesy.But hey, i liked a few things about this film. Mainly the score, i really like classical music sand in this film it was very well used. The plot is full of details, specifically about the submarine, which in my opinion were aces. I love films which focus in the minor details. Unfortunately, Hunt For Red October don't focused much in the 'great details'...but OK. Also, the supporting cast was really aces some known faces on there. I liked Tim Curry in The Rocky Horror Picture Show, i have watched tons of films with Stellan Skarsgård, and the same with James Earl Jones and Sam Neill.Worth a watch. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"I Really Must Have Missed The Hunt Part Of This","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The one thing that kept occurring to me, given the title of this movie, is that there really wasn't much of a hunt going on. Really - no one seemed to have that much difficulty finding the Red October - a new- fangled Soviet nuclear submarine. The Americans were able to find it; the Soviets were able to find it. This silent propulsion that was supposed to make it unfindable really didn't seem to work so well. Of course, if the sub couldn't be found then there wouldn't have been much of a story. But even in terms of suspense, there really wasn't that much until the last 20 minutes perhaps. The story revolves around the Red October's captain (played by Sean Connery) who essentially goes rogue and takes his submarine on its way to the United States. Question - does he intend to attack the United States or defect to the United States? Both fleets end up scouring the Atlantic as a result. I suppose a somewhat suspenseful movie could have been made around the uncertainty of the captain's motives, except that it's cleared up pretty quickly. The Americans, led by CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin), figure it out pretty quickly. The Soviets received a letter from the captain explaining what he was doing, so they knew. Really - everybody knows everything, so until the final scene comes around when we get to find out whether the captain's plot is going to work, there's really very little suspense.The movie is fairly well acted by a decent enough cast. The opening captions of the film suggest that these events actually took place in 1984. That's nonsense. They never took place at all. That was included to make the film seem more realistic, because the movie was released after the Communist Party began losing its hold on power in the rapidly disintegrating Soviet Union, so without the big bad communist boogeyman there was a fear that this would seem dated and irrelevant. So moving the timeline back to 1984 put it back in pre-Gorbachev Cold War days. But don't take that opening caption seriously. This never happened. Never.The Hunt For Red October has its moments - mostly as it approaches its end - but for the most part it's more than a little disappointing. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Rescued By The Cast And Cinematography","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Am I alone in thinking Tom Clancy is overrated ? I did once have the misfortune of reading PATRIOT GAMES , you know the thriller where a bunch of Irish terrorists try to kill Jack Ryan because he foiled their plot to kidnap Charles and Diana , you know the thriller where Clancy bludgeons the reader over the head that these Irish terrorists aren't the ones belonging to the IRA but are an entirely different breed of ultra nasty baddies . Compared to the book the unconvincing film version of PATROIT GAMES is almost a fly on the wall documentary on the Irish troubles so after reading the book I didn't bother wasting any more of my life reading his novels . I do recall seeing a TV interview with the author where he claimed he spent six months researching the material for his novels then spent six months writing them . I guess he must be a very slow reader and typist in that case Many of the people on this page who have a Luke warm reaction to the source novel have unreservedly praised this cinematic adaptation and you can understand this . The story for what its worth is riddled with plot inconsistencies . Stop to consider why the Americans think Red October is planning a pre-emptive strike simply because it's sailing close to the United States since the whole point of these ICBM subs is to be able to target a target from anywhere in the world . Simply sailing close to the United States doesn't indicate anything . Likewise if the propulsion system is so effective how do the Americans have no problem detecting the sub while the Soviets can't ? Oh and if Captain Marko Ramius wanted to defect wouldn't he have found an easier way than steal a submarine ? You see if you stop to examine things everything falls apart very quickly . But there's two things that stop this . One is the fine cast. Sean Connery is one of these actors who has always had a very strong physical presence but continually appeared in material that had him miscast . This isn't the case here and it's impossible to think of anyone who would have been anywhere a good substitute as Ramius and he's ably supported by an excellent international cast . Even Tim Curry is convincing in his small role The second saving grace is the impressive cinematography by Jan de Bont . One irritating aspect of film making in the 21st Century is the number of films that all have the same look regardless of who the director of photography is , British in particular suffer from this and it's become a lost art these days with rare notable exceptions such as Roger Deakins . This film sees a cinematographer on top of his game where lighting and colour scheme is concerned "},{"Title":"A Movie from a time when Action-Thrillers were worth watching","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is based on a Tom Clancy novel of the same name. It is about a Russian Submarine captain, Rameus, who wishes to defect to the United States because his faith in the system has vanished. The themes in this movie revolve around the arms race, a first strike war policy, and immoral policy decisions.The Russians have created a submarine with a silent drive. As such, it can sneak up on the American shore and launch missiles at them without being detected. It is very much a first strike weapon and Rameus does not like this because policy makers in the Kremlin have created it simply to start a war. This is the whole idea of the policy decisions. Rameus respects his motherland, but has come to the conclusion that such a weapon is designed to start a war, not end it and as such he does not want a part of it. In the end he decides that he has had enough and leaves. It is ironic that even though this sub has a silent engine, one American submarine is able to track it. It knows what its signature sounds like and this seems to defeat the entire purpose of this silent engine.The thing that irked me about this movie is that the Russians are the bad guys and the Americans are the good guys. This was set during the Cold War and as such patriotism was required. The thing is that the politician in this movie is a liar and a cheat - a real slime bag, yet he comes out on top and the Russians are portrayed as being the idiots. The Americans land up with this first strike weapon and the Russians lose out big time. This is not surprising because the author is American and he is writing at a time when the Russians were bad and Americans were good. Yet this was written during the time I was a teenager and as such we loved the Russians because they were the bad guys and our parents (mine especially) would constantly rave about how bad they were.In the end I sympathise with the Russians because I do not see them as the evil empire, but rather the other side in a war in which can only be one winner. History is written by the victors and the victors are always seen as being the good guys, even though they probably are not. This is clear when we see the slimy politician in this movie. He is slime yet he is on the side of the winners - though I would hardly call him a good guy.Anyway, I still quite like this movie, and was disappointed with the sequels as they removed Alec Baldwin and replaced him with Harrison Ford. I hate it when they do that. "},{"Title":"Tight, Efficient Thriller","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is the first of three fine submarine thrillers from the 1990s and early 2000s, the others being Crimson Tide and K-19, The Widowmaker. Crimson Tide told a wholly fictitious story and K-19 was an essentially true one. The Hunt for Red October falls somewhere between these two positions, being (like Tom Clancy's novel) very loosely based upon events which took place on board the Soviet warship Storozhevoy (a surface ship, not a submarine) in 1975. The Storozhevoy mutiny was led by a political officer named Valery Sablin, an idealistic Communist who hoped to spark a revolution against the corrupt Brezhnev regime, which he saw as having betrayed the Leninist ideals of 1917.The officer at the centre of the film, Captain Marko Ramius, is a very different character with very different motives. Ramius is an ethnic Lithuanian who has been appointed him to command the Red October, the newest and most advanced nuclear submarine in the Soviet Navy, but has decided to defect to the West, motivated not only by disillusionment with the Communist system but also by fears that his vessel has been designed not as a deterrent but as an aggressive weapon which will allow the Soviet leadership to launch an unprovoked first strike against America. When the Soviet authorities learn of Ramius's intentions, they decide to sink the Red October and try to persuade the Americans to assist them in this task by falsely claiming that Ramius is a madman who is planning a strike against the U.S. (A sort of Russian version of Jack D. Ripper in Dr Strangelove).This film was also the one which introduced Clancy's hero Jack Ryan to cinema audiences. (Ryan was later to feature in three more films, Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger, in which he was played by Harrison Ford, and The Sum of All Fears, in which he was played by Ben Affleck). Here, Ryan is a CIA analyst whose task it is to brief government officials on the possible threat from the Red October. He deduces, correctly, that Ramius plans to defect and has to prove his theory before Red October is sunk by the U.S. Navy.The two main characters are played by two very different actors, but both are very good. Sean Connery might seem an odd choice as Ramius, as he had spent most of his career playing either a Scot or an Englishman. (There had, however, been a few exceptions such as his Irish-American in The Molly Maguires and his Arab sheikh in The Wind and the Lion). Here he uses his Scottish accent to good advantage, suggesting the ethnic differences between himself and his fellow crewmen. (I doubt if, even in Soviet times, Lithuanians spoke Russian with the same accent as Muscovites). His Ramius is calm and authoritative, but also conceals a streak of ruthlessness; he is prepared to kill the ship's political officer rather than allow him to sabotage his plan. (The political officer is named Putin, a surname which has since taken on overtones it did not have in 1990). Alec Baldwin's Ryan is younger and more mercurial than Ford's interpretation of the character. (I have not yet seen Affleck in The Sum of All Fears). There are also contributions from other well-known actors such as Sam Neill as Ramius's second-in-command and James Earl Jones as Admiral Greer, Ryan's superior at the CIA. (Unlike Baldwin, Jones was to play the same role in the next two Jack Ryan films).Clancy's novel was first published in 1984 during the brief Andropov/Chernenko era when the Cold War was still at its height. By the time the film came out six years later the world had seen great changes. It was originally intended to set the film in 1990 to make it seem more immediate, but with the fall of the Berlin Wall a few months before the first theatrical release this now seemed inappropriate. A title was therefore inserted at the beginning stating that the events shown take place in 1984.John McTiernan will never be my favourite director following his appalling Rollerball, but I have to say that he handles his material well here to produce a gripping, edge-of-the-seat thriller with some particularly tense sequences, notably the one where Ramius has to navigate his vessel through a series of narrow underwater canyons to evade his Soviet pursuers. The tension is no way lessened by the changes in the international political situation which had occurred shortly before the film's release. The Cold War thriller managed to survive the Cold War itself, and The Hunt for Red October is one of the most efficient examples of the genre. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Classic submarine movie with good suspense","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recap Marko Ramius is a living legend in the Soviet Submarine Navy. Now he is given command of the brand new Red October, a submarine with a revolutionary new propulsion system making the submarine almost completely silent, and hence untrackable. Of course it is a submarine and technology the Americans fear, and want their hands on, and the Soviets want to keep secret and not ever lose, especially not to the Americans. So when Ramius, contrary to his given orders, engages the propulsion system and sets full speed for the US east coast, the development in the Atlantic will be very interesting indeed. And the only one that might understand what Ramius is up to is Jack Ryan, an navy analyst.Comments A classic in its genre and deservedly so. It is intense, and despite being quite long with a runtime over two hours, never slows down. There are always some new development, partly thanks to that there are a few different perspectives shown, but mostly thanks to a masterfully written and directed story.It is also give to a great cast, spearheaded by Sean Connery. But when you have supporting actors like Sam Neill, Alec Baldwin, Tim Curry, James Earl Jones and so forth, you are right to expect a certain level of acting, and they certainly don't disappoint.It is a movie I enjoyed very much, and it stands the test of time, despite being 20 years old now. Good suspense never gets old. And actually, it manages to keep my interest even when I've seen the movie before, that's rare. From me, it is highly recommended.8/10 "},{"Title":"Best Clancy Adaptation to Date","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" THE HUNT FOR RED October is a near-perfect old-fashioned adventure movie, with a complex multilingual plot handled with precision and crispness by a talented cast firing on all cylinders. That's not a big surprise coming from consistently-great actors like Sean Connery (who totally inhabits a Russian submarine captain, despite his pronounced Scots accent!), Alec Baldwin (filling in the blanks to Clancy's Jack Ryan, making him a believably modest Everyman engaging in extremely heroic acts) and Jeffrey Jones (turning a handful of exposition-heavy scenes into a fully lived-in character) - but when the normally wooden Scott Glenn gives a career-best performance as Captain Mancuso and Fred Dalton Thompson outshines his entire Presidential run in two scenes, you've got great entertainment.I own it, my wife and I take it out and watch it a couple times a year - it's that good. This is the best Clancy adaptation so far - the only one that comes close, IMO, is Ben Affleck's young Jack Ryan in SUM OF ALL FEARS, which bears scant resemblance to Clancy's novel. Skip the Harrison Ford Ryans - he plays the character as tired, surly and plainly wishing he were someplace else. "},{"Title":"Good cast and somewhat interesting story make this submarine stay afloat very well.","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was rather good, I credit the cast more than the story which at times was a bit far fetched and sometimes moved a bit to slowly. However, with Sean Connery in the lead the cast is entertaining enough to really keep the movie going even during the less exciting stretches of movie. The film centers around a super state of the art submarine and the captain of said ship who wishes to defect to the United States. Suffice to say there is a lot of cat and mouse in this one as a United States agent played by Alec Baldwin figures out the guy is trying to defect and tries to help the process along. This character would later be played by Harrison Ford in the even better movie to me Patriot Games and the not so good to me Clear and Present Danger. I think he was also played by Ben Affleck in a movie, but I never saw that film. The action here comes in doses and is not an action throughout film. There is a lot of dialog in this one, however thanks to the very nice cast these scenes are good and do not take anything away from the movie. There is a nice submarine fight and there are a couple of funny scenes as well as I enjoyed the crew of the submarine reactions as they thought their captain was courageously battling the Americans, when he was really setting it up to look like he lost a battle. "},{"Title":"The Hunt for Last October","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Strange. I'm not a Navy, or Naval, fan boy. Yet, a few movies I've seen, including Crimson Tide, U-571 and, of course this one, The Hunt For Red October, happen to be extremely entertaining movies that I find I must watch at least once again every few years. In the case for what I thought was the granddaddy of all Submarine movies, The Hunt For Red October, it's been many years. Like 15.I saw The Hunt For Red October when it first came out, and a couple of years following. To this day, Baldwin remains my favorite of all the Jack Ryans. And I loved Sean Connery and the grandness of the movie. But for some reason, this viewing, many years later in 2009, just didn't hold up to memory.Sure, it's a great film. Connery and Baldwin, and the rest of the cast are at their best. The dialogue, cinematography and the intrigue is still wonderful. But it's the mission that drives me batty.We have CIA analyst Ryan (Baldwin) who's absolutely convinced, and just on a hunch, that submarine Captain Extraordinaire, Ramius is attempting to defect via the Red October he stole. The whole Russian naval fleet is after him and the Americans are getting involved. Ryan will stop at nothing to prove he's right, not for ego, but to save Ramius and more lives.There. I pretty much summed up the entire movie in 62 words. Honestly, it's more complex than that, and I would highly, make that strongly, recommend this movie to all. If there is just one Clancy/Jack Ryan movie you see, you must absolutely see this one. Though Clear & Present Danger is also very good, this is the top notch one.Some of the best qualities the acting, score, dialogue, cinematography, suspense, realism, Connery's always one step ahead of the game and Baldwin shows true range. On a personal note, instead of pesky subtitles, they simply transfer from Russian to English in a quick zoom-in. I loved that.Some of the bad the graphics were not top notch, and even on Bluray; it's funny looking to watch some of the torpedoes. You're supposed to side with Ramius, however (no spoiler since it happens in the first 15, of many, minutes) he down-right murders (in cold blood) a man who might and I stress MIGHT disagree with him. Since that happens right away, it's hard to really warm up to this lost soul who you're supposed to root for. Also, Ramius's secret agenda seems really elaborate until the end. So, yeah, they redeemed themselves in the closing, but it was like someone wanting to prove a roller coaster was defective so you get twenty people aboard and hope for the best. There are better ways to defect or prove as point.That all said, again, I would recommend it. Director McTiernan is known for more action movies, I.E. Die Hard and Predator. This one is hardly any action at all &#x96; you'd see more battles in a Lifetime movie. But, for good intrigue, great performances and some real good cinematography, you should see this movie. "}{"Title":"Best submarine thriller since 'Das Boot'","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is a very good adaptation of its source material - the #1 bestseller by infamous author Tom Clancy - and manages to successfully compress the 460+ page novel into a good, solid two-hour running time. The movie moves with great flow, and energy. The actors all do their best, though no one really shines in the film- they all just hold their own beside each other and manage not to bore the audience with their techno babble, which is always a good thing when you try to market a movie adaptation of Clancy, who emphasizes so much on technology.When Soviet Submarine Captain Marco Ramius (Sean Connery, sporting his always fashionable beard) decides to defect from the Soviet Union he decides to gather his prize officers and run off with the Kremlin's latest, a greatest naval experiment a silent running nuclear submarine by the name of 'Red October.' A CIA analysis by the name of Jack Ryan (played by a young, still in prime shape Alec Baldwin)realizes the intentions of the Russian Captain's advance towards U.S. shores and convinces his superiors that they must rescue the defectors and acquire the technology of the Red October, and to do it right under the Kremlin's nose (not an easy feat, by the way). It soon become a race against time as American and Soviet forces The best performances by far are provided by Alex Baldwin, Sean Connery, and a brief, yet wonderful performance from Sam Neill. James Earle Jones also comes on briefly as Ryan's boss in a very amusing character who provides some of the film's best lines. None of them really stand out as being Landmark performances but they are definitely good performances from some of the best actors of our time.The movie is fun and should keep most people entertained with its action, and entertaining characters. It is very much like a believable James Bond type movie and makes for fun ride. There are no annoying characters present anywhere in the film and everyone involved in the production of this film seems to have tried their best in making it as visually pleasing as possible. Though the cinematography is not as good as 'Das Boot' (the best submarine film to date) it still does a fine job of emphasizing the claustrophobic environment of the submarines. All these things allow the film to be the best Tom Clancy adaptation to date.The Special Edition DVD has good picture quality and some nice special features. It is a vast improvement over the bare bones DVD previously released by Paramount...now if only they could improve releases of more of their 80s action-thrillers. "},{"Title":"You can't lose with tales of Jack Ryan!","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy is a great action-adventure writer who has created Jack Ryan, his version of James Bond. This, the first of a series of Jack Ryan stories, starts the ball rollin' with a bang. The acting is top notch, the action non-stop with plenty of plot twists and turns. Sean Connery could probably get away with playing an African American, that's how good he is. Alec Baldwin does a fine job in his first, and last, role as Jack Ryan. The supporting cast led by James Earl Jones, Sam Neill and Scott Glenn is also terrific. This is one of those 'edge of your seat' movies that any action fan will enjoy and the series gets even better with the next two Jack Ryan flicks Patriot Games and A Clear and Present Danger. "},{"Title":"  Oh my God, this machine is made to start a war and is in the hands of a madman ","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In every age, every country and in every peoples, there arises a moment where they believe they have become invincible. Taken one step further, each country's military searches for newer and better weapons upon which to prove that belief. This is a film which takes a page from such a time and weapon. The newest submarine created in Russia, and christened 'Red October' has just been launched with its most experienced sea captain. Unknown to the soviet authorities is that their legendary Captain has decided to sail to America and initiate World War III. When U.S. naval authorities learn of the most sophisticated sub in the world, they also learn that it's virtually 'invisible.' The Hunt is on! This is the premise for the book and now the film, entitled, The Hunt For Red October. Watching this movie is fun as made so by the cast. Herein we have Sean Connery as Captain Marko Ramius, believable as always and scary as his threatening ship. Alec Baldwin plays Jack Ryan, who I wish would have opted to stay in the part in other films. Scott Glenn is Commander Bart Mancuso, courageous and experienced enough to play 'chicken' but knowing when to flinch. Sam Neill, is Ramius' second in command Vasily Borodin. A character so well played, he garners enough sympathy, you want to give him a fat wife and a rabbit farm. James Earl Jones is Admiral James Greer, Richard Jordan is excellent as Dr. Jeffrey Pelt and Tim Curry is Dr. Petrov. All in all, this is one dramatic and exciting movie. Fun to watch. **** "},{"Title":"Better than Crimson Tide","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Review of the Special Collector's Edition. I haven't read the novel, though I could see myself doing so. I enjoy what I've taken in of Clancy's work, and actively seek it out. I can't, however, comment on how closely this follows it. What I will say is that it's darn well-done and engaging. And that's coming from someone not that into this type of movie. I usually go for action that's plentiful and fast, and while what there is of it in this is definitely great, it's not the main focus, and it honestly isn't that missed. It's more thought-based, which is not at all to claim that it's boring. Intensity is high in this, and it's a smart film, requiring the viewer to be involved and pay close attention. Calling it a political thriller(the good kind, where no side is favored over the other and preaching does not take place) is accurate. Realism is impressive in this. The Russians do switch to English for the audience's convenience, albeit they do at least start out speaking their mother tongue. The acting and characters are marvelous. The plot is interesting, nicely developed and keeps moving. This is paced remarkably well, and is never boring. The writing is fantastic and never lets you down. The score is beautifully written and compliments the piece well. The dialog holds cleverness, and memorable lines, without it(with a possible exception or two) ever being silly or out of place. There is language, if little of it harsh, a couple of handfuls of instances. At points, you can tell that this was directed by the same man who also made Die Hard, but it's not necessarily negatively so. A few things in this could be clearer(the FAQ here helps... reading it afterwards, mind you). The DVD holds a theatrical trailer, a commentary track(essentially McTiernan second-guessing his decisions and occasionally sharing info, seeming insecure for the duration of it... this makes for a relatively unexciting listen, and there are numerous pauses where he's silent) and a well-produced making of, featuring interviews with cast and crew and being well worth the half hour running time. I recommend this to fans of John and/or Tom, as well as, if perhaps to a lesser extent, the various people who helped to create it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brought to the screen skilfully","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Intriguing film about a stolen typhoon class sub and the subsequent pursuit of the Soviet craft by both super powers.Sean Connery manages to be convincing as Russian submarine captain 'Ramius', while Sam Neill is very good as his deputy. As 'Jack Ryan', Alec Baldwin is good also, and the strong supporting cast (which includes Scott Glenn and James Earl Jones) are more than competent.The film's asset though is the way in which it is filmed. Director John McTiernan has brought Tom Clancy's novel to the screen very well, as he maintains an even tension throughout, along with a balanced humour. Don't miss this one!Friday, August 21, 1992 - VideoThe 'true' story of The Hunt for Red October is a fascinating one indeed. Full of political intrigue, the plot is very well balanced, smartly scripted and swings from suspense to action to humour very well.The players are very enjoyable, especially the supporting cast (including Scott Glen and Sam Neill), whilst the cinematography, sets, special effects and the very suitable soundtrack work to good effect. A tense, exciting film which features a fabulously climactic ending.Friday, April 9, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"First-rate suspense thriller","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Marko Ramius, a highly decorated Soviet submarine captain, deviates from routine and starts to head towards United States' coastal waters. What makes the situation even more dangerous is that the submarine, the Red October, has a new propulsion system that makes it almost completely silent. Soviet and US navies begin to look for the sub, but CIA agent Jack Ryan believes that Ramius has different intentions than initially perceived.There is something very peculiar about this movie. I can't quite pinpoint it, but all I know is that it's good. Very good. The plot relies almost solely on suspense and has very little violence. There is very little profanity and you barely even notice it since it just flows with the dialog. The movie is about sailors after all! There are also the special effects which were all created before the digital era that Independence Day and Twister kicked off, among others. But the special effects here feel very contemporary despite the fact that this movie is now 17 years old. There are tracking shots of torpedoes slicing through water and large swoops underwater that show every angle of a slowly moving submarine through a narrow trench among others. The resulting tension of pacing and good directing almost echoes the greatness of Alfred Hitchcock who continually created suspense out of the simplest premise. A man accidentally witnessing a murder at the UN, which kicks off the brilliant North by Northwest. This film is in a similar vein, not much violence as in today's thrillers, but more interest and tension than in 5 of them.Overall an exciting movie, that's smartly plotted, well acted and with no excess meaning virtually anyone can enjoy it. --- 9/10Rated PG for some violence and occasional profanity. Good for general audiences. "},{"Title":"Still the best  adaptation of Tom Clancy.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hunt for Red October(1989) has always played like the navy's attempt at the tail end of the Cold War to honor submariners--their long-suffering elite.The US Navy trained director John McTiernan and actor Scott Glenn via then-Capt.Tom Fargo aboard an operational 'boat', the Los Angeles-class SSN716_Salt_Lake_City. That educational commitment transpires as Hunt's uber-realism, with its authentic staffing, jargon and interiors, the best CGI water-distortion effects, plus SPFX supervisor Al Disarro's full-size Typhoon exterior and model-subs (shot in smoke). It also spawned the brilliant 1992 Discovery Channel series Submarines Sharks of Steel.More than any other Tom Clancy technothriller, Hunt's still-impeccable gravitas is further based on McTiernan's feel for the dramatic, space-station-like, back-door international camaraderie between supposedly antagonistic superpowers, while upfront still remaining a hugely satisfying spy-thriller.All the Jack Ryan films owe their existence to Mace Neufeld's quick optioning of Clancy's novels in 1984. Having pipped McTiernan by just 1wk to do the same thing, Neufeld quickly hired him to direct. Sadly, McTiernan was later removed from the franchise by the studio for being too expensive, and they hired my countryman, Phillip Noyce instead--whom I like much less. Noyce never took as much care developing his characters. In Clear and Present Danger(1994), especially, his caricatures of the US President and the DD-CIA as immature children out of their depths just demeans the dignity of those men in the subs 5yrs earlier.Instead of the trashy--and in Noyce's hands, face-peelingly boring--IRA-goon-fest of Patriot Games(1992), too, Paramount should've developed Cardinal of the Kremlin for the screen, thrilling us again with Cold-War spies.As to who makes the best Jack Ryan, with similar purist reasoning, I lean towards Alec Baldwin.Hunt's situated excitement is often due to Baldwin's cheeky, mulling exuberance. We never got the same satisfaction from Harrison Ford's mature gentleman, partly because his plots simply weren't as dramatic. Only Sum of All Fears(2002) came close, and by then Paramount threw Ford over for Ben Affleck. But Harrison also portrayed Ryan as overly frightened, making it unfathomable how he'd ever get into the CIA, let alone rise to its upper echelons. As Clancy himself observed, the tension was always inherent in continually having a mere analyst do fieldwork.This tension became explicit in Hunt's briefing-room scene where Ryan has a Eureka moment. Baldwin gave him more bravado than Clancy wanted because that better-suited film--but his take went too far Baldwin's Ryan is uncharacteristically unembarrassed at drawing the room's attention. In Patriot Games(1992), Ford rewrote Baldwin's arrogance when, in a similar scene, Ryan demurs and collects his thoughts this time. McTiernan now admits that they'd invented an entire heroic backstory for Ryan--which Noyce shamefully backpedaled.The powerhouse acting in Hunt gives the most bangs for our dollar, too.Courtney B.Vance's Jonesy completely steals the picture through his impish-yet-dignified symbiosis with Scott Glenn's equally wonderful Capt.Mancuso (an eerie theatrical recreation of now-Adm.Fargo).Fargo had actor Scott Glenn literally captain a sub by assigning him temporary Captain's rank right alongside--essentially cloning himself. Glenn repaid him by emulating Capt.Fargo's genteel-but-intense leadership style. Submarine captains can be thought of as sonar-traffic-controllers of their own boats. The leading sonar-man must be their second-nature eyes/ears. We see this symbiosis as Jonesy reports a contact to his captain with cautious conviction, then uses his illegal map of Soviet submarine routes with his recordings of the phantom sub to outsmart his own computer.Jonesy personifies--and Vance inhabits--a submariner's intelligence and grace as he tells the Chief Of the Boat (COB--Larry Ferguson, screenwriter) for the umpteenth time the difference between Pavarotti and Paganini. Yet his determination to never let his captain down (Relax, Jonesy, you've sold me) is stunningly obvious under tremendous operational pressure.Now the flaws Capt.Ramius might appear commanding, but Sean Connery's command of Russian is WOEFUL. On the other hand, the other Red October submariners speak perfectly--being Russian émigrés living in LA, cast by McTiernan for authenticity. In addition, half the Dallas crew were submariners (and made better actors than some actors made submariners).Some of the film's jargon-busting is clumsy, such as Jonesy's pickup of boomer coming out of the barn as a missile boat from Polyarnyy (the inlet was the Soviets' most active submarine base).A more serious flaw was McTiernan's burying his clues too well, especially in the last act. As he's since admitted, the seeding was frail for Cooks' Assistant Loginov (Tomas Arana, Russell Crowe's dark-horse wingman in Gladiator(2000)), as well as Ramius' shocking, minimalist decision to kill the GRU zampolit (political officer, Peter Firth).The killing doesn't look compassionate, as it was meant to; while the big reveal wasn't telegraphed because Clancy's entire subplot of Loginov's mission to ignite a missile's self-destruct was just scrapped. Hitchcock himself said that thrillers/action-adventures should give the audience a good sense of anticipation so we can identify with the hero.Ramius, The Vilnius Nastavnyik (schoolmaster) is surprisingly unprofessional duping his own doctor (Tim Curry). This only encourages his officers' escalating cruelty towards the man, alerting him that something was afoot.The unexplained nuclear emergency was gratuitously manipulative for the audience, too; as was the false danger of turning a sub towards an oncoming torpedo Capt.Mancuso's objection to it is utterly incredible; submariners in the audience would instantly know the plan.Glenn's lines were simply insulting to his character, and he apparently remonstrated long-and-loud with McTiernan. As the compromise, he got the best bit of business of all as the DSRV driver panics about being shot at, Mancuso/Glenn gets to hiss No sh!t, f*ckwit, get the hell outta here! Unfortunately, once the Mystic passengers come aboard Red October, McTiernan's scene-blocking gets totally befuddled regarding the prevailing language. This time there is no reversing-push-in shot providing the clue, as before with Peter Firth's fabulous speech.Nevertheless, Hunt's shining reputation is well-earned. It stands alone as thinly-veiled fact about an actual Whisky on the rocks.....Or was it a frigate?(9/10) "},{"Title":"The Hunt is On!","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I want to critique this film in two parts first, as a stand alone film. And second, in comparison to Sum of All Fears.This film, quite obviously is wonderful. Why do I say obviously? Because it co-stars Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery, with a supporting cast of Jeffrey Jones, Tim Curry and Sam Neill. And it's a Jack Ryan film, so you would really have to go out of your way to screw this one up.A Russian submarine captain (Connery) wishes to defect and he escapes in the newest submarine available (the Red October, with the silent propulsion system). The Americans don't know if he's defecting or attacking and the Russians want him dead. Only Jack Ryan (Baldwin) knows what to do.The action is unstoppable, the plot deep and intricate. The characters fascinating. My only question is this why are all the Russians played by English, Scottish and Australian actors? Were Russian actors unavailable, or did the makers of this film think we can't tell the difference between a Russian and British accent? Now, compared to Sum of All Fears... I only bring this up because there are such similarities. America and Russia on the verge of war, with only Jack Ryan able to stop it. And in both films, the line I know this guy is used repeatedly (three times in Sum, twice in Hunt). So I felt unsure about this.. is it a running theme, or is Tom Clancy really that unimaginative? And I won't even begin to try to figure out why Jack Ryan is like 10 years younger in 2000 than he is in 1984... that's beyond my comprehension.But both are great films, and if you've never seen Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan, you must see Hunt for Red October. "},{"Title":"The Book is good, so is the movie as well!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's The Hunt for Red October is something worth reading about. The movie however is just as enjoyable. Sean Connery playing Captain Marko Ramius is most excellent performed. Known for playing Bond, Connery brings Ramius to life with his ego-maniacal scheme to honor his mother country Russia, who seems to know that someone in his crew has it worse than him. Alec Baldwin plays Jack Ryan, a writer and analyst who knows that Ramius is defecting Russia, and wants to live his life in the states. With the stealthy sub Ramius got, the enemy wouldn't stand a chance against him. When a traitor in his ranks sabotages the sub, it's up to everyone to find and punish the saboteur. When his comrade dies during the explosion, he wanted to live in the Midwest part of America, maybe the troops should give him a burial there because he wanted to live in that area. What started off was a plan to cause WWIII, in a case of mutual respect between Ryan and Ramius. They had something in common with their grandfathers. Hopefully each one with fish together and share stories in-between. Enjoyable movie form the start. Suspenseful, intriguing and full of surprises. This movie is a must see, and a must keep in the video library. Keep the book too. It's sentimental as well. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, good adaptation","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tom Clancy's novel, the basis for this movie, was first brought to national attention by the endorsement of the late President Ronald Reagan. Seen carrying a book, Reagan was asked what he was reading by a reporter. He told the reporter and added that it was a rattling good yarn. It would be six years after the book was published (1984) before it would be on the silver screen. Clancy's books are a tribute to the men and women of the US military and the film maintains that spirit throughout. Neither side is presented as one-dimensional.John McTiernan, the director, best known as the director of Diehard--a movie that was the breakthrough film for another actor, Bruce Willis-- weaves a taut, intelligent thriller that keeps the tension right until the end. He avoids the tendency of Hollywood to paint the Soviets as misunderstood and shows us the basic themes of Clancy's novel.The Soviets have built a First Strike weapon, the submarine the Red October which has a radically advanced, silent drive system rendering it undetectable by sonar. The Red October, in the words of Jeffrey Jones' character Skip Tyler, ...could lay off Washington or New York, fire its missiles and nobody would know anything about it until it was all over. It is true that the movie is not a strict adaptation of Clancy's novel. It would require a mini-series to do that. The flawed adaptations of Clancy's subsequent books show how difficult his work is to translate to the big screen. His deft and unrivaled ability to make the most complicated military technology accessible to general readers is impossible to convey in a movie. His often encyclopedic detail is also not film-able. Clancy also builds tension and dramatic intensity in layers, often taking hundreds of pages. Alec Baldwin exaggeratedly described it thusly Clancy can spend three pages describing a government-issued pencil. The book sets a gripping pace almost from the beginning. Sean Connery's Ramius is a compelling, charismatic figure, the very image of a modern-day Nelson. The character's motivation, however, is a little thin. In the book, and this is left out of the movie, one of the main reasons that Ramius decides to defect was the death of his wife. She needed an organ transplant to save her life. The organ, instead, went to a high party official and the wife died. This brought home the inhumanity that was central to the Soviet system.This was Alec Baldwin's breakthrough role and he does an excellent job. His acting is crisp, trim and controlled. His political obsessions had not yet robbed his craft of its vigor. He's a joy to watch and he stands toe-to-toe not only with a superstar like Sean Connery, he never disappears in Connery's shadow as so many of his co-stars have, but he also shows his acting chops are on a par with excellent character actors such as the legendary James Earl Jones, Scott Glenn, Sam Neil and Jeffery Jones. The beautiful Gates McFadden, aka Dr. Beverly Crusher of Star Trek The Next Generation, has a cameo as Ryan's surgeon wife.Neil also gives a sympathetic performance as Remius' executive officer, Borodin. He also adds the movie's touch of tragedy--as if to illustrate a line said by Connery's Ramius, I've been at sea for 40 years...fighting a war with no battles, no monuments, only casualties. One thing often forgotten is that this movie was one of the first in which an African-American plays a high ranking military officer. James Earl Jones plays an Admiral who is also Director of Central Intelligence. There is absolutely no mention of his race in the movie.Finally, a word about how the real-life military operates, something faithfully reproduced in this picture. Enlisted personnel do the work, officers supervise (with certain exceptions). There's nothing unusual about enlisted sonar operators on a US Naval ship. There are no other kind. Ned Vaughn's Jonesy is a brilliant sonar operator who happens across the way to track the Red October after it disappears from the sonar screens of the USS Dallas, the American submarine which had been shadowing it after it had left its Soviet base. "}{"Title":"Tom Clancy action at its best!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Submarines, some of the most dangerous things we've ever invented. Imagine The biggest ever built and with most complex technology, Stolen, From the Soviet Union by a highly ranked Russian officer, Ramius(Connery). He heads for the United states hunted by the entire Russian fleet, U.S politicians and military commanders are extremely worried and in the dark. What will he do?, what are hes intentions?, they wonder. Dr Ryan(Alec Baldwin) thinks he has the answer. He's sent out to board the American submarine Dallas to join the hunt for the Red October. "},{"Title":"Belied Film","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October is an example of what happens when inferior directors make movies out of books by inferior authors.  Tom Clancy is not a diverse writer, ever since he released this book he's been writing the same thing time and time again.John McTiernan is not a good director, I admit that right away.  Die Hard is his only good movie and that's not by any effort on his part.  Predator was soulless (linking it to the Alien movies was only a commercial support), Last Action Hero tried to implement the real world/fake world aspects, but failed from Arnold's misunderstanding and Austin O'Brien's lameness.  Since this movie, McTiernan has fallen with other projects like Rollerball, Basic, and Die Hard 3.  He just doesn't understand the kinetics of storytelling that someone like Richard Donner does.  I guarantee you that if Donner had made Lethal Weapon 2 with the same visual attention that McTiernan used in Die Hard, it would have been a much superior sequel to a mediocre film.  While Kubrick understands a novel before he makes a movie (except the Shining), McTiernan tries making his own method which is why he sticks to weaker material.Tom Clancy, as said, is a bubblegum author of hardware and characters who never leave the jacuzzi (they are so shallow that they never get into the pool).  No adaptation of his work can be really considered good since the source material is always lacking.  Phillip Noyce tried a cross emulation of McTiernan here and Sydney Pollack's The Firm when he made the next two Jack Ryan movies, thus they sank under the insignificant political conspiracy plots (though I will give credit to Patriot Games for being the least military-minded).  His scenes are always focused on good guys winning rather than storytelling tactics, Empire Strikes Back is better than this.  My compliments to the screenwriters for mildly improving on what was a boring, predictable book.Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery are two very similar actors in that they rely presence as opposed to real acting methods.  Thankfully, Tim Curry (cast against his usual villain type), James Earl Jones (one of the few very good actors in his field), and Sam Neill are along to counterbalance the one-liner freeloaders including Scott Glenn.  Glenn has been in many good movies (The Right Stuff, Silence of the Lambs), but I can't say I really thought his performances were strong.  Sam Shepard, in contrast, understood his part better in The Right Stuff.The editing on this movie is ponderous and starts to draw unnecessary elements out longer than needed.  Sound work is fair, Das Boot was better.  Between Das Boot, U-571, Crimson Tide, and this.  I probably put this second on the list (and second on my list of McTiernan's work) because it doesn't fall into the typical right and wrong trap.  It also captures a lot of the space of underwater that few others have, but poor model work ruins a lot of the visual splendor.  The capitalism vs. communism cliche is used, and not very well for that matter, but it is more of a comic book insert than an actual statement.  Basil Poledouris tries to strengthen these moods, but he isn't quite with it.  James Horner didn't succeed either with the later films.  Overall, all Tom Clancy movies are no more than thin political corruption scandals (Seven Days in May was better) and endorsements for military hardware.  So much for sophistication...I guess I should feel guilty about my rating for The Hunt for Red October, but it is the best adaptation of Clancy's work...not like that means much.  Everything else since has faded into oblivion, as this will too in time.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad, Not Too Good","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Possible spoilers here  I thought this was an interesting story, but I did not think the acting was very convincing.  I would expect people with their lives on the line to be a little more animated than these people were.  Not enough sweating for example.  Everybody is so cool, as if they know everything is going to be okay.  I'm afraid people in those situations wouldn't be so confident.  Why with a torpedo heading toward your sub would you be so calm?  We're supposed to buy that?  Great lengths by the US to hide what was hidden?  All this extreme dishonesty?  Is the US that bad?  If you had just been saved, would you be cheering that your saviors were being fired upon, or would you be a little confused?  These people seemed like they were acting, which is a sign of bad acting.  They seemed like they were just following a script.  I think the movie depends on its star power, the thought of Russians vs. US, and the technology of nuclear subs just a little too much.  This is an average movie. "},{"Title":"Absurdly overrated","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Reading through all the reviews here, I cannot believe how many people seem to think this so-so, plodding movie is a masterpiece, but then I've always found THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER bafflingly overrated. So why don't I like it? Well, to me it plays like a STAR TREK film, full of men standing around in uniforms and being terribly po-faced. Techno/military geeks will have a field day, but the human interest is slight. There is not a character to care about (Baldwin's Jack Ryan has a high irritant factor), and Connery's sheer star power virtually carries the picture. It doesn't even look very good - director John McTiernan (of whom I am a huge fan, and believe me I've tried hard over the years to like RED OCTOBER) is reunited with cinematographer Jan De Bont, with whom he made a visual feast of DIE HARD, but the film looks as flatly-photographed, dull and dated as if it had been made in the 1970s, lacking all the zing and power of McTiernan's earlier PREDATOR and DIE HARD, both of which seem just as fresh today as they were when first released. THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER is not a bad movie, but boy is it overrated.  "},{"Title":"Impressive !","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most impressive films. However, this film is recommended only for serious viewers, or they who love military or political matters...a weekend viewers may see this as a long and boring film.(minor spoilers ahead) However, if you're a truly Tom Clancy's fan, and you have read the novel, you'll find this film somewhat disapointing because many intriguing political and military plots that you read in the book are greatly simplified to the very low level.  "},{"Title":"Is he out to defect, or out to launch?","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A high-power cast, solid direction, and superb suspense marks THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER, which, when released in March 1990, became the first big action hit of the decade and made a household name of novelist Tom Clancy, upon whose 1985 novel this film is based.Sean Connery stars as a Russian navy captain who has been put in charge of command of the Soviet Union's newest ballistic submarine Red October (named for the October 1917 revolution in Russia that ushered in Communism).  But instead of following orders to have the rest of the Russian fleet test the boat's capabilities, he takes control of the ship and sails towards America, where he and the lion's share of his crew want to defect to.  The problem is, the Soviet government won't allow it.  And the American navy has been led to believe that in fact Connery is a renegade who is threatening an independent missile launch against the eastern seaboard.  Only one man, CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin), knows with any certainty what Connery's intentions are...and he doesn't have much time to prove his theories right.Excellently directed by John McTiernan (PREDATOR; DIE HARD), RED OCTOBER features absolute top-notch acting from Connery and Baldwin, as well as from the always-reliable James Earl Jones as Baldwin's superior officer, and Scott Glenn as the commander of the U.S.S. Dallas, who is put in the position of stopping Connery's boat from entering American waters.  The result is a no-holes-barred thriller of breathless proportions in which the film's 135 minute running time seems to go by quite fast.  Vigorously recommended. "},{"Title":"The finest adaptation of a Tom Clancy novel","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. This was the first adaptation of a Tom Clancy novel, and many years later it remains the best. A very good story with a fast-paced plot. Alec Baldwin is in fine form in the role of Jack Ryan (portrayed in subsequent movies by Harrison Ford). The cast is very strong, with many fine performances.  "},{"Title":"*yawn*","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     Sure this movie had the best cast money can buy but it is awefully dull.  I have read reviews that this movie had gripping suspense and tense action. Where is this suspense and action. This movie is slow, long, and talky. The Russian soilders did not even have a Russian accent. This was one of Sean Connery's worst roles he has starred in. Despite all this I reccommend this movie anyway. I reccomend this to all people who suffer from insomnia. However if you want to see excited submarine movies try Crimson Tide or U-571! "},{"Title":"High Class Submarine Story","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great submarine movie based on the popular Tom Clancy novel. It seems there has never been a bad movie made about submarines. The Hunt for Red October is of course the best, but there are several other great choices including Crimson Tide, Das Boot, The Hunley & U-571. Even the comedy Down Periscope is both funny and intelligently made. A great cast brings this action/adventure to life with a lot of credibility. The film is the first part of a Trilogy and is followed by Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.The movie is about a Russian submarine Captain (Connery) that wants to defect with a few officers and a billion dollar submarine to the US. To achieve his goal he will need to overcome both US and Soviet forces that wish to destroy him. However he will need some unexpected help in the form of an American intelligence man named Jack Ryan (Baldwin) who recognizes that this is probably a defection and not a renegade attack as the Soviets suggest. Connery's character has another advantage,  years of experience and a secret stealth submarine at his disposal. There are many other great performances in the film such as Sam Neill as Connery's first officer, and Scott Glenn as one of the American Submarine Captains. A simply wonderful, fun film.Alec Baldwin did not wish to return for the second and third installments of the Trilogy but instead Harrison Ford signed on and boosted his already successful career. Ford seemed to make it a habit of picking up roles originally slated for Alec Baldwin as he also took the role of Dr. Kimble in The Fugitive after Baldwin turned it down. In both cases Harrison Ford's success soared even higher.  "},{"Title":"Good pace and action","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A constant pace and good (but not very violent) action makes this film very entertaining.  I usually don't like military or pseudo-military films, but this is an exception.  A good cast, with the inimitable Sean Connery leading, and a highly believable plot kept me interested throughout. "}{"Title":"Comrades, we sail into cinema history!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Though I've never sailed in a sub, I can state that, inaccuracies aside, this is an excellent adventure/ action film. Yes it leaves much to be desired compared to the book by Tom Clancy, but even with a different ending and the godawful gunfight in the missile compartment, the film uses an excellent cast, very good character development, fine cinematography, and the brilliant use of music in the soundtrack to convey the mood. Alec Baldwin shines in this epic, and Sean Connery emanates that charisma that makes him such a fine actor on screen. Even if they had followed the book plot, it would have been very boring on screen. BTW, Patuxant River (Pax River) is a Naval Air Station not a Graving Dock.See this on the big screen if you can, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Exhilarating, awesome, powerful soundtrack, great acting...","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the technical inaccuracies (what the heck, it's just a movie, not a documentary), this cold-war drama is fast-paced, lead by a fine cast who are believable in their respective roles, especially Sean Connery as Captain Ramis, Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan.  Fine supporting roles from Sam Neill and James Earl Jones.  A top-notch thriller.  Don't miss this ride! "},{"Title":"Mistakes?","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The list of known mistakes in this movie is impressive. There are two more episodes in it that are just stupid. First, the crew sings the USSR National Anthem underwater. It's absolutely incredible since the general rule on submarines is keep silent (to lower noise). Singing out loud is absolutely out of question. Second, Sean Connery has a rather big beard. Again, it's not suitable for a submariner with such a beard one would have difficulty putting on a respirator or a scuba mask in emergency. Actually it's the only modern submarine movie with a bearded officer on board. I've read the novel (it was published in Russian pretty soon after its release) but I can't remember if these two mistakes are in Clancy's book as well. "},{"Title":"huh ?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don´t understand how people can consider  The Hunt for Red October to be a good movie. To be sure, Sean Connery is quite charismatic and likable as probably the least reptilian Russian communist to ever be portrayed in an American film and his talks about plans for living in the U.S. with another crew member are fun. And, the character of the classical music loving sonar/radar/whatnot specialist is at least superficially interesting. And of course, who wouldn´t like to look at melodramatic shots of huge, whale like submarines, relive some Cold War nostalgia,  or hear some beautiful Russian classical music in the background ? People who consider explosions, gunshots and the suspense of waiting for them to be exciting in any form will also get a couple of brief scenes of that sort. Otherwise, though, this movie is extremely hard to follow. This is mainly because technojargon dialogue comes at the viewer so fast that he doesn´t even have time to think about what it means, because major plot twists seem to come out of nowhere rather than receive sufficient build up , giving the movie a fragmented feel that still doesn´t achieve the fast pace it aims for and also because when the characters constantly lie to each other, it is hard to tell what exactly is true at the point when it is most relevant. Amid this mess of so-called intrigue , there is then very little room for characterization. Most of the characters, including possible villains, just do their jobs with a straight face as if they were automatons and the viewer never receives any reason to care about what happens to them. Alec Baldwin´s character is especially wooden. He just seems to be a coldly analytical scientist type who knows all the answers which various government organizations don´t - and we never even quite know how he came to this knowledge. He just seems to know everything simply by being created according to every government agent cliche in the book . And the movie´s highly regarded suspense ? That just comes from the Russians and Americans not knowing what to expect from each other and that the conflict between them may lead to a military attack on the U.S. Granted, this keeps the movie watchable but again , if we don´t care about any of the characters in the movie , we don´t really care about their conflicts either. Furthermore, the movie is so devoid of eccentricity, weirdness or humor (attempts at which fall painfully flat) that it´s strictly left brain territory and just like any other mostly uninventive spy movie.    "},{"Title":"Ludicrous","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  To have a Soviet sub commander speaking with a Scottish accent, was too much! Worse yet, he speaks to his crew in English while they sing their national anthem in Russian. Come on. I believe Ernest Borgnine would have been great in the role of Marko Ramius. "},{"Title":"Uninformed, brain-dead Hollywood version of naval Cold War","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   From a popular and exciting book Hollywood has fashioned an inaccurate, moronic, cardboard depiction of the submarine cold war.  This might be one of the most expensive cheap movies ever made, and the big name actors seem only to be there for the paycheck.  The inaccuracies in the movie are phenomenal  a US naval petty officer (based on the rank on his sleeve) is referred to as Seaman Jones.  (For the naval uninitiated, this would be the equivalent of calling an army sergeant Private Jones.)  The US Navy should be embarrassed even to be mentioned in the credits.  It gets worse.  The external mock up of the Russian Typhoon submarine justs sits there in the water, even though it is supposed to be moving forward.  Somehow, the movie makers seem to think that moving the camera around the mock up would give the illusion of movement of the mock up itself.  The dialog in the film would give any language teacher fits of apoplexy.  Even though Sam Neil made the excellent Reilly, Ace of Spies television series in which he played a Russian, he apparently learned not one word of the language.  He and Connery have the worst Russian pronunciation ever heard on film.  They should be mortified to have spent so little time with a dialog coach. Perhaps they are just too big to be bothered. But they are not alone; even the opening title of the movie misspells Red October in Russian.  It looks more like Ukrainian.  Any viewer knowing anything about navies, the cold war, or the Russian language will be intensely disappointed by The Hunt for Red October.  It is a dud. "},{"Title":"Propaganda !","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember when it first came out, one critic in one magazine was praising it as not another good thriller but as The Thriller, The Great Movie, etc.I was too young to catch it in the movies. And I didn't find it at any video store either. So I waited to watch it through TV and it finally happened.I got to watch the masterpiece that I read about. However I found nothing but a well-made propaganda through a well-made thriller.For sure it's attractive and solid. The thing about (Tom Clancy)'s work in movies is that it manufactures a hard conflict between great powers, shows the different reactions, pants with parallel marathons, and throws right in the middle a noble hero who had to face all the parties (that don't understand his good aim, or that understand it and block his efforts since they have another, mostly evil, agenda). So there are international serious matters happening, a kind of intelligence's games but it ain't James Bond's nonsense, and it manages along the way to make a sharp suspense, good action, and political satire. Ahh, sorry. Cancel the last phrase, the political satire one, since here it doesn't totally exist !(The Hunt for Red October) is one pure propaganda work from start to finish. Actually, America is shown as the definite promise land. There is nothing slightly wrong with its leaders or men. And anyone but them is whether a deranged, helpless, or naive (the patriotic Russians; namely the enemy). Or a sophisticated genius (the submarine's generals); simply because wanting desperately to be under the wings of Uncle Sam!It had classy talents which played perfect role in delivering that hot time. Most importantly; the meticulous detailing of the hunt (That was rare. The stories weren't well-studied, as this, much before). The sharp cinematography and editing. And Connery in that black suit, white lofty wig, and one hell of a Scottish accent !! All leaded by (John McTiernan) in his first finest hour (I love the guy to the extent of believing that he'll someday come back to his super hunts again). I think it's near to flawless if we're not talking about (Alec Baldwin)'s flat face and performance (if you think that he's the worst Jack Ryan. Then you never watched Ben Affleck yet !). He got the looks but not the depth. But here it wasn't about acting. It was a contest of which charisma would win in this ocean of chases. And Baldwin wasn't that effective to follow, especially when Mr. Connery is in the same neighborhood.It's smart deal, where the best about it is that it's a pro movie before being the propaganda that it is. So it's so watchable, not too common, Hollywood fare. But still the problem remains in me, I just don't fully enjoy these long and expensive touristic advertisements for America is the best ! As a Ryan movie, I like (Clear and Present Danger) more. The world was gray there, not too radiantly white, red and blue ! "},{"Title":"A very good Cold War thriller","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  By the time I watched this DVD, I had already seen Enemy Below and Crimson Tide, so I wasn't really in awe of the submarine movie concept. I was pleasantly surprised by this film. There is tension throughout and I was drawn in by the premise. Alec Baldwin makes a very good Jack Ryan, almost as good as Harrison Ford and far better than Ben Affleck, though I'll give him another chance. Sean Connery is Sean Connery which means the viewer is guaranteed a high quality performance. He conveys his character's weariness very convincingly. On the minus side, his trademark Scottish accent makes it impossible to fully accept him as a Lithuanian. Still, this movie, besides being entertaining, is also a good history lesson of the Cold War competition between America and the former U.S.S.R. that lasted fifty years. It's ironic that the Cold War came to an end at the time of The Hunt for Red October's theatrical release (1989). Solid entertainment, 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great film version of the Tom Clancy book.","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I feel sad that the lead review blasts this film in such a way.  If you have read the book, you would know that this is probably the best adaptation of a Clancy book to date.  Jack Ryan is far more believable than Harrison Ford.This film will have you on the edge of your seats with the dramatic underwater action and the complex CIA board room intrigue.  Connery came across exactly how I imagined Ramius to be from the book and added a great deal of realism to the part (even though he is not Russian).  Do not read any other reviews, go see it now! "},{"Title":"An above average action film that pays little homage to the Novel","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As regards to the film adaptation of Tom Clancy's 'The Hunt For Red October', it represents itself as a flawed, but competent Cold War thriller that both thought provokes, and stimulates the viewer with well directed action scenes thanks to the production guidance of the venerable John McTiernan of Die Hard fame.However, as a viewer who represents the minority of voters who have actually read the novel and now viewed the motion picture, I am left feeling slightly disappointed that the film's producers chose to allow the film to pursue its own path in storyline, rather that following the firmly trodden tracks of Clancy's brilliant novel.For instance, in the film adaptation the United States Navy steal most of the limelight in the pursuit and rescue of the crew of the Red October, whereas in the novel it is in fact the Royal Navy's aircraft carrier - HMS Invincible - that undertakes the pursuit at the request of the United States Government. Numerous different characters have therefore had to be created and/or altered in order to be compatible to an American audience. It is this act of plot devolution by the film's producers that I cannot forgive and therefore cannot enjoy this movie as much as I would have with a bit more British involvement, rather than having to endure the usual American all-singing all-dancing, save the world jingoism that you get in this slightly average film adaptation of the brilliant Clancy novel.If you are going to do something, it pays to do it properly I'm afraid. This film just turns out to be another American focused jingoistic yarn, equalling the likes of Air Force One (1997), which I despise.6/10. "}{"Title":"Still a winner","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the release of the new Jack Ryan movie i thought i would take a trip down memory lane. It has been at least 15 years since i had last seen The Hunt For Red October and i must say it is still a fantastic movie.Sean Connery is brilliant, Alec Baldwin plays in my opinion the best role of his career. The support actors are fantastic and the story is still as reverting today as it was all those years ago.If you have never seen i highly recommend you do if you have seen take a trip back and watch again I'm sure you will be pleasantly surprised how well it has aged. "},{"Title":"Very Unique and Thrilling Film,","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt for Red October is a great movie with a very well developed storyline with a very talented cast.This is the first movie to have anyone playing Jack Ryan,and while the other movies had Ryan in the main role,this movie focused a lot more on Sean Connery's character,but this didn't bother me because Connery is a fantastic actor and really brought class to this movie,also I really didn't like Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan,I don't think the character suited him one bit and was happy that they focused on Connery's character more.The Hunt for Red October is very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good action or thriller.A USSR submarine captain violates orders and heads for the USA.Everyone is now trying to find out what this man is up to. Best Performance Sean Connery Worst Performance Alec BaldwinIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"Captain Ramius Quotes the Bible","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" During his encounter with the political officer, Ramius feels compelled to pay lip service to the official Soviet disregard for religion when he is questioned about certain passages underlined in the Bible he keeps in his quarters He assures the political officer that the Bible belonged to his wife and that he keeps it for sentimental reasons. Following the murder of the political officer, however, Ramius says, Where I am going, you cannot follow. This direct quote from the New Testament indicates that Ramius indeed is quite familiar with the Bible and suggests that he himself probably underlined the passages, which seem to sum up his moral justification for turning Red October over to the United States government. "},{"Title":"It's no Das Boot, but excellent nonetheless!","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A political thriller set during the Cold War and based on Tom Clancy's bestselling book by the same name, The Hunt for Red October is the ultimate cat-and-mouse game with Sean Connery heading the Soviet nuclear submarine, the Red October. Connery and Baldwin deliver magnificent performances as the Russian naval captain and a CIA analyst, respectively. Jack Ryan (Baldwin) finds himself in the middle of a potential prelude to global nuclear war as the seemingly insane Captain Marco Ramius (Connery) steers the Red October toward the United States, supposedly as a hostile move.Running slightly over two hours in length, Red October perfectly captures the state of tension between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. as the suspense never lifts from the film. The directing style is very effective in depicting the fears of impending warfare against foreign and new weapons, and the fears of the individuals who try to prevent it. The moody lighting alone portrays these fears beautifully. The score by Basil Poledouris is superb, using both Russian lyrics and various submarine sounds to envelop the viewer in the lives of those who must ask men to risk their lives in close spaces underwater. Supporting cast members including Scott Glenn, James Earl Jones, and Sam Neill reflect very well on the roles of both Baldwin and Connery by acting as foils to round out the other two characters and to emphasize the fact that the characters are complex individuals, not a mass of good vs. evil or the United States vs. the Soviet Union.While the technical and naval jargon and outdated technology may put off some viewers, it is easily one of the best movies of the past fifty years. Utilizing the talents of several big-name stars, Red October will continue to be an excellent example of how political thrillers should be done not with fancy explosions and half-baked explanations for characters' actions, but with heart and tone indicating that the stars of the film are the characters and the plot, not the special effects which Hollywood has become addicted to in order to draw in audiences. "},{"Title":"Excellent Spy Thriller!","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Hunt For Red October was the first film to introduce Tom Clancy's spy extra ordinaire, Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) although Sean Connery's character, Captain Marko Raimus is the main character in this film.The story is about Raimus' attempt to defect from the USSR to the USA, taking with him the latest Soviet attack submarine, the Red October. He has to out maneuver the pursuing Soviet navy and convince the Americans that his is really defecting.Jack Ryan goes to Washington to show Admiral Greer (James Earl Jones), photos of a new Soviet submarine with the ability to run silent. They then learn that that very sub is heading for America with the ability to wreak havoc upon the USA. Ryan is convinced that Raimus is trying to defect and means no harm. He has to convince the Military Chiefs of Staff and the President's Chief of Staff, Dr. Jeffrey Pelt (Richard Jordan) of the attempted defection. The Russian Ambasador, Lysenko (Joss Ackland) has told Pelt that Raimus is a madman bent on starting a war and must be destroyed.The USS Dallas, an American submarine commanded by Commander Mancoum (Scott Glenn) is in pursuit of the Red October. To make a long story short, arrangements are made to have Ryan board the USS Dallas to obtain proof of Raimus' defection. Raimus for his part has to figure a way to get his crew off of the Red October and convince the Soviets that this action is real. But during the evacuation, Soviet Captain Tupolev (Stellan Skarsgard), a pupil of Ramius suddenly appears attacks and................................................Connery as the Scottish accented Soviet Captain torn between his own aims and the safety of his men, gives an excellent performance. Baldwin in his first major role does OK as Ryan but lacks the maturity of Harrison Ford in the later Ryan films. Also in this rather large cast are Sam Neill as Vasily Borodin, Raimius' second in command, Peter Firth as Political Officer Putin (Putin? naaaah), Tim Curry as Dr. Petrov, Courtney B. Vance as Jonesey, Jeffrey Jones as Skip Taylor, and Fred Dalton Thompson as Rear Admiral Painter.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hunting a Good Movie?","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Are you hunting a good movie to sit down and watch? Well, you have found a good one in The Hunt for Red October starring Sean Connery as Captain Ramius, and Alec Baldwin as the one-and-only Jack Ryan.This Tom Clancy novel turned film is a classic for any literary fan, especially those of this genre of films. The storyline was by far, excellent, and the acting was more than superb. Seeing all these great actors in this film makes you wonder, Why didn't it win any Oscars for acting? After seeing the latest Jack Ryan film, The Sum of All Fears (2002), which stars Ben Affleck, I can honestly say that Alec Baldwin does a much better job. Being a fan of Baldwin, and of Connery, it was great to see them together. "},{"Title":"intelligent,compelling political thriller about an event  that may or may have not have actually occurred","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i finally got around to watching this movie.i put it off for a long time because it seemed like it might be a boring movie.i couldn't have been more wrong.this is a well done engaging and compelling political thriller.it's based on an event that may or may not have occurred in 1984.basically,a rogue Russian captain has piloted his submarine dangerously close to American territory,possibly to start a War,but maybe for more benign reasons.enough about the plot.the movie is basically a psychological suspense thriller.you won't find a lot of nail-biting action in this one,though there is some of that.the movie is more character driven.in fact,it's almost a character study,of one man in particular.the last 30 minutes are quite tense and down to the wire.it's directed by John McTiernan of Die Hard fame.this movie is highly dramatic but not at all boring,thanks to good writing.Larry Ferguson and Donald Stewart co-wrote the screenplay from a novel by Tom Clancy.this is an intelligent,thinking man's thriller,and i would highly recommend it.i'd have to give The Hunt For Red October a 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Film","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a great movie to watch. I love the music and the color. I read the book, and slow witted that I am, didn't understand much of it. How many details can a person produce? E gads! Tom Clancy is obviously brilliant, but the movie sufficed for this lay person.I like Sean Connery, but grew weary of his lisp; maybe the sub echoed with it too much. Sam Neil is always good. Alec Baldwin was excellent, though his gorgeous looks were distracting. I liked the way in which the film slipped from Russian into English.Of course it was submerged science fiction. The Dallas as a decoy? Please. But hey, who said it was accurate? Neither is time travel for Spielberg or light speed for Lucas. Give it a rest already.It is a good story, as are most heroic sagas, if you don't examine them with a critical eye. Red October is an escape film. For some reason, it always lifts my mood.Thanks to all concerned. "},{"Title":"The definitive Clancy novel made into film","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a fan of submarine films anyway, I found this one to be one of the best. This cast just can't be beat. I was so disappointed with later Clancy novels turned into film, because Alec Baldwin was an excellent Jack Ryan, and with respects to Harrison Ford, a man of tremendous talent, he was just not as good. I feel that Gates McFadden was cheated as Kathy Ryan and not given a chance to show her stuff. Of course Sean Connery, Sam Neill and James Earl Jones were at their usual best, but it was the story that really compels. The lesser roles were also great with Stellan Skarsgard, Richard Jordan, Joss Akland, Jeffrey Jones. It is too bad that they did not follow up with the other Jack Ryan Novels in sequence. Of course The Sum of All Fears was the worst of the movies, removing Ryan completely from the building order of the stories. The hunt for Krazney Oktober is not a film that should be slighted and certainly not missed. "},{"Title":"Tom Clancy's genius creation has Jack Ryan trying desperately to contact a Russian Sub Skipper to determine his intentions","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is perhaps number 2 or 3 on my list of top movies of all time. Though I would have preferred to seen perhaps Harrison Ford as Ryan instead of Baldwin, Alec does do a good job of portraying the almost unbelievable rookie intelligence character in the movie. The two stars that make this movie, in my mind, are James Earl Jones, and of course, Sean Connery as the Russian sub Captain. My encouragement of Mr. Jones role in this movie is not for the significance of his part (indeed he is a second or possibly even third tier supporting character), but for his absolute PERFECTION in filling the character of the older, wiser, mouth-shut conservative of the intelligence field. Not to mention, his voice is simply the neatest thing in the world. For all the action-fan guys out there, you seriously haven't lived life without seeing this flick. And for the less explosively 'inclined' (ladies...) The acting of all roles is superb, and the plot is another brilliant creation of Mr Clancy. "}{"Title":"The Hunt is on!","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dear Readers,In 1993 US Navy Satellites momentarily picked up a Typhoon-class submarine off the coast of Maine near the Grande Banks.However, the Submarine was never verified as an actual submarine and both the United States and Russian governments denied its existence.But, the US Dallas, a Los Angeles-class sub, and a CIA agent both reported that a new variation of the Sovier Union's Typhoon Submarines had put to sea out of the Polijarney inlet in Northern Russia.Despite that...none of these events...ever happened...The Hunt for Red October is the best of all the Jack Ryan films and is the second best spy film ever (First being the Bourne Identity). With an awesome all-star cast and directed by John McTiernan (Die Hard, Rollerball, The Thomas Crown Affair Remake) The Hunt for Red October is a must-see thriller about the men who hold the power of Armageddon in their hands.Captain Marko Ramius is defecting from the Russian navy along with his finest commanders and the submarine Red October, a new Typhoon-class sub with the ability to run underwater silently through the use of an invention called the caterpillar drive. However, the Russian government discovers Ramius's plan and inform the world that Ramius has gone insane from grief over his dead wife and is planning to destroy the United States with a missile attack. The only American who knows Ramius isn't attacking is CIA Analyst Jack Ryan. Jack is given three days to find the Red October and verify that Ramius is defecting. Jack teams up with a skeptical Sub Commander, Bart Mancuso, and they try to locate the Red October before Ramius's protégé, Captain Tupolov, and his ship the Konavolov destroy the Red October.The Hunt for Red October is a superbly cast film. Alec Baldwin is almost unrecognizable since he's so young in this film. Sean Connery is his usual awesome self as Marko Ramius, the only Russian with a Scottish accent. It's refreshing to see James Earl Jones in a role that's not Darth Vader and I found his performance as Admiral Greer to be quite cool. Sam Neill has some really great scenes as Vasily, especially a really moving one where he and Ramius discuss what they'll do when they reach America. Tim Curry is unrecognizable also without his beard, awesome evil laugh, and sinister acting as he plays the wimpy Dr. Petrov. Stellen Skarsgaard, one of the best actors out there, has a good guest star appearance also as Captain Tupolov. All in all, great film and the Best of the Jack Ryan films.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the only movie I have watched all the way through that has been based on one of Tom Clancy's books and from what I remember of the book, the movie was close to it but not exactly like it . . . and I think that's for the best. I remember hearing Alec Baldwin saying that Tom Clancy is the kind of author that could write about a pencil for three pages and he is too, and having that good of a background for a character is an important thing. It just wouldn't have been good to put it exactly like Clancy had done in the book. How they stretched out the background throughout the movie was spectacular.The casting for this movie was incredible. Having people like Sean Connery, Scott Glen, Alec Baldwin, Sam Neill and Stellan Skarsgård was a great choice, and not just because they're all big names in show business. I was very impressed with how Sean Connery could pull of playing a Russian even with his Scottish accent. His facial hair and expressions also gave a good indication he was a sea captain of some sort. Alec Baldwin also portrayed Jack Ryan very well as the somewhat nerdy and out-of-practice CIA writer as he was in the book, unlike how Harrison Ford portrayed him more as an action hero in following two Tom Clancy movies (regardless of the fact he did an excellent job and he and Alec Baldwin also did much better jobs than Ben Afflec did in The Sum of All Fears). Sam Neill is an excellent actor and the fact he was shot towards the end was the only thing I didn't like. He seemed to have the intense attitude and also the will to question his captain when he felt differently about something a captain would need in his first mate. Scott Glen I haven't seen in too many movies aside from Silence of the Lambs, in which he also did an excellent job. And Stellan Skarsgård I remember also seeing in movies like Good Will Hunting and Pirates of the Caribbean Dead Man's Chest. His role as Captain 2nd Class Viktor Tupilov in the movie, being an arrogant, easily angered and somewhat jumpy jerk, was different from what it was in the book, being the calm and collaborative gentleman, and I have to say I like the movie character better.The special effects for the time were well crafted, especially with the lack of CGI available, which was really just used to simulate the flotsam of the water and the waves generated by the Caterpillar Drive. What was described in the movie was being state of the art technology was rather interesting and I don't know how much of it is still in use today since I'm not too far caught up in my understanding of military technology and equipment. What I found amusing though while reading the book was how Sonarman 2nd Class Ronald Jones (played by Courtney B. Vance) described how PC's such as Atari, Apple and Comadore were state of the art computers for playing games. I believe in this day and age we call those door stops. "},{"Title":"I would like to live in Montana...","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this way back in 93 I believe and since then became a firm fan of the Ryan novels. My Red October copy is the most read but it is the film which is most watched. There are now 4 Ryan movies and three different Ryans and by far Baldwin appears the best. The movie starts off brilliantly, Sean Connery and Sam Neill (one of my favourites) atop what appears to be a normal sub until the camera pans out and it is a leviathan of a ship. Basil Poudouris' Hymn to Red October never fails to stir and is his best work in my humble opinion. Naturally, aspects from the book are dropped or tweaked. USS John F. Kennedy becomes the Enterprise, HMS Invincible vanishes entirely, the E. S Politvisoky and her demise is not seen nor is the president and so on. Considering how long films are nowadays (Peter Jackson, stand up) an extra hour to build up the film and perhaps use Invincible or the Russians being offloaded in America and then out would have been good. Otherwise my only major gripes are probably trivial. Admitting that I am a Trek fan, Gates McFadden (a.k.a Dr Beverly Crusher) has two lines and that's it. Granted her character does not appear in the novel just a shame that she only has that, McFadden subsequently turned down the role of Cathy in Patriot Games and thus it went to Anne Archer. Also, Borodin's death. He didn't die in the novel and as in the novel I warmed to the character in the movie. In fact, to my knowledge there are no Russian deaths in the film apart from Putin and the GRU/cook. I recommend this to anyone who likes the novel, the novels in large but to anyone. Just a pity that Ben Affleck is now Jack Ryan and that the films are 'prequels' now. "},{"Title":"A Winner","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Based on the Tom Clancy novel of the same name, this is an overlong though undeniably gripping gem from 1990. Sean Connery stars as the maverick captain of the Red October, a sophisticated Russian submarine capable of evading radar detection. Headed toward the United States, he seems intent on firing missiles at his Cold War enemy... or does he merely want to defect? Alec Baldwin gives probably his best film performance as a CIA analyst convinced Connery's intentions are peaceful. It might be considered confusing at times, and younger viewers will have a hard time grasping its complexities, but The Hunt for Red October is a clear winner. "},{"Title":"Good but slow","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Soviet captain Marko Ramius (Sean Connery) has stolen their newest sub and is heading for the US. Is it to start a war or as CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) thinks, to defect? The movie's certainly interesting and keeps us guessing, but it really doesn't move that well until the end. Too bad the sequels are all inferior.Connery is good as always (but a disgusting eater). Baldwin is at his most handsome and self-assured as the brash Ryan, knowing in his heart that he's right and everybody else is wrong. Scott Glenn lends his fluid, melodic voice as Mancuso. Gates McFadden, recently fired from the second season of Star Trek The Next Generation, has a small part as Caroline.It's a good movie and certainly the best of the Jack Ryan series, but the reasoning used to come to the conclusion is very suspect. We have special subs, singing and the whole shebang that sounds really silly but actually figures into the resolution. "},{"Title":"So much better than the book","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After reading two of Tom Clancy's books I would say you would get more intellectual challenge by watching Wheel of Fortune. The characters are flat stereotypes, the plots are obvious, and his background research is at best cursory, at worst completely wrong. However, the film version is incomparably better, thanks to the stylish direction of John McTiernan and an excellent performance by Sean Connery (earning a BAFTA nomination for best actor). In the film, Connery's character, Capt. Ramius, has a depth and purpose - you can understand what's driving him and the whole situation is believable as result. The film is so much better balanced than the horrible flag-waving Clancy novel, it's a shame that TC is given any credit for movie. "},{"Title":"Gripping Cold War submarine thriller with an enigmatic Soviet captain","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although I never read the Tom Clancy novel on which it is based, this is an engrossing submarine thriller with a Cold War storyline. The plot follows the gripping maiden voyage of the new Soviet typhoon class submarine Red October. This new sub is intended as a first strike weapon, equipped with propulsion systems that enable it to travel silently and undetected. It is skippered by the most respected Russian naval commander, Captain Marco Ramius. His plans to defect result in the entire Russian navy seeking to destroy the Red October. Meanwhile, the Americans fear that Ramius has become a rogue captain intending to launch his sub's nuclear missiles on the cities of the American Eastern Seaboard. Only CIA officer, Jack Ryan, believes that Ramius' intent is defection, and he has very little time indeed to persuade the American navy that his assumptions are correct.For me the movie is made by the masterful performance of Sean Connery in the role of Captain Ramius, the widowed submarine captain born and raised in Lithuania. Nicknamed the Vilnius Schoolmaster, Ramius has trained many Soviet naval officers during his years of teaching at the Vilnius naval academy. Connery ages like a fine wine and has never looked more appealing than in the naval uniform of the USSR. He depicts the character of Ramius well, a commanding officer at ease with his authority, both unfailingly competent and unflinchingly cool under pressure. He appears to be a man of integrity with a conscience regarding the USSR's new first strike weapon submarine. However, he's also an enigmatic character that keeps the viewer a little unsure as to his intent, whether it is defecting or launching missiles. What exactly is that Ramius up to?The other roles are also well cast. Alec Baldwin with his boyish charm is convincing as Jack Ryan, a CIA officer leery of flying. Sam Neill especially gives a brilliant and sympathetic performance as Captain Vasily Borodin, the second in command of the Red October. Scott Glenn plays the gruff Commander Mancuso of the American submarine Dallas. My only complaint is the disappointing minor role of James Earl Jones (normally one of my favourites) as the authoritative CIA director Admiral James Greer. With his magnificent deep voice, it's a shame his dialogue seems to consist of barking orders, unfortunately often swearing as he does so. All the underwater submarine cinematography and the Oscar winning sound effects make for a convincing tale. I loved the dramatic launch sequence of the Red October at the beginning of the movie when it puts out to sea from Murmask in northern Russia. Also, the accompanying musical scoring is fabulous, the rousing Russian background music. It's quite touching when at one point the submarine crew breaks into the majestic Russian National Anthem. The language issue is well addressed, usually English but at appropriate times Russian with subtitles. The Soviet captain's Scottish brogue didn't bother me in the least! The submarine tension here is a little reminiscent of Das Boot, but interspersed with international intrigue. Throughout the movie but especially during the closing submarine battle scenes, there is gripping action to keep you on the edge of your seat. It's an intense Cold War thriller unlikely to disappoint. "},{"Title":"Navy Terminology","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It was an excellent movie except the COB (Cief of the Boat) would never refer to a Petty Officer as Seaman like he did when he was talking to Petty officer Jones and I didn't know the Russian navy had Master-at-Arms when I think the captain sent for the Master-at-Arms. Having been a rated Master-at-Arms I thought it was funny. Alec Baldwin I felt was good choice for Jack Ryan. I don't like what they did to future Jack Ryan exploits like Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger.I would like for them to make a good movie out of Tom Clancy book were they are fighting over the oil. I think it was Red Storm Rising. "},{"Title":"..I loved it,, I loved it...","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Having never read any of Clancy's novels, if they're as good as The Hunt for Red October I'd give them all a 10. What a classy film - so many commentators say it's a good adaptation of the book. Good or bad, this movie was wonderful and exciting - I just watched it to make certain I liked it as much as I thought I did.I also loved that other classic movie about subs - Das Boot, which had none of the wide-screen and surround-sound stereo features to enhance its great story. Although THAT movie showed us just a little too graphically how trashy submariners are when they're on shore (and some on the boat), I think they can be be forgiven that human characteristic IT WAS SO TINY ! Even the luxury of Red October couldn't entice me to join her crew. Too many OTHER submarines down in the water and torpedo's are much too smart, today. About the only comforting realization to be a crew-member would be that you'd feel nothing if a torpedo hit it. I don't trust the ocean even to float ON it - never mind for diving beneath it !! How tragic Das Boot ended so brutally.I don't think I'd like Harrison in The Hunt for Red October......not enough action for him. Eric Baldwin was just perfect for that role. Sean Connery - a little worn-looking from all his other action-films - was also perfect for Remius - Bravo ! I hope I'm right that Scott Glenn was the captain of The Dallas - he was terrific - as was Sam Neill, ET AL. The crowning cast-member, for me, was James Earl Jones - has he ever played a bad role ? One commentator was slightly rude to say nothing in the movie had mentioned his color - WHAT does that have to do with great acting? I saw the film when it was released in major theaters - that was a treat, but TV does nothing to detract from its impact. Another commentator said the VHS version was tacky - guess they didn't have the one I have. But, I'm serious about getting the DVD.......Hey guys !  am I the only one who noticed this goof? How did the rescue-vessel get onto The Dallas ???? It wasn't there when it surfaced to haul Baldwin out of the ocean. No matter - I'll overlook that.Yes, the cinematography was awesome - so, I guess John McTiernan (never heard of him) got all his business together to direct a masterpiece. With such an outstanding cast, perhaps he didn't have to do too much after all. All of the supporting actors and the crew made this film a winner in every way - if you don't see it, you'll miss one powerful statement on how men conduct themselves in perilous work.Anyone who didn't rate this movie a 10 wasn't paying attention. "},{"Title":"wow, wow, wow!","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was great from character development to plot line and everything in between! The story has the right balance of action and drama and, in my opinion the perfect actors in every part! I highly recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of espionage, action, drama, or war films, you will greatly enjoy it! The director does a great job of bringing the author's entire vision to the screen. And for a 15 year old movie the CG shots and visual FX are pretty good. I am a huge fan of war movies, naval ones in particular, and I don't think that I have seen a better one than this. It is riveting from beginning to end a gripping drama at times and an intense action thriller at times, The Hunt for Red October never misses a beat, and no matter what point you are at in the film, it all just seems to work together to tell an amazing story! "}{"Title":"Not One Of My Favorites However It's Still An Awesome Film That's Extremely Well Made, It's Just I Don't Like Submarine Movies","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is not one of my favorites, however it's still an awesome film, that's extremely well made it's just i don't like submarine movies (K 19 Widowmaker is an exception). All the characters are great, and while i didn't find the story engrossing, it was for the most part fairly interesting, with a great finale, plus Sean Connery is simply amazing in this!. i found quite a bit of the film to be dull, and Alec Baldwin bored me, plus i didn't start to really to get into it until the finale!. It's very well acted, and it had some exciting scenes, however it's very talky, and Alec Baldwin just wasn't right for Jack Ryan, plus a lot of the dialog was boring. I'm not expecting any positive feedback for this, it's just i didn't like it, and it didn't thrill or excite me much at all until the finale, plus The setting gave me the creeps!. Thankfully Sean Connery made it bearable, with his fantastic charisma and presence, and the ending was pretty cool too, plus it had some cool lines as well. This is not one of my favorites, however it's still an awesome film, that's extremely well made it's just i don't like submarine movies, i still highly recommend this one!, though. The Direction is very good. John McTiernan does a very good job here with awesome camera work, great angles, awesome lighting, however the pacing is inconsistent. The Acting is excellent!. Sean Connery is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is very intense, had an awesome accent, had lots of charisma, carried this film, had some awesome lines, and gave a powerful performance! (Connery Rules!!). Alec Baldwin is so so here as Jack Ryan he was rather bland, and i don't care for him as an actor, he did OK i guess, probably much better then Ben Affleck did!.Sam Neill is good in his supporting role i liked him. James Earl Jones and Joss Ackland don't have much to do but both added class and were great in there screen time!. Rest of the cast to do fine. Overall not one of my favorites but i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"... and the sea will grant each man new hope, as sleep brings dreams of home.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery playing a Russian... WOW. After being the hero of the Free World for more than a decade, you will find him in the most clever and sharp character of it's career. !!!SPOILER, JUST IN CASE¡¡¡Tension would not be the word for describing the movie's atmosphere, you'll know the good guy always wins in American films, the thing is that if it comes out with a brilliant solution, you'll be going home with a great satisfaction, just as it happens here. Although some experts might find errors in technical terms and reality might be manipulated, the coherence of the story (no character came up with a last time super ridiculous solution or fought an entire army like Rambo), great performances (Alec Baldwin is an excellent Ryan, better than the dull super emotional Ford and better that Ben Affleck doll) and an intriguing story makes this a very good film. the final scene is just brilliant. A sub chase and a gun fighting all in one!!! Works well and is the finest Jack Ryan based movie to the date.!!!BIG TIME SPOILER!!!... and the sea will grant each man new hope, as sleep brings dreams of home.Somewhat sad, yet encouraging.8.5 out of 10 amongst the best movies of all time. Give yourself a time to watch it. "},{"Title":"A Cold War Classic","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is a cold war classic, and ranks with the best submarine films ever made (Das Boot, Crimson Tide, Run Silent, Run Deep, etc). I saw this film at least three times in the theater.The entire cast is excellent. Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, and last but certainly not least, Sam Neill. It would be interesting to know what Tom Clancy's favorite film is made from one of his novels. Does anybody know? Classic little factoid about the film The choice of none other than Dr. Frankenfurter (Tim Curry) as the ships doctor!As usual Sean Connery is awesome (isn't he always?) this is one of his best films. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really liked watching this movie I've seen it a bunch of times and I never get bored of it. The main reason I think I like this movie is because you never know how the movie will turn out if the Americans will destroy the sub or believe that they are defecting (that is if it is the first time you've seen the movie). I've watched the movie over and over and I still always find myself on the edge of my seat when it's over. I have always liked the Tom Clancy books and many of the movies. Some of the other Clancy movies are also great they should be checked out also. I would recommend this film for anyone who likes a good action movie. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like political thrillers and this is one of the better ones. I almost gave it a 9, but just couldn't quite pull the trigger. The movie has an interesting concept - a brand new state of the art Russian sub suddenly goes missing on its way to the US. The US discovers this and has to decide if it is heading to the US to start a war or if the commanders of the sub are attempting to defect.Most submarine movies are good because they can't devote a movie to special effects or scenery or much of anything except the intensity of the confined environment. We feel attached to that tension because we know that the sub is deep under the sea and everyone's lives could be negatively affected at any moment. The best sub movie of all time, in my opinion, was Das Boot.I like Sean Connery and Alec Baldwin. As hypothetical antagonists, they only appear together very briefly at the end of the movie. But, both did a good job. Lots of testosterone in this movie. In fact, even the typical female window dressing was absent.Interesting story, good acting, political thriller. That's a combination that, as long as it doesn't get screwed up, is worth at least an 8. Unfortunately, there wasn't anything magical or special beyond that to make it a great movie - just a good one. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favourites","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the cold war era of 1984, the brand new Russian nuclear submarine is on its way to the United States. The captain, Marko Ramius (Sean Connery), along with a few senior officers, as a matter of fact, have the intention of defecting. Now they must find a way to get rid of the rest of the crew, while being attacked by the Russian navy whose government has learnt the truth and their success of their defection entirely depends on how the US deal with them. Dr Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin), a CIA analyst who has done detailed research on Ramius, believes he wants to defect and manages to convince the government officials about the idea. He then is assigned to enter the US submarine Dallas, which, unbeknown to the crew, has traced the Red October. Dr Ryan must prove in time that Ramius's intent is not to release missiles to America, but simply to defect. There isn't much time left.This is a brilliant piece of work and the cast is well chosen, albeit when speaking Russian, Sean Connery's accent is not authentic, but this doesn't spoil the grace he manifests that much. The film is full of intense atmosphere and suspense and the direction is flawless. Sam Neill is very likeable as Captain Vasily Boradin, who works for Ramius and who is loyal and considerate to him. Many credits for Alec Baldwin as the self-assured and eager CIA analyst, he really did it well. 'The Hunt for Red October' is one of my favourite movies. 9/10                     "},{"Title":"A Thinking Man's Film","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  `How do you get a crew to want to get off of a submarine?  How do you get a crew to want to get off of a *nuclear* submarine?'My suggestion Foremost&#133; take care of any food or bathroom duties. Then take a seat; turn up the volume; and turn off the lights!This movie takes concentration by the viewer. There's a lot of information that needs to be comprehended, which makes this movie somewhat complex if you're not riveted to the screen.`The Hunt' builds up strength from one scene to another. The dialog is superb. Each word seems to hold an important significance to the puzzle. This is not a film that is going to offer a lot of eye candy. It's more like watching a chess game unfold before your eyes.Alex Baldwin perfectly plays a very intelligent author of CIA books whose energy and persistence keeps you captivated in his quest.  Sean Connery is very convincing as an esteemed Russian commander whose words are wise and respected. At times, you'll found yourself staring into his eyes and wondering what he's thinking.  Sam Neill has a small part as a Russian Captain. But you'll find yourself hoping he gets to live out his dream.A couple interesting features in this movie It gains an ambiance that captures the audience and places them directly on the submarines. At times, you find yourself barely moving or breathing when the Russian and American subs are nearing each other.  And there's also a clever element that switches the dialog from Russian to English to avoid subtitles.      With that said&#133; this is an absolutely fantastic movie. Mix the idea of truism, world politics, and military intelligence&#133; and you got a movie that'll make you wonder what undisclosed world crisis we are facing at this time. It would be nice to believe that there is a &#145;buckaroo' out there saving our world.  "},{"Title":"favorite quote","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i love the part when they are in the officers mess and the captain saysthere will  be no turning back.when he discoverd the new world cortez burned all his ships.therefore his men were highly motivated "},{"Title":"I Judge them As I See them","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I for one can't judge technical aspects of a movie.  I can just see a movie as entertaining enough to keep me watching.  With that said, I find The Hunt for Red October to be an extraordinary movie regarding the cold war.  Alec Baldwin plays Jack Ryan as a fiesty young CIA analyst who sees the whole big picture of events.  Sean Connery plays it strong as the Soviet Captain who may or may not be out to defect.  Tim Curry gets to play the foolish russian doctor.  Sam Neil wants to hunt rabbits.  Those who have seen the film will know what I mean.  And pretty much everyone else plays the role of a Russian or an American.  John McTiernan creates much tension in a movie filled with answering just one question.  Hopefully he'll direct one more Jack Ryan movie in the future.  I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"The best of the Clancy films","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October is easily the best of the Tom Clancy films and one of the best sub dramas made to date. Although the effects sometimes fall a bit short, the movie is reinforced by the solid performances of Alec Baldwin, Sean Connery, Sam Neill, and James Earl Jones. The story lives up to the wonderful book and is the best film adaptation of Clancy's work. The pace of the movie keeps things moving along and you never get bored, boredom being a chronic sin in political thrillers like this. The sub battles, however unrealistic, are still exciting. Bottom Line This is a good thriller that lives up to the standard set by the book. A worthy addition to my collection and yours. "}{"Title":"Taking it to the limit","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  a MUST SEE movie.  Acting is superb, as well as realism.  Jonesy does an awesome job as the primary sonar technician.  Alec Baldwin, as usual, is at this best.  As for Sean Connery, he is one of my favorite actors and does a tremendous job!  If you want to know what submarine life is about, this is the movie to see! BRAVO ZULU and ANCHORS AWEIGH! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I only have a half-dozen movies on tape and The Hunt for Red October was my first. It's one of my all-time favorites.Anyone who saw this expecting it to be about spies based on Connery having a starring role was clearly watching for the wrong reason. "},{"Title":"Retro, interesting","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS. Clancy's book was popular reading at the Pentagon after its publication and it's easy to see why. It's practically an American military fantasy come true. I haven't read it in years but remember it as pretty retro stuff, mostly the good guys vs. the bad guys, and variations on the theme. The book was more anti-communist than this movie is. In the book, the ending has Ryan and Ramius on the bridge conversing about the New World and, as in the film, Ryan welcomes his adversary warmly. But also in the book, a bystander warns Ryan not to get too chummy. Here, at least, the story ends on a fully chummy note.The story is a kind of generic one, and rather well done technically. Connery is the skipper of a new type of semi-silent submarine who, along with most of his officers, has planned a defection to the USA, bringing the sub along as a kind of present. The Russian fleet, learning of this through a letter that Connery has inexplicably sent to the naval authorities, sets out to sink him, telling the Americans that he, Connery, is a loony on the order of Jack D. Ripper who plans to start the next world war all by himself. So Connery winds up having to deal with the US Navy as well. Everybody, it seems, is out to get him. Except for one guy, a CIA agent, Alec Baldwin, who divines Connery's plan and must persuade the Navy to trust him. The editing is poor, at least in the print I saw. Connery's wardroom full of officers complicit in the defection seem to disappear after their first meeting and have no function in the film. It's not always easy to follow the torpedoes either. And in the book, Connery has a personal reason for hating his superiors. (He holds them responsible for his wife's death.) But this is only alluded to obliquely in the movie, so we're left wondering what Connery's motives could be. In fact, come to think of it, the editing is so bad that I think the film must have been mercilessly chopped up. I've seen it before, about two years ago, and either I saw a quite different print or something is happening inside my brain that I don't even want to think about.However, the movie makers do what they can to promote our understanding of who's good and who's bad. The US submarine is good, the Soviet submarine is bad. You can tell because our submariners were comfortable open-collared shirts or soft cotton turtlenecks while all the Soviet officers are dressed in uncomfortably scratchy looking black uniforms with stiff high collars that simply must chafe. Moreover there is a tendency in our boats for lights to be reassuringly warm and natural. On the Soviet boat the overhead lights are an icy blue and they tend not simply to glow but to glare fuzzily into the camera lens. These irritating blue lights also shine upward onto the faces of the Soviet crew giving them a cadaverous appearance. Sean Connery has an ugly haircut. Finally only one American is seen smoking a cigarette, while over half a dozen Soviet sailors are seen puffing on them, often letting them dangle from their lips, and one guy even stubs one of his butts out on the deck. (Try that in the U. S. Coast Guard, Ivan.) The Soviet boat also has a political officer aboard, to make sure no one reads subversive literature, like ancient Hindu scripts. I am become Death, the destroyer of world. (I never believed that came spontaneously to Oppenheimer at Trinity.) This character, whom Connery murders in cold blood, is the equivalent of the rabid Nazi aboard German ships and U Boats in World War II movies. In fact, the whole thing is reminiscent of a World War II movie -- that's why I meant by retro in the summary. Connery is like the proud German who's finally come to his senses.But it can't be argued that Clancy doesn't know his nuclear submarines. It doesn't show so much in the film but his novel is laced with what seems like pretty up-to-date technology, including the mechanics of a nuclear accident and explosion. (Aboard a Soviet boat, not an American one. It's left up to the reader whether or not to cheer while the poor fellows are dying.) The acting is okay, no more than that. It can't be unusually good, given that this is an action/thriller production and characters aren't really given a chance to do much. I have no idea why the movie makers provided a rational explanation for Baldwin's fear of flying. He's supposed to have had a terrible crash in a chopper, the rest of the crew killed, and have spent a year himself learning how to walk again. In the novel, he's simply afraid of flying and it adds a bit of humor to the story and a human kind of weakness to an otherwise standard heroic character. Fred Dalton Thompson gives his usual impression of a man suffering from a digestive disorder. As Alice Roosevelt Longworth said of a political figure, He looks as if he might have been weaned on a pickle.Overall, the movie is diverting and worth watching, despite the gaps in the story that I've mentioned. But watching it shouldn't require more than a modest effort. "},{"Title":"an effective, highly watchable thriller","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Convoluted, but highly entertaining suspense thriller from Die Hard director John McTiernan. In 1984, Connery is a highly decorated, veteran Soviet submarine captain who sets sail aboard an elite, high-tech nuclear vessel toward the United States with questionable intentions; Baldwin is the headstrong CIA analyst who deduces he may be trying to defect and tries best to defuse the situation without the threat of warfare. Long and elaborate the story isn't always easy to follow, but it's suspenseful, well-crafted, well-acted, and keeps you on the edge of your seat as it manages to find a way to throw out a new twist every few minutes. *** "},{"Title":"Better dead than red","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent espousal of the triumph of democracy over the tyranny of socialist oppression. Forgive the northern accents posing as Russians - indeed who better to portray a turncoat commie than a real life Jock Pinko turned ex-pat revenue exile? After all, and particularly in these troubled times, the message is more important.Impressively researched to display the ubiquitous fallibility of the arrogance of the god-less superstate where dogma superceded freedom of thought and enterprise.Sadly, but predictably, the refugees from Stalinism seek the dollar more keenly than democracy.Well acted I'd say, and rather good directing combined with brave underwater filming.Well worth a watch - more films like this please "},{"Title":"Praise for Clancy","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The author  tells a good story which keeps the audience riveted to the screen wanting to know what happens next. Good performances by Connery and Baldwin. "},{"Title":"All-Star Cast In Cold War Submarine Movie","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An all-star cast stars in this Tom Clancy Cold War thriller about military/political strategy, guessing games, and paranoia. Sean Connery is the commander of a Russian ultra-submarine, who may be defecting or attacking on his own. Alec Baldwin is Jack Ryan, the guy who anticipates Connery's every move based on a one time meeting. Scott Glenn is the U.S. submarine commander, whose job it is to find and track Connery. Sam Neill is Connery's right hand man. James Earl Jones is Baldwin's boss. Joss Ackland is the steely Russian diplomat. There are several other good supporting roles in here as well. What we have to accept, over and over again, is Baldwin's ability to predict what Connery will and will not do. At times this is hard; because, this could draw the movie into the category of Baldwin knows because the script says so. The film builds good tension with this device; because, it surrounds Baldwin with several good supporting characters, and they lead us to a satisfactory, if not thrilling, conclusion. The film does not rely solely upon Baldwin to get our attention, draw us in, and entertain us. The submarine sets and the sound are excellent in this film. Some viewers may be put off by some of the accents, which vary in quality, and the talkativeness of the film. Indeed, the suspense comes largely from what the dialog in scenes reveals. There is very little action in this film, until the last half hour, which might make it seem overlong for some viewers. Otherwise, it's an entertaining submarine film. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"A good submarine action movie","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film has it's ups and downs.  The problems are find are with the Russian to English speaking of the characters.  It's fine with me if all the Russians speak English, so we can better watch the movie without having to read subtitles, and you sure as hell know that Sean Connery is to lazy to actually learn Russian.  Anyway, why do they speak in English, but then sing in Russian, shouldn't they be singing in English?  I hate when they do that.  Alec Baldwin is great as Jack Ryan.  He carries the film all the way throughout as Sean Connery sleeps through another one.  Too many action scenes and a bad script make this just good.  The technical aspect of the script is wonderful, but when they try to talk normal to each other, it turns sour.  6/10  Good "},{"Title":"Glasnost era actioner of the first order","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER (1990) *** Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, Sam Neill, James Earl Jones, Joss Ackland, Richard Jordan, Peter Firth, Tim Curry, Jeffrey Jones.  First adaptation of Tom Clancy's best-selling novels with CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Baldwin, who would later give up the role to Harrison Ford) facing a Soviet scare from Russian sub commander Connery, apparently heading his nuclear weapons loaded vessel to American shores.  Tautly directed by John McTiernan and a stellar ensemble. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"       The more I watch this film the less I like it, but its still entertaining.  The acting is excellent, Harrison Ford is a bad Jack Ryan, and this predecessor film is better with his absence.  Its a interesting story of a defecting submarine crew attempt to enter the United States.  Twists, turns, and a rememberable ending make this film fun to watch.  I describe the submarine shot the best I've ever seen.    "}{"Title":"I'm missing something, right? (SLIGHT CHANCE OF SPOILERS)","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had mixed feelings about this before I sat down to watch it. I've never been a fan of Tom Clancy's work - having ploughed through a couple of his novels. However, Sean Connery is in it, it's directed by John McTiernan and it's generally critically acclaimed. I have to say, I really don't see what other people seem to see when I watch this movie...I had a big problem with Connery as Ramius. Don't get me wrong, he can be a good actor, and his delivery is OK here, but his accent was awful! I'm not sure if he even attempted a Russian accent. That is part of acting to me. Sure, Scottish is closer to Russian than American is, but that's not saying much is it? I was tipped off about the extremely dodgy nature of the accent via the IMDb message boards, and I cringed every time Connery opened his mouth. Dire.Part of the plot is that Ramius wishes to defect, which we are told on the back of the video box. Why then does the movie herald this as its big surprise when Jack Ryan figures it out 2/3rds of the way through? It wouldn't be so bad if there were other concerns to occupy our attention in the meanwhile, but there aren't. To my mind, the movie offers the viewer no surprises whatsoever. This movie provides me with no evidence that it was directed by action maestro John McTiernan, since there is little originality or spark evident anywhere. From the look of it, this could very well have been directed by any number of jobbing directors.There are a few good points to the movie. Alec Baldwin makes a perfect Jack Ryan, better than Harrison Ford (even though Ford does nothing wrong with the role) By no means is Baldwin always good (see Mercury Rising) but here he outclasses Connery with worryingly consummate ease; since anyone who tells you that Alec is overall a better actor than Sean would be dispatched to the nearest lunatic asylum forthwith. Here, he is good.Basil Poledouris' score is rousing and intense - the exact opposite of the film. It belongs in a better movie.The last 20 minutes of the film provide a glimpse of what the film could and should have been. I was actually starting to enjoy it, but then it ended. This is probably because tension only works when there is a perceived threat, and despite the best efforts of Connery and Baldwin, there is no such thing until they appear on screen together, because everybody seems too detached.Three good points do not a good movie make. If anybody tries to tell you this is a superior suspense thriller, do not listen to them. Everybody looks as if they're going through the motions. If you're looking for a decent Hollywood submarine thriller, try Crimson Tide. "},{"Title":"uninteresting and unreal","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with imdb-user anatoly that at least another negative review is needed of this movie. I found the movie uninteresting until the end (say, the last 30 minutes), even then, it was just another war-type movie with the usual setup. My main problem, though, was with the u-boat style dialogue (Pull the main thrusts! The main thrusts are jammed, sir! Go weapons hot! Bullseye! etc.). I don't think military people in real life doing their job really sound like little kids playing a video game, with really cocky-sounding intonation. These men would have been scared to death, but you couldn't tell that by their voices. Mundane tasks should be accompanied by matter-of-fact intonation, and dangerous tasks should show nervousness and tension. I guess it's mostly a movie for war-movie aficionados.  "},{"Title":"Read the book and loved it..","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I read the book before I saw the movie. If the other way round I am sure I would have enjoyed the movie more. I know that movie makers have to heavily truncate a book to make a movie, that said there were too many things missing from this movie that were in the book. Jack Ryan spent three quarters of the book with the British navy who weren't anywhere in the movie.The confrontations and stand offs with the Russian military were also a glaring absence in the movie. The James Earl Jones character was far more prominent in the book also. Casting Sean Connery as a Russian nuclear sub skipper? Mr Bean would have made as much sense. "},{"Title":"Unlikely, Exciting Movie That Fails to Make a Point.","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can't remember when I have given such a good movie a 7, instead of an 8. The reason it stays in the not bad category (7) is the implausible plot A career military man is not going to defect, especially if he has no solid reason, other than to go fishing. 2.) A career military man is not going to deliver a cutting-edge weapon into the hands of those who could use it to annihilate his homeland, whether it is Lithuania or Soviet Union. 3.) officers on-board the ship are not going to allow it to be commandeered and handed over to the U.S.In real life, Capt. Ramius (played by Sean Connery) would have been shot by one of his officers as they arose from the dinner/meeting table, after Ramius announced his intention to defect.In real life, a cook (or even an engineer) would have no first-hand access, knowledge nor ability to disable the hydro-drive, since it is obviously connected to the nuclear powerplant in the sub.In real life, a crew member would not have been allowed to have heard the Captain's plans to defect.In real life, the Captain of the ship would not have mailed a letter to the Soviet government telling them he is handing the ship over to the U.S.While an attempt is made, in the movie, to link Ramius' defection with the guilt he felt for having been at sea when his beloved wife died, it is not given enough emphasis, and I was left forever wondering if the Captain was doing all this just because he can.Alec Baldwin is unconvincing as a C.I.A. analyst, through no fault of his own He played a great part. What he failed to convince was that he was the military weapons expert/psychologist/biographer that he needed to be.Connery played his role to a t as well; inscrutable, straight-forward, disciplined, haunted.While many of the tactical scenes in Hunt For Red October are thrilling and some left me breathless, I felt the need to understand Ramius, the man.The scenes with dialogue between Richard Jordan (as secretary of state?) and Josh Ackland as the Soviet ambassador were particularly well-done and very helpful in establishing the worldwide social ramifications of the event.One final reason that I was unable to give a very good score to this otherwise very good movie was it's formulaic demonizing of Russia. This political rhetoric is going to get us into trouble some day, unless we see it as the hype that it is, formulated and fed to us by the arms industry corporations that own many of the largest broadcasting and media companies in Hollywood. With U.S. corporate/military aggression toward Russia being what it is today, thank your fifty stars that The Hunt For Red October is not real. "},{"Title":"the end of the Cold War","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1989-90, with the Cold War waning, Hollywood figured that they had to make one more movie relating to it. They made The Hunt for Red October, based on Tom Clancy's novel. Sean Connery plays Soviet submarine Capt. Marko Ramius, who announces to his crew that he is aiming the submarine, called the Red October in reference to the 1917 revolution, towards the United States.Well, as you might imagine, when the Americans get wind of this, they assume that the Soviet Union has finally decided to attack. Only one man can determine their true motive Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin). Ryan believes that Ramius might be trying to defect. Of course if he can't prove it in time, it might mean a nuclear holocaust.In most cases, that would be a pretty lame-brained excuse for a plot. But they do a good job with it. We get to see the inner workings of both the American and Soviet navy, and the movie doesn't vilify either side. Strong performances from Connery and Baldwin, and also from supporting players James Earl Jones, Sam Neill, Tim Curry, Stellan Skarsgard, Joss Ackland, Scott Glenn, Jeffrey Jones, Richard Jordan and Courtney B. Vance keep the film afloat the whole way through. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of those great action movies that I can watch over and over. Connery and Baldwin make an excellent team. You can almost see the personal like they have for each other. This is by far the best of the Jack Ryan movies. It would be hard to top! "},{"Title":"Clever Action-Thriller.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Naval captain Sean Connery defects from the Soviet Union with the titled submarine and it is up to Alec Baldwin and others to figure out what his motives are in this creative and smart action thriller. Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan character is initially played on the silver screen by Baldwin and he gives one of his finest performances here. Sam Neill also does outstanding work as Connery's right-hand man. A really entertaining and dramatic film that could have been a multi-million dollar disaster. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Movie  A-  DVD C","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Hunt for Red October A-/C 7.12.00 2.351/5.1 Previously Viewed Non-anamorphic TransferI probably never had as much fun at the movies as I did the first time I saw this on the big screen. This was one of the first DVDs and deserves to be redone.  The non-anamorphic transfer does not look good and the sound could even be a little better.  I would love to hear Clancy and director John McTiernan do a commentary track, discussing ideas, how things were created and where there are differences between the movie and book.  "},{"Title":"A wearying experience","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I knew about this film's existence for years and years but only recently sat down to watch it for the first time. Perhaps the bloated running time put me off, or the po-faced seriousness surrounding the production.DIE HARD this ain't. John McTiernan has a knack for making great, suspenseful films out of decent scripts (PREDATOR is another), but anyone could have directed this outing, which moves as coldly and slowly as a submarine through the depths. About the only great thing it has going for it is the Basil Poledouris score.I've seen entertaining submarine films in the past (the critically panned U-571 is, in my opinion, criminally underrated) but this one failed to connect with me from the outset. There seems to be little emotion involved, just the wearying following of a story that turns out not to be particularly thrilling or spectacular after all.The ensemble cast is watchable, but most performers are wasted. Connery is nobody's idea of a Russian submarine captain, but even he only gets one decent scene early on and seems meek and subdued for the rest of the time. Alec Baldwin is bland, and it's left to the minor performers (James Earl Jones, Courtney B. Vance, Sam Neill, Joss Ackland, Tim Curry) to inject some life into the proceedings. It isn't enough. "},{"Title":"Connery is great, as always. But not Baldwin.","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is very Tom Clancy like, with bad guys from Russia, heroes from America, a couple of nuclear warheads and some new device that could tip the scale in the enemies favour. It starts out with the Russian nuclear submarine headed for the American coast for unknown reasons, and the US of course gets a bit worried about this...Using some new high-tech device, the Russian sub is capable of going into stealth mode, thus being able to move about in the ocean without being noticed by radars. This worries the US government even more, but Jack Ryan, a guy who seems to be an expert in nearly every field imaginable, comes up with a theory that the Russians are not trying to attack the US, but in fact defect. And that's the start of this political thriller.There's really not much of interest here, besides Sean Connery and Sam Neill, perhaps. But the movie does have an all-star cast. Joining Sean and Sam are Alec Baldwin, James Earl Jones, Stellan Skarsgård, Tim Curry and many more. All of these great actors, however, are given minor roles with little to no screen time. The only real actors who are featured in two scenes, or more, are Alec, Sean and Sam. But Alec doesn't really deliver a great performance (why do people like him?) so it's up to Sean to hold the show up.The movie is actually pretty boring. Most of it consists of three things Alecs character thinking, Sean and Sam talking in the Russian submarine or Alecs character thinking in a submarine with Sean and Sam talking in the background. It's pretty dull, really. What else is there to say?As usual in these kinds of flicks, the Russians are the bad guys. In this movie, their plan is actually to blow up the states. I doubt the real life Russians would actually want that, but hey it's Hollywood (and Tom Clancy) so here it's allowed (but it is getting a bit tiresome).There's really not much to say about this film, except that Sean Connery and Sam Neill are the only real good things about it. So if you're a die-hard fan of them, go see it. But if you're not, don't bother. It's not that great.4/10.  "}{"Title":"Clancy simplified","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie after reading the book, which was probably a mistake in that it set my expectations fairly high.  Too high.  The film deviates drastically from its source, and while that isn't by definition a bad thing, the changes and omissions didn't really help the film adaptation so much as make it seem overly simple.  Gone is the deliberate planning by the various characters from the book, replaced by spontaneous and at times painful realization, usually spoken aloud in soliloquy.  The cast goes a long way to rescue the material, though they can't pull the boat alone, so to speak. Connery and Neill do admirable jobs as Soviet sub officers, but I question casting Baldwin in the role of Jack Ryan.  A good modern military film as those go, but doesn't live up to its source. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have ever seen,","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The best Jack Ryan movie yet. Alec Baldwin , is the best Jack Ryan caracter, and the movie has one of the best actors ever, Sean Connery. This is a movie that everybody have to see "},{"Title":"Pretty good thriller","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched the movie for a second time and while I certainly enjoyed it less, it is still a good thriller.Some scenes are pretty tense, yet, somehow the movie just doesn't leave me with as big impression as I hoped it will... Sometimes it felt like another action movie and yet it managed to be above average.So while it is not a masterpiece, it is certainly a fun movie to spend the evening with, just turn off the lights, put all speakers on and submerge under water. 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Hunt for Red October","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From director John TcTiernan (Predator, Die Hard, The Thomas Crown Affair), this was the first film made with the character Jack Ryan, later in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger played by Harrison Ford, and in The Sum of All Fears played by Ben Affleck, from the novels by Tom Clancy, it was good for me to see this again. Basically, set in 1984, Red October is the new Soviet Russian submarine, commanded by Captain First Rank Marko Ramius (BAFTA nominated Sir Sean Connery), that is rendered undetectable on radar and virtually silent, meaning targets will not have warning from missile attacks. At sea Ramius murders the only other person who knew about the true orders they have, Ivan Putin (Peter Firth), and he burns the evidence of order papers, and the submarine is almost caught by the USS Dallas. CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec Baldwin) is brought in to talk to the government officials who learn that the Soviet and US Navy want to sink the Red October, who think it may plan an attack on the United States, but Ryan believes Ramius is defecting. When the submarine has a snag they are no longer undetectable the USS Dallas, with Petty Officer Seaman Jones (Courtney B. Vance) aboard, intercept them, and Ryan gets aboard as well to try and persuade Commander Bart Mancuso (Scott Glenn) to contact Ramius to find out the true orders. The Red October next encounters an attack from the Konovalov pursuing them from the Atlantic, and inside Red October an undercover GRU agent posing as a cook opens fire and kills first officer Captain Vasili Borodin (Sam Neill). Ryan gets onto the submarine that has caused all this trouble, and he finally meets Ramius himself, they had met once before, and he kills the undercover agent and saves the submarine being destroyed by a detonated missile, while the Dallas help and the Konovalov is destroyed by one of its own torpedoes. Also starring James Earl Jones as Admiral Greer, Joss Ackland as Andrei Lysenko, Tim Curry as Dr. Yevgeniy Petrov , Richard Jordan as Jeffrey Pelt, Stellan Skarsgård as Captain Viktor Tupolev, Jeffrey Jones as Skip Tyler, Wishmaster's Andrew Divoff as Andrei Amalric and Star Trek's Gates McFadden as Caroline Ryan. Connery gives a good performance as you don't know for a while whether he is the enemy or not, Baldwin is good as the knowledgeable and brave government agent, and the other cast members all get their good moments as well, I will admit it was a bit too much technical and political dialogue at times, but there are some good exciting and surprising moments, a worthwhile thriller. It won the Oscar for Best Sound Effects Editing, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Sound, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Production Design and Best Sound. Sir Sean Connery was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 3 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"good. great.... no just good.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It had potential damnit! Genuine potential! But it falls short in a number of different areas, and outright tramples over one of my pet film hates. This film could have so easily been a 9 or 10, instead I gave it a 7 and on reflection I think that was generous.First some of the good points. Sean Connery is good. Excellent in fact, he does give off a natural air of authority and I could totally believe him as the captain of a nuclear sub. Not a Russian nuclear sub though, but I'll get onto that later. Tim Curry and Sam Neil both turn in good performances as well, in fact as far as the acting goes this film has got it largely nailed.The score is a high point. It doesn't throw up any surprises (Communist Russia = Choir) but that's not necessarily a bad thing. Predictable, but none the worst for it.The story has a number of plot holes, but it wouldn't take much to tighten it up. As it stands the plot is enough to see the film through easily and holds the attention. In fact it more then holds your attention, it grabs your attention with both hands to start with. As he film progresses it loosens its grip quite considerably, but it never becomes boring.Alas, there are problems.Accents accents accents. Largely ok (Sam Neil seems to be able to pull of Russian quite well, and Tim Curry manages to avoid hamming it up to much ala his performance in Congo) but Sean Connery doesn't even bother trying. It's difficult to think of him as a Russian captain when he speaks in a Scottish accent (although admittedly a bad Russian accent would have been even worse).I can't stand films that use The Infallible Good-Guy technique, and this is the most blatant use of it I've seen in a long time. Alex Baldwin is apparently psychic and able to work out what Captain Ramis is thinking right from the beginning. He's right about everything, and the film portrays anyone who raises reasonable objections or questions his huge intuitive leaps as an idiot. Oh please, this is indicative of lazy scripting, it treats the audience as morons, and annoys me to the point of ruining the film.Ramis is less a brilliant captain and more a dangerously incompetent one, some of the special effects are incredibly poor, and frankly the film could do with having the pointless sub-plot of Ramis and his student cut out of the film to shorten the running time a little.These things all undermine the film and prevent it from being the classic it could have been. The basic story is there, the actors are there, the score is there, the script is largely there but they can't cover up the deficiencies (and make up for that damned Infallible Good-Guy). "},{"Title":"The long, slow hunt","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The hunt is on for the Soviet submarine Red October and its rogue captain Marko Ramius. The American Navy seeks to destroy the sub based on the belief that Ramius intends to fire his nuclear missiles on the U.S. Meanwhile the Soviet Navy is hunting down the sub as well and they want to destroy it for a different reason entirely. Soviet authorities know that Ramius actually intends to defect and hand the submarine over to the Americans. And that would be quite a disaster from the Soviet perspective as the Red October is an entirely new type of submarine, equipped with a revolutionary silent propulsion system which makes it essentially invisible to the enemy. So everybody wants to hunt down the Red October and blow it to bits. Everybody except CIA analyst Jack Ryan that is. He guesses the truth, that Ramius intends to defect. Ryan apparently has been able to deduce this because he once sat at a dinner table with Ramius a while back. That doesn't seem like much to stake your reputation, your job and possibly the lives of millions of Americans on but OK. An awful lot depends on Ryan's hunch and it will be up to him to somehow get to the Red October and contact Ramius before somebody blows the Russian sub out of the water. Good luck Jack.It may seem like we have the setup here for an action packed thrill ride of a movie but the sad truth is that for much too much of the time nothing really happens. This is an exceedingly slow game of cat and mouse being played out in the North Atlantic. There's not nearly enough tension to sustain the film as it labors on for over two hours. The acting performances are generally fine. Sean Connery is reliably convincing as Ramius if you can ignore the Soviet sub commander's Scottish accent. Alec Baldwin does good work in portraying Ryan as an undeniably smart man who is nonetheless out of his element when he finds himself right in the middle of the action. And there are a multitude of supporting roles. We see so many American and Soviet naval officers and sailors at sea as well as the bureaucrats back on land and most everyone in the cast performs admirably. But the fact remains that the movie struggles to maintain the tension you feel this story should have. There are way too many lulls in the proceedings. And matters are not helped by some of the visuals as the exterior shots of the submarines slowly maneuvering underwater are utterly unconvincing. The interiors of the submarines look nice, perhaps a little too nice as they appear very clean and polished. But the exterior shots, meant to be very dramatic and visually captivating are anything but. All in all this is a movie with some nice pieces but it doesn't all come together. The film certainly presents an intriguing story but the way that story plays out leaves something to be desired. It's a long, slow journey. The movie is well acted. And it has its moments, just not enough of them. "},{"Title":"Submarines and Alec Baldwin","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was so big when it came out and I personally think it was very overrated.. I didn't care for Red October. Maybe I didn't like it because I'm just not a fan of such movies. If you like movies chock full of action, submarines and Alec Baldwin then this is the movie for you, I couldn't get into this at all and remember sitting in the theaters so bored, wishing there was even just one scene that captured my attention. It didn't go anywhere, it was just another submarine movie. This movie is sort of a (classic?) it's still very widely known and widely talked about but for me it just seemed terribly overrated. I think this is really a love it or hate it type of flick and for me, I'm sorry to say, it was a hate it. My vote is 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Igor part spoils the movie and causes a five rating.","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's a bit improbable even in the beginning for the Captain to have a copy of a Bible even if it is explained to be his deceased wife's. Nobody with a Bible was to have been trusted in the Russian Military but the really nutty part of the story that reduced it to five stars was Igor, the assistant cook. Who was he and why was he trying to wreck the ship? If he was a KGB agent how did he get his orders? Where did he get a gun? Why wasn't he evacuated with the rest of the crew when they all thought that sub had been poisoned and was supposed to have been submerged and then scuttled with all the officers who were remaining aboard? The Captain told the doctor to count them men and make sure they all got out. How could they miss Igor? And finally, what was Igor supposed to do. Kill everybody and scuttle the ship? Kill everybody and sail the ship back to Russia single-handedly? And how had Igor found out that the officers were defecting and turning over the sub to the Americans? It was a very weak and unnecessary and illogical piece of story telling. I guess that I could read the book and see how it was handled here. Some of the other reviews indicate that the book does a better job of explaining Igor's role. And it seemed a bit improbable that the US Navy had the ability to destroy their torpedoes if they decided that they had made a mistake but the USSR Navy did not. Another bit of improbability was this Ramius had trained Tupolev so Tupolev must have known, or should have known, how Ramius would have defended against that first torpedo that was sent toward the Red October and Tupolev should have and would have armed the torpedo immediately after it was launched rather than have assumed that Ramius would futilely have tried to outrun or dodge the torpedo! The portrait of the Russian ambassador was great. Perhaps the book made it clearer as to whether the Ambassador knew that he was lying to the U.S. President's representative or whether Moscow was lying to the Ambassador. But, all in all, not a bad movie to see but not a ten star yarn if one applies a more critical test of believability. "},{"Title":"Suspend the Submarine Tactics and the movie is great","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am not going to learn about anything new about submarine tactics. I giant submarines can't be dodging torpedoes that fast. It takes almost many seconds, or the fact that stupid torpedoes aim is bad, or that two submarines passing by each other can't see. A simple sonar or a reflection of the sound from the submarines are very easy to spot. It makes me cringe why a submarine can't see each other who are only 100 - 300 feet apart as it passes by each other - sideways. Now, if this was a typical James Bond without much worthless submarine tactics, this movie would have been great. Part of the reason why think this movie is great is the actors, not the bad writing. If Tom Clancy was a the captain of a cheap U boat, he would be a horrible captain and this is reflected in poor submarine maneuvers that I just have to unlearn. Master and Commander war tactics on the ship is a lot better, although the shooting should be at the back or the front of the ships, where the ships, guns are at its weakest for defense. "},{"Title":"The Scottish Russian!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I saw this again a few days ago on TV and I'm reviewing that. Gates McFadden from Star Trek The Next Generation was in this very briefly. I'd never noticed her before playing Ryan's wife.I also hardly recognized a very young looking Sam Neill who everyone ends up wishing that he had seen Montana. Tim Curry looks very weird and quite young himself.Connery plays a Sub Captain who has recently lost his wife and was the trainer for all the Soviet sub fleet Captains. He is given the job of taking the newest addition to the Soviet Fleet, The Red October. It has a prototype caterpillar drive that is totally silent.He is wanting to defect. He kills the ships KGB officer, and never tells the crew apart from his carefully chosen senior officers that he intends to defect.James Earl Jones plays a senior CIA officer who is never there and never did anything.The ship is guided by Jack Ryan and the Captain of the Dallas Submarine.This is an excellent film with good twists and the destruction scene is brilliant. "}{"Title":"Kept me out of the theaters for six years","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1990, and was severely disappointed.  I had read the excellent book many times, and had actually hoped that it would be made into a movie.  Such a film couldn't go wrong, I thought.  Well, I was wrong!The characters were OK, but that was the only redeeming feature of this film.  Connery was excellent, as he always is.  But the plot was poor, and the execution was razor-thin.  Did the director even read the book at all, or merely the back cover?The main reasons I stuck through this bomb of a film is because I really thought that it would get better.  I also probably would've walked out after the first twenty minutes, but I had paid $7.50 for the ticket, the most I have ever paid in a theater.  However, when Baldwin's character was droning How do you get someone off of a nu-cle-ar sub, I just about lost it.  The ending was so silly that I could not believe the audience stayed in their seats, instead of rioting & burning down the theater.I so regretted seeing this film, that it was not until 1996 that I dared to visit another theater.  Movies like this one really make it hard for me to trust movie reviewers & ratings. It also proves that even big-cast, big-budget films really can be duds.Sorry guys, read the splendid book instead.  I promise you a MUCH better ride!I gave this a 2, due to the characters.  I don't think the film was worth even one point more.  -Hyyr "}]