[{"Title":"Even more underrated of a film than the first.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"62 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is often looked back on as not only the lesser of the two Gremlins flicks but not a very good movie in general.  I just don't understand it -- I love this movie!  It successfully continues the underlying theme of the original (unlike a lot of sequels which seem to forget their points entirely) gremlins are mythical creatures blamed for mechanical errors (if an appliance is broken, it must have been the work of gremlins).  In this movie, the gremlins are loose in a totally automated high-rise office building, already suffering from its own malfunctions, which serves as the perfect playground for them.  Charles Haas' script is absolutely hilarious, filled with more movie in-jokes than I can recall seeing in a single movie, and it even pokes fun at the more serious original.  In fact, I think many people disliked this film because of its total irreverence compared to the first; it didn't try to be scary for a second and Rick Baker's creature effects turned out goofier than Chris Walas's original creature designs.  Just realize...this is a comedy! Definitely worth seeing more than once to catch the barrage of jokes and references...and sit all the way through the credits! "},{"Title":"Strange, weird, bizarre, brilliant","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie came out when I was 5 years old. I remember the movie posters in the streets and the wacky preview for it on TV. I'm now 20 years old, and this is still one of my most favourite movies of all time. It's even better than the original, I believe. The reason I love it so much is because it is so damn strange. It really, really is! It's like a live action Looney Tunes episode. The gremlins are wacky, Gizmo is cute and mysterious, the human actors are all brilliant in their roles and the New York building setting is well, neat.The basic premise for this movie picks up a few years after the first Gremlins movie. This time however, it takes place in the busiest city on the planet, New York.The movie opens with the death of Gizmo's frail Chinese owner. In accordance with the owners death, the place where Gizmo is kept is demolished by a bulldozer and recking ball. Terrified, Gizmo flees from the building and into an alley where he is plucked up by a scientist and brought to the Clamp Cable Network building. The building belongs to media mogul Daniel Clamp and contains a vast variety of shops including coffee houses, restaurants, dental clinics and science laboratories.Coincidentally, Billy and Kate are both working in the same building. Billy is in the art department and Kate gives guided tours of the building. It is here that they stumble upon Gizmo and the inevitable happens.I won't give anymore of the story line away. If you haven't seen this movie yet, I urge you to. It may not be brilliant in the eyes of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, but it is in my eyes. 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Dante does satire and nobody noticed ?","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I rate both films exactly the same but for very different reasons, the first film was an enjoyable romp fusing horror and comedy to great effect. When I saw that there was to be this sequel 6 years later I was very pleased indeed. What I hadn't bargained for was the sharpness of the writing and the satirical structure that director Dante laid out for audiences to watch.Focusing very much on the then modern obsessions like tearing things down to build state of the art monstrous complexes, or the need for a better world; be it the laboratory testings for better life forms, or machines to run our lives; Gremlins 2 plays out as a sort of morality tale that sees the creatures themselves as byproducts of the human condition. In true classic creature feature fashion, Dante manages to garner a level of sympathy for the Gremlins. These vile offspring of the offspring are party animals, they have fun, they like to sing and go nuts, they are in short, quite like a stag party on the Costa Del Sol! Throwing in as many film references as it can, Gremlins 2 may have a satirical slant at it's heart, but sure enough the fun from the first film segues nicely into this picture to make this one of the better, and more smarter sequels on the market.And those darn Gremlins are nastier and uglier than ever as well! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Blame the gremlins for everything","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To this day my friend and I still refer to the gremiln like he is real.  When something goes wrong with my computer, it is the gremlin, when my keys are misplaced and then show up in a spot that you swear you checked before, it was the gremlin, when something, anything goes wrong, it has to be the gremlin.  I am actually convinced that Spike has taken on a life of his own (kinda the way Freddy did in Wes Craven's New Nightmare) and lives to make my life difficult.  Joe Dante's Gremlin's has had that much of an impact on my life.  Gremlins was a wonderful film and it was a little more creepy than it was funny.  But make no mistake about this one, it is one of the funnier movies that I've seen.  It abandons all that was scary and atmospheric in the first and just adds comedy a-plenty.  And I would seriously put this humour up against some of the funnier comdies of the 90's.This time the adventures of Magwai and Spike reach a skyskraper like building owned by a guy that has to be a distant cousin of Donald Trump.  And if you think back to Gremlins, remember how much trouble the little guys could get into using simple household products (microwave, chimney etc ) well that is nothing compared to what they can do at an office filled with the latest technology.  There are also many many inside jokes about Hollywood and such that you have to watch it several times to pick up on all of them.  What is also great about the film is the two versions ( one for the theater and one for the VCR )  I remember when I saw this in the theater I really thought something was wrong with the projector when it first went all strange.  And I like the fact that the makers of this had the guts and the gaul to try something new like that.  It kind of reminds me of Something About Mary when at the end the entire cast is singing that song.  The movie never stops trying to entertain, and that is what I got from this film too.  It will do anything to make you laugh, even throw in a little Hulkamania when he was cool.Gremlins 2 is one of the funniest films that you will see.  And I'm just a little surprised that Joe Dante isn't still active so much in the business anymore.  He made some great films and I would gladly see anything that he puts his name on.  If you haven't seen this film for quite some time, then I highly suggest that you do see it soon.  I was browsing through Rick Baker's filmography on the IMDb and I came across Gremlins 2.  I rented it the same night and I was very glad I did.  Not only did it make me laugh, it brought me back to a time when films like this and The Goonies and even E.T. were made.  Movies aren't the same anymore and that is not neccessarily a criticism, it is just a comment pointing out that in the early 90's and the 80's movies were just different sometimes.  This is one of the funnier ones, and one of the more entertaining.  Do you remember a film by Amblin that wasn't? "},{"Title":"More Humor Makes This A More Appealing Gremlins Film","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When this came out, it was an amazing movie because these Gremlin creatures looked so lifelike. They still look pretty real. What I like best about this film is that it took the hard edge off the first one and made it more of a comedy. To me, this sequel was more entertaining than the first film and one I would watch a lot more times. There are so many jokes and wild scenes in here it would many viewings to catch them all. For movie buffs, it's especially fun with all the references to other films in here.However, it should be pointed out that there are still plenty of scenes where the gremlins are nasty and attack people, so the film is still horror-like in that respect. It may be played for comedic purposes, but these creatures are anything but friendly. In other words, there is still a bit of a hard edge in here for people who want that.After three viewings of this film over the years, the only person who wore thin on me was John Glover's character, Daniel Clamp, an obvious Donald Trump-imitation but grossly overacted by Glover. He winds up just being too silly.Phoebe Cates and Zach Galligan reprise their roles as the cute, small-town, wholesome (despite not being married, however) couple who live together who, of course, know all about these gremlins.It was nice to see Jackie Joseph (of the original Little Shop Of Horrors) again as well as some other well-known characters such as Christopher Lee, Robert Prosky, Dick Miller and Keye Luke. The film just flies by, which tells you it's entertaining. "},{"Title":"Underrated sequel","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fancy some Gremlin Stew? Three underrated sequels came out in 1990. Predator 2, RoboCop 2, and Gremlins 2. I remember waiting in the lobby of a cinema in Orlando, Florida before a screening of Back to the Future 3, looking at the cardboard standees for Gremlins 2 and RoboCop 2 side by side. My 9-year-old self was a HUGE fan of the first movies and staring at a standee taller than me, featuring wonderful artwork, for those sequels was big deal for me. I pity kids nowadays who don't have the attention span to soak up little moments like that.Dante takes everything that was great about Gremlins and cranks it all the way up to a zillion. The original movie was a dark xmas comedy horror with B-movie undertones. The sequel goes so over-the-top it launches itself into the stratosphere and doesn't come back down until the very, very end of the credits. It's just wall-to-wall mayhem with so many in-jokes it'll make your head explode. The movie even attempts to begin as a Looney Tunes cartoon.Gizmo, now back with Mr. Wing, escapes the curiosity shop after the old man dies and is found by a scientist working at Splice of Life, a laboratory located in the Clamp Premiere Regency Trade Centre and Retail Concourse (a big skyscraper in Manhattan). Working in the art department of that skyscraper is Billy Peltzer, hero of the first film. Billy eventually locates and rescues Gizmo, but he gets wet before Billy can take him home, spawning a new generation of cute, fluffy, malevolent Mogwai (Mohawk, Lenny, Edward G. Robinson-lookalike George, and the absolutely mad Daffy). They eat after midnight at a Yoghurt stand in the lobby. The following day the Clamp building, and all of the tenants (from the Archery Channel to the movie print itself, leading to an amusing cameo from Hulk Hogan) are besieged by a horde of gremlins intent on mass destruction and good times at any cost.One can accuse the film of having no story beyond giving the Gremlins a lively backdrop for their wild antics, but when you're having so much fun isn't that what matters most? Goldsmith's score (sadly underrepresented on the 22-year-old Varese Sarabande CD) has a lot more weight second time around, backed-up by a large orchestra and string-based action cues. You'll absolutely love it! Chris Columbus didn't return for this movie, leaving scripting duties to Charlie Haas. He uses the Gremlins and the location to skewer big city culture and satirize business tycoons. John Glover is brilliant as the easily excitable Daniel Clamp, a Donald Trump-like property magnate who has more money and power than he knows what do with.It's amazing that a third Gremlins movie was never made. Despite it now being 22 years since Gremlins 2 and 28 years since the first movie virtually every kid knows what the Gremlins are and are familiar with Gizmo (who may well be the cutest thing that ever existed). It's still a huge cash cow and a recognizable brand, and why Warner never greenlit Gremlins 3 is puzzling to say the absolute least.One last thing. Stay with this film until the end of the credits. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films. ***** out of 5","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This here is Joe Dante's best film. It's a delightful and absolutely charming dark comedy. I begged my mom to take me to see this back in 1990 and thankfully I can say I saw this on the big screen.Years later when I watch it, I can catch all of the little references and nods to other great films of the past. The Warner Brothers Looney Tune cartoons have obviously made an impact on the directorial style of Joe Dante. What's great is the combination of this type of humor blended with these devious little monsters wrecking havoc in the Clamp Building. Speaking of Clamp, John Glover was excellent as Daniel Clamp (a parody of Donald Trump). He's absolutely hilarious!There are many terrific special effects and sequences in the film. It's hard to tell you which scene is my favorite because I adore every moment of the film. I will say one of the scenes that sticks out for me is when the Bat Gremlin flies out into New York City by day. I just love those excellent shots of him flying through the sky. Of course, the Brain Gremlin and the 'New York, New York' number is fantastic as well. Is eeeverybody heere? And who could forget when the Gremlins got their revenge for Leonard Maltin's lambasting of the first Gremlins movie?All this is accompanied by a fantastic Jerry Goldsmith score (which happens to be one of my favorites of his as well). The collaboration between Goldsmith and Dante isn't unlike that of Hitchcock and Herrmann or Spielberg and Williams.The film abounds with dark jollity and watching it you can tell that the filmmakers had a fun time making the picture. To include the audience as part of the goings on, is a real treat.Out of all the thousands of films I have seen, none have been or ever will be more entertaining than Gremlins 2.I LOVE it. "},{"Title":"the gremlins are back","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  gremlins 2 is not a horror movie like the original kind of was, but it's funnier, and more entertaining than the original in my opinion. gremlins 2 is full of movie in-jokes, and all kinds of other goofy stuff. i just believe this movie provides more entertainment than the original did. i wish they'd make a 3rd gremlins movie. all in all gremlins 2 is great fun! i give gremlins 2 the new batch *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"More references than a dictionary","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 is packed with laughs, special effects, and hundreds of movie references. Look closely to a lot of the background actions and one liners that come up in the movie. There are several references to famous movies that you might not catch the first time. Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Marathon Man, 42nd Street, Batman, and many others. The entire movie is one big laugh. A great movie to watch and take nothing serious. "},{"Title":"Performing","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Speilberg gets what he deserves in this one, and it is worth seeing just for that.Here is a movie about movies that any real enthusiast will love. That it involves creepy  muppets is just incidental.Circumstances contrive to have a cable network taken over by puppets. (There is a tacit  understanding here that everyone knows they are puppets.) These puppets take various  stages and act out various movie cliches, always jokingly. Along the way is a vampire  reporter, playing to his audience as the hidden annotators to this do.Almost every woman here is redheaded (except the legacy of Phoebe). Wonder what that  means?Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Respectable sequel","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 The New Batch is the 1990 sequel to the 1984 box office hit Gremlins which is one of my all-time favorite movies. The sequel is not as good as the original, but its not bad either. Here the filmakers did something different. They tried to make this one more of a comedy than the original. The first film was funny but also scary. Gremlins 2 plays more like a Mel Brooks-type movie with some of the jokes that are in it. But its hardly scary. Plus, it got a little tiresome to watch the gremlins do some of the exact same things that they did the first time around like drinking, smoking, etc. Nevertheless, this is for the most part an entertaining movie that I'd wish had done better at the box office. I think if they had made this three years after the original instead of six years, it would have done better. In between the two Gremlins flicks there were all those ripoffs (Critters, Ghoulies and their sequels) and by 1990 moviegoers became tired of it all. But the two Gremlins movies are much better than the Critters and Ghoulies movies. A good job by director Joe Dante.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Probably the finest sequel ever made","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 The New Batch is one of those rare sequels that's a lot more fun than the original. A virtual live action Looney Tune with more movie references than you can count and some great digs at 80s-90s corporate culture (Have a powerful day! urge the PA systems), it's a constant delight. Among the many targets are Yuppies, Batman, Eva Marie Saint, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, movie critics, projectionists, colorization (Today on the Clamp Cable Network - Casablanca, now in colour with new improved happy ending!), Kander and Ebb musical numbers, Rambo, King Kong and Marathon Man's dentistry scene, re-enacted by a cross-eyed Gremlin version of Ed Wynn, ensuring that if you don't like one joke, another one you will like will probably be along soon. Tony Randell is the standout in the cast as the 'Brain' Gremlin, although John Glover's childishly enthusiastic, deliriously misguided and irrepressibly irresponsible Donald Trump-Ted Turneresque mogul nearly steals the show. Even Christopher Lee demonstrates the sense of humour that's so tragically lacking from the man in real life. You also get to see Jerry Goldsmith demonstrating why he never took up acting (Did she say she saw a rat?). Stupid fun was never so smart. "},{"Title":"A Real Lover of Original, but Willing to Admit Sequel Sucks","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First, my little back of obligatory backstory. I was 9 years old when the original GREMLINS was released. Probably smack dab in the middle of the perfect target audience for a fun little horror film full of gleeful gore and maniacal monsters. Due to many factors, a sequel to the mega-hit was not produced for some time afterwards. By the time this was released, I was then 15 and looking for something a little more from my entertainment. The sequel was, then, quickly relegated to a little corner of my memory.Years have elapsed. I have submersed myself in horror films and still, to this day, have an undying love of the original. I can see, now, all of the fun little horror tidbits that Dante hid in his movie for the more adult viewers, while spicing just enough family fun to keep the whole family interested.This movie, though, is lacking any of the charm and craft that made the original so good. What Dante and all involved seem to have forgotten is that the gremlins and mogwai became stars, but what made the original so successful was good writing, a good script and a good plot.This sequel seems hellbent on packing as many different gremlin creations and bad jokes as possible in its' runtime. There is almost no story developed here, at all, and the story that is doesn't make sense half of the time. The plot moves along just enough to propel the viewer from one gag to another, most of which are not funny by child or adult standards, that become a tireless, repetitive bore by the end. Naturally, most of these gags also serve to introduce us to a bevy of new characters, with their own personalities. Yes, it smells a little too much of marketing and the need to create new mogwai/gremlins as if they figured they missed out on something with only having Gizmo and Stripe as recognizable creations in the original. Most of these new creations are even more annoying than the gags.Even the human characters have become cardboard cutouts this time around. Billy and his girlfriend are barely there, just fodder for another gag, or when the plot is needed to move along to the next step. The corporate heads are interesting ideas that become convoluted and, mostly, generic. Even the great Christopher Lee is wasted here in a role that anyone could have filled, as a minor scientist who serves only to introduce the experiments that will, in turn, produce the gallery of gremlin hybrids.Many point out the fun easter eggs in this movie and how much this shows Dante's love of 50s sci fi. Yes, it is fun for a drive-in horror junkie like myself to find those hidden gems and appreciate all the little nods to films of past years that Dante worked in, but that doesn't even come close to saving this movie from being a mess.About halfway through this, my wife and I looked at each other and quickly realized exactly why we had both pushed this to the depths of our subconscious. If you removed the GREMLINS franchise name from this movie, you'd have nothing but a second-rate imitation, which is all this really is in the end. "},{"Title":"Some things should just be left alone.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just finished watching Gremlins 2, after I found it in the cheap movie bin at walmart. I remember seeing this one in the theatre back in 1990. It had the same affect on me as the Ghostbusters sequel.I saw the first one in theatres 6 years prior, and as a kid I loved the movie. I got sucked into the story, and cried at the end when they had to give gizmo back. It all took place in a small town, and it was a gem of a movie.Now I was 6 when I saw the first one, and flash forward six years later, and I'm on the verge of turning twelve when the sequel came out. Now 6 years is a long time in child years.So I had changed a lot, and my interest had changed. This sequel just didn't capture the magic a second time for me. I didn't like it, but at the time I couldn't put my finger on why I didn't like it.Now I can, I don't like the setting. Inside the high tech office building. Also this one is much less serious in tone then the first one. With the comedy going way more over the top. Where they break the third wall too many times for me, and it takes me out of the picture.Also the first one had such a sad, but nice ending. The first one is a great 80's film. One of the most memorable from that time.If your a fan of the first film then chances are you have seen this one, and if your not a fan of the first film. Then you most likely won't be bothered with this film at all.One last thing I'd like to add. This was a completely unnecessary sequel. The first one was a complete story, and adding anything more just waters things down. Some things should just be left alone. "},{"Title":"Big Disappointment Compared To The First One.Just Uses The Characters As Gags,","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 The New Batch is not a great movie and a very big disappointment compared to the original.Gizmo isn't that main,the main characters as the new Gremlins,who are causing trouble around a big building for half of the movie.The original is displayed in a sort of old fashioned neighborhood,this movie is completely different,its an a very futuristic place.Once the Gremlins turn into the monsters the whole plot just gets abandoned and its just gag after gag,at once stage they have to stop the whole movie and Hulk Hogan has to put the movie back on,what where they thinking,you can tell it wasn't written by Chris Columbus.The Gremlins have returned,Gizmo is found by a building where his old owner Billy is now working,and scientists give him water and multiply him.Then the other Gremlins are experimented on and one is able to talk,once again they are fed after midnight,and take total control of the building.Its up to Billy and Gizmo to save the day. "},{"Title":"A Gift of Love to Horror Fans... and Hulk Hogan","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Years after the original outbreak, Gizmo and the gremlins return... and invade the Clamp building (a parody of Trump Tower). Luckily, Billy and Kate are on hand to stop them again, and Dick Miller is ready to fight them to the death. Now in many assorted varieties (thanks to a genetics lab), the threat is bigger... but the laughs are harder.It's not unusual for horror sequels to become more and more humorous as they go. Child's Play slowly became a complete joke as the series went on. The same with Leprechaun. With Gremlins, it didn't take long at all -- Joe Dante not only mocks his first film but completely parodies it and turns it inside out. We are treated to an endless barrage of non sequitors, in-jokes, and homages to more than a few dozen movies. Most of the references are obscure (such as Dick Miller killing a gremlin in the same manner as his character Walter Paisley from A Bucket of Blood), but that's what makes the film viewable again and again.Those who loved the first may dislike the second, but those who disliked the first may like the second. That Dante is able to switch gears so smoothly is incredible. With the main characters remaining constant, it should bring appeal from one to the other. How often does a sequel keep the core cast and the director? And dudes, this was during Phoebe Cates' adorably cute phase. Not the sexy seductress of Fast Times, but a dollface you can't say no to.I watched this one right after Howling III as I was beginning to sober up from drinking Passport Scotch. I switched to Clan MacGregor Scotch, but my belly was full so I didn't drink nearly fast enough. But I think that's quite alright, as Gremlins II is a timeless classic that should be enjoyed with a clear mind. (But if you want to drink, drink... it won't make the film any worse.) Did I mention Christopher Lee is in here? He is. Why does he have a pod from Invasion of the Body Snatchers? Who knows! But his role as a scientist (not a mad one) is perfect for him, and a nice change from his Hammer horror roles as Dracula (though we still get a nice blood drinking reference). It might be one of the appearances by Lee I enjoy the most.If you mixed the original Gremlins with Muppets Take Manhattan (or maybe The Great Muppet Caper), it would be almost like this. Well, maybe not. I don't know. But if you get the chance to see Gremlins II, see it. You've probably already seen it, though, so why am I telling you to see it? You already know. For that one person who reads this that hasn't seen it, you should. Both horror and non-horror fans will love it. Perfect date movie? Perhaps! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first one","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 is a lot more light hearted than the first one. It takes itself a little less seriously but lacks some of the charm of the first one. The Gremlins mutations are fun to watch, especially the Brain Gremlin, but overall this movie falls a little flat. The cast does a decent job but there isn't a lot to do here. Some of the jokes fall flat and this film has none of the edge of the original. Looking back, I think perhaps it shouldn't have been made. Bottom Line It's not great but if you liked Gremlins you should at least watch it once. "},{"Title":"More laughs, more Gremlin and lot more fun. + 2 more stars","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gimo is back in the Shop from the first movie, A man who know his shop down, so could make massive shopping centre, few later the Owener of the shops died, then shop is destroyed but Gizmo makes it out alive and picked up by stranger.Billy and Girl friend have also returned to this sequel and they both work at the same place, The girl she tourist from place, while billy is architect. Billy dose not seem to like job cause he Bosse is a b, I can say word here, so going Ass-H**e.Then in every same place, there are scientist who are looking after Gizmo, Bily soon finds out that Gizmo is there and takes with him and he hides him in the drawn, The mega Boss come in, who loves Billy work.While everyone is on break, Billy tells his girlfriend to get Gizmo, meanwhile there cleaner who accident get Gizmo wet and more Gizo start popping out again. some of them are less goofy this around, they are bad even before they changed in the other Big Green.I really liked this movie, it great story, great plot and really funny.The acting from everyone was great. I gave 1st 10 out of 10, I going this movie 12 out of 12 "},{"Title":"Just imagine It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, I Dream of Jeannie, and any Mel Brooks movie all crashing head on into each other, and you've got Gremlins 2!","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Picking up where the original left off, the old Chinese man (Keye Luke) passes away and Mogwai escapes to an office building run by media mogul Daniel Clamp (John Glover), a man strangely resembling Donald Trump - with a bit of Ted Turner mixed in. Meanwhile, Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) and Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates) move to New York and come across Mogwai. But by that point, Mogwai has multiplied...and the duplicates are turning into gremlins.Actually, I didn't do a good job describing it there. The movie is a total slapstick comedy. Whereas the original was fairly dark, this one is zany. For starters, some of the gremlins talk. And this time, director Joe Dante decided to poke fun at the media and at the corporate world. To hilarious effect, I might add. Dick Miller (who always appears in Joe Dante's movies) reprises his role as grouchy Murray Futterman, visiting New York and joining in the fight against the gremlins.Anyway, Gremlins 2 The New Batch is a hoot. Almost every scene is a spoof of something, and you feel like you're going to die laughing. This movie truly gives sequels a good name. "},{"Title":"Extremely self indulgent.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After having a bout of nostalgia, I just finished watching a Gremlins 2-pack DVD set tonight.I have to say, I thought the first one holds up fairly well.However, the sequel sadly does not. I'm really quite surprised at the high number of positive reviews here.This film is terrible.Don't get me wrong, I love Joe Dante and I can see where he was coming from. He knew it was a totally unnecessary sequel, so he wanted to spoof the whole thing and just have a good time.He really should've stayed home. This is quite possibly the most self-indulgent, stupid, shallow mess of a film I've ever seen.There's virtually no plot to speak of. The supposed main characters run around like morons amongst a barrage of childish Gremlin gags. Most of which, are plain idiotic and verging on embarrassing.I felt for the actors here, as they really gave it their all.I know Dante is obsessed with Warner Bros cartoons, but including Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck in this film was totally unjustified and insipid. Their scene couldn't have been less funny and I can't believe Dante got away with it. In fact, I can't believe he got away with the whole movie. "}{"Title":"Disappointing Sequel","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The horror element of the original Gremlins is replaced entirely with lame comedy in this disappointing sequel. Zach Gilligan and Phoebe Cates return as Billy Peltzer and Kate Beringer, now living in the Big Apple. It's not long after their reunion with Gizmo (he's so cute it's sickening) that the little guy is accidentally hit with water and the villainous title characters return to wreak havoc. This time their target is a high-tech corporate skyscraper run by a Trump-like suit.Gremlins 2 The New Batch tries hard enough, and it's certainly original and creative. But it just never really clicks. The film plays like a bad episode of The Muppet Show as the cartoonish gremlins sing musical numbers, destroy property and morph into giant bats and spiders. It repeatedly attempts to poke fun at itself, but those efforts, too, fall flat on their face. Maybe the gremlins just aren't cut out for comedy. Chalk this one up as one of the weakest efforts from highly-talented director Joe Dante. "},{"Title":"Horribly unfunny, needlessly violent","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Six years after Gremlins, Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates are now grown up and living together in New York. But (for very convoluted reasons), Gizmo gets loose in their office building, he gets wet and....I first saw this in a theatre in 1990. About halfway through when the humor kicked into high gear the guy behind me said, This is STUPID! He said it a few more times before walking out. I agree with him 100%. Needless sequel to the 1984 original...and this manages to be much worse than the first. Like the original this one gets way too violent at times...there was an absolutely disgusting sequence with a paper shredder here. Also this isn't a horror film like the original. This is a spoof on the first. Unfortunately, there's no plot and zero characterizations. All it is is a truly incredible amount of jokes--sight gags and one-liners going fast and furious. Problem is that they're not funny...at all. I've seen this movie twice and haven't laughed once. Mostly I've rolled my eyes, groaned or have been disgusted at the humor in this film. Also the constant Warner Bros. product placement got annoying--and what the hell were Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and Porky Pig doing in this?As for the acting--Galligan and Cates are lousy (no shock there), but John Glover is just great as a Donald Trump-like character. He ALMOST got me to smile. Christopher Lee is also on hand to poke fun at his evil roles.On the plus side, the special effects are fantastic--even by today's standards, and the film was full of energy. I didn't like it but I was never bored. But it was too stupid and violent to enjoy. The 3 I'm giving this is generous. "},{"Title":"A not-so-fun sequel to Gremlins.","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) and Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates) return in this sequel, working at a giant media corporation. The Gremlin Gizmo has been captured and given to the corporation's genetics unit and, as a result, it gets accidentally exposed to water again and multiplies, sending a new batch of mischievous, hideous and dangerous little monsters lose on the entire building and its unsuspecting staff. This movie has more gremlins and them doing mischievous things than the first movie, messing with people and playing mean tricks left and right. The special effects on the monsters were good for the most part (some of the animated sequences does fall flat a little) and the music score was OK. However, the comedic and scary moments turn up flat as much of the acting was pretty goofy, including those of the monsters, and many of the characters acted like clowns, especially the dumb twins and the Media Mogul Daniel Clamp (John Glover). The plot went all over the place and wasn't kept quite together as that in the first movie and there were really no scary or jumpy moments. I wished the story showed more bewilderment and fear from the people who witnessed the gremlins' havoc; but, they just showed casual concern and intrigue.Overall, it's not a very good sequel. It doesn't have the character development, unique flavor and suspense as the original movie, instead, it's just a wild crazy-fest of gremlins and overzealous humans trying to deal with all the chaos. Stick with the original film. Grade D "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 what a f*cking train wreck!","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is by far, one of the worst movies I have ever seen. This movie is far worse than the first film, the first being mediocre and the second one's new subtitle suits it best! What makes this movie SO bad is the fact that the gremlins change versus the first movie, black gizmos, bad jokes, poor plot, and plot holes are VERY visible. This movie is sorta a copy of the original (plot wise) because in this movie there is an EXACT gremlin like the first one (Stripe) is back, except being a BLACK gremlin this time around. This movie's redeeming qualities are Gizmo being cute and adorable a being Rambo, some jokes are good and there are some good acting / actors in the movie. "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 the new batch ... of liberals / you have nothing else to read ?-Daffy (dvd)","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maybe Dante has done few movies, but they are all very funny and corrosive. Here, he delivers a sequel to his hit Christmas horror movie Gremlins. When i reviewed it, i found that it was a cartoon that was serious. Honestly, except Ghostbusters, i don't know any other movies that are so borderline between laughs and shrieks! Here's the balance is still there but the family values and country heart are left over for the big city and capitalism. Actually, how many movies say that corporations are dumb management, poor technology, oppression and are money blind? To find that here, it's rather surprising and i think that this was this political consciousness that took aback the audience.Beyond this, the Gremlins are really well done (and CGI can take lesson) and the fun is explosive the monsters attack their studio, their own film and the previous one, Daffy brings chaos (and great ideas for long, boring, meetings or courses...).Well, the script is full of great ideas and Dante reunites all the good cast from the first movie and Goldsmith is back as well with a great score! In conclusion, if the first one was mayhem at the home, sweet home, this one is carnage at the office ! "},{"Title":"Lovably outlandish and hilarious...","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's no other way to start this review If you liked Gremlins, odds are you'll like The New Batch. The sequel to the horror/comedy hit back in 1984 does something very few sequels accomplish It respects and stands along the original, but it's even more outrageous and hilarious. Folks, I'm not kidding; this is probably one of the strangest non-drug-induced-pretentious-art-films you will ever see. In spite of that, 'Gremlins 2' is gloriously entertaining and director Joe Dante is at the top of his game.It's been a while since Kingston Falls. Billy (Zach Galligan) and Kate (Phoebe Cates) have moved to New York to work for mogul DanieL Clamp (John Glover). Meanwhile, Gizmo is still at his little Chinatown shop, in mourning for his owner Mr. Wing (Keye Luke). When the shop is torn down, Gizmo escapes but is captured by a scientist from the genetics lab in Clamp's building. The inevitable happens, and now the Gremlins are bigger and badder thanks to the genetics lab. One gremlin's skin turns into vegetables, one becomes a bat, there's an electric gremlin, and there's even Brain Gremlin (voice of Tony Randall), a superintelligent little devil and the ringleader of the new batch. Can the Gremlins be prevented from overrunning New York? If you don't know the answer to that question, you haven't seen enough movies.The main attraction of the film is Gizmo and the Gremlins themselves. Gizmo in particular toughens up and takes a page from Rambo's book (this is funnier than it sounds). The Gremlins are not so much scary this time around; almost every scene with them has some measure of wit. The whole movie feels like a live-action Looney Tunes cartoon, and I cannot express how painfully hilarious 'Gremlins 2' is.The puppetry by Rick Baker is fantastic, the laughs are loud and frequent, and Joe Dante needs an AFI tribute pretty soon. What more could you want? "},{"Title":"This movie is more stupid than funny.","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first Gremlins movie was great. It combined humor with thrills, and was a good movie overall. Gremlins 2, however, was not. It tried so desperately to be as good as the original (such as the girl gremlin hitting on that guy near the end) but in the end just came out being foolish and boring. The movie is not terrible, but it is not good either, and I bet if they made this movie more like the first Gremlins, then I would be giving it a perfect score right now. But no, they had to screw it up. The only thing that brought this movie a lot of money was Brian Gremlin and the Gremlins' antics, and even those get poor after awhile. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A movie that I just don't find very funny anymore.","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first watched Gremlins 2 at a pretty young age. Approximately 9 or 10, and despite not having watched the first movie at the time and not knowing what the hell was going on, I absolutely loved it. At my age, this stuff was the pinnacle of comedic genius. My cousin and I would rent it nearly every time one of us visited each other and we'd laugh the night away at it.But around the ages of 14, my cousin and I, having not watched the movie in quite a long time, picked it up again. And, well, it just didn't seem very funny this time. Sure, there are still a few things that still give me a chuckle, but the mad laughter is long gone.10-12 is probably the ideal age to enjoy this movie. Anyone younger will probably find it too frightening, and anyone older probably won't find it funny. "},{"Title":"A goof...","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a goof movie ... Gremlins came out and was a mildly good scary movie.Then there was Gremlins The New Batch which was a parody of the first one and was not scary at all but actually made for a mildly good comedy.I would recommend this movie if you had seen the first Gremlins movie ... enjoyed it somewhat and were looking for a few laughs.Neither movie is the best at what they are trying to be ... the first one is a B rated horror flick and the second is a B rated comedy.Enjoy and Thanks for reading my review! "},{"Title":"Too much distance from the first film at the wrong time, not enough at the right time...","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1989 was a terrific year for sequels as four of them made it in the box-office Top 10, and three of them would actually have sequels. So I guess when Joe Dante was making the second opus of his 1984 hit Gremlins, the results of Ghostbusters 2, Lethal Weapon 2, Back to the Future part II&#x85; and on the top of them Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade probably made him believe his Gremlins 2 The New Batch, would be a sure lock for a great return of investment. It was not.Maybe 1990 wasn't such a good year for sequels after all&#x85; still, my jaw dropped when I read that the film only grossed 40 millions of dollars out of a slightly superior budget. I don't think it's a result even the most skeptical critics expected; something happened there, let's call it a disastrous and unfortunate accident, nothing that really speaks bad statements about the film's quality. It wouldn't have meant much either had the film made it in the Top 10, I don't think Ghostbusters 2 was anyway superior to Gremlins 2 but it must have met with the fans' expectations, they had their quartet, Billy Murray's wisecracks, a worthy villain and a larger-than-life last-minute savior&#x85; so it was worth the ticket and the popcorn box. So what exactly lacked in Gremlins 2? What didn't lack was the leading pair, Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates, the cute Gizmo, his evil descendants, including the Mohawk, and the unforgettable three rules that everyone forget. Was there a lack of originality? Not at all, the film does try to play in a different field than the first, starting with the setting. We're not in the Capra-esque Christmas small town but in New-York giant corporate skyscraper, governed by a Donald Trump-like character named Klamp, it's a terrific setting as it defiantly pretends to create a microcosm of the urban post-modern world in a rather confined environment&#x85; so that it ultimately becomes the Gremlins' ecosystem. Billy and his newlywed wife work together in the building, he's a shy and obedient executive and she's a competent hostess who tries to fit in New York and people's rude manners.The heroes are given more depth and character than in the first film but so are the Gremlins who're not just a generic group of monsters. You have the chief, the goofy one with bulging eyes, one with two visible front teeth, some others will be submitted to genetic transformations including gender-changes, one becomes a spider-hybrid, and another turns into electricity&#x85; no holds were barred, and we could as well have a Gremlin turning into an apple pie or a rubber duck. Too much fun kill the fun, and it's a pity because one special Gremlin was enough, you know which one I mean the intellectual sophisticated Gremlin (voiced by Tony Randall) who could finally raise the Gremlins' voices in a more interesting manner than their usually hyena-like giggling that quickly get tiresome. It's a pity that such a scene-stealing character blooms very late in the film, he's one of the things we remember and one of the aspects that subtly hints the sequel's satirical intent.Indeed, Gremlins 2 is not like any sequel. For one thing, it's pretty much aware of its status as a sequel and doesn't try to be a Gremlins in a building as Die Hard 2 was Die Hard in an airport. The film mocks its own material by toning down the gruesome violence of the Gremlins and emphasizing the jokes and humorous effects. But whether for the Bugs Bunny vs. Daffy opening and some weird comic moments involving a trap door, there is something desperately obvious in the way the filmmakers tell us this is a comedy and at the end, the good gags are quite lost in the midst of these frantic attempts to take distance from the original. Ultimately, what happens with Gremlins 2 is that it takes too much distance from the first film in the wrong time and not enough in the right time.Just when you expect the film to go a little further in its satirical approach, when you think the brainy Gremlin, after such a puzzling speech about the notion of civilization, will lead the Gremlins to something more transcending than the usual mayhem or chaos, well, then the film gets back to the whole 'kill them' issue and becomes a standard action movie. The problem is that the efforts to make the Gremlins look so unique and different didn't have, to me, the right pay-off. I actually felt sorry to see them being killed in an equally blind way, the evil savage ones just like the goofy ones, I would have just loved to see the brain Gremlin survive, because he actually had something more human than the others. Why let the 'action' devices kill the 'satire' ones? Gremlins 2 is undeniably original, and had better intentions than many more successful sequels, it was also served by a nice supporting cast, many prestigious cameos, from the Looney Tunes to Hulk Hogan, from Christopher Lee to Leonard Matlin, but its self-referential approach must have disrupted a majority of teenage fans who probably didn't get all the references to classic films like The Wizard of Oz or Marathon Man. I mentioned that the first movie also suffered from a kind of schizophrenia as it was trying to be a horror-B movie and a 'family' Christmas story, but those were twists in the formats while Gremlins 2 tries to be two different things tone-wise, and it didn't quite succeed although it had some great potential.Three years later, another movie would suffer the same fate, and would be a box-office flop due to a similar misunderstanding, Last Action Hero. These things happen and I guess some movies doesn't get the recognition they deserve. Bad luck. "}{"Title":"One of my all-time favourites","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are only very few films I give 10/10 points (the ones for my lonely island sojourn, so-to-speak) but Gremlins 2 is among them. It has everything that made Gremlins such a nice movie, plus an amount of satire and craziness that has been rarely paralleled before or since. It's as much fun and as irreverent as Life of Brian. There isn't a single take or artistic choice I didn't like here, everything fits, the timing is impeccable, no joke falls flat and even the musical number is hilarious. The actors had a great time it seems, it's the rare film where you can ham it up to such delirious heights.Plus, the film is stuffed with references to classics (I especially liked how they carried one of the pods from Bodysnatchers through the background in the biolab)My favourite character here, btw, is Microwave Marge. "},{"Title":"Good Gremlins Sequel!","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, John Glover, Robert Picardo, Robert Prosky, Haviland Morris, Christopher Lee and Dick Miller star in Joe Dante's 1990 horror comedy sequel. A couple try to stop a new wave of mischievous monsters attacking an office building. Billy (Galligan) and Kate (Cates) are now engaged and living in New York working at an office building owned by developer, Daniel Clamp (Glover). Billy finds Gizmo who has left his owner's building because of his passing. When Billy leaves Gizmo for a while, Gizmo gets wet and multiplies more mischievous monsters that begin wreaking havoc. Gizmo endures torture from his evil brothers, but eventually fights back while Billy and Kate try saving the Clamp building with help from Clamp himself. Picardo (The Howling, Innerspace) plays head of security, Forster, Morris (Sixteen Candles, Who's That Girl?) plays Billy's assistant, Marla, the late, Prosky (Christine) plays Dracula dressed host, Fred, Lee plays scientist, Catheter, Miller also reprises his role as Murray Futterman and Howie Mandel returns as the voice of Gizmo. There's also cameos by Dante, late great composer, Jerry Goldsmith & more. This is a good sequel and Rick Baker did excellent as usual creating the Gremlins in this. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 The New Batch","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 continues the story of Gizmo, the cute little toy like creature from the original. Of course along with Gizmo comes the rules that must be followed in order to keep the evil Gremlins from coming out and destroying everything in sight. The movie begins with the death of the old man who we saw in the first Gremlins that was taking care of Gizmo. Little Gizmo ends up being captured by a scientist who works at the Clamp Cable Network building in downtown New York City. Gremlins' two main characters Billy and Kate (Gallagan and Cates) return and are working in same building (Clamp office tower). It is there that the Gremlins break loose and take over the skyscraper. One of the rules to Gizmo is never get him wet. Of course, a plumber sprays water from a fountain and it hits Gizmo unleashing the devilish monsters.The story is basically that. But where the movie succeeds in is the actual portrayal of the monsters themselves. They were mischievous and comical in the first one, but they go all out for laughs in Gremlins 2. The Gremlins sing a rendition of Start Spreading the News, one of them wears make up and tries to be seductive, a few of them take over a cooking show being filmed in progress. It's all pretty funny stuff. The major problem I had with the first Gremlins was that it took itself WAY too serious. It's a movie about tiny monsters who terrorize a town, it isn't supposed to be realistic. This one recognizes that and milks every comedic moment for all it's worth.It's also good to see the continuation of Billy and Kate. They are now an actual couple, Zach Galligan and Pheobe Cates worked well together and were just as good in this one as they were in the first film. I also like the location of the office tower in New York, the interior adds much to the movie. Gremlins 2 is a good sequel to the enjoyable first film. Check it out.8/10 "},{"Title":"Gizmo","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 is an outstanding sequel to Gremlins. It takes a more comedic touch to the film and the end result is a highly funny and entertaining film.Billy and his girlfriend both work at a highly advanced building. Gizmo meanwhile has his owner die and is captured by a scientist who works at the same building that Billy works at. They get reunited and soon after Gizmo gets wet and this leads to a new batch of evil Mogwai getting created. Soon they eat after midnight and go on a destructive spree through the building.The story of this film works as a sequel. It is not just the same as the first one. This one gets to the action much quicker and this enables more fun to be had with more Gremlin time.The Gremlins have far more personality in this one. You get a lot of scenes with them doing hilarious stuff. You also get a wider variety of them with the potions in the science lab transforming them to different forms; electric, spider, and many others.Gizmo is great again, looking far cuter and having far more scenes that involve him. Howie Mandel once again is great as his voice. The main villain, Mohawk, is the most awesome Gremlin ever and is voiced by Frank Welker. Mohawk is outstanding and makes for some awesome cinematic excellence.The human characters are what they are, nothing special. I like how this film tends to be more about the Gremlins.A fun time, a great sequel. I find that this one is the better film and is a better one that applies to a wider range of viewers. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"This movie is in a class of it's own","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now most people say this movie is not as good as the original. Now in most cases that's true, but when you think about it they are two different movies. One is trying to scare you and the other tries to make you laugh. In my case it worked. The gags were funny, the acting was believable, mostly in the case of Robert Prosky, and the puppetry was unbelievable, I mean when the Brain Gremlin started talking it was like nothing I'd ever seen. You could argue the Muppets do a good job, but when do the Muppets use big words like civilazation or those weird Latin words for the Bat Gremlin. Plus the CGI was pretty good for its time, but the big money scene is the ending where they have the electricity go on for a pretty long time. "},{"Title":"Seen it about 36 times and it never gets old","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you're reading this and haven't seen the movie, watch the first one and expect every problem with the original fixed. It's not as scary as the original but how they try to fix the original mistakes is worth the watch if you're a fan of monster movies.If you've seen this read about the discussion about the rules, the mother & daughter leaving out of the theater and the Leonard Maltin scenes. They were some of the greatest moments in cinematic history when the movie breaks the fourth wall several times and tries to appeal to the haters of the first one.I rate it 10 outta 10 because of nostalgic memories but fair and square it's a hard 7.5 in my book. Worth the watch and sure would make you laugh with the corny things like the batman symbol or the Rambo montage. "},{"Title":"Good has the first one !","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember renting the first Gremlins at the video store when I was about 7 years old. I thought it was the best movie that I saw ! (This and Jurassic Park ). I also remember that not long after I rented the first one I rented the second one. At the time, I thought that the movie was somehow useless and silly. I really didn't like the idea of the gremlins metamorphosing and I HATED the intelligent gremlin. I pretty much didn't appreciated the movie. at that age, I would have give it a 5 maybe 6 on 10.After renting the first one a LOAD of times, I decided to rent Gremlins 2 again. I was about 7 ans a half.I remember that I still didn't thought it was really good but I had a better opinion on the movie. So I rented it again ... and again ... and again ... and a... . Each time the movie was getting better.And at the age that I'm right now, I give Gremlins 2 a 9/10 just like the first one. The movie is funny, gross ( when I was 7 ! ) and simply fun and entertaining ! I really recommend it to anyone that liked the first !!! "},{"Title":"Loads more fun","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The further adventures of Billy Peltzer, Gizzmo and the Gremlins take us to the Big Apple, and a hi-tech high rise where the very destructive creatures run riot once again.Joe Dante has outdone himself here with another clever, even more off-beat feature which is actually funnier than the first. The main source of humour this time is when the slimy Gremlins get hold of the building's genetic lab and change into some very unusual things, including 'bat-Gremlin', 'spider-Gremlin' and 'brainy-Gremlin' (a very funny character with voice by Tony Randall).The cast are again mostly resigned to the background except for a wonderful performance from John Glover as the wacky entrepreneur Clamp. Loads of fun once again!Monday, August 16, 1993 - T.V.The best thing about Joe Dante's hilarious, manic creature-feature is not only that it matches the first film for chaotic madness, but that it is done superbly tongue-in-cheek and actually manages to send itself and other movies up brilliantly.Dante paces the film perfectly, delivering very funny and consistent laughs as he mixes satire, slapstick and stupidity with aplomb. Gizzmo is sufficiently cute again, and the Gremlins nasty enough, while John Glover's fabulously off beat Clamp is a must and every bit as good as the rest of this film. Jerry Goldsmith provides a lively score.If you enjoyed Gremlins, don't miss this superior sequel.Sunday, April 17, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"Looney Tunes-like fun","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 could have been far worse. It could have been a cheap imitation of the original. Instead, the tone and style changed, so that a horror-comedy story became a tribute to the Looney Tunes' anarchic style of humour (and indeed, Looney Tunes characters Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck make actual appearances.) Even the music feels more cartoonish. The sharp break in style makes one hesitant to say that Gremlins and Gremlins 2 exist in the same continuity, but Gremlins 2 nevertheless picks up on the original's story, as Billy and the strange creature Gizmo are reunited in New York City. Billy intends to take Gizmo home, but carelessness causes Gizmo to multiply, creating more of the villainous gremlins who spread destruction throughout the building.Gremlins 2 gives more diversity among the gremlins to ensure this film will be sufficiently different from the original; the gremlins are their own characters and some of them mutate further. The comedy is off the wall, and one has to give the movie credit for doing what it set out to do. But in the same way, one can't quite call it a masterpiece because it does not try to be one. There's little plot, and it's over the top- but it's undeniably fun. "},{"Title":"Summary line may contain spoiler(s) ...","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ... that's why I haven't written it above, but here goes Gremlins Redux - Or how to spoof everything you've done in Part 1It was a high risk the studio took, when they green-lit this movie, but I think they did the right thing! And I thank them for the ... 50 Million Dollars budget they gave ...Dante again as director completely spoofed his first movie. Can't feed the Gremlins after midnight? Western Time or Eastern time and so forth, you heard the jokes in the movie. The Why I hate Christmas is repeated here, with something else Phoebe hates ... oh and then the film break! I would've loved to be in the theatre when that happened! That was a really brave thing to do! Interestingly enough they filmed another version for the TV version of the film ... but that cinema scene is just great! o)This comedy/horror, which literally does not take any prisoners (even Gizmo turns bad), is a real treat! And I stand by that! "}{"Title":"Amusing sequel to Gremlins is more funny than scary.","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Six years later... Now Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) and his girlfriend (Phoebe Cates) are now working and living in New York City for a major business/television network. When Billy finds out that his little friend Gizmo (Voiced by Howie Mandel) is actually in the building. When Billy saves Gizmo from a scientific lab from doing experimental work on animals. Then Billy leaves Gizmo in his office for business. Gizmo gets accidentally wet and gives birth to a new batch of mischievous green meanies are on the loose.Directed by Joe Dante (The Howling, Innerscape, Matine) made a loose, wild, wacky and out of control sequel to the original. This has mostly the same cast and crew, who worked on the first film. This is very different from the film film, which is lighter and funnier. But less on horror and violence. Some might prefer this more to the original. This wasn't a huge hit in theater but it did much better on video.DVD's has an strong anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has plenty of extras, including an running commentary track by the filmmakers, deleted scenes, outtakes and more. DVD of Gremlins 2 is the original theatrical version, which we see Hulk Hogan in a cameo appearance. Videocasette version was the late John Waybe in a dubbed voice (Which is included on DVD as a hidden feature). Executive produced by Steven Spielberg. Watch for the late Oscar-WinnerJerry Goldsmith, Jason Presson, film criticLeonard Maltin, Herny Gibson, Rick Ducommun, filmmakerJoe Dante and more in amusing gratuitous cameo appearances. John Glover is amusing as a Ted Turner/Donald Trump type role and Christopher Lee is a delight as the scientist. The late Tony Randall is the voice of Brain Gremlin. Be sure to watch through the end credits. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"New critters, same old humor, same enjoyable fun!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2, the follow-up movie seems to be a lot more intriguing than of the latter. Without Hoyt Axton, this movie proves that his son Billy(Zach Galligan) has wised up. After the passing of his owner, Gizmo, the Mogwai sets out into the world he once saw. After he ventures out he is discovered by two twin assistant scientists of the Clamp company. Billy works there now, and his girlfriend(Phoebe Cates) works there too. The scientists are the ones who breaks the rules of the Mogwai, and the batches they created are way more colorful, and a lot more menacing than Stripe and his crew. The Brain Gremlin(Tony Randall) has a lot more class. Then you have a Gargoyle Gremlin, the Arachnid(Spider) Gremlin, the Electro-Gremlin, and goofy-one, and the every voluptuous Lady Gremlin. I like the part where Billy's assistant, and his girlfriend got trapped by the Spider-Gremlin, and Gizmo gets Rambo on it. He was pushed too far. And it took a lot of teamwork to stop those horrendous creatures. But the real humorous part is where the Gremlins put up a little porn which riles wrestler Hulk Hogan. At least no one should set him off. This movie has a lot more humor than horror, and it was a little wild in the middle, but other than that, it was a lot of fun to see. Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Deranged Comic-Horror Sequel With The Gremlins Loose In An NYC Skyscraper","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy and Kate have moved to New York City, where they work for big-time tycoon Daniel Clamp in his super-futuristic skyscraper. Billy discovers that Gizmo is being held in a genetics lab in the building and rescues him but inevitably disaster strikes and soon an army of gremlins are rampaging through the building, waiting for nightfall so they can do some good old New York sightseeing. Can Billy and his friends stop them ?This hilarious sequel doesn't really work as a dramatic movie because it sort of breaks down about halfway through into a series of completely insane scenes (like Nightbreed or Weekend). However, if you can get past that, it is one of the most gloriously satirical, goofy, eye-popping, self-deprecating, completely nutty films ever made. Dante was given a blank cheque by Warner Brothers to make a sequel and he, producer Mike Finnell and writer Charlie Haas created the closest thing to a live action cartoon, in which they take adolescent potshots at anything that sprung to mind. Its chief target is corporate big business (the Clamp building is a disaster zone where nothing works even before the gremlins start destroying it and the employees are treated like cattle) but cable TV, health food, movie sequels and critics (Leonard Maltin gets killed, woohoo !), tacky restaurants, tourism and genetic research (Christopher Lee's lab is called Splice O'Life) are all mercilessly laid into. The special effects, by the great Rick Baker, probably constitute the most amazing puppet-show ever conceived (the only contenders being Jim Henson's movies); Gizmo is incredibly expressive, walks, dances, clambers around and pulls off whole dramatic scenes by himself, and we have hundreds of standard gremlins, plus a Mohawk gremlin, a Brain gremlin, a Gargoyle gremlin, an Electric gremlin, a Giant Spider gremlin, all of whom are simply stunning. The scale of the effects work is just dazzling, as is James Spencer's incredible production design work on the Clamp building, which is alternately inspiring and horrifying, and there is a great little cartoon by Chuck Jones which bookends the movie. The large cast are adorable - no movie stars, just funny, talented actors giving their all in the face of the craziness. Galligan and Cates are great again (don't miss the bit where she spoofs her Why I Hate Christmas speech from the original), Prosky is sensational as Grandpa Fred, the caped horror-host with more serious journalistic aspirations, wild-looking orange-haired Morris gives probably the definitive yuppie performance of the era, Glover has a lot of fun playing the Donald Trump caricature as an aw-shucks Big Kid, Lee is truly wonderful as the much put-upon Dr Catheter, Picardo suffers even more indignities than usual in one of Dante's films, Keye Luke, Dick Miller and Jackie Joseph all reprise their roles from the original, and there are a whole host of great bit players, notably John Astin, Belinda Balaski, Paul Bartel, Rick DuCommun, Henry Gibson, Archie Hahn, Hulk Hogan, Kenneth Tobey and even Dante himself, as Grandpa Fred's TV director. I prefaced this review by noting that if you want to watch a regular movie you should avoid this, but it really is unmissable, for one scene in particular, where the gremlins literally break the movie and replace it with a fifties nudie-cutie. This set-piece is, in my opinion, the craziest and most daring gag I've ever seen in a movie. A riot. "},{"Title":"One of the few great movie sequels","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 is the sequel to Gremlins and most of the cast returns from the original. Unlike movies like Ghoulies or Critters this sequel lives up to its original (although I still prefer the first one). The score is great, the classic theme returns and the music is original and spectacular. Although the Gremlins look a little different they still have their same devilish attitude's along with a few new gremlins.This movie is fun and creative and I really enjoyed watching it, even though it is slightly lighter then the first film. Move over Care bears, the Gremlins are back! "},{"Title":"start spreadin the news.....i'm leavin todayyyyyy","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was much funnier than the original but had a lot less deaths...in fact the only people that die in this movie compared to the original are the gremlins.The cast was fine but the stars of the show were The Gremsters as Hogan calls them. Wired, Spider, Batty, Brain, Hottie, Stogie, Dummy, Electric, Fruity just to name a few. I like how they gave them all sorts of persona's instead of generic ones.The Brain gremlin had an interesting roll and was actually likable, Wired was hilarious especially when he was throwing the food at everyone. Spider, Stogie and Dummy were basically the 3 stooges bumbling around. It was a grand effort to make the public laugh and it worked.I like how they got Gette Watanabe from Gung Ho and Sixteen Candles to play the cameraman for Uncle Fred...and his friends.GREAT movie with some cool cameos (depending on the VHS or DVD version...VHS has John Wayne, DVD has Hulk Hogan) and unforgettable scenes (Brain singing New York, New York with Wired, Stogie etc playing the instruments)8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not the best batch","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here, unfortunately we have another misfire of a sequel, but not entirely all the the way. This enthusiastic effort (I'm talking mostly Gremlin shared time), is slow to start, as we await those ugly, mischievous creatures, to cause mischief and mayhem. Although separated from this band of ugly creatures, is the cutish Gizmo, who, nicey nice Galligan, ends up saving again. This is quite a colorful sequel, that didn't really impress me, as treading familiar territory, with same go through the motions of story, where the six year absence doesn't help. What this unfunny but trying sequel, has going for it are some great performances from bit players, Glover, Lee, Miller, and a redheaded cutie, making the moves on Galligan. What we do have too, which I did find repulsively cute, was the female sexed up Gremlin, with much over applied lipstick, who takes a shine, to an arsehole of an employee. Glover's scenes are great though, putting life into his role, a trait this great character actor has, with all his dine work. We have a minor violent moment, which doesn't let us forget what these ugly moguls are capable of. All in all, this is a film, families and older kiddies will enjoy, where for some Gremlin fans, their expectations, might come up a little short. "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 The New Batch","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Joe Dante (The Howling, Small Soldiers) returns with this sequel to the comedy horror that was supposed to be a kids' film, but with too many scary moments it got a 15 certificate, so they did their best to keep this one more family oriented. Basically Mr. Wing (Keye Luke) has died, and his Mogwai, Gizmo, has been captured by the scientific minds inside the genetics lab of a big New York business owned by mogul Daniel Clamp (John Glover). Working in the big office of New York are old friends Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) and Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates), and when Billy finds out Gizmo is in the building he is keen to take care of him. Kate is very worried knowing what happened last time when they forgot out the three rules, keep him away from bright lights especially sunlight which kills him, don't get him wet or they multiply, and don't feed them after midnight or they transform. Of course, once again these rules are unintentionally broken, and a new batch of Mogwai, soon to become nasty and ugly Gremlins, are set loose to cause chaos in the building. But the bigger problem with this new litter is that they are slurping their way through the various chemicals in the laboratory, giving hem many abilities, including speech, wings, arachnid qualities, and even stuff that stops their allergic reaction to sunlight. Of course as soon as gets dark outside that is when the Gremlins plan to break out into the city, but the humans have a plan to fool them into thinking it is dark, and in the end, they all get electrocuted to death. Also starring Mrs. Doubtfire's Robert Prosky as Grandpa Fred, Star Trek Voyager's Robert Picardo as Forster, Howie Mandel as Gizmo, Tony Randall as Brain Gremlin, Sir Christopher Lee as Doctor Catheter, Home Alone 3's Haviland Morris as Marla Bloodstone, Dick Miller as Murray Futterman, Jackie Joseph as Sheila Futterman, Keye Luke as Mr. Wing, Jerry Goldsmith as Yogurt Customer, Leonard Maltin, Police Academy's Bubba Smith and Hulk Hogan. The animatronic and small computer effects for the Gremlin creatures still do reasonably well, I like the fact that the film has in-jokes based on its own predecessor, as well as spoofing many other things, it certainly seems to be more childish, but that's not such a bad thing. Okay! "},{"Title":"Gremlins vs Donald Trump, in a morality lesson's movie","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins, as usually happens with very popular and profitable films, gave rise to a sequel where the whole story of the first film is repeated, giving reason to the old saying according to which we're doomed to repeat the same mistakes until learn with them. This time, however, the monsters are going to storm a skyscraper, home to an important corporation run by an individual who, at first glance, looks like a caricature of Donald Trump. The unfortunate mogwai, a friendly creature who, unwillingly, gives birth to this plague when it's not treated in accordance with strict safety rules, will therefore try to help humans put them down again.The direction and production crew remains basically the same from the first film and the script remains in Chris Columbus hands. Steven Spielberg continues as executive producer, but definitely is no longer needed his help to sell the film the sweetness of Gizmo and the hilarious tricks of the Gremlins sell for themselves. This film is often labeled a horror comedy, like its predecessor, but I consider it too soft to be horror. Didactic and educational messages from the first film are still present, making it a didactic comedy designed to teach young people. Particularly interesting, however, it's the fact that the monster's target is an impersonal capitalist corporation, similar like many other in our times and more concerned with profits and buildings than human or ethical issues. Is this an implicit morality lesson? Perhaps. See for yourself and gather the family, it's a fun movie and will surely provide many laughs. "},{"Title":"looking for horror and got satire instead","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In NYC, billionaire Daniel Clamp (John Glover) wants to buy out Mr. Wing who is holding up his Chinatown project. Forester (Robert Picardo) runs Clamp's security. After Mr. Wing's death, Gizmo barely escapes the demolition. He is captured and then used by Clamp researcher Dr. Catheter (Christopher Lee). Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) is looking to marry Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates). They both work in the self-contained Clamp Center. Grandpa Fred (Robert Prosky) does a kiddie vampire show for Clamp's TV network.The strange thing about this sequel is that it's going in a different direction. I love the original which is surprisingly scary underneath its family movie facade. This one has a scary spider hybrid. Most of the time, it's having fun with the genre. It's full of modern references and even self-referencing with Leonard Maltin. It's great to have the two leads return for continuity. Overall, the campiness isn't what I want from this franchise but it's still a pretty good time. "},{"Title":"Rivals The Original","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another Gremlins movie filled with chaos and fun that for some reason, is usually thought of as a bad movie! I don't understand why so many people don't like this film. If anything it should be thought as on the same level of good as the first. Gremlins 2 does exactly what you would want from a Gremlins sequel, it ups the chaos, introduces new and memorable gremlins such as Mohawk, Greta and Brain, and explores all new possibilities, such as mutant gremlins. But it doesn't just rely on the gremlins for it's comedy, it also has many extremely funny moments in how it does satire of TV and large corporations. It even makes fun of itself, making jokes based on problems from the original and the concept of the Gremlins. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who enjoyed the original film. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable sequel","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't help but think that Joe Dante took on Gremlins 2 so that he could poke fun at . . . well, pretty much everything. Like it's all one big prank. Not only does he put Gizmo through hell (again), but there are joking shots taken at Warner Bros., Leonard Maltin, a cartoonishly draconian corporate culture, and even the 3 Mogwai rules get made fun of. I'm pretty sure this is set in a cutting-edge high-rise just so Dante can delight in trashing the hell out of it.It's probably not as memorable as the first, but I do like a lot of the gags herein. Great mischievous sense of humor (*the theater hijacking was cute). I can see why they never went ahead with a third movie; when Rambo Gizmo takes on a tarantula Gremlin, that's probably as far as you can take this. Which isn't a bad thing; at least there's no more female Gremlin (shudder).7/10 "},{"Title":"The New Batch Needs Seasoning.","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 The New Batch (1990) Dir Joe Dante / Cast Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, John Glover, Dick Miller, Robert Prosky Sequel transpires as a comedy and creates many different types of Gremlins that devour lab chemicals. Types including bat wing, spider legs, electric, and even a talking Gremlin. It is a new batch indeed, but the same old story in a different location for chaos. Visual effects are spectacular but story is lacking. Gizmo's home is destroyed and he is taken to Clamp Plaza, owned by a good natured tycoon. Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates return as employees at the Plaza and are eventually reunited with Gizmo. Director Joe Dante has fun with the gadgets yet creates virtually the same film. Other than the first Gremlins he also directed The Howling and Piranha. Galligan and Cates are reduced to props who go through the same faze. Dick Miller also returns as the neighbor who is still paranoid over the events of the first film so it is convenient that he will have to face his fear and step up. The only real interesting performance is John Glover who steals scenes as Mr. Clamp who tries to do what's best and is responsible for the few laughs available. Robert Prosky provides amusing as an entertainer who conducts an up and close interview with the gremlin that speaks. While the visual effects are inventive, what the movie really needed is a new batch of screenwriters. Score 5  / 10 "},{"Title":"You make a place for things... things come.","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After Mr. Wing dies and his curio shop is demolished, Gizmo is found in alley and taken to Clamp Enterprises, where he is to be subjected to animal testing. Luckily for Gizmo, Billy (Zach Galligan) also works at Clamp. When he discovers Gizmo is about to be experimented on, he rescues him. But, sure enough, Gizmo gets wet and before you know it the Clamp building is crawling with gremlins.Sequel to Gremlins doesn't have as much charming devilry as the first film. This one is much more like a big cartoon with a heavy emphasis on comedy. It's still enjoyable on that level, however. Just temper expectations if you're a big fan of Gremlins. Some of the cast from the first movie returns here and all do fine. There are several new people and I didn't have a problem with most of them. The one that bugged me, however, was Haviland Morris. Her performance was pretty weak (that fake accent -- ugh!) and I just couldn't wait for her to get off my screen. As expected, Rick Baker's gremlins are the real star. He goes all out this time and tops the first film with a variety of gremlins doing all kinds of wacky things. 'Wacky' is the word that best describes this movie. Joe Dante lets his inner Looney Tunes fan go wild here. That won't appeal to everybody. Some will love it, some will hate it, some will be in the middle (like me). If you liked the first movie, of course you should try this one. But be prepared it's not as interesting or satisfying as Gremlins. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am aware of much of the criticism around this movie, claiming it is awful and not worth seeing. To all those who have said these things, I just have to ask What movie were you watching? If you haven't seen this film for quite some time, then I highly suggest that you do see it soon. Film editing coincides with plot pacing, and ranges from slow to super fast. Acting is all-around good. The first 30 minutes are is a lot of fun and rather cleverly made. The music is amazing throughout. Also the scenery is incredible. Sometimes it is disgusting. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast. I award it a rating of 7/10. "},{"Title":"Amusing enough but lacking the depth of the original - 67%","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Now here's a blast from the past and a real milestone for me personally, being the first film I ever recorded onto VCR. OK so maybe not that important but a long time ago, this movie kept me entertained for many a month. Looking at it now, I'm pleased that the anarchic sense of fun remains and it's still a surprisingly solid watch. But the humour has dated somewhat, making it feel older than it is and some of the satirical moments in the picture ended up more like predictions. Don't worry if you haven't seen the first film because it doesn't matter too much - it does spend a long time getting up to speed before the chaos is unleashed.Having moved away from small-town Kingston Falls, young couple Billy (Zach Galligan) and Kate (Phoebe Cates) move to New York and both find jobs working for media mogul Daniel Clamp (John Glover) - Billy as an architect and Kate as a tour guide for Clamp's enormous skyscraper. Meanwhile, cute mogwai Gizmo (voiced by Howie Mandel) is captured by two researchers based in Clamp's building under the sinister leadership of Dr Catheter (Christopher Lee). When Billy discovers Gizmo is in the building, he quickly rescues Gizmo from the genetic scientists and plans to keep him safe before he spawns any more monsters. But fate has other plans and before long, the building is awash with thousands of gremlins which create havoc for the occupants. Can Billy and Kate save the day along with their old neighbour Murray (Dick Miller) before the gremlins escape the building and create chaos in the Big Apple?While nowhere near as dark as the first film, Gremlins 2 The New Batch is considerably more inventive as the different types of gremlin seem to number in the hundreds. There's the brainy, talkative one who appoints himself leader, there's a spider-based one, another who is merged with a bat and has built-in sun-block, a disturbingly feminine one... the list goes on. A pity, then, that we have to wait a while before anything of interest happens. But when it does, the movie kinda goes off the rails in the same way the Clamp building does. Take the moment when it appears the Gremlins have actually interrupted the showing of the film itself, making shadow puppets on the silver screen in front of you, before Hulk Hogan (no less) restores order and the film continues. It must have looked good on paper but it doesn't translate that well. It's as though director Joe Dante couldn't keep a lid on the sheer number of ideas and monsters on screen, letting the imagination get the better of him. Galligan and Cates are every bit the sweetheart couple they should be but credit to Glover for his performance, creating a hideous hybrid of Donald Trump and Ted Turner and playing it for laughs. And that is probably what saves the picture - this time around, the comedy is ramped up while the horror element is reduced to a couple of scary scenes. It is fun without being side-splittingly funny although viewers used to seeing Robert Picardo as the bald holographic doctor in Star Trek Voyager will be amused to see him with a full head of hair.The film's true strength lies with the actual making of it. Seeing the lobby awash with gremlins, swinging from the lights and indulging in a shameless song-and-dance routine is a sight to behold - the mechanics of so many puppets must have been mind-boggling. You really sense that they went to town with what was possible and even these days in the era of near-constant CG, it has an old-school charm to it that I suspect any remake would lack. But Gremlins 2 is an amusing watch that is much smarter than it initially appears, despite the slapstick violence and comic creatures. It knows that it's a sequel and that it is focused solely on making a profit, instead of telling a one-off story. So it designed to be a throwaway movie, entertaining for its duration but not exactly hanging around in the memory once the credits have finished. Part of me wishes a modern Gremlins movie would appear, given how far technology has advanced (and imagine how happy Andy Serkis would be!) but another part of me says no. Once you've gotten the joke, it wears pretty thin after a while and outstays its welcome. My advice? Stick with the first one. "},{"Title":"Here they grow again...","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The rules are the same and this time Billy and everyone's favourite Mogwai, Gizmo, must face off a new batch of Gremlins that definitely think that New York is their kind of town.This film starred Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates & Dick Miller.Gremlins 2 is not as good as Gremlins 1 but it is still an OK film, The first time I saw this film I loved the first film so this was a massive disappointment for me. However, now I don't think that Gremlins 1 is a great film, so I can tolerate this film and I do get a couple of laughs from this film.***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"Occasionally inspired, but too silly","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first act of Gremlins 2 is bad. How Gizmo is found by Billy, how Gizmo gets wet and spawns all of the gremlins, Billy's annoying boss who aggressively wants Billy -- this makes for some terrible entertainment. As little effort was put into the set-up, the rest of the film is almost all payoff. The remaining 2 acts have basically no plot, just random scenes of Gremlins causing mayhem and they could have been edited in almost any order, but this is where Dante shines. It's basically violent Looney Tunes with Gremlins. Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates barely register as a presence, but it's the Gremlins show this time around. It's a silly film and the puppet work and animatronics are great. "},{"Title":"A meta and surreal sequel","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1984's Gremlins is a renounced cult classic of a film, having fans the world over and after a six year break director Joe Dante returned to the series, making a much more comic and surreal sequel.After the events of the first film Billy (Zach Galligan) and Kate (Phoebe Cates) have moved to New York City, working for Clamp Enterprises, Billy as a concept artist and Kate as a tour guide. Clamp Enterprises is a company with its fingers in many pies, including cable television and genetic engineering. Billy finds Gizmo in the lab having been captured after his owner in Chinatown dies. But soon more gremlins are created and run havoc and in the genetic lab the research allows the gremlins new abilities.Gremlins 2 The New Batch is very anarchical film, being very like a live action cartoon and breaks the fourth wall many times. Dante made a very self aware film being surreal with moments like film critic Leonard Martin reviewing the first film, the gremlins interrupting the film and a cameo from Hulk Hogan. Gremlins 2 is also self-referential, such as when Kate is about to tell another sad story of life, but told she hasn't got time to tell it.Gremlins 2 is much lighter in tone to its predecessor, filled with parodies of other films, particularly Rambo 2 and B-Movies. There is also satirise about the controlling, conformist world of this conglomerate, stamping out all individuality and the security team constantly watching for any infringement of their strict rules. The media is attacked and they are constantly jokes in the background, from the failed technology (reminiscent to Billy's dad's failed inventions) and announcements made to the building.Christopher Lee clearly enjoyed his role as the mad scientist who relished his work and gleeful when he has samples of diseases, be very much a B-Movie character he was known for playing. John Glover too was fun as the eccentric billionaire who is enthusiastic and naive and not an evil tycoon.Gremlins 2 The New Batch is a truly meta sequel, a post-modern deconstruction of sequels which had a really bad name at the time of when it was made. It is self-reference and breaks the fourth wall and it is easy this film can divide people into camps either loving or hating it. It is a funny film for the most part. "},{"Title":"Bright Lights, Big City & Batch On","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The very late 80s and early 90s, I exploded in film-watching. I saw everything and anything, good or bad, mostly horror and action/adventure and sometimes not. Coming off my all-time, and since, favorite movie summer, 1989, I was anxious to have 1990 impress me even more. Sadly, it did not, but one gem that's stuck with me ever since Summer 1990 was Gremlins 2 The New Batch.Admittedly, it's silly, sometimes over-the-top and some of the special effects looked cheesy, even back then, and yet&#x85;I had a blast almost double than I had for the original.Sure, I know the 1984 Gremlins original is considered a cult-classic and beloved by many, but since I wouldn't have even seen that movie (see my Gremlins review on why, but suffice to say, my mother warned me it was satanic and I was too young to make my own movie-watching decisions) for a few years following this, I basically grew up with this movie first instead of part one.Also, the comedy &#x96; there was 10x more comedy than the original and actually a lot less horror, had me rolling. The homage scenes and props were great and seemed to be multiplied from the original. Further, I loved the adventure and the grandiose of it all &#x96; I wouldn't have anything to compare it to since I hadn't at this point seen the original, but from the background story, I could piece together that they made this bigger. And finally, of course, I loved Gizmo, but by far, my favorite character and scenes involved Brian Gremlin, voiced incredibly by Tony Randall.Basically, it's a retelling of the original, but in the Big Apple, specifically a Trump-esque building. Gizmo's back and though milder than his inevitable offspring, he's still mischievous and the original, albeit questionable, rules involving this Mogwai creature, are broken again. Hell breaks hilariously loose in the building and our original heroes, who are older, but not surprisingly, look the same as they did when they were teens, have to stop the madness.It's not groundbreaking and not meant to be deep, but it's a helluva ride and has a ton of cameos and side-characters/actors that I loved, like Kathleen Freeman, their television's Microwave Marge, the wonderful John Glover, my personal favorite Star Trek Doctor, Robert Picardo, Christopher Lee and Leonard Maltin's mocking himself and the original movie. Brilliant.While it's good to see the original, do not miss this incredibly fun (and funny) follow-up.* * * Final thoughts Gizmo's still great, with the exception of his bad FX running, and Mohawk, who replaced Stripe as the original movie's evil leader, was good, but this movie belongs to Brain Gremlin. The on-screen interview is worth watching the entire movie for. "},{"Title":"more laughs less scares still works","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first was 4/5 and this one is more like 3/5. The less scares still works, but a little more creepy would be better. The idea of the gremlins mutating was fun and the effects for it were great(I would have gone without the flying gremlins defeat so quickly.) The animation for gizmo's dancing scene was hardly noticeable but still displeasing. Don't get me wrong, i still loved this movie, but it was not as good as #1. My last con is the gremlins interrupting the film. This was okay, but I think they could have gone without it(but I heard they got read of it in the DVD version.) The rest of the movie was done well and all the movie references were funny. The scene were the female lead is attacked in the elevator was cool and so was the scene were the other gremlins came into the picture. It does have it's cons, but over all gremlins II is worth seeing and very entertaining "}{"Title":"Not as excellent as the first, but an underrated sequel nonetheless","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back at 1984, Joe Dante and Steven Spielberg produced a monster film known as Gremlins, a tale about a boy who receives a pet creature for Christmas, but when he breaks all three of the rules about his creature named Mogwai, the furry creature turns into a monster, thus creating an army of hellish looking devils to cause mischief to his hometown at Kingston Falls. The reception was mixed at first, but it quickly received positive feedback and became a huge hit at the box office. Since it was so popular, Joe Dante decides to make a sequel six years later at 1990 known as Gremlins 2 The New Batch.The story continues a few years later after the incident where Billy and Kate move to New York by working for Daniel Clamp. Meanwhile, after the owner of the creature named Gizmo dies, Gizmo gets wet by water once again and a new gremlin species is born. So, when they cause trouble this time at the Big Apple, Billy along with some of his old friends from the original try to destroy them once and for all.When it comes to sequels that would either surpass the original or just being plain horrible, this one is a very good sequel, but not nearly as excellent as the first since there are a few flaws that ruined the film for me even when I saw it a few years ago as a child. The story in the first was great and had an excellent mixture of horror and comedy while the story in this sequel was only comedy and slapstick, which makes it much less darker, but not only that. It seems to be at the predictability level and only one or two scenes didn't actually impress me.Flaws aside, there are some redeeming qualities. The acting is great with the main leads having some great chemistry once again and the voice cast for the gremlins is great too. The script has some funny moments and I liked the way they parodied The Wizard of Oz, Marathon Man, and The Phantom of the Opera, which is quite clever. It also has some efficient direction from Joe Dante and the music from Jerry Goldsmith is the epitome of magnificence.Overall, Gremlins 2 The New Batch isn't nearly as excellent as the original, but it is an underrated sequel that it's a shame that this failed at the box office. It's much worth-watching and I think that it'll make you laugh a lot more even for fans of the original. Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"It's A Ten! It's A Ten!","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Day 7 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Joe Dante returns with a very fun sequel Gremlins 2 The New Batch. The film is about Billy played again by Zack Galligan rescuing Gizmo voiced by Howie Mandell from an evil scientist played by Christopher Lee. Although trouble comes when Gizmo has water spilt on him and the fun starts up again. The story is excellent the acting is terrific the music is creepy and it is way better and funnier than the first. I certainly recommend it.Rated PG-13 For Mild Violence, Acts Of Mayhem And Language.1hr 47min/107min.****/**** "},{"Title":"There Back!","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The little green monsters are back after 6 long years! Gremlins 2 The New Batch is a fun and enjoyable film that has less of the scary moments the first offered but it does have a lot more humour and light hearted jokes.It must be said that Gremlins 2 IS a self-satire movie and intentionally makes fun of its self and the original.Now don't expect what you got from the original, II is a different beast but still thoroughly enjoyable but doesn't quite have what the original does, but what sequel does? Unfortunately i think this movie falls down due to the length of time they waited to make it, it doesn't seem like a sequel.Gremlins 2 is a very enjoyable sequel and i urge you to give it a view if you have never experienced it. Oh and watch out for the many cameo's throughout the film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A brilliant, and underrated comedy","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What I love about GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH, is the fact that as a sequel, it fundamentally changes the format of its franchise &#x96; something even Spielberg's own sequels haven't ventured to do. (TEMPLE OF DOOM being the exception.) GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH, is a film not made to the specifications of its original. Sure, the same rules apply to the little buggers, but this is a film that amps up the comedy of its premise to an almost Mel Brooksian level, while cutting back on the horror element of its significantly scarier predecessor. A wise decision; once you've seen the Gremlins metamorphose once, it's diminishing returns from there on out. Dante and writer Charlie Haas clearly understand this &#x96; so rather than duplicate beat-for-beat that thing that made them rich the first time, they take a different tack, essentially switching genre, and garnering superior, though less financially lucrative, results. That's called risk-taking. And it's something you don't frequently see in studio film-making.I have some more thoughts on the matter, too... Follow the link to STEVEN SPIELBLOG.COM! http//stevenspielblog.com/ "},{"Title":"Doesn't take itself seriously... and it succeeded","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. It's funny, has some interesting Gremlin designs (The spider version of Mohawk is cool looking), great animatronic and puppet effects (they still hold up after nearly 19 years) and one of the most interesting versions of New York, New York ever sung in any film.Of course, the film breaks nearly three quarters of the way, but it's funny to see the gremlins make shadow puppets (especially the Abe Lincoln one- How on Earth did they do that?). On the other hand, the fake breaking of the film adds to the humor and is one of my favorite parts of the film.That scene alone contributes to the rating. "},{"Title":"A weird but funny package of mixed emotions!","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Where to being? The truth is that Gremlins 2 is a rare movie that will make it hard for you to know where to begin to describe it...Sure, it's correctly labeled as Horror/Comedy but it has more features than 20 spoof movies together.The humor is at it's blackest and relies on very weird situations that you can't even imagine like a Gremlin drag queen performing a classic musical, Hulk Hogan getting fed up with the loudy Gremlin audience, a wicked gargoyle, and many, MANY references to plenty of classic movies like Phantom of the Opera, Batman, Rambo, etc.The movie doesn't follows a parameter and that's why it's difficult to classify it but one thing for sure, is that it has all the craziness from the late 80's and that unique, weird vibe of the early 90's. You know, the confusion of music, clothing, cinematography, and even sub-plots.This is a mix of everything but something for sure is that it will get your attention in a very unconventional way.I have to get this off my chest Phoebe Cates was really hot. "},{"Title":"A Sequel Worth Watching","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins was a film I never really considered watching but when I did, I thought it was brilliant; a little scary but great. I was unaware there was a sequel until I watched Cinemassacre's (The Angry Video Game Nerd) review of the films. I liked the look of the second film so I bought the film boxset online and watched the films. Gremlins 2 The New Batch is awesome.Everything about it is brilliant. The story, the characters, all the gags and film references and the Gremlins themselves. The filmmakers knew that Gremlins 2 would never beat the original so they made fun of the film itself. Some notable references included an angry parent dragging her child out of the cinema and complaining. A film critic gives a negative review on Gremlins and gets beaten up by the monsters as punishment. There some great film references including Batman, The Wizard of Oz and Rambo.At one point the Gremlins even destroy the film and start making shadow puppets on screen, prompting Hulk Hogan to scare them into fixing the film.The film's plot involves Gizmo, the cute mogwai from the first film, being taken to the Clamp Enterprises in New York after his owner died. Escaping becoming a lab rat with help from his friend Billy Peltzer and his girlfriend Kate, Gizmo ends getting wet and spawns a new batch of Gremlins. The first group consist of grouchy George, bucktoothed Lenny, crazy nutcase Daffy, and Mohawk, a reincarnation of Stripe from the first film. As expected, the Gremlins cause havoc in the building with lots of gags, the Gremlins spawning into dozens of Gremlins when they blow up a microwave and set of a sprinkler system.The building they're in is very modern allowing the Gremlins plenty of opportunities to cause mass destruction and mayhem. There's a genetics laboratory run by Christopher Lee where a group of Gremlins drink serums and gain wacky abilities. One becomes super smart, one grows bat wings, one becomes made of vegetables, one mimics the Phantom of the Opera, another becomes made of electricity and there's even one that becomes a woman Gremlin and flirts with Robert Picardo's character. Mohawk also gains a spider body. The film is really entertaining, but while it lacks the dark atmosphere of the first film, it still has plenty of great moments, some of which are disgusting but fun to watch. Some may consider the film's slapstick humour its downfall, but that doesn't stop them from watching and enjoying this film.If a third film was to be made, it would be interesting to see what the Gremlins could mess with in the 21st Century. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A few years after the incident in Gremlins, Billy and Kate have moved to New York where they work for media mogul Daniel Clamp. Meanwhile, Gizmo's former owner has just died and he's been captured for the genetics part of the Clamp building. A little while later, a certain someone gets wet, creates a new Gremlin species, and learns to finally fight back after years of abuse. And while Gizmo and the surviving humans fight back, the Gremlins and their evil leader, the Brain Gremlin, are planning to escape when it gets dark. And if they do, New York will experience a new Hell.Funny and exciting sequel to the original classic. But this one is really hard to recommend at times.Rated PG-13 for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Admittedly, this film is stupid. Very very stupid.However that has never stopped it from being a hell of a fun watch. I've always found it to be much better than the original for a few key reasons 1. This movie does not take itself seriously. Gremlins went for straight horror, but was ineffective because it was so funny... in the bad way.2. There is a tidal wave of movie in-jokes, from the classics to even the first Gremlins. You'll more than likely laugh at a new joke you didn't notice before every single time you see it 3. Christopher Lee hamming it up in another B Movie is too good to resist.So when you watch this movie, don't expect to be scared. Watch it with friends where you can laugh both with the movie, and at it. "},{"Title":"Off the wall and completely out there","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As sequels go, Gremlins 2 The New Batch is quite inventive and darkly original. Qualities you don't usually find in the standard sequel. But it also has traits you find in nearly every sequel. Its the same sort of story recycled over again.Gremlins 2 is not a straight rehash of its predecessor, the 1984 classic. It has a few innovations and changes the setting from a sleepy all-American town to a New York high rise. But it never quite surmounts the fact that it follows very similar paths to Gremlins.Joe Dante is back in the directors chair, and with this film, his wacky imagination has really been let off its leash. Although Steven Spielberg produced Gremlins 1&2, I get the impression his influence here is a little less pronounced. He probably restrained Dante last time so things didn't get too dark. But here, Dante's been given a larger budget, a whole new set of special effects to play with, and a gleefully irreverent screenplay to sink his teeth into. The result is a fast, frantic and even more anarchic Gremlins picture.We all know how the Gremlins are created. Through the cute, cuddly Mogwai Gizmo. If he gets wet, he breeds them. And if they eat after midnight, they turn from cute and furry to green and scary. And that's what happens here.This time, the action has been transplanted from sugary Kingston Falls to the shiny Clamp Tower, a gigantic skyscraper with God knows how many floors. This is a building that represents everything wrong with the world. Everything here is automated, from lifts and climate control right down to the self-cleaning ashtrays on many an executive's desk. A place ripe for demolishing.Dante clearly gets a great deal of fun and enjoyment from gradually tearing this faceless figurehead of American capitalism down one clich at a time. And while the film is fun, it is ultimately hollow.Gremlins was a better film because for me, there was something genuinely magical about it. The special effects were really quite superb for 1984 and they still hold up remarkably well today. There came a time when you forgot you were watching what was really a bunch of puppets running riot. They seemed like living beings to me.But Gremlins 2, while maybe more technically proficient, is just a bit too much. Dante can certainly be commended for trying out new things. But there comes a time when the invention keeps building and building until it loses all sense of a reality check.I'll give you an example. Dante is known for breaking down the fourth wall in his films. This technique was incorporated with more subtlety in Pt 1, like a Gremlin using a hand-puppet (a puppet using a puppet), or tearing through a cinema screen, but Gremlins 2 takes the approach just a step too far. Here we have Gremlins stopping the film at the halfway point, and resorting to Hulk Hogan to straighten things out. It's a technique that's trying to be too clever for its own good.Dante is also known for breezy, fast-paced direction. Sometimes at the expense of plot. And in Gremlins 2 its particularly noticeable. It all begins with a thin semblance of plot, but once the Gremlins take over, the film splinters off into a number of setpieces with no real focus or structure. Some are quite hilarious, like their rendition of New York, New York. And I liked the scenes with the Brain Gremlin, a Gremlin who drinks a gene-enhanced formula in the building's genetics lab and turns into a chatty, pint-sized motivational speaker.But other scenes with a Spider Gremlin, a Bat Gremlin and a Vegetable Gremlin seem to be there just for arguments sake. There's certainly a fair degree of imagination on display, but its a cocktail that seems just a bit too rich at times.Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates are back on hand. But they only really walk around the set trying to figure out how they plug into all this. There's quite a wonderful supporting cast though. John Glover turns in an hilarious performance as Daniel Clamp, the Donald Trump/Ted Turner media mogul who watches aghast as his corporate empire goes down in flames. His performance is an amusing flip-side to his more sinister, ruthless character Lionel Luthor in Smallville.Robert Prosky does a nicely warm performance as Grandpa Fred, a failed late night creature-feature host. He's dressed up as Dracula for the whole running time, but even buried under makeup, his warmth shines through. And Christopher Lee is perfectly sinister as Dr Catheter, the mad scientist who mixes up genetic cocktails the Gremlins keep drinking.I also liked Haviland Morris' fast-talking chain-smoking department head. Even though she's given criminally little to do. And Dante regular Dick Miller is back to get revenge on the Gremlins who shattered his life.There are too many individual Gremlin sequences to mention in one review. Its best just to let the film carry you on the wacky roller-coaster ride it wants to go. Which means tons of in-jokes, special effects and a plot the film occasionally remembers to get back to. It makes for broad satire, and there are gags aplenty. But Gremlins 2 is exhausting at times. Its a fun ride to be sure, but even on rollercoasters, we eventually want them to stop some time. "}{"Title":"Will there be a Gremlins 3?","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What I mostly like about Gremlins 2 is the one where this gremlin is a mean looking bastard has the spikes on his back and where he nearly hoses Billy with the machine gun and turns into a spider secondly another beast turns into a lightening bolt what I've been thinking about today is was about if they ever will be making a third installment to the Gremlins franchise so therefore if that was the case since it would be long awaited then I assume that the protagonist actors Zach Gillian and Phoebe Cates would be sadly missed unless they could do CGI to make them look young again so I reckon if they ever did a third installment the only question is that will it deliver a updated thrills like the previous two films? I reckon these hilarious milestone classics should get what they deserve. "},{"Title":"different but very entertaining","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Intentionally goofy follow-up finds Billy and Kate living in New York City and working for aloof billionaire Donald Clamp (Glover), an influential media mogul who's a staunch proponent of technological advancement. They're reunited with Gizmo after he's mistaken for some kind of weird laboratory animal, but all hell breaks loose when he spawns hundreds of vicious gremlins who wreak havoc on an advanced, state-of-the-art Manhattan skyscraper. Has a drastically different feel to it than the original Gremlins, as it's filled with innovative scientific experiments, amusing cameos, and hilarious in-jokes. Less destruction and chaos, and a far more campy approach make this sequel lots of fun. *** "},{"Title":"Bigger than the first!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't see this movie till winter of 2006.This follows up on the original Gremlins. A few years have past Billy is now living in New York with his Fiansay. He now works at a high tech company building.He's not use to the New York life yet, but one day he ends up being reunited with his little friend Gizmo.As the movie go on Gizmo ends up getting hit by a sprinkle of water.And you know what that means. The gremlins start growing again! Bigger numbers, mutations, and this time they're gonna turn New york upside down! That can be prevented once Billy and Gizmo find a way to stop this Batch of Mischievous Gremlins.This sequel is directed by the same guy who did the first Gremlins. it has more jokes and more violents than the first one did.Those who liked the first one will like this one as well. "},{"Title":"not quite as good as the first, but funnier","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Gremlins 2' reintroduces the gremlins in another hilarious horror/comedy. This time, they attack the city and a media company, creating chaos and hilarious moments. The storyline in this sequel is not quite up to the original (not saying that the original did a good job itself), but this film is probably the funnier of the two. Comedy is much more important in this film than in the original, and there are some hilarious sequences.If you want to laugh, this film will make you laugh. It's not a scary film - not nearly as scary as the first, but it's still a pretty good sequel. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, man.  This movie makes me explode with joy.","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For those few who haven't seen this, its tone is significantly different than the first Gremlins in that comedy was a primary goal, horror more secondary. If you're looking for highbrow humor, you're looking in the wrong place, but I get the idea that the filmmakers came up with exactly what they wanted- the jokes and gags are at times extraordinarily effective. Acting is often way over the top, delightfully so. The new individuality of the gremlins helped keep it more interesting, and they totally become the collective star of the show.Here's my small spoiler***The musical scene near the end was truly one of the most glorious moments in film history.*** It almost made me pee my pants. "},{"Title":"They're back","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When you watch this you'll notice that the shop owner that owns Gizmo is deathly sick. He is old and he is being bombarded with offers for his shop. But he won't sell. When he dies Gizmo is left to a horrible world of experiments and fear. Not more than 15 minutes in you'll see Gizmo get wet and we see those ugly evil..........things come back.Along with family interference and loads of laughs we have a few tears shed. Gizmo is undoubtedly cute and whenever you see him on TV you have to go awe. Recommended for everyone even babies. Even your dog will find this entertaining. So open this and it's first to your shelves and let the laughs roll. "},{"Title":"A splendid, entertaining puppet show","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How well you receive this sequel will most likely depend on just which aspect of Gizmo's initial misadventure you found more appealing &#150; the eerie, nasty creepiness or the quirky, subversive sense of humour. It was a flick that semi-took itself seriously and semi-didn't. If you loved it for its value as a mild horror movie, then you'll probably be disappointed with its follow-up, seeing as how it pretty much ditches those scares along the wayside and lets the comedic essence run wild and free to its heart's content. But if that's what made the original 'Gremlins' work for you, then you're in for a sequel more than twice as enjoyable as its predecessor. Luckily for me, I happen to belong to the latter group.Six years on from the gremlin rampage that laid waste to the residents of Kingston Falls, and we're back with Billy Peltzer and those fluffy, bat-eared fuzzballs that turn into vindictive little demons if they eat something after midnight. This time round, the bulk of the action takes place in a high-rise New York skyscraper, run by media mogul Daniel Clamp (a thinly-veiled pastiche on Donald Trump) &#150; an impersonal and overly-automated working environment which it's genuinely fun to see the gremlins have their wicked way with. The screenplay has a sharper, more satirical edge than its forerunner, and makes a good start by openly mocking some of the more ridiculous values that the original 'Gremlins' stood for &#150; Billy's co-workers respond with all the appropriate queries that movie left us puzzling over when he tries outlining the three 'Rules' which must be obeyed to prevent a gremlin outbreak (seriously, what would happen if you crossed into a different time zone?). And Billy's reply is satisfying enough &#150; Look, I didn't make the rules, okay? Plot-wise there isn't really a great deal happening here &#150; the gremlins run amok amongst the building's various facilities, while the humans have to get out safely and prevent them from taking their destruction to further afield. I wouldn't even say their various antics are substantial enough to be considered 'sketches' &#150; what this film mainly consists of is a barrage of individual moments, in-jokes and sight gags which last barely a split-second each (blink and you'll miss about a dozen) but which nonetheless keep on coming so thick, fast and consistently that there's always something on screen to keep us entertained. It also makes the movie as a whole extremely rewatchable, as you can almost guarantee that you'll spot several completely new things you missed on previous viewings.Zach Galligan still makes for a rather bland and indistinctive hero, Billy's only real point of strength over most of the other characters being that he's dealt with these creatures before and knows how to handle them. Phoebe Cates, Jackie Joseph and Dick Miller have all returned on form, but it's the fresh set of supporting characters, in the Clamp Corporation's employees, who really put their all into snatching the spotlight from the gremlins. Haviland Morris and Robert Picardo both play their parts with the appropriate levels of energy and exaggeration, John Glover makes Daniel Clamp into a surprisingly likable character by portraying him with a vivid child-like innocence, while Christopher Lee comes very close to stealing every scene that he's in, only just losing out to one freakishly articulate gremlin who wears specs and is voiced by Tony Randall.The puppetry used to render our centrepiece creatures, in both their incarnations, is also a marked improvement over the previous instalment &#150; all the same, their movements may be less jerky and their designs more polished, but the real delight still comes in the knowledge we have that they're puppets. And, instead of trying to make them into convincing, terrifying beings as the original attempted in some of its scenes, it's comfortable to depict them as what they essentially are &#150; depraved, reptilian cousins to the Muppets. They're never scary, and won't have anyone at home screaming as they do the human characters, but they manage to achieve a strong sense of subversive charm in its place that, quite frankly, suits this breed of film much better. Movie monsters were never the same when puppetry became old school and CGI took its place &#150; oh sure, when done right they can look amazingly realistic that way, but they're never as likable and fun. In that sense 'Gremlins 2 the New Batch' was one of the last of its kind, but a perfect swansong for the medium &#150; incredibly silly, but fast-paced, sharply-scripted and gloriously entertaining enough to more than compensate. It comes recommended, especially for anyone who wishes that the rest of the original 'Gremlins' movie could've been more like that wonderful tavern sequence.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Best Film of the Year","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not kidding. Gremlins 2 was the best reviewed film of the year according to Premier Magazine, averaging 3 1/2 stars. To really appreciate the film, you've got to have a wild sense of humor and be a real movie lover with a good knowledge of filmdom -- otherwise you'll miss all the homages to great films of the past. I got to meet Director Joe Dante at the Chicago Film Festival's showing of Gremlins 2 and his incredibly warm film Matinee where he confirmed that he intended Gremlins 2 to be the sequel to end all sequels. The studio required him to make a sequel to the more financially -- but less artistically -- successful Gremlins before it would finance any other films by Dante. The result gives us Tony Randall in his finest role as the intellectual Gremlin and Robert Picardo in his best pre-Star Trek Voyager performance. Christopher Lee wonderfully satirizes his horror film roles of the past as Donald Trump and Ted Turner take it on the chin with John Glovers parody as Daniel Clamp. And who can ever forget the Canadian restaurant scene? Seriously, this is one incredibly entertaining film that requires multiple showings to catch everything that's going on. "},{"Title":"One of those underobserved gems of a sequel that is almost as good as the original film","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Less frightening and more humorous, GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH is nonetheless a worthy sequel to the original Halloween classic. The story takes place years after the first GREMLINS in which Gizmo the Mogwai is back! Unfortunately with the breaking of the rules (as in the first one) he has a hoard of evil gremlin babies. The gremlins begin to mutate and become smarter and stronger. A funnier but bloodier film than the first. Soon, the gremlins take over the building! A hilarious sequel more family-oriented than the first outing.Grade 7/10MPAA Rating PG-13My Rating Ages 10 and up (frightening images, non-stop creature violence) "},{"Title":"more daft than the first, but equally as fun","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSBefore he directed the first two Harry Potter films, Chris Columbus first wrote two films about Green Monsters who first terrorised a small town and then terrorised an Office block. These Green Monsters were Gremlins and whilst their first outing was original and fun, it's in the second encounter in which more memorable and enjoyable moments can be remembered.In Gremlins 2 The New Batch, Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) and Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates) have left their hometown and are now working in New York for the Clamp Corporation. Suddenly one fateful day, Billy becomes aware that his former pet Gizmo is ina laboratory upstairs. Upon saving Gizmo, Billy is forced to leave him in his desk as Marla his boss (Haviland Morris) insists on going for a meal. It is during his time in the office, that through an accident, Gizmo is exposed to water. With Gremlins on the loose once more, it is upto Billy to stop them before they spread into New York and become unstoppable.Whilst the first of the two Gremlins films was quite dark at times, this second one feels almost like a satire of it's predecessor. This relaxed nature allows it to develop in so many more ways though. By allowing the Gremlins to experiment with Genetics, we are treated to different types of Gremlin (most notably the intelligent Gremlin) who run riot in their own little way.I'm not going to imply that this film deserves critical praise, or that the acting is particularly good. The key to this film (and the Gremlins previous adventure) is to relax and just laugh. It's nothing strenuous, it's just funny. The musical scene in particular driving people to tears of laughter. If you fancy a gory film which treats itself as a joke, then relax and enjoy Gremlins 2 The New Batch. "}{"Title":"Outstanding sequel.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ***1/2 stars out of ****.Billy has moved to the big city, and when Gizmo starts spawning more reptilian terrors (in the high-tech building where Billy works), and they get into a Laboratory (owned by the wonderful Christopher Lee) and mutate into various mutant gremlins. As good if not better than the original, this outstanding sequel has good acting by everybody and a competently written script. Excellent F/X and direction make this a hit, one of the best of 1990. "},{"Title":"Another party with little green monsters!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Typical sequel formula with the ever lovable monsters with incredibly playful destructive tendencies.  While the original film was more or less a gory comedy with side elements of drama, Gremlins 2 takes the gore and comedy and goes into overdrive.  Is this a bad thing?  To some, but the batch of Gremlins has their charms, and I think I actually prefer this sequel over the original.Now with improved Gremlins and Gizmo effects, a bigger budget, the Gremlins get to go on an even bigger rampage than before.  I particularly like the addition of the Gremlins who have their own personalities and mutations.  It's a shame that only a handful do, but it's better than a bunch of faceless Gremlins like in the previous film (with the exception of Spike).  The brain Gremlin and his song was simply priceless.  Every time I hear `New York New York' I think of little green monsters.  Joe Dante returns along with Galigan, Miller, and Kates, and basically made a movie that had no point other than to poke fun at its predecessor and let the Gremlins out for more playtime.  Knowing they were making a sequel, knowing the rules of sequels, and knowing that no matter what Gremlins 2 was cursed to be labeled as a retread (Gizmo gets wet, spawns evil Mogwai, spawns Gremlins etc etc) they decided to live with it and intentionally go over the top, but seriously folks, after the first rampage what the hell are you coming to #2 for?  Scorsese material?  Please . . . Gremlins 2 delivers exactly what the title promises.  Christopher Lee has more or less a cameo role, and it's always a pleasure to see Hammer horror's star on screen . . . especially when he's doing a spoof of some his former roles.  Two versions of the film exist - VHS features John Wayne confronting the beasts as they invade your VCR and the theatrical and DVD release features Hulk Hogan doing an over-the-top threat like something right off WWE.And Jerry Goldsmith returns in full force with a score that constantly bounces back and forth between horror and comedy.  The main theme is bouncy as ever and has never sounded so good given a full symphony orchestra treatment.  It fully embraces the full silliness of the onscreen visuals and dialogue.  Lots of fun, lots of gags.  Definitely a fun movie.    "},{"Title":"almost as good as the first but not quite","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie. Guizmo was just as cute in this as the first, and just as clever and cuddly. The only problem however was that he was just a visual effect and hardly ever a doll or robotic. That was ok, because,unlike most sequels, this actually had a storyline and a plot. You see, Guizmo is reunited with Billy and as soon as they meet up, all those rules that ya know about are broken and they are in a sky scraper building this time instead of a small town. The special effects on the Gremlins, however, are wonderful. There is one that turns a into spider, a tree that bears many fruits and veggies, and there is one that speaks with intelligence. It is not as good as the first but it is enjoyable, because you will get a kick out of the creature thought they are mean and vicious. "},{"Title":"A superior film to the original!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 is by far the better film of the two Gremlins films, so  far... more a comedy with horror overtones than the first (which was more a thriller with a few comedic bits), it's definitely a crowd pleaser.... Very much recommended... "},{"Title":"Just a fun little mischievous movie.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While the special effects seem pretty dated when watched now, they aren't so bad that you can't suspend disbelief while watching the little green monsters have their version of a good time tearing up the scenery and terrorizing the cast. Not that carnage and destruction are all that it has going for it; Gremlins 2 is still cute enough to be enjoyed by the whole family. Gizmo, the cuddly protagonist that accidently spawns the malicious monsters makes you melt every time his big eyes fill the screen, and the gremlins themselves are having too much fun being naughty to be taken seriously, especially when they start destroying a lab and mutating into new species. Excellent appearances by Christopher Lee and even Robert Picardo, the doctor from Star Trek Voyager add to the experience, and make Gremlins 2 as much fun as the original, if not a little bit better. "},{"Title":"One Day in a High Tech Skyscarper","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In this movie you find yourself in a office building, crawling with those little green men from the original film.  This movie is more done for laughs then to scare you this time around. I believe if you loved the original because it scared you don't look here this sequel is more laughs then scares. "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember when I saw this movie in the theater.  When it came to the part where the movie is all messed up.  We were all booing and wondering what the hell happened till my friend told me that it was part of the movie.  It sure had us fooled.  That is what is so good about this movie.  It fools you and keeps you laughing.  I especially loved the Cooking With Marge part where she is drunk while she is on a cooking show and all of a sudden the gremlins attack, a fire starts and the sprinklers come on making them multiply.  They plot to escape the building once the sun goes down so the humans have an idea of putting a banner down making them think that it's night time when it's not killing them but instead it starts to storm.  So Billy tells Mr. Fudderman to spray the gremlins with water.  Reluctly he sprays them with water and Billy picks up the phone and gets the electric gremlin out of the phone system and electuctes the gremlins while they sing New York.  I love how one of the gremlins goes,i'm melting like the wicked witch in Wizard Of Oz.  Anybody who doesn't like this movie doesn't have a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Underrated Funny Sequel","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For starters, this movie isn't serious like the first film tried to be. This is a funny movie. It's also a sequel, meaning that many will compare it to the original. This film picks up several years after the first, and our hero and heroine from the first film are working in a fully-automated office. Just the perfect place for a mischevious gremlin to come along and ruin it. The old Chinese guy's store gets closed, and Gizmo is off on his own basically. He's taken by Christopher Lee's genetic lab and it goes all awry from there. Gizmo gets wet, more GIzmo-like creatures appear, and so on and so forth till the gremlins are gathered in the front lobby of the building with a gigantic song and dance number that's classic unto its own. "},{"Title":"Last Time, They Nearly Destroyed Kingston Falls. Now They're Going to Take a Bite Out of The Big Apple!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSMr. Forester, a representative of Daniel Clamp, the biggest building designer in New York, arrives in China Town to see Mr. Wing, the owner of Gizmo the Mogwai. Forester announces that Mr. Clamp planned to build an enormous complex where Mr. Wing's shop was and had offered Mr. Wing a generous compensation, which he refused. Some months later, poor Mr. Wing died and destruction of his shop began. Gizmo escaped and was captured by Martin, a lab technician. Billy Peltzer and his girlfriend Kate Beringer have relocated to New York City and work at the Clamp Trade Centre, a large skyscraper that's fully automated. They have voice activated elevators, all the trimmings. Billy works in the design department and is constantly hounded by his supervisor, Marla Bloodstone's criticism. Above Billy's department is the animal research department run by Dr. Catheter. Martin and his clone, Lewis, were technicians there. Gizmo was locked in a cage singing his cooing song. A delivery boy heard it and later whistled it in the design department so Billy crept into the lab later on and brought Gizmo back with him. They were happily reunited.Mr. Clamp himself visited Billy's department that day. Billy luckily hid Gizmo in a drawer. Billy told Kate that Gizmo was back and asked her to take him home that evening and because of what happened last time, she was reluctant but gave in. Later on, water from the drinking fountain sprayed on Gizmo, causing him to shoot out four mischievous copies. Kate mistakes one of them for Gizmo and takes it home where it proceeds to throw food at her. When Billy get's home, he notices this creature was not Gizmo and was about to take him back to the office when who should drop by but their old friends Murray and Sheila Futterman! Back at the building, the gremlins terrorized an ice cream stand right after midnight and devoured much ice cream. UH OH! They then entered the pupal stage. Billy and Kate broke into the building, but Billy was caught and taken to jail. By the time Kate got him out, the cocoons hatched and many hideous, troublemaking gremlins were born. They began terrorizing and hurting poor Gizmo. They also began wreaking all kinds of unimaginable havoc on the whole building. They messed with the computer systems and terrorized shows being filmed for CCN, Clamp Cable Network, like on one such show, Leonard Maltin was trash-talking the movie Gremlins, but when the gremlins attacked him, he changed his rating.Fred, a star of a CCN children's program and a camcorder carrying tourist began to film a news broadcast of all the terror going on within the building. The gremlins found their way into Dr. Catheter's lab. One gremlin drank some brain hormones and began super intelligent and could talk while another drank bat DNA and could fly. He also injected some genetic sun tan so sun wouldn't hurt him. He flew outside and terrorized the Futtermans, but luckily Murray dumped cement on it and it became a permanent statue atop the cathedral. One gremlin injected something that made it become electronic energy that electrocuted Dr. Catheter. It then went into the power lines. One gremlin injected spider DNA and built a web in the hallways that trapped Marla. Meanwhile, Gizmo wasn't going to take this anymore so he began weight training and made himself very Rambo-like. Kate came to Marla's rescue when the spider gremlin closed in on them. Gizmo to the rescue! He fired a flaming arrow at it, killing it. Murray finds his way into the building and joins Billy, Kate and Marla. Billy devises a plan. He turns the hose on all the billions of gremlins now gathered in the lobby, then Kate redirected the phone call from Mr. Clamp's office which the electro-gremlin found its way into, into the lobby which electrocuted all the gremlins. Soon nothing was left but green, steamy goo. Mr. Clamp then saw Billy's picture of Kingston Falls and wanted to build a town like it in New Jersey. He also wanted to do a line of merchandise based on Gizmo.Gremlins 2 was pretty good, though not really as good as the first one. Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates and Dick Miller reprise their roles and though Billy, Kate and Murray think New York City is a strange place, it shouldn't seem that way to them because all three actors were born there. That doesn't surprise me! Anyhoo, I wonder if there will be a Gremlins 3. If so, it would probably be in outer space in the distant future where the gremlins come alive and terrorize space marines. It's bound to happen sooner or later, but anyway, if you saw the first Gremlins and want to see more heinous hijinx from America's most devious little creatures, then I recommend Gremlins 2 The New Batch!- "},{"Title":"This New Batch Is Certainly Entertaining","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It wasn't usual for a hit 1984 movie to spawn a sequel 6 years later but that was the case with 'Gremlins'. However, this film is one of the few sequels that rivals the original in terms of quality. 'Gremlins' was a horror comedy making fun of Suburban households and wreaking havoc on the town. It was a good piece of popcorn fun which elevated above most blockbusters because of it's sheer wit and darkness. The sequel is more played for laughs - In fact, it is almost a spoof of the first film. The final 20 minutes of the film is actually poor Gremlin mania. It has spoofs of everything from 'New York, New York' to Marilyn Monroe (The female Gremlin)to gangster films of the 50's to 'The Wizard of Oz'and so on. The good thing is the film doesn't just remake the first film. This film is totally different but with the same characters returning now ready for the attack. But last time the Gremlins invaded the picture perfect town of Kingston Falls now they plan to invade New York and Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan) has until the night to save New York and possibly the world from the Gremlin threat. From the start which features an argument between Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck over who should be present for the main logo (Originally, an even funnier extended version of this animated scene was used but later dropped but you can check it out on the great DVD!) which has been specially written and animated by the recently deceased Chuck Jones, we are thrown into the Clamp building ran by Mr. Clamp (John Glover) and which almost completely is operated by special devices saving time, energy and money. This building is the setup for a bunch of great gags and the film succeeds on providing great entertainment but I still can't decide if I prefer this or the first one. It may lean more towards this. Featuring great scenes like the Bat Gremlin, the Smart Gremlin, the Girl Gremlin, the Electric Gremlin who is stuck forever to listen to horrible songs in a telephone and the secretary Gremlin who meets his demise in a shredder. It's the Gremlin's show here and there's no denying it! Chris Columbus' original script with shadows of horror and comedy is now taken over by Charlie Haas, proving the Gremlins can be the star of the show. Joe Dante returns to direct and does a very good job. Familiar faces will be seen in Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates, Dick Miller and Keye Luke and new faces in the form of Christopher Lee and a cameo from Hulk Hogan (Or John Wayne, in the home video version). Well, this new batch is a great batch! "}{"Title":"Hilarious, wacky and weird...much better than the first!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Gremlins are back in 1990's GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH! Billy Peltzer (Galligan) and Kate Beringer (Cates) are back at work at a medial mogul's building of the future in New York City.  When Gizmo's owner (Keye Luke) dies, he is found by a scientist and taken to a lab, where Billy steals him and brings him to his desk.  While a janitor is fixing a water fountain, Gizmo gets wet, and the Gremlins return, more hilarious than ever!  Loose in NYC and dancing, ruining television shows, mocking John Wayne, and doing Frank Sinatra's musical numbers, the Gremlins go more crazy than ever.  A great comedy, hilarious, wacky and weird.  Much better than the first! ****** 6.3 "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not many film sequels, can out due their originals, only masterpieces such as Empire strikes back, godfather part 2 and Aliens come to mind. However after watching both gremlins and gremlins 2 back to back the other night, i can safely add gremlins 2 to that list.Gremlins 2 is just plain out funny, it pokes fun at the original, while still maintaining a story and characters of its own.  I can remember seeing this film when it first came out 12 years ago, and while as a 10 year old i loved it, it wasn't until i was older that i realized how many jokes and gags went over my head in 1990, that i found hilarious many years later.This movie, although enjoyed by kids, is really meant for adults who loved the first one.Gremlins 2 - The New Batch, is a must rent, and will probably join my DVD collection when it is released later this year (August 20th, I believe) "},{"Title":"Dissapointment,but still not bad!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now this is not the kind of movie you wanna watch for any family get together or any other special occasion.It has charicters from the first one including Gizmo.The plot is simialar to Poltergeist 3 as far as setting is concerned.The Gremlins are WAY too slimy,as though they wanted to rip off Ptedator.And the first never had Gremlins that could talk,fly,or grow spider legs.Tries WAY too hard to scare you,the comedy is lame,and the ending is not only a comedy failure,but leaves it open for another segment.Can you say Gremlins 3! "},{"Title":"Best Reviewed Film of 1990","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Few people realize that Gremlins 2 was the best reviewed film of 1990 according to a compilation of film critic reviewed by Premiere Magazine -- it averaged 3 1/2 stars. And for good reason. Gremlins 2 offers wonderful homages to some of the most beloved films ever made, savagely satarizes Donald Trump and Ted Turner, and features Tony Randall in his finest film role as the Brainy Gremlin leading a magnificent Gremlin production of New York, New York. I ran into director Joe Dante at a Chicago film festival program honoring his work 2 years ago and learned that he made Gremlins 2 as the sequel to end all sequels. And indeed, this is one time the sequel far excelled the original. It's too bad the the studio never knew how to market this gem to movie lovers of all ages. Where it was shown, it was loved. It ran for 3 months at our local theater in Oak Park. See it and just have fun with it. And watch out for the brilliantly directed scene with John Astin as a janitor on the phone while the Gremlins act out his phone conversation in the background. "},{"Title":"smart and hilarious","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Viewers love it and critics (or people trying to sound like critics) hate it or dislike it at the least.  If you try to measure it against the first Gremlins movie you're going to miss out, because this movie spends far more time spoofing the original than imitating it.Gremlins 2 uses the throw everything out there and see what sticks philosophy of comedy.  It's depends what you find funny but I think far more of the jokes hit rather than miss.  And it's an approach that nobody ever faulted the Marx brothers for using. "},{"Title":"An excellent sequel","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never understood why 'Gremlins 2' wasn't a financial success. I have always loved this film. Its pace is phenomenal. The film is less dark than the original and in no way scary. I saw this film in 1990 and at that time I had not seen the first part yet so perhaps I did not have the expectations that some of fans of original had.I think the jokes are hilarious, the special effects are amazing and many performances are outstanding, especially John Glover is great as media tycoon Clamp (I love the 'Clamp' logo by the way...). Definitely worth checking out! "},{"Title":"MUCH better than the first! An inspired comic romp!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    Gremlins 2 is more of a satire than the first one. It pokes fun of corporate behavior, technology, and architecture in way that astounds. I can't understand why people thing this is the worst of the 2 Gremlins films. I just can't imagine why. The first one was more of a serious fantasy while this one is more of a smart, goofy, satiric comedy that, in my opinion far surpasses the original. The two young heroes are back (with much improved acting skills), along with a scene stealing comic genius John glover (who plays the billionaire), and Christopher Lee as a nutty scientist. The movie contains many movie spoofs and one-liners that you'll be thinking about for awhile. The effects are better thanks to the mastery of multi  award-winner Rick Baker. And Charlie Haas' script is fantastically entertaiing. I loved this movie! I don't see why anyone else wouldn't! It boggles the mind!    9/10 "},{"Title":"It's not 'new' but it's still entertaining! spoilers","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Normally I only enjoy movies that are new. Movies that have come out in the past two or three years. That changed as soon as I saw GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH. Now I'm renting only old movies that are from the early 1990's or late 1980's. Anyway, GREMLINS 2 THE NEW BATCH is even better than the first GREMLINS movie. This one has the little monsters wrecking havoc on a high-tech office where Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates work. The effects are amazing even though the movie is eleven years old, the monsters are look hideous that's a good thing, there are some great lines, the performances are good, the music is excellent, there are plenty of laughs, and the movies is just so much fun too watch. I can't believe that Warner Bros. has not put out a DVD of this movie yet. If they put one out, I am definetly buying it. "},{"Title":"I never quite understood the hatred towards this movie.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was IMHO just as good as the first I loved Granpa Fred (Who really did look like Al Lewis) and Christopher Lee as the scientist was a mean bastard to poor little Gizmo. I loved the satire on Television Shows and Networks and the great John Glover as the Donald Trump-esque Daniel Clamp. Also the Evil Gizmo was hilarious and the Batman spoof got a few chuckles. Overall there is no way that I can see how you can't enjoy this movie if you love the first one. It's one of those sequels like Ghostbusters II that is hated by many but really doesn't stray from the formula that made the first film work at all just that it was too long of a time between films and the audiences taste had changed by then. If you haven't seen it I reccomend you do it really isn't bad at all it is actually very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Much better than the original","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is funny.  Whereas the first had a vision - campy flick in which a small town falling apart at the seams is brought together when Gremlins attack - this one is just an hour and a half of having fun with the crazy little puppets that were never really exercised to their fullest potential the first time around.  The first film focused on the people, not the Gremlins.  This one is all about the Gremlins.  It doesn't have the horror edge, but it's very amusing.  Stupid, but amusing.  And to be honest, I thought the first one stunk. "}{"Title":"Where is the DVD?","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I feel this movie was right on par with the first Gremlins if not better. The story was very imaginative and did a great job of not falling into the worthless sequel category.  I wish they would release it on DVD, but thus far have not.  As a matter of a fact, the original has been discontinued.The New Batch was a very funny and entertaining movie from start to finish if you have yet to see it. "},{"Title":"Here they grow again.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was in for more of a surprise than I thought when I saw Gremlins 2 - The New Batch. But of course I forgot all the rules. Don't get them wet, keep them away from bright light and never ever feed them after midnight. So they are back bigger and badder than ever before. My feeling with this film is that you don't take it too seriously and just have some fun, because that is all Gremlins 2 is trying to do, tickle your funny bone.Yesterday it was rural Kingston Falls. Today it's the Big Apple - and lots of wild anarchic comedy - because a new batch of mischievous green meanies is on the loose. Billy and Kate have moved to New York and are reunited with Gizmo, the cute little Magwai. They are also forced to save the day, once again. We told you the rules. You didn't listen. Now you'll have to face up to the consequences. And have a blast doing it. The most impressive part of Gremlins 2 are the Gremlins themselves. They are simply breathtaking. My favourite character would have to be the 'Brain' Gremlin. Some of the quotes he comes out with are hilarious. In his many different situations he is just a comic. I enjoyed it when he recovers from drinking the brain serum, in the brokerage room, the TV interview and when he gets the whole Gremlin gang singing the chorus 'New York, New York'. Out of all the movies I have seen, I would have to say that the 'Brain' Gremlin is my favourite character of all-time. The voiceovers in this Gremlins were outstanding. The most dominant voice in the whole film belongs to Tony Randall, whose talents shine out as the voice of the 'Brain' Gremlin. He did those voiceovers to perfection. He stared in the 70's TV series 'The Odd Couple'. If he wasn't involved in this movie, I believe it would have been a real let down. Other Gremlins that were of great significance for this film include the Salad Gremlin, Electricity Gremlin, Funny Gremlin, Dumb Gremlin and just plain stupid Gremlin. But for truly great special effects, the greatest Gremlin is the Spider Gremlin. When he starts to chase after Kate and Marla in the hallway, it is remarkable to see him walking along and the underneath shots of him. In fact he almost looks real. This leads me to give praise to the special effects team and its leader, Rick Baker. They would have had a huge job and they did it perfectly in this film.  I must admit that the directing and producing of Gremlins 2 would have taken a lot of time and patience. Steven Spielberg and his production team did a hell of a job, as did director Joe Dante. There were some extraordinary scenes and they would have taken a serious amount of directing to get just right. Some of the scenes which standout for me include nearly all the Gremlin shots (eg. scene in the control tower, the abuse with Gizmo and of course the 'Brain' Gremlin who was just superb), with all of them causing havoc in their own wacky kind of way, the scenes in the Hi-Tech Clamp building, the Gizmo scenes are much better, considering that he is given a lot more latitude in this movie.  Voicing Gizmo for the second time is Howie Mandal and he is pretty good as well. Yet one of the most hilarious scenes in the movie would have to be in the TV Kitchen with the somewhat drunk, Microwave Marge.The human cast of this film takes second fiddle to these ugly little monsters. Back in reprising roles are Zach Gilligan and Phoebe Cates. They were great in the first movie and nothing has changed second time around. Also appearing again are Dick Miller and Jackie Joseph as the Futterman's. They were unlucky in the first film and are essential, in my opinion, in the second. I recently saw Dick Miller in the small role he had in the 1984 classic, Terminator. The new cast members in this movie include John Glover, Robert Proskey and Harviland Morris. Glover was exceptional as Daniel Clamp. His silly antics as the boss of a Hi-Tech. office building are very funny. Likewise, Proskey is hilarious as the roving reporter through all the mischief and mayhem (especially in the TV interview with the 'Brain' Gremlin just brilliant). Morris plays Marla, Billy's boss, someone who is very tense, hardworking and a terrible flirt. The story isn't that important in this movie. Ultimately it is about these little green monsters that are inhabiting a Hi-Tech office building in New York City, and having fun doing so. But the most interesting part of this script is the way that this film sends up certain well-known movies and icons. It first of all it pokes fun at the first film (with movie reviewer Leonard Maltin) and then takes off movies such as Batman and Rambo, plus there is a Gremlin version of the famous musical, Phantom of the Opera. In one scene there is a Gremlin playing with Lego, a famous line of children's toy and one who is promoting Warner Brothers themselves. This aspect of the film was truly crazy, but very funny too. Overall Gremlins 2 is a different kind of sequel. By the time it has bagged its predecessor and other known movies, musicals and famous icons, this movie is about to explode. Many sequels are criticised for not being that great. My understanding of a sequel is that it is in some way better than it's original, and I feel that Gremlins 2 fills the criteria. I wouldn't be able understand it, if people don't like the classic sequel, coz it is very original. Gremlins 2, The New Batch - 'Is that civilised? No clearly not, fun but in no sense civilised!' Rating 5 stars or 10/10   "},{"Title":"Not a bad attempt","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Apart from the hilarious comedy that drives this film, I think what let it down was a weak basic storyline. There didn't seem to be much direction in it, rather too reliant on meaningless chaos. Having said that, what really saved this film is the fantastic comedy and effects, and it's not a bad attempt for a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Better sequel","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't really like the first Gremlins movie. In some ways, it took itself way too seriously and ended up more horrific than funny. The sequel not only is much more exciting, but is pretty silly and more funny and enjoyable because of it. Setting this sequel in a skyscraper provides many oppertunities, and while not all of them are taken, the good ideas at times make up for it. The first movie, being set in a small town, did not really get too exciting. You don't even need to have seen the first to understand, and the special effects still hold up well after 10 years, unlike other movies of the time. A suggestion for Warner when you get around to putting this film out on DVD, do something new with the break in the middle of the movie. Instead of a cinema or VCR breakdown, create some sort of DVD malfunction simulation. That would really be the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Great, Slimy fun","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a kid, I, among many others loved Gremlins. I mean, it had everything, comedy, action, scares, lots of all singing, all dancing, ugly slimy creatures, a cute furry one, and a catchy theme song. Well, what's new for this installment? Nothing much, just more of the same, but way more. This time, the Gremlins take over a mall, and like George Romero's Dawn of the Dead, the mall provides the Gremlins with a number of comic backdrops, but this mall seems to have every kind of backdrop possible, including a genetic engineering lab! The movie's enjoyable in the same way the original was, very clever, self-referential, funny and exciting, and completely over-the-top. But in a fun kind of way. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The greatest film...... EVER   - CONTAINS SPOILERS","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can you not like this film?You have cute and cuddly fuzzy things, cut but not so cuddly green slimy things, a Grandpa Munster wannabe who becomes the Wolf Blitzer of his time, and the greatest minute and a half ever recorded in cinema.Personally I have the feeling that the director and producer of this flick were halfway through finishing, realized this is SOOOO horrible and set out to make it that much worse, making it even better.And Tony Randall as the Gremlin who wants to be civilised?  Fantastic! Give me the Geneva Convention as culture any day of the week.And who will forget the climatic ending, with the aforementioned greatest 90 seconds on celluloid as the Gremlins, poised to unleash their antics on New York City come nightfall, sing New York, New York in the lobby before being utterly destroyed?  A modern-day classic. "},{"Title":"It's a ten!  It's a ten!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Better than the original!  Spoofing everything from The Wizard of Oz to Invasion of the Body Snatchers, this is another must see film!  The script is hilarious, the acting terrific, this is altogether a film that should've won the Oscar.  In the words of Leonard Maltin It's a ten!  It's a ten!'' "},{"Title":"Dante obviously loves Avery.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film confirmed what I had already felt about director Joe Dante  He is the Tex Avery of live-action filmmaking.  All through this movie I kept thinking to myself that this is the kind of film Avery would have made had he been a live-action director.  All rules are suspended in this one. Nothing is spared, not even the film (or video tape) that the movie is printed on!  Gags and movie inside jokes abound in this one.  The only reason I gave this a 9 instead of 10 is because the lead character should not be the blandest thing about a movie, but Zach Galligan's Billy is here. Otherwise, this is one extremely wild and funny film. "},{"Title":"How do you better a classic?","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The original Gremlins was such a memorable film that topping it would be hard and producing more of the same would have taken the shine away. What was actually produced was the brilliant solution - a more maniacal, more humourous, but over all a self-parodying masterpiece. It works so well because it completely breaks the rules  - spoofing itself, even referring to the original, and having the Gremlins eat the film itself. Christopher Lee is a charm, Phoebe Cates is brilliant (and gorgeous) - watch out for her 'childhood trauma' recollection which is a sheer, blatant stab at her character's explanation of why she hates Christmas in the first film, Havilland Morris is a classic (why isn't she famous by now?), John Glover, Robert Prosky and Kathleen Freeman are also superb.  Gizmo as rambo and when he dances to the radio music just misses out on being sickening and is actually really cute. Overall the self-spoofing nature of the film makes it a work of (almost) genius - Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Cool movie. Not as good as the original but still very cool.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I kinda liked that ''little town feeling'' in the first Gremlins - movie. But i can't really complane. A scyscraper is also perfect. Many funny gags and insider-jokes. But I must say that it's really boring in the start. When the cool guys hatches, then it is starting to get fun. But before that  and I include the hairy badguys-part ) its kinda boring. But it gets better of course. I give this one * * * out of * * * * *  "}{"Title":"Good follow up to original.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Those pesky little demons are back,but they take over a huge building and wreak havoc.Enjoyable sequel is more comedy than anything else.Rating**** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"The New Batch is great!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why does every one give the new batch a hard time.  it's cool okay. so the small town is lost buts its replaced by the skyscraper which is a small town in a big city. superior stuff from Dante yet again make the third and make it one of the best trilogies. "},{"Title":"It's a Live-Action Cartoon, Folks","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If they ever make a live-action version of The Simpsons, Joe Dante should direct.  Gremlins 2 shows what he would do with it.  Sight gags, movie in-jokes, and weird cameos by everyone from Paul Bartel to Hulk Hogan make this great.  Standouts are the always talented John Gloveer as 'Donald Clamp' and Christopher Lee as the stereotypically one-tracked man of science.  I'm not particularly fond of Galligan or Cates, but they make adequate straight leads to all the humor flying around them.  "},{"Title":"What's not to like????????????","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dante, with some help from Spielberg, managed to pull off one of the only sequels that is better than the first, the other being Terminator 2, and possibly Ghostbusters 2, and Tremors 2. But this sequel, unlike some others, changes the entire feel for what kind of movie it is. This one takes away all black comedy and horror which the first one had, and comes out dantielberg the quality of a Joe Dante animated feature, but with the Warner Bro's inflicked Spielberg family touch added. Hilarious spoof after sarcastic goof, so crack open a big bag of pop-corn and get right down to watching.        "},{"Title":"Start Spreadin' The News","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A LOT of fun- very, very silly. Nobody makes a good 'B' like Dante. In the midst of G2 he finds time to satirize Donald Trump, Ted Turner, cable television, horror movies, cooking shows, tourism, and the predecessor, to name a few targets... pay close attention to the sound effects, Gremlins 2 has more in common with a Chuck Jones cartoon than a live-action movie. With its irreverence, left-field references and cheerful disregard for itself, 'Gremlins 2' is a big-screen cousin of 'The Simpsons'. Not an 'event' movie like most sequels aspire to be, but well worth your time and better than 90% of the other comedies out there. "},{"Title":"Better than the first film! A very underrated entertaining motion picture.","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is heavily underrated, as it has gotten mixed reviews. Gremlins 2 The New Batch is highly enjoyable, even if it very much abandoned the horror atmosphere that helped the first Gremlins movie be lively.Gremlins 2 shifted more to comedy and diminished on horror as reverse to the first Gremlins film. Everyone's favorite character Gizmo is perhaps the main reason why this movie was enjoyable for me to watch. There's even creativity and decoration on the new batch of Gremlins, such as Daffy, Lenny and George (parodying Of Mice and Men), The Electric Gremlin, Mohawk the Spider Gremlin, and best of all, the BRAIN Gremlin, who actually is popular among the fans of this movie. This film seems to have somewhat tapped into the future skyscraper view of the world where people are caught up in the time where the future is focused on advancing civilization's buildings and technology. There is a lot of energy and effort seen in how this movie was produced. Both the human characters, Gizmo, and the Gremlins are all as lively as possible, even improved on as from the 1st movie. Highly enjoyable and a perfect film. "},{"Title":"More laughs but fewer scares than the first","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is hard to say if this film is better or worse than the first as the tone is so different; yes they both feature rampaging gremlins but where as the first film had a delightfully nasty streak this one is played almost entirely for laughs. Billy and Kate have left Kingston Falls and now work in the Clamp Tower' a highly automated building in the city of New York. The corporation's next project is a development in China town where, you guessed it; Clamps people get hold of Gizmo and take him to the genetics lab in Clamp Tower. It isn't long before he gets wet and his resultant offspring have a midnight snack and mayhem ensues. To add variety a few of the gremlins go to the genetics lab and drink various concoctions that create new types of gremlins; one is brainy, another can fly and one it turned into electricity! Once again it is up to Billy, Kate and Gizmo to save the day! There may be fewer scares than last time but the increased laugh-out-loud moments make this sequel worth watching. The new types of Gremlins just add to the hilarity; I particularly liked the 'Brain Gremlin' who gave a speech about their desire for civilisation before shooting another gremlin in the face! Other signs or the change of tone include Kate's speech about why she hates Lincoln; in the first film she gives a story about how her father tragically died at Christmas, this time she got flashed of Lincoln's birthday! The change in tone makes this film far more suitable for younger viewers although they probable won't get all the references. Talking of references the film is very self-referential, at one point a critic reviews the first Gremlins film and at another time it looks as if the film has broken down and Hulk Hogan demand that the gremlins in the projection booth restart 'Gremlins 2'.Once again the gremlin effects were great; better than most CGI could achieve today; they may be puppets but they are really there. The acting from the leads was good enough and it was a delight to see veteran horror stay Christopher Lee appearing as the scientist in charge of the lab. Personally I preferred the first film, but it is just a matter of taste; I'd certainly recommend this to anybody who enjoyed the first and it has the advantage that it is more suitable for slightly younger viewers. "},{"Title":"smarter, faster, funnier than the original","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Those adorable critters and their malicious alter egos are back, in a belated sequel, which dares to do more than simply copy the original. It's actually more of a corrective remake, with Galligan and Cates trading their generic back-lot small town for the hustle of metropolitan Manhattan, where after a deceptively slow start they're reunited with the cuddly Gizmo (the perfect surrogate child) and his/her malevolent offspring. The resulting mayhem doubles as an attack on consumerism and corporate greed, at the expense of a Donald Trump/Ted Turner clone (John Glover) who is less a villain than an innocent, almost childlike fellow victim. The apocalyptic anarchy will be enough to warm any child's heart, but only adults will appreciate the swift, satirical jabs and constant stream of film references, including a parody of the embarrassing soliloquy by Phoebe Cates in the original. At its frenetic best the film shows director Joe Dante in top form. "},{"Title":"Underrated follow-up!","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three years has passed since the Kingston Falls disaster, Billy Peltzer (Zach Gallagan) with fiance Katie (Phoebe Cates) move to New York City where they work for a powerful New York executive named Daniel Clamp (John Glover) who is like Donald Trump. Clamp is one of America's biggest cable-network and businessmen who invests in technology and has a highly advanced building that is a historical landmark in New York now. In downtown Chinatown, Gizmo (Voiced by Howie Mandall) the adorable Mogwaii has just lost his master (Keye Luke) and is captured by a Clamp research scientist who wants to study him. Later on in the building, Billy rescues him from a nasty scientist (Christopher Lee) as he plans on taking him home with him. Giz gets wet yet again as he spawns three Mogwais that soon will become nasty gremlins that take over the building as their new home. The gremlins have multiplied and thanks to genetic material they mutate into a variety of different gremlins such as a Spider gremlin, an intelligent talking gremlin (Voiced by Tony Randall), a she-gremlin, a vegetable gremlin and more that are trying to create havoc once again.Brilliant and highly underrated sequel to the 1984 horror fantasy comedy masterpiece! Joe Dante is reunited with Steven Spielberg as they create one hell of a hilarious and exciting sequel that has jolts and laughs. The film co-stars Henry Gibson, Hulk Hogan, Dick Miller, Geedee Wantanabe, Bubba Smith, John Astin and Robert Prosky as this one delivers brilliant gags and a social commentary on consumerism.A brilliant sequel that lives up to the original and blows away the imitators of the first Gremlins movie such as Ghoulies, Troll, Evil Toons, Munchies and the crappiest one of them all Hobgoblins, now Critters 1 & 2 were pure exceptions. "},{"Title":"Those gremlins are at it again in this entertaining and underrated sequel","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, the first film is better, but Gremlins 2The New Batch is a very entertaining sequel that is by far one of the better ones out there. I think it is more of a comedy than the first film was, the original had plenty of comedy and horror and succeeded in both areas. The plot isn't quite as clever or as wonderfully simple as the one in the original, and one or two moments don't quite work. Still, it is very funny thanks to a good script and efficient direction, and the time just flies by before you even know it. And of course the gremlins steal the show, and boy don't they do it well. They are brilliantly designed, if maybe not as scary, and there is a good voice cast. Tony Randall especially is brilliant as Brain Gremlin. The human actors do a great job, with Zach Galligan more appealing here, he was a tad bland in the original, and Keye Luke is simply great in his reprising role as Mr Wing. Christopher Lee is an exceptional actor, and he also does well as Doctor Catheter. And Jerry Goldsmith's music is again very impressive. I do think this sequel is underrated, it isn't perfect but it is well worth watching. 8/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"funnier and more entertaining than the original","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this sequel surpasses the original,in my opinion.it is funnier,scarier,and more ironic then the 1st.the humour is more adult,as well,hence the PG-13 rating(14A in Canada,which is the more accurate rating,i think)the are many pop culture references of the time and the movie even pokes fun at itself somewhat,as does the original.you can see many of the jokes being set up a mile away,(intentionally)which makes them even more hilarious.the absurdity level is really high in this movie,but in a good way.there is even a musical number in the movie,which i found very entertaining.i thought this movie was brilliant.the writing is even better than in the 1st one,and they came up with some new situations for the gremlins.i am sort of surprised they didn't do another sequel,but i'm glad they left things the way they are.i'm not sure a 3rd movie would have turned out as good as the 1st and second.For me,Gremlins 2The New Batch is funnier and more entertaining than the original.9/10 "},{"Title":"Many Agree, The Sequel Surpasses The Original","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is hard to best a movie deemed an instant classic by so many, but Joe Dante appears to have the secret.There is more humor, though much of it is backhanded and more adult oriented, thereby making this sequel even less younger kid friendly than its original. There are also sexual innuendos dipping into the bondage and discipline lifestyle, so if you're opposed to your 4 year old asking why the gremlin is DOING THAT? I would advise prescreening before allowing the kiddies to view this one.While the story line leans heavily on the mad scientist aspect of most creature features and is thereby clich, I found this work much more fun than the original. It doesn't attempt to make you think, doesn't shove social injustices in your face, and doesn't attempt to teach you a thing. It is pure mindless entertainment, and as such, rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"This movie ruined the first one","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before i start i want to say this don't reply hateful messages just because i'm stating my own opinion, if you like the movie fine by me but i happen to be bored and am going to write a comment here so HA! Also... don't read it if you think it will ruin you opinion of the movie.Anyways, i think the movie completely ruined it. For one the Fuddermens should have remained dead! And i think the way the gremlins and the other Mawgoi's had been changed also ruined the movie. The sequel could have been way better if they had stayed the same and Especially if there hadn't been a stupid Labratory in the building. I mean honestly... a gremlin talking? turning into a bat/spider and even an ELECTRIC ONE? the movie would have been way better off without it. And what was scary about this movie? The first one made me leap from my A$$ a number of times. But this movie made me jump once, the part where the guy was looking from behind his assistance desk and came out that gremlin. All the deaths in this movie were uncreative and certainly not scary like the first... there lol i'm done ) "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The sequel!","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 The New Batch (1990) was a direct sequel from the surprise hit of 1984. Gizmo the Mogwai is on the move. His long time master has died and he's all alone. Desperate for companionship, he searches for his old human friend Billy (Zach Galligan). Billy and his girlfriend (Phoebe Cates) now live in the big city and work inside a giant office tower. Whilst Gizmo searches the building for his friend, he comes across a few obstacles that'll make life around him unpleasant. Will Gizmo find Billy before it's too late?A lot of minor, b-movie stars and classic horror film veterans appear in this film. It's just as good (if not better) than the first film. I enjoyed it very much and I hope you will too.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Monsters after midnight returns","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's five years later, Billy and Kate move to the big city, they now work for billionaire Daniel Clamp(John Glover). They work in a big high rise building, that is pretty much a big gigantic mall. During the time he comes across Gizmo. But Gizmo gets wet, and it makes other mogwais. The others are quite mischievous. The problem is three rules still stand, and Billy and Kate try to recover the other mogwais, but it is too late when it is after midnight, and they have eaten. Now how do you think they are going stop a bunch of gremlins in a high rise building? I think this movie is 10 times funnier than the first one. I think they should make more movies with animals. "},{"Title":"Why, oh, why?","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins was as original as the follow-up was lame. As if they knew this, the film makers tried to spoof themselves, which only served to emphasize how pointless this was. When the most original thing is the name of the DNA place - Splice of Life - then you know you're in trouble! Heck, Billy never even asks Gizmo how he wound up at Clamp!Gizmo doing Rambo was funny, but the script didn't take it nearly far enough (how cool it would've been to have Giz wipe out the baddies single-handedly!) And, what's with the Head having an Aussie accent? Talk about needless! "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 The New Batch!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 The New Batch is a very good sequel to Gremlins!It is funny and very entertaining!Some of the original actors from the first one including Dick Miller acts good but Christopher Lee makes this film even better in My opinion!The movie's Gremlins look great and are cute at the same time!Jerry Goldsmith's music is very good with some new themes!If you like director Joe Dante and and have seen the prequel but have not seen Gremlins 2 yet then I recommend you see this cute but some what serious film! "},{"Title":"AS GOOD AS THE FIRST !!!!!!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was awesome !!!!!!!!!!! It was funny, heart-warming, and had great special effects!!!!!!!!! Usually, sequels can't live up to the original, but this one sure does !!!!!The story is about a high tech office building that is attacked by the reptilian devils. Can the workers in the building be saved in time? A must see. "},{"Title":"Gremlins 2 The No Match","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original is a bona fide classic. It managed to find a perfect balance of horror, humour and innocence, and still holds water today despite having loved it when I was 5 years old. I caught this one on TV the other day and it left me feeling a tad depressed. It's a slap stick shameless cash-in and a complete travesty of a piece of art which I hold dear to me. Ironically the only really cool part was when they mock the paradoxes of the original 'What if the creature is eating on an airplane and they enter a different time zone, I mean its always after-midnight somewhere &#133;', Okay, I guess the talking Gremlin was wickedly cruel and funny, but the rest of the gremlins were painfully annoying beyond threshold. And Gizmo is so saccharinely not cute at all this time around - I'm ashamed to admit this, but I was kinda rooting for his nemeses while they were dishing out his torture. Oh, and all the human characters sucked. "},{"Title":"Oh No More Gremlins","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 has got to be another funny movie. I give this one another excellent score 10 out 10. I enjoyed this one better than the first. I really liked the Talking gremlin and the female gremlin. This one was made in 1990. I hope there will be GREMLINS 3 because i have an idea. Gizamo the Mogwai falls in love with a female Mogwai, they breed gremilns by accident and they all have to defeat the little beasts.  "}{"Title":"This one got a little to silly.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie had an interesting enough beginning as it had the old man dying and Gizmo being captured and taken to a research office in a super office building.  Billy works at the office building and rescues Gizmo, who after that promptly gets wet and more of them are born.  Now the movie just got plain silly.  Though it is fun to see Christopher Lee in a small role.  For the most part though this one goes for laughs and is nothing to take serious.  I mean at one point it acts like the film breaks and Hulk Hogan makes an appearance so that should tell you it is almost like a Zucker comedy.  Though that film break was highly effective in the theaters when I saw it.  The futuristic office building angle is rather good, as it gives them some good jokes to do...overall though this one worked for me in some areas and didn't in others.  I think I would have preferred something more like the first one and less like a spoof.   "},{"Title":"Superior Sequel To Gremlins","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Any sequel that succeeds in being entertaining deserves all the praise it can get. Gremlins was entertaining but Gremlins 2 was better.Just like a good sequel should, Gremlins 2 saw the Gremlins back and badder than ever (and uglier than ever). They take over the building of a major TV network and create as much havoc as they possibly can. They make a mess of things and do all those things that you wished you could do at your parents house when you were a kid.Don't watch Gremlins 2 expecting a good plot-just watch and enjoy the entertaining chaos that ensues and to see the cute Gizmo with his funny little face. Gremlins 2 was a very good sequel-check it out. "},{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Gremlins film for people that hated the original Gremlins? Well, maybe not quite. But this sequel does come close.I initially detested the 1984 film, though seeing it a second time did make me respect it a little more. It's skewed Disney-meets-horror sensibility and sub-Bedford Falls setting is quite literary, and rewarding. The humour is still unfulfilling, however, as it operates at face value. Put simply, an elderly lady crashing through her attic in an electric stairlift is a joke about an elderly lady crashing through her attic in an electric stairlift. In this sequel the jokes have wider, and more irreverent, reference. It even dares to insult the original. Whereas the first took it's time to establish the situation and only really got going in the last forty minutes, the second is a constant stream of gags that begin even before the opening titles. The first is the better film, but Gremlins 2 The New Batch is the better movie.The first real appearance of the Mogwai, Gizmo, sees him jiving to Fats Domino in a delightfully showoffish scene that only exists to brag about how much more advanced the special effects are. Film referencing is the game here, not always subtle, but diverting. Dracula gets several knocks, most obviously the Universal '31 version. Yet Christopher Lee, who played the count in 1958 for Hammer Films, also gets to double take at the bat homages. And is just me, or is the television Grandpa Fred a take-off of Fred Gwynne from The Munsters?64 minutes in and the picture crashes as the Gremlins actually take over the film. Unusually, two versions were shot, the video version and a cinema one with Hulk Hogan, which I didn't get to see. Though this is pleasing as John Wayne telling them to go on back to your own movie is more inspired. Their gunfight with Wayne as he tries to force them out of his film is a nice gimmick, though the makers lacked the guts to allow the Gremlins to shoot him. Still, a nice touch all the same.Leonard Maltin appears as himself, slating the original movie, while the somewhat silly rules of the first are mocked by those that hear them. Another top &#145;84-bashing moment is Phoebes Cates beginning another anecdote about how she was made miserable on a public holiday, to match the original's dad dead on Christmas story. Honey, says Zach Galligan, I really don't think we've got time for this now, y'know? The rest of the cast look on in disapproval.The humour is still perhaps a little too unsophisticated to really engage as satire, but as an option over the first it does extremely well. The idea of a sequel trashing its source is fairly unique, and must be praised. The weirdest thing about the film, though, is the hilarious mock footage clip of the film The Attack of the Octopus People (And boy, is it scary!) It turns out that this ridiculous fake clip is actually a genuine film &#150; 1971's Octaman.  "},{"Title":"Sequel Is Better!","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Joe Dante returns to direct this surprisingly clever, self-mocking sequel about the gremlins loose in the corporate tower of Mr. Clamp(John Glover, very amusing) and the efforts of the older(but still in trouble) young couple played again by Zach Galligan & Phoebe Cates, who work in Clamp Towers, but are called upon to stop the mayhem and destruction. Christopher Lee and Robert Prosky also star, and there are some amusing cameos...Not mean spirited like the first, this is far more satirical of itself, and the whole genre(bold approach by Joe Dante). As a result, sequel is far more satisfying than the first, and is a lot of fun, though undeniably silly as well. There's even a happy ending of sorts!Too bad this wasn't as(financially) successful as the first. "},{"Title":"The Most Important Film of the 20th Century","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1990 America was at war with Iraq, consumerism was high, nationalism was rampant. But a director came along that had the courage to challenge this complacency to the corporate life, and to challenge the 1% of America. This director was Joe Dante, and this movie was Gremlins 2 The New Batch.Using a creative satire, Mr. Dante cleverly marketed a brilliant commentary on the political climate of the time and the illusion of happiness which the powers of marketing tell us we are. Dark and sinister, but playful in a way, Gremlins represent the free-thinking part of society, the individuals who want to make their own choices and their own rules. Even the bad guys, the corporate elite, were good guys compared to the Gremlins. Billy and Kate represent the undecided voters, the middle of the road average citizen, the one that WANTS to be the good person, that tries to UNDERSTAND someone or something different, but also fear change. By using the duality of the Mogwai vs the Gremlins, the director poses the most fundamental message put upon the American public...good, or evil? No gray area, one choice defeats the other, a common method of controlling the populace in a politically charged climate.Beginning with the transformation of the Gremlin with the wings, then given the ability to fly in sunlight, then meeting a quick and uneventful death, created the imagery of the government saying, Do not spread your wings. Do not attempt to fly. For five minutes, probably the most beautiful five minutes of its life, this creature experienced true happiness. Until it was torn down from the sky by an old man resistant to change as a herd of people stood around and watched, and did nothing. A Gremlin, trying to be different, trying to be happy, trying to live his life the way he wanted to live it. And murdered for it as soon as he didn't toe the line.Intellegently, Mr. Dante used the happy, white, upper-middle class vs. the dark, boozing, gun toting monsters to illustrate social and racial disparity across America and common, hurtful misconceptions that go along with preconceived notions of what the people across the bridge are like. Can we really condemn the whole Gremlins species because of the acts of a few radicals? I say no.In conclusion, Gremlins 2 The New Batch is a fun and goofy movie for the whole family! The kids will love the costumes and the dance scene at the end was SOOO fun!! Ohhh...and the SPIDER gremlin! Wow! How scary, haha! "},{"Title":"A stupid, boring film, with minor laughing points that makes no sense!","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We watched this as a substitute for PE (due to most people being out in pantomime), well time dragged slowly during this film, a proper boring film, and it takes a lot for me to dislike a film (to my memory i've only written two bad film reviews out of about 20!)!This film made little sense (yes i do know the stupid gremlins can't stand sunlight and no i haven't seen gremlins 1) look at me i'm a gremlin, let's trash a building for no reason blah blah blah, y the heck did they, stupid stuff, the writers deserve a slap in the ear for this!On the up side, the gremlin with the funny eyes was pretty funny but that's about it.On the whole an awful film that in my opinion, only gets a 4 for that funny high gremlin, you have been warned, don't buy this, don't rent this or don't waste your life watching it on TV!!!oh and for the good of the people DON'T MAKE A GREMLINS 3, PLEASE!!! "},{"Title":"Funny And Lively Sequel With Fun Performances However It Can't Match The Original!","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a very funny and lively sequel, with fun performances, however it can't match the original!. All the Gremlins were really cool, and it was great to see some characters from the 1st return for the sequel, plus the film has plenty of laughs!. One of the funniest moments in the film involves the famous movie critic Leonard Maltin!, it was great to see him get it, plus it has quite a bit of spoofs in it as well. All the characters were great, and the hyper Gremlin was just downright hilarious, plus the finale was awesome!. However you must go into this film and expect a complete comedy, because that's basically what it is i did that and got what i want a very entertaining film filled with laughs i myself wasn't disappointed. Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates had excellent chemistry together once again, and i was entertained throughout, plus the ending was amusing. This is a very funny and lively sequel, with fun performances, however it can't quite match the original, still i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good. Joe Dante does a very good job here, with great camera work, awesome angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is excellent. Zach Galligan is awesome here, he is extremely likable, charming, had that great boyish innocent look on him, had excellent chemistry with Phoebe Cates and really did an awesome job!. Phoebe Cates is extremely cute and does great with what she had to do, and was very likable!, she also had excellent chemistry with Zach Galligan!. John Glover is fantastic here as the Donald Trump type he was hilarious, and extremely likable i loved him!. Robert Prosky played a really cool character once again i really liked him. Christopher Lee is really awesome here, he seemed to be having fun and he played it straight! (Lee Rules). Robert Picardo is good here with what he had to do. Dick Miller is hilarious he is a great character actor. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"More demented fun from Joe Dante and his toothy terrors.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The New Batch sees the welcome return of those mischievous rascals who laid waste to the sleepy town of Kingston Falls in the hit 1984 horror/comedy Gremlins&#151;only this time, it's New York City that provides the backdrop to the chaos.With director Joe Dante, life-long animation fan and master of macabre humour, once again calling the shots (and working with an even bigger budget), this self-referential, post-modern, and completely manic sequel proves to be more zany than the original, and almost as much fun, delivering non-stop mayhem more than worthy of the Warner Brothers name.The story begins with adorable fuzzball Gizmo the Mogwai left all alone after his owner, the elderly proprietor of a Chinatown antiques store, becomes ill and dies. As the old man's shop is torn down to make way for a modern development, Gizmo leaves, only to be captured by a scientist and taken to Clamp Tower, headquarters of multi-millionaire Daniel Clamp (John Glover); here, he is handed over to geneticist Doctor Catheter (Christopher Lee), who intends to experiment on the poor thing.Fortunately for Gizmo, the high tech building is also the place of work for Billy and Kate (Zach Galligan and the gorgeous Phoebe Cates), his friends from the first film. Billy rescues his furry pal from his cage, intending to take the little fellow home, but the lovable fur-ball accidentally gets wet (a big no-no when it comes to mogwai), and it's not long before the inevitable pitter patter of scaly, clawed feet can be heard all over Clamp Tower.Featuring an animated intro from Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, a comedy interlude featuring Hulk Hogan, genetically modified gremlins (including bat-gremlin, spider-gremlin, and a brainy gremlin), and even a lavish song-and-dance number, The New Batch is supremely silly stuff, but extremely entertaining nonetheless. The script is witty and inventive (there are tons of in-jokes for film fans), and the superb creature effects (a combination of puppetry, stop-motion animation and animatronics) have a charm that would be sorely lacking if they were to be achieved today using modern CGI technology.Completely demented and packed with laughs, Gremlins 2 is irresistible fun for all the family (well, providing your family has a deliciously twisted sense of humour and aren't offended by cartoon-style violence). "},{"Title":"UUrrgghh!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was a shocker. Gremlins I was tolerable, but II was the most nonsensical thing i have ever laid eyes on. Even worse than bulletproof monk and Matrix Reloaded. Admittedly it was supposed to be funny, but it really wasn't. I'm known for liking stupid films, but this one didn't even make the cut. Sorry Gremlins II, you get 1/10.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first by far, but don't knock it, it's still good","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the Elderly Chinese owner of Gizmo dies some scientists snatch him up to study him in a department of a building owned by a Trump-like entrepreneur in New York. But Billy and his girlfriend work there now, so when Billy gets with that Gizmo is being held there he rushes over to save him. But not before a new batch of vicious Gremlins can be hatched from the poor Mogwai. Smarter, wackier and zanier gremlins. Less of a sequel than a spoof of the first one. While the original did have tongue firmly in cheek, but for the most part kept it's humor subservient to the story. The comedy in this film IS the reason for the story. About as subtle as a kick in the groin. Yet I enjoyed it on it's own merits and didn't overly compare it to the first one. These two films are tho separate creatures indeed. Plus not only was the great Dick Miller back in a somewhat bigger part, but you get a cameo from the Hulkster. Cool indeed.My Grade C+ Special Edition DVD Extras Commentary by Director Joe Dante, Producer Mike Finnell, Screenwriter Charlie Haas and Actor Zach Galligan; 25 Additional Scenes with Optional Commentary; The Gremlin Files feature; a Vintage promo featurette; Gag Reel; and TheatricalTrailer Easter Egg Highlight the gremlin hand in the special features menu for an alternative home video version of a certain section of the film "}{"Title":"Disappointing, But Still Worth Seeing...","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins(1984) is one of my favorite comedies. It is so delightfully comical and campy, like a B horror movie, yet delightfully witty and scary. The sequel, Gremlins 2, goes for more laughs than anything else, and comes off simply as an average, one-or-two-time-viewable summer flick.Billy (Zach Galligan) has since moved out of town, along with fiance Phoebe Cates. They are now in New York City, working at Clamp Industries, headed by Clamp, a spoof on multiple political figures. Anywho. At his new office, Billy finds Gizmo, who has wondered from his home after Mr. Myagi - err, the Chinese man - died in the beginning of the film. He was picked up by some scientists, brought to Clamp, and then escaped to Billy's office, coincidentally. Well, Billy leaves him there for Cates to pick him up later. Unfortunately, Gizmo gets wet, and pretty soon a new breed of Gremlins have taken over the building, including a speaking Gremlin named Brain.Gremlins 2 is in no way as clever, fun, or humorous as the original. What is so ironic is that this sequel was supposed to go strictly for laughs, unlike the original, but I didn't laugh half as many times as I did the first time around while watching Gremlins.The jokes are not exactly re-hashed, but they are very dull. Yes, sometimes there are some big laughs, but I really expected more.Zach Galligan seems a little more full of himself in this sequel. Perhaps after the original he found success and figured he was a big shot. Ironically, he is now voicing computer games, and according to his attitude and comments on the DVD commentary with Joe Dante and cast, he seems to still think a lot of himself.Phoebe Cates is more beautiful in this film. She just looked average in the first, but something about her haircut matching her face in this film makes her look cute.Dick Miller, my favorite character - apart from Stripe - from the first film, returns, saying he was only injured by the snow plow. A cheap way of bringing back a character, yes. But I'm glad he's in it - he has more screen time in this film, and that's one good element of the movie.Director Joe Dante obviously had fun making this sequel, but it's nowhere near as good as the original. I'd probably be blaming the director of this film for how mediocre it is, but I can't muster up enough words to accuse Joe Dante, who made the original, that he is a bad director - the first film was excellent.But part of film critique is that you MUST criticize certain aspects of a lousy film, and while Gremlins 2 was in no way a LOUSY movie, it wasn't exactly a winner.Instead of putting thought into this absent-minded sequel, it seems the filmmakers single-handedly cashed in on the original's solid success. Instead of making something highly intelligent and thoughtful, Gremlins 2 comes out as a half-baked, summer sequel, whereas it could have been remembered as something more.Gremlins 2 is the kind of movie everyone is talking about before seeing it, and no one is talking about the next day.No, it's not horrible, and it's definitely worth seeing - especially if you're a fan of the original - but it's a major blow to the superior original. "},{"Title":"Pretty crazy and simple but it's fun!","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No matter what you think of the quality of the Gremlin-movies, they are still the best horror comedies, suitable for the entire family, around. You could say that the movies are foremost being aimed toward children, like Joe Dante often does but that doesn't mean the movie is being too childish, like movies of this sort often tend to be.The movie is still actually pretty lame and simplistic but it doesn't take away any of the movie its entertainment value. This time there are more Gremlins than ever, who also cause more crazier and bigger mayhem than ever before.Still you feel that if the movie would had been a little bit more carefully writing with eye for detail and development this could had been a much better movie. The movie is now being pretty simplistic overall and in the way the story progresses. The movie offers little surprises and mostly just relies on the antics of the evil Gremlins.Also the effect could had been more professional. Sure, this is an early '90's movie but some of the effects are simply below par, even for its time. On the other hand some of the effects are done really well, mostly involving the Gremlins of course.It's foremost really a Gremlins movie. The movie features plenty of them and Gizmo is being cute as always. This however also means that pretty much all of the human characters are being put to the background and stand in the shadows of the movie its little monsters. You can blame this on the movie its lazy writing I think, though it of course at the same time is also what makes the movie an highly entertaining one to watch.It's also fun that the movie stars Christopher Lee. It's one of the earlier movies in which he spoofs his own horror image.Joe Dante understands the genre and also knows his classics. Too bad that none of his movies really ever reached the level of greatness, though he has done his share of well known and appreciated movies. He was once considered to be the next Spielberg but this never really pushed through. Still he is a director who knows how to make a movie entertaining to watch, like he also showed with movies such as Innerspace and Small Soldiers for instance.He also often worked with composer Jerry Goldsmith, who with his Gremlins movies scores delivered one of his iconic works.It's a pretty simple and over-the-top crazy movie but its all good fun and entertainment for the entire family!6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Fast Comedy is Rare Example of a Sequel Being Better","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 (1990) *** (out of 4) Billy and Kate (Zach Galligan, Phoebe Cates) are now living in New York when they learn that a scientist (Christopher Lee) has Gizmo. Soon they're able to reclaim their friend but not before some of his furry friends are fed after midnight and the green gremlins take over a high-tech building. GREMLINS 2 is a rare example of where the sequel is much better than the original film. The original movie was cute in its own right but I just didn't feel there was enough backbone to the human characters to really make it work. With that said, it might sound hypocritical for me to say that I enjoyed this film so much because the humans for the most part are just an after thought and the gremlins are given full control of the story. Using the word story might not be the wises thing to do because the only thing we really get are a bunch of green guys causing trouble in this building before getting out in the streets of New York. I think the greatest thing going for the film is the way director Joe Dante knows how to make satire and spoof things all around him. In one of the film's highlights, the original movie wasn't overly loved by film critics and in a hilarious cameo the gremlins attack Leonard Maltin who is bashing the first film. Another hilarious bit as the gremlins overtaking a TV cooking show where the attack the host and then go about making their own food. I thought the majority of the gremlin characters were perfectly done and given quite a bit of personality and room to grow. There are many great creatures including one who becomes a genius after drinking some brain fluid and there's another hilarious joke on Lon Chaney's THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA. The jokes are flying about ten a minute and the film is so wild, frantic and fast-paced that you can't help but feel as if you're head is spinning. That's certainly not a negative thing because the majority of the jokes work very well. The human parts aren't given as much screen time but we do get some funny bits with them. Dick Miller nearly steals the film reprising his role from the first film and we even get nice bits from Jackie Joseph, Robert Prosky and even Keye Luke returns. Lee is perfect as the wacky scientist and both Cates and Galligan are good even if their roles are fairly small. GREMLINS 2 is about as fun as a spoof can get and it's certainly a much better film than the first. "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel, as sequels so often are. OK at best.","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gremlins 2 The New Batch now sees Billy Peltzer (Zach Galligan returning to reprise his role form the original) & his fianc Kate Beringer (Phoebe Cates, another returnee) living in New York City & working in the world's most automated building called Clamp Towers owned by mega rich businessman Daniel Clamp (John Glover). Clamp is planning on building a brand new Chinatown & so needs Mr. Wing's (Keye Luke) shop, Wing refuses to sell but eventually passes away leaving Gizmo the Mogwai all alone as the bulldozers move in. Two genetic scientist's Martin & Lewis (Don & Dan Stanton) discover Gizmo & take him back to their laboratory in Clamp Towers. By a lucky coincidence once there Gizmo is quickly found by Billy who hides him in his desk, however it's not long before Gizmo gets wet & multiplies into mean spirited Mogwai's. These deliberately break the most important rule of not eating after midnight & it's not long before Clamp Towers is overrun with green, slimy mischievous Gremlins. It's up to Billy, Kate, Gizmo & Clamp to save the day...Directed by Joe Dante Gremlins 2 The New Batch was an attempt to recreate the success of the original Gremlins (1984), I have to admit I was disappointed by this sequel. The script by Charlie Hass to it's credit moves along like a rocket & is never dull or boring as something always seems to be happening, however this is not enough as Gremlins 2 The New Batch is far more comedy than horror this time around so forget about any sort of story or meaningful character's. Most of the jokes & visual gags are awful, from the annoyingly unfunny opening featuring Bugs Bunny & Daffy Duck to the idiotic part where the 'film' breaks & Hulk Hogan sitting in a cinema has to threaten the Gremlins to make them start running it again. Gremlins 2 The New Batch is far more light hearted with no real horror & no one dies apart from Christopher Lee, unfortunately. If you are a fan of films in general then Gremlins 2 The New Batch may provide you with some fun as you try to spot all the in-jokes & references, there are loads of the things like a gremlin in a The Phantom of the Opera (1925) mask playing the organ, the way Doctor Catheter is holding an alien pod from Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956), the way Gizmo dresses up like Rambo, a bit obviously inspired by The Wizard of Oz (1939) where a gremlin melts while wearing a witches hat & a musical number straight from New York, New York (1977). All these gags & constant stupid send-ups got on my nerve's after a while as Gremlins 2 The New Batch goes from one gremlin gag to another with little regard for the actual story getting in the way. For what it's worth my favourite bits were the part where the gremlins attack film critic Leonard Maltin for panning the first Gremlins film & a cool bit where a half gremlin/half bat smashes out of a window & leaves the Batman symbol outline behind! Some of the genetic gremlin mutants like Brain & the spider gremlin are also pretty cool. In the end it becomes one long somewhat tedious joke & I much prefer the original.Director Dante forgoes any sort of violence or gore & plays the entire film for laughs. As a whole the film doesn't have any great style.With a supposed budget of about $50,000,000 Gremlins 2 The New Batch is technically excellent as you would expect from a big budget Hollywood film. Despite the absence of CGI the puppet effects are still very impressive & the gremlins themselves are great, music, cinematography & production values are also good. The acting doesn't really matter as none of the human cast matter that much.I was disappointed by Gremlins 2 The New Batch, perhaps I was expecting a slightly darker more horror orientated film but all the stupid jokes & parodies just didn't do anything for me. Having said that it provides sporadic entertainment when it does get something right & it's still definitely worth a watch at least once but it's mainly for kids. "},{"Title":"One of the rare sequels that can surpase the first one","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I laughed more at the second Gremlins then I did at the first one. I thought the creatures had a little more personality. And there were more scares and jokes. When the creatures swallow the liquids making them into crazy characters, you just can't stop laughing. I loved the story. Gizzmo is cuter than ever, seriously, he melts your heart. The other characters are even enjoyable as the little creatures. Like I said, as far as sequels go, it's hard to find one that's better than the first. No doubt that if you enjoyed the first one, you'll love the second one. But if you have a fear of spiders, you might quiver a little.8/10 "},{"Title":"Another Awful Sequel","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins 2 is another example of a sequel that is nowhere close to the original.  While the original was far from being excellent, it was fun and watchable.  However, this installment is just plain annoying.  The evil gremlins come back and this time terrorize a New York skyscraper.  Overall a stupid film that had no real business being produced.  2 stars out of 5. "}]