[{"Title":"Way before Shyamalan came on board, Adrian Lyne had blown the collective consciousness!","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"250 out of 313 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One reviewer here wrote (I presume) in all seriousness Like a bad dream - impossible to understand! That being the case, I can only describe his subsequent attempt to compile a review as gutsy in the extreme.I believe JACOB'S LADDER is one of the 10 best films ever made. It is NOT impossible to understand...you merely have to listen and interpret! For those without the ability to effect the latter...just listen! Danny Aiello's character, Louis the chiropracter lays it out for you - word for word. I think it is the best part Aiello ever had, small one though it is in terms of screen time. Integral to a collective grasp of this great and disturbing film however is the need to tie-in the relationship between Jacob the individual, the biblical Jacob's Ladder itself and the relevance of The Ladder as explained (and seemingly forgotten by most everybody) by the runty chemical weapons boffin at the near conclusion of the film.To those who view the ending as rushed, unsatisfying, obscure even dumb as I recall, I would merely suggest you watch it again and take into account the likelihood is, that it is in fact YOU that has missed what has been so cleverly set out for you. SIGNS was equally misunderstood by the majority of people that even liked it - there never WERE any aliens!JACOB'S LADDER is Robbins' greatest film - Lyne's too. The last few minutes are amongst the most emotional and uplifting scenes I have ever seen since the star child in 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY. Culkin was the perfect choice!I saw this movie in a near deserted theater in Times Square the week it came out. At the conclusion of this particular late show I noticed an old man sitting some two rows away to my left, absorbed in his thoughts. Having to walk past him to gain the exit I noticed tears in his eyes. He looked up as I approached. After studying me for a moment all he said to me was You understood didn't you?  I said, Yes I understood! He replied softly...You're very lucky! "},{"Title":"The grandfather of rubber reality films","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"207 out of 249 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The film begins with Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) and his platoon in Vietnam. When they're suddenly attacked, it's chaos, and the platoon appear to be the victims of some kind of chemical warfare. Jacob is stabbed in the stomach with a bayonet. Suddenly, without explanation, we see Jacob back in New York City. He's returned home from the war and he's trying to get his life back on track, but he keeps having odd experiences, seeing odd, frightening people, and having close calls with death. He cannot tell dreams from reality. What happened to him in Vietnam? Jacob's Ladder is the grandfather of the rubber reality films that became so popular throughout the 1990s and into the 2000s. The films with the most direct influence from Jacob's Ladder have appeared more recently-- Memento (2000), Mulholland Dr. (2001), The I Inside (2003), and The Butterfly Effect (2004). Less obvious, but also strongly influenced are films such as Abre los ojos (1997)/Vanilla Sky (2001), eXistenZ (1999), The Thirteenth Floor (1999) and The Matrix (1999), as well as films where the rubber reality is usually played more straight, such as The Sixth Sense (1999) and The Others (2001).Of course, like any artwork, Jacob's Ladder has its precursors, too, such as the short story by Ambrose Bierce called An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, which was originally published in 1891 and later used as a basis of a silent film called The Spy (1929), and then a French short entitled La Riviere du hibou (literally The River of the Owl), the latter also airing as an episode of The Twilight Zone (1959). There is a very strong religious/mythical allegory running throughout the film--seen in everything from the Judeo/Christian nature of the character's names and the title of the film itself to character interests, as Jacob begins extensively studying demonology, the occult and so forth in an attempt to figure out what is happening to him. We are also treated to subtle connections with other works, such as philosopher Albert Camus' novel L'Etranger (The Stranger), which Jacob is reading in the film when we first see him on the subway, and there are many at least subtle stylistic and content precursors, such as Altered States (1980).In light of the subsequent instantiations of the film's brand of rubberizing reality, as well as the more purely stylistic elements that have been used to often excellent effect in later films, such as the hyper kinetic figural motion that found its way into William Malone's films House on Haunted Hill (1999) and Fear dot Com (2002), Jacob's Ladder may seem relatively transparent or even tame. It's certainly easier to reach an interpretation for this than for a film like Mulholland Dr., where director David Lynch is purposefully obfuscatory. Still, Jacob's Ladder is one of the better films of its kind. Director Adrian Lyne achieved a continually offsetting creepiness that is rarely matched, and some scenes--such as the gurney journey through the increasingly dilapidated hospital corridors, could not possibly be topped.Seen in the context of Lyne's other films Jacob's Ladder is all the more surprising, as the bulk of his career has been focused on hyper sensual and sexy dramas and thrillers--such as 9 1/2 Weeks (1986), Fatal Attraction (1987), Indecent Proposal (1993), Lolita (1997) and Unfaithful (2002). Jacob's Ladder has its share of eroticism, however, mostly through the gorgeous and impassioned Jezebel (Elizabeth Pena), even though her most heated moment has her appropriately fraternizing with a demon.Lyne's relatively straightforward approach to the film's elastic ontology, especially in conjunction with his tendency to be forthcoming and thorough in explaining his view of the plot (a predilection shared by scriptwriter Bruce Joel Rubin) may be unfortunate in that there is an interpretation of Jacob's Ladder accepted by a vast majority as the right answer. That's a shame because there are countless possible readings of this material; differing views on everything from the general crux to the smallest minutiae. Part of the inherent beauty of the film is that any scene or set of scenes may equally be taken as the real events, and any of the dialogue may be taken as providing clues to your preferred interpretation.Robbins' performance is important to the film in that he is the focal point of almost every scene and has to convincingly play a vast range of emotions; he does so with finesse. The rest of the cast is noteworthy, even though their questionable nature gives them a lot of leeway in terms of verisimilitude and consistency.But the real driving force that makes Jacob's Ladder such a success is its eeriness. This is a horror film after all, both on psychological and more apparent supernatural levels. Lyne continually and disconcertingly pulls the rug from beneath not only Jacob, but the audience as well, yet manages to never make a viewer feel lost, instead producing an eagerness to solve the mystery while you root for Jacob. "},{"Title":"A film that sports technicality, a fresh plot, incredible editing and immersive characters","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"168 out of 205 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs Ladder is one of those rare films that throws you and your mind about like a ragdoll before giving you a bitter conclusion that turns everything upside down again. Forget Donnie Darko, that was mere childs play, this film is something else. Jacobs Ladder provides an experience so intimidating, brutal, wonderful and beautiful unparalleled to this day. This is something you have never seen or experienced before in film, and will probably never experience again.Jacob Singer is a postal worker, who, through the brutal effects of Vietnam, mentally breaks down, and starts seeing demons following him, killing his friends, raping his wife...... Make no mistake, Jacobs Ladder is a grim film but behind its dark mask lies an uplifting message of hope, freedom and mental release. I wont say anymore, because spoiling the plot for you would be extremely horrible of me, who am i to take away the magic of seeing the film from you.I'm not going to say that this is accessible to everyone, its not in the least. If your favourite film is American Pie than turn away, this is REAL film making. A lot of people will not like this, because they will expect, like with most films, to have all the answers served to them on a plate. Jacobs Ladder requires the viewer to do the thinking, letting them have their own perceptions of the film rather then being fed that of the directors. If you do choose to go on Jacobs journey with him be warned, it wont always be pretty, but you will come out of it gratified that for once in film you have the freedom to think for yourself. "},{"Title":"More to be felt through than thought through.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"144 out of 166 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After reading several reviews on this film I thought I would add my two cents. This remains one of my favorite movies and I never hesitate to take in another viewing. A lot of people seem to be noting the loose script and story elements as the film's weaknesses, going so far as to call it messy and incoherent. The fact that even after seeing it several times there's still some mystery in it, still some ambiguity as to the possible meanings to all of the things that go on with Jacob, is what I find most appealing. It's not a film like the Sixth Sense where all of the pieces fall into place at just the right time and you know exactly where you stand. It's something rather that is left to the imagination of the viewer, a rare thing when audiences en mass want clear cut explanations and easy answers (hence the success of Sixth Sense, a great film in it's own right, but the complete opposite of this one). The visuals are incredible and highly influential. The techniques used in this film have since been overused and distilled throughout various horror movies and music videos, but without ever coming close to the power of the original, which presents some of the most psychologically terrifying images ever to appear on screen. I think it's hard to come to this movie for the first time today and experience it the way you could have eleven years ago, when these type of images had yet to be seen and were exposed to completely unsuspecting audiences. The best way to see this movie is with absolutely no knowledge of it beforehand. The mood is perfect. The acting is great, the dialogue is outstanding. Danny Aielo explaining to Jacob about angels and demons still moves me to this date and the two simple words suddenly spoken to a disbelieving Jacob from some unseen source while in the Asylum scene still terrify like no other movie can. Also this may be the Home Alone kid's best film.The extra scenes on the DVD range from average to terrifying, including the omitted antidote scene, something I'm glad I didn't see when I was younger because it might have scarred me for life ). Also there is a perplexing and scary scene omitted at the end where Jacob confronts Jezebel. There is alot of digital grain in some of the shots. I would like to see a better quality DVD put out for this one, but I'll take what I can get with the added scenes. See this movie then see it again and then see it three years later. Don't over-analyze and worry if some of it doesn't make sense, after all it's not all supposed to. "},{"Title":"A visual masterpiece of horror and conspiracy.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"85 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is easily one of Adrian Lyne's best films.  Tim Robbins is excellent and the visual affects were just awesome.  I saw this movie for the first time in the theatre and it blew me away.  I've seen it many times after that, purely for the visuals that were done so well.  The plot twists and turns as it spirals downward slowly revealing the truth and keeps you guessing all the way to the surprising ending.  This is a dark, violent, beautiful movie that I recommend to all people who love horror, and just a smart story that will keep you in suspense until the very end. "},{"Title":"More than a movie","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"59 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a superbly crafted film that transcends mere entertainment and becomes an experience much greater than the sum of its parts. When you watch this movie, you are unleashing a very powerful force that short-circuits your natural ability to remain in control. It is like hypnotism, you have no choice...you are unable to think, act, or even believe apart from the intense feelings Jacob's Ladder inspires.Tim Robbins is Jacob Singer, a warm and genuinely likable Vietnam veteran who, in spite of earning a doctoral degree, chooses to find employment working for the U.S. Postal Service. We learn in bits and pieces as the plot unfolds that his service in Vietnam included a very frightening battle, and the events set in motion on that fateful day parallel what could be his descent into madness.Jacob's life suddenly begins to resemble Hell. He is literally chased by confusion, fear, and death, he sees unbelievably terrifying images, has horrific experiences that whether real or imagined are too frightening to bear alone. His only comfort comes in the form of the woman he lives with, Jezzie (Elizabeth Pena), and his chiropractor, Louis (Danny Aiello). Each of these people's relationships with Jacob represent more than just the roles they fulfill in his life, they are absolute forces at battle for his sanity, and possibly even his soul.His torment begins to include the past as well, the undeniable love he still has for his ex-wife and painful memories of his son Gabe, who died tragically in an accident (played by a young and virtually undiscovered Macauley Culkin). As all these elements of the past, present and future collide in shocking hallucinations, Jacob slowly begins to suspect he could be the victim of a secret Army drug experiment gone terribly wrong.With a haunted desperation, he embarks on a journey to find out what on earth happened to him - only his visions / flashbacks / flashforwards have become so delusional that reality and fantasy are hopelessly interwoven and nothing is as it seems. All that is decipherable is good and evil, life and death. And at the end of his nightmare, all he has to do is choose.That's all I will share of the story. I'm not going to do you the disservice of spoiling the experience this movie is. Suffice it to say, there is much more to know, and nothing left to tell.Meanwhile, there is not enough that can be said of Robbins' performance...although he has had better roles, never before or since has he portrayed his own emotions so nakedly. This is director Adrian Lyne's best by far, and by the way he's no slouch (Fatal Attraction, 9 1/2 Weeks).This is not a horror movie as some may think, it is human drama masterfully disguised as a supernatural thriller. The basic elements of Jacob's Ladder have been plundered several times in recent years. We have been suckered by flashy films with clever plot twists that cheat us on story, characters, and technical excellence. This film delivers all that and more. Movies like this are set apart from the rest of the pack because you don't just watch stuff like this, you feel it too. "},{"Title":"Brilliant! On par with Kubrick!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"70 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a masterpiece. Nothing less.It has a highly intelligent plot though not difficult or artsy and is void of cliches. It therefore confuses and aggravates many viewers and professional reviewers always wanting a standard has-it-all Hollywood outpouring.It is so few films that leaves room for independent thoughts. Jacob's Ladder tumbles your mind the same way a dream of your own does. I have never felt this effect in a film so strong before. The images comes pouring in and your brain tries to make sense of it. Whenever you think you have a grasp it slides away again.The brilliance of the progression of the story, twists and turns, and the final explanation, so obvious but elusive as real dreams are, makes it on par with the best of Kubrick.  "},{"Title":"a creepy and unnerving psychological thriller.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"54 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've always felt that this film has never gotten the credit or attention it deserves. Along with the similary underappreciated Angel Heart, this film creates a sense of dread and foreboding atmosphere that never lets up and comes close to overwhelming the viewer at times.Tim Robbins deliver possibly one of the best performances of his career and all of the other cast is fantastic as well. The editing and especially the cinematography are top notch and contribute greatly to the overall feel of the film.i won't go into any plot details since any revelations could ruin the film for someone who hasn't seen it. but if you want to see a movie that will genuinely freak you out and have you sleeping with the lights on, you can't go wrong with this great film.rating9   "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it much more after a second viewing","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"56 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember viewing this movie a couple years back and I did not get a lot out of it, I thought it was just too weird. In fact, I even wrote a review of the film on here. I'm glad I gave it another try because I really got a lot more out of it after the second viewing. Maybe it was because my expectations of the film were lower or I have matured in past few years. Anyway, this is a highly fascinating and entertaining thriller about a Vietnam veteran who always feels like there is somebody or something out to get him. He feels this way because he keeps seeing strange images and many people in which he comes in contact with appear to have horns growing out of their heads and whatnot. Him and his war buddies believe that these strange occurrences are the result of something that happened during the war. The best element of this film is its atmosphere and paranormal feel which will really give you the creeps as well as have you guessing what the cause of the strange occurrences that are affecting Jacob really are. Well worth viewing, and if it doesn't grab you on the first viewing, don't hesitate to try it again, you may enjoy it more. 8/10. "},{"Title":"original, scary, mesmerizing what more can I say?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"58 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For several years, there's a very trendy cinematographic genre. This is the psychological fantastic. This genre is very successful as the movies the sixth sense (1999), what lies beneath (2000) or unbreakable (2000) showed. All these movies must have been influenced by Jacob's ladder. In this way, you can regard Adrian Lyne's movie as a precursory and innovative movie. Lyne achieved a masterstroke in an absolutely new genre for him. It means that you're very far from the atmosphere of 9 weeks and a half or fatal attraction.Jacob's ladder is based on an outstanding screenplay including numerous weird details that increase the spectator's curiosity. It's precisely with the spectator that Lyne and Bruce Joel Robin, the scriptwriter play with. They take a malicious pleasure in getting the spectator lost in a real maze where seem to border dream and reality. Like Tim Robbins, you look for the clue to the mystery. This clue may be the chemist which Jacob's meeting at the refreshment bar truck. This chemist will lead the plot towards an amazing conclusion.In Adrian Lyne's movie, there's also a part of the fantastic genre that is very well exploited at first common and normal living conditions but that are little by little overcome by the unreal, the strange and the fear.The movie also enjoys an outstanding performance to begin with Tim Robbins. A brilliant success and a movie that deserves to rank among the ten best fantastic movies of the nineties "}{"Title":"Ascending the Celluloid Ladder","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Is Jacob Singer dreaming? Is his life one giant nightmare? Is he simply hallucinating, suffering post traumatic stress syndrome form Vietnam? We don't know. But director Adrianne Lynn will show us Jacob's nightmare. He will take into the depths of one man's hell and in the process, attempt to explain poor Jacob's psychosis.Jacob SInger (Tim Robbins) returned from Vietnam different. He is now haunted by horrid visions of demons, strange entities and people who may or may not want to hurt him. He confides in his girlfriend Jezzie (Elizabeth Pena), but she cannot fathom the horror that Jacob is experiencing. He seeks guidance from his chiropractor (Danny Aiello), an old friend who holds some all too wise wisdom. And Jacob is still broken by the death of his young son. He still mourns despite seeming to begin a new life away from his old family (he is divorced). Yet when he is on the subway, he sees a man with what appears to be a tail. When at a party, he witnesses his girlfriend dance erotically with a winged creature. And then there are the faces, faceless beings that shake rapidly. Is Jacob crazy or did something happen in Vietnam? Jacob's Ladder is scary not because it is filled with gore. No one is eviscerated, maimed or disembowled. The true terror is psychological, touching the very core of what can disturb. We are not frightened, shielding our eyes from the screen, hiding in the shoulder of a significant other. No, we are unsettled yet mesmerized, astounded by what we are seeing. The most frightening images are the ones you can't look away from.Take for instance the scene with Jacob on his bed, grieving over the loss of his son. We see the desolate apartment, we hear the quiet and we feel his anguish. The fact that we see a man violently vibrate his body, howling and shrieking a horrible sound is off settling. That man is not supposed to be there. Jacob knows that. We know that. Yet the director, Lynn, knows this as well. And by incorporating an image so... unusual at such an abrupt moment, it shows us the level that the film has taken. Lynn is now able to do anything, show us anything. He has become the puppeteer not only of the characters but of the audience. When a director takes away your entire sense of reality, he becomes dangerous and the audience is more alone than ever.The ending is a matter of perspective and interpretation. One can look at it as closure. Another can look at it as a cop out a display of cleverness. But everything that has been leading up to it has been exhilarating, a true showcase of the surreal. The fact is one cannot leave Jacob's Ladder normal. You just can't. The film requires too many emotions. It requires too much thought. Even for a person who admires the film, even likes it, I still cannot end the movie without feeling different silent, perhaps cold, disturbed yet maybe even enlightened.This film could have not been made now. There is just no way that the quality would still remain, nor the genuine terror. Today, psychology has been replaced with cliché and story has been replaced with CGI. To think of truly great horror, none have ever been made post visual effects era. The fact that this film is not ruined by quick editing, over stylized cinematography and flashy effects is a testament to the time in which it was made. The dry, washed out color, grainy, gritty appearance and subtle, ambient score are all a credit to the late 80's, early 90's an era where the practicality of effects added to the realism not detracted. Because of this, the story, plot and characters take over, a rare occasion in today's films.The brilliance of Jacob's Ladder arises form the film's ability to only show us the door. The director describes it to us and only hints at what is behind. We, as the audience, are required to figure out what is truly inside and ultimately open it. The problem with modern genre movies is that the director opens the door for us. Why can't we choose to examine the door and only wonder what is behind it? Wy can't we decide if we want to open it or not? Well, in the case of the film, it is not a door but a ladder. We have to decide if we want to venture up or down. For me... I ventured up. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" SPOILER ALERTJacob's Ladder (1990) The opening scene in Jacob's Ladder takes place during the Vietnam War. A small group of US soldiers are joking around, but suddenly they are attacked by the enemy (apparently)! As the attack starts some of the GI's suffer from strange attacks and everything turns into chaos. Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) is wounded by a bayonet but we don't see by who and why. The rest of the movie revolves around this day and what really happened.Singer drops to the ground in Vietnam and we are taken to New York. The war is over and Singer has recovered from his wound and is now working as a postman even though he took a PhD before going to Vietnam. The reason After the war he didn't want to think anymore. He has left his wife Sarah, and now lives with his girlfriend Jezebel (Elizabeth Peña). Sarah and Jacob had three children together, but one, Gabe (Macaulay Culkin), was killed in an automobile accident before Jacob went to Vietnam.Jacob suffers from eerie attacks in which he is hunted by inhuman beings. At a party he has one of his attacks and he sees Jezebel dancing and having sex with a demon on the dance floor (looks like something from a hentai cartoon). One day Jacob receives a call from one of his old Vietnam buddies. He suffers from the same attacks, and he is convinced it's demons and he's going to hell. He is freed from his torment when his car blows up just after he and Jacob parted. It turns out that the whole platoon is suffering from the same attacks, and they believe that the army must have done something to them. They ask a lawyer, Geary (Jason Alexander), to take their case and he initially accepts.Now the movie turns momentarily into a government conspiracy thriller, because Jacob learns that his army buddies have abandoned the case and so has the lawyer. Jacob is pretty sure that the army has pressured them out. He is proved correct when he himself is forced into a car for a 'friendly' conversation with a couple of government thugs. Jacob fights them off and jumps out of the car. The landing hurts his weak back and he is taken to a hospital (after he has been robbed by Santa Claus, who steals the wallet with Jacobs only picture of Gabe). The movie is also known, as Dante's Inferno and we understand why when Jacob arrives at the hospital. This is my favorite scene in the movie &#150; as if hospitals weren't scary enough&#133; There are limbs and blood all over the place and strange and deform people crowd the hallways. The Evil Doctor (deservingly credited as such on IMDb!) tells Jacob that he's dead. Louis (Danny Aiello) who is Jacob's chiropractic gets him out.Home again Jacob is contacted by Michael (Matt Craven) who worked as a chemist for the US army in Vietnam. He tells the story about The Ladder &#150; a drug designed to turn soldiers into killing machines. The drug was first tested on animals and Vietcong soldiers with incredible and scary results &#150; Jacob's platoon was the first US test subjects. They turned mad and killed each other! In this scene Lyne proves that the imagination is far better than any images when Michael tells about the drug testing &#150; Michael never thought people could do such things to each other&#133;Earlier in the movie Louis told Jacob (which is the essential quote of the movie)Eckhart saw Hell too. He said The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you, he said. They're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and... and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth.Now Jacob returns to the house where he lived with Sarah. His dead son, Gabe, comes to get him. Hand in hand with Gabe, Jacob walks up the stairs into the light. The demons have turned into angels and Jacob is in heaven! Now we are taken back to Vietnam where Jacob dies in a MASH unit &#150; the doctors couldn't do anymore, but they notice how peaceful Jacob looks. The only REAL things in the movie was the first and the last scene &#150; the rest was a dream/hallucination/divine intervention&#133;I consider this to be Tim Robbins best performance ever and Adrian Lyne's best movie &#150; a somewhat overlooked treasure (not on the horror board where most have seen it). The brilliant score by Maurice Jarre and beautiful cinematography by Jeffrey Kimball (True Romance and Stigmata) creates the perfect mood and atmosphere for this thoughtful experience. The movie isn't filled with special effects &#150; often they just hint what's going on and leaves the rest to the imagination. The fast motion head jerks are very powerful and the same goes for the scene where Jezebel's eyes turn black &#150; a scene also used very effective in The Passion of the Christ. My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Anguishing, Intriguing, Original, Unique","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"41 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On 06 Oct 1971, in Mekong Delta, Vietnam, the American soldier Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) is wounded by a bayonet during an attack to his platoon. He wakes up in New York subway while going home late night after working overtime in the post office. He is divorced from Sarah (Patricia Kalember), lives with his colleague and lover Jezebel (Elizabeth Peña) is a small apartment in Brooklyn and misses his young son Gabe (Macaulay Culkin), who died in an accident where Jacob feels responsible for. Along the next days, Jacob is chased by demons and finds conspiracy in the army, while having different visions of different moments of his life.Yesterday I saw The Jacket and I decide to see once more Jacob's Ladder, maybe for the fifth time. This anguishing and intriguing story is one of the most original and unique I have ever seen, and has been plagiarized many times mainly in the foregoing mentioned The Jacket. Tim Robbins gives another top-notch performance in the role of a troubled man resolving his life, due to the feeling of guilty for the loss of his younger son. Bruce Joel Rubin, who also wrote and produced Ghost, Jacob's Ladder and My Life, shows that is very connected with spiritual issues, approaching this theme in his films. The Brazilian title of this movie, Alucinações do Passado (Hallucinations From the Past), wrongly induces the viewer and destroys the dubious sense of the original title Jacob is the lead character, Ladder is the name of the experiment his platoon and him had been submitted in Vietnam; but the interpretation of Jacob's Ladder in the Bible is that this is the only means to reach the total ecstasy, the plenitude, however, we need first supersede the obstacles that we find in our ascension. Further, Jacob experienced a vision in which he saw a ladder reaching into heaven with angels going up and down it, a vision that is commonly referred to as Jacob's Ladder (from Wikipedia). Another interesting aspect is that all the characters have biblical names. For example, Jezebel is considered the most wicked woman in the entire Bible (the character of Elizabeth Peña was responsible for the separation of Jacob and Sarah and maybe he was blaming her for keeping him far from his family); and Gabriel is the angel that explained signs from God and announced the conception, birth, and mission of Jesus to Mary. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Alucinações do Passado (Hallucinations From the Past)Note On 19 May 2009, I saw this movie again, now on DVD. "},{"Title":"Here's A Film You Could Spend Hours Discussing","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Can you say disturbing? Well, that adjective surely fits this unusual movie, one I've only viewed once but plan on seeing again sometime this year. It's a strange film and could be taken a number of ways. For instance, it has some twisted theology but yet could also be used as a tool for evangelism. It's a difficult movie to interpret but a commentary/interview extra on DVD does explain some questions one would have after watching this because a lot of people apparently misinterpret this film. It's not family fare, I'll tell you that. The language is brutal and there are some scenes in here that are not for the feint at heart. The lead character, played by Tim Robbins, is a tortured soul and plays that role well. Most of the story is told in flashbacks as a man is dying and is going through the final stages of death, recalling some key moments in his life. Those moments are magnified the bad being shown worse than what it was and vice/versa. The main message here is As long as you are afraid of death, the evil demons will torment you, but when you let go and aren't afraid anymore, you'll find those demons to be angels.This is the kind of film you could probably write long, long essays on. Suffice to say, it's quite different, can be very offensive, but - if you're willing to take a shot at something different and unpleasant at times - it is definitely worth checking out, and then discussing. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Tale of Psychological Terror","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" N.B. Spoilers within. If you have never seen Jacob's Ladder, do not read beyond this first paragraph. I would never ruin the special experience for the first-time viewer. Just know that it is not for the faint of heart, but that none of its disturbing material &#150; which there is a lot of &#150; is gratuitous I promise you. If you're up for the film's emotional intensity, graphic visual style, and thought-provoking plot, then see it. Period.This entire movie (except for a single scene I can think of) takes place in, is made of, Jacob Singer's mind. He is on a long, agonizing search. What really happened to him in Vietnam? Why are demons tormenting him? Why are secretive army thugs harassing him? Why is his very existence a disintegrating fugue between three worlds? Is he even alive, or is he experiencing hell? Ultimately, what is the meaning of his life? Roughly in the manner of Slaughterhouse Five, Jacob lurches uncontrollably between 'Nam, life with Jezebel, and life with Sarah and their two sons. Which is real, and which is only a dream? We are kept guessing, and this really propels the story forward. Jezebel is a purposely complex character highly sensuous, feisty and impatient, compassionate and concerned. Sarah and the children are all about stability and love. 'Nam is, of course, Jacob's worst nightmare. But his deepest anguish is the loss of his youngest, favorite son, Gabe, who died in a tragic, untimely accident.Evil seems to be winning the war through much of the film, but Jacob's visits to his chiropractor, Louis, are oases of relief and Light. Louis is literally the film's guardian angel sage, mentor, savior. Not only does this angel bravely extract Jacob from a hellish entrapment in the hospital; his wise words (see below) revisit Jacob in the penultimate scene and help him achieve his final release. The appearance late in the film of the Chemist offers another temporary reprieve from the terror, if only because he has an important piece of the Truth.Jacob's Ladder of course does not belong to the traditional horror genre. It is far richer; a uniquely psychological-horror film. It is so effective because the viewer is inside Jacob's mental state, experiencing the horrors and fears as he does. For all the emphasis on evil, there is a thread of Good, often in symbolic Christian guise which structures the film in a long tradition. The main characters' names Jacob, in the Bible the personification of personal struggle; Jezebel, thought of through the ages as all that is wicked in Woman (yet our Jezebel here is much more); Sarah, astonishing beauty; Eli, the Old Testament priest and judge; and Gabriel, the Left Hand of God, chief messenger who is sent to earth to prophesy and aid. There is Jacob's Ladder, the gateway by which angels pass from heaven to earth and back. And there is the welcome presence of Louis, who quotes Meister Eckhart, the 14th-century Christian mystic and philosopher. In Jacob's most crucial meeting with Louis, he hears Eckhart's decisive wisdom. To crudely paraphrase in death, or in one's fear of it, let go of all earthly concerns, and the demons will release you.Director Adrian Lyne is brilliant here; this film has to be his magnum opus (to date). He works effectively between sustained eeriness, flat-out terror, and meditative quiet. Every technical element is impeccably realized and integrated, and the acting is first-rate. The character of Jacob has to be one of the most beaten down, harried, confused, and embattled I've ever seen, yet he is a fighter to the end. He drives himself toward the answers. Tim Robbins could have easily slipped into overdone caricature, but he finesses the role admirably. Elizabeth Pena captures the many shadings of Jezebel. Danny Aiello conveys persuasively Louis's strength and serenity. And kudos to writer Bruce Joel Rubin, who &#150; after all of the dark, demonic struggles and bewildering reality bending &#150; rewards Jacob, and us, with a transcendent resolution to the greatest questions there are at the end.I won't even bother with what is real and what is not and what is what, except to say that the film may or may not be a take on the great Ambrose Bierce short story An Incident at Owl Creek Bridge. Despite any concrete interpretations even by its director or writer, their own creation defies easy answers. I welcome a film of diverse readings. It means very different things to different people; it says something new with each viewing. (Personally speaking, I don't watch this film often; it has a powerful spell over me that I don't want to lose.) A last word about the music Maurice Jarre's haunting and unsettling score perfectly supports the story. His contribution to the feel of the moment is immense. Finally, there is the coup of using the song Sonny Boy, which becomes a leitmotif for Gabe, the absolute love of Jacob's life. (It's an astounding fit ...You're sent from heaven and I know your worth / You made a heaven for me right here on the earth / When I'm old and gray, dear, promise you won't stray, dear / for I love you, Sonny Boy.) Early in the film we briefly see Jacob bouncing along in his Postal truck he is casually singing a broken version of the song. At Gabe's first appearance, the song sounds as if from a magical music box. A minute later, father and son sing it together as Gabe is tucked into bed. But, in a jaw-dropping stroke, the classic version by Al Jolson wafts into the air just after Jacob is pronounced dead in the final moments; it continues through the fade-to-black and into the credits...it segues into the beyond. Is it the last thought Jacob has on earth? "},{"Title":"An imaginative and different horror; interesting enough for repeat viewings, with a great sense of paranoia and strange imagery (spoilers)","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Years after surviving his time in Vietnam, Jacob Singer is still traumatised and suffering from violent flashbacks. He is separated from his wife and is keeping it together the best he can &#150; but things are starting to happen to him. Entrapment in a closed subway station is the start of it, with monsters and demons also closing in on him. When he meets an old army comrade who is also having the same experiences, he finds hope &#150; but it is short lived. Jacob soon comes to realize that the army must have done something to his whole unit that is only catching up with him now.I have seen this film a couple of times and there is something about it that means I will probably come back to it within a few years. The plot is difficult to say the least but also comes across as pretty easy to get into &#150; it is only really in the final scene that I have myself forced to question everything I had seen. Of course this is not to say the film has a 'normal' storyline to it because it doesn't &#150; it is weird, full of visions and the plot, although seemingly easy to follow, is still very strange. The film takes us into two different paths and both of them make as much or as little sense as each other and the film never actually lets me decide which one of the several ideas is true; it is too easy to just say 'he is dead and it is all a dream' and instead I always find myself trying to work out more about it. I wonder is Singer dead and this is a sort of purgatory? Is he suffering from the effects of drugs? Is he mad? Or is it just a dream? It may frustrate some viewers, but for me part of the appeal is that it could be any or none of these things.It is hard to really describe and I know that it may annoy and alienate some viewers but for me the strange mix of material really works. Boiled down to its essence, the film is consistently creepy but also rather harrowing at points. The images are weird and well delivered, half-seen and a little disturbing &#150; it is not the normal stuff of horror movies but comes across a little more up market; it is less about gore than it is about the mood that the images present. Lyne directs with a really cold air and it makes the film all the creepier; but he also gives us enough of a human story so that flashes of Singer's family, children and dead son are rather moving and engaging. Of course this is only helped by a great central performance by Robbins who conveys a palatable sense of fear throughout but also blended with a real tragedy that helps me get into the story. He is supported by a cast that looks better over the years with many of those in small roles becoming much more famous since this (Rhames, Vince, Alexander, La Salle, Culkin). Pena is pretty good and Aiello is enjoyable even if I didn't totally understand his role in the context of any of my theories. It is Robbins' film though, and he helps us get to the core of the paranoia and fear that the film is trying to get across.Overall this is a very good film if you enjoy alternative horror &#150; creepy rather than gory. The plot may frustrate because it doesn't give you an easy answer &#150; in fact the ending just makes the whole thing harder to understand and hold together. It is a strange film with images and such that stick with me after each viewing &#150; not frightening so much as it is just a little unnerving. The sense of paranoia and/or the descent into hell is well delivered and the mystery of the plot is enough to bring you back more than once. Not a perfect film, but many of its flaws are also some of its strengths.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie/One Problem","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I definitely fall into the Loved this Movie category. It works on so many different levels--as horror, suspense, mystery, thriller, even love story. In fact, I don't think this movie could've worked nearly as well if you didn't actually feel for this guy (Robbins) wholeheartedly. You can tell that this guy really loved his wife and his child. That's a testament to Robbins' performance. As others have said, I think the movie makes complete sense Everything in the movie that occurred after Vietnam never really happened. He is simply imagining/hallucinating/dreaming it all as he lay dying in Vietnam. That's not to say that some of those events that he dreams about didn't really happen; for instance, his son really has died and he is now remembering him. And he really did work at a post office and probably had a crush on one of the workers there (Pena), so he is imagining a separate life with her. It all fit very well for me. However, I do have one problem with my own theory, and it's somewhat small, but important in my opinion. If everything after Vietnam never really happened, how did he find out about The Ladder (Bad LSD) as he lay dying? In the movie, an ex-Nam buddy tells him about it back in the States. But if he never actually went home, he would never have known about it, being that one of his own soldier-buddies attacks and mortally wounds him in the jungle. My best rationalization for this is that as he lay dying, he overheard some doctors or military personnel discussing what the bad LSD had wrought. Jacob then transposes those conversations into his own dreamlike state, creating the character of the hippie LSD scientist who created it. Yet it seems as though we are meant to believe that the scientist (Craven) actually did create it. It's the one part of the movie, for me, that crosses the line between the two worlds (reality and dreamlike/nightmare) and expects us to accept it. I wonder if anyone else has the same problem with this one pat of an otherwise fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"It's a shame Lyne and Rubin didn't team up again...","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the kind of movie that is sorely missing from today's theatres. While numerous directors and writers (too numerous to count) are trying to take horror films in new, original, and relevant ways, Jacob's Ladder will stand the test of time as a cult film that is truly terrifying and goes the extra mile by containing both criticism of military politics and an incredibly dense emotional subtext, none of which overwhelms the final product.Current horror films take the concept of gore, jump scares, and soundtrack to the utmost extreme, sacrificing mood, tension, and restraint, which are the biggest assets to a horror film. Jacob's Ladder utilizes every tool in the horror palette that it needs while remaining true to its own ethos. The best scene to fit this example is the party, where one of the characters quite literally dances with a demon. In a more contemporary horror film, we would clearly see this demon, shots might be in slow motion to emphasize the sexuality in it, we would probably get creepy soundtrack music, the character in question would probably get torn apart, and at least part of the demon would likely be CGI. Instead, the demon is seen in flashes that are quite unclear, which gives the viewer the idea that what they're NOT seeing is more terrifying. The sequence takes place in real time with appropriate dance music in the background without sacrificing the sexuality and the meaning of what is happening; this gives it a more realistic feel to the viewer. All the visual effects are in camera, but never in the same shot as the protagonist, offering a distance that allows for interpretation; is what the protagonist seeing reality, or an illusion?This one scene (which is by no means a plot spoiler) is indicative of the technical, formal, and metaphorical mastery of this film. The explanations for what is seen in the film are critical without being overbearing and toe the line for believability while leaving space for interpretation. The mood conveyed by the film is consistently dark, darker than most any other film could hope to achieve. It's so dark, in fact, that a large majority of people were practically catatonic leaving the original cut of the film.This film fires on all cylinders; the directing, writing, acting, music, special effects, production design, message, mood, and tension are always kept exactly where they should be. Simply put, it's a dark masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Great Film ***Spoilers here***","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***Spoilers here***This story focuses on a Vietnam veteran named Jacob Singer who is experiencing flashbacks in his present life.  He is losing his hold on reality, and nothing seems real.  These flashbacks of Vietnam horror are mixed with present and taking over his thought process.  He is having problems existing and remaining sane.  Ving Rhames and Jason Alexander have minor roles but are effective.  The real star of the film is Tim Robbins, who is excellent.  Jacob is a nervous wreck, and very vulnerable.  His character displays a great range of human emotions, and one is often questioning who is Jacob Singer; what is his identity??  It is blurred through the different symbolic characters that exist in his mind.  His women in his life  his wife Sarah and Jezebel; his chiropractor, and his Vietnam veteran buddies.  Yet he is not set and committed to either one of these characters except two.  Firstly, he loves and misses his dead son, Gabe. He genuinely loves his son, and that love is what allows him to let go of the world and ascend up his own ladder to the afterlife.Secondly, he escapes to the character of Danny Aiello when he needs healin g and help.  Throughout the film, one is questioning the validity of what is really occurring.  Is Jacob dying?  Is he in a living hell?  Or is he just plain insane?  He cannot trust many people, except Louis (played by Danny Aiello) his chiropractor.  Louis reveals the truth of the film near the end that Singer is in between heaven and hell and not letting his soul ascend to Heaven.  He has to let go and allow the angels to take him up to Heaven. Otherwise, the devils will perpetually stalk him and make his life a living hell.  The drug twist was an interesting curve that was effective, yet I am glad the movie did not end on that note.  It would have seemed an unnatural conclusion given Jacob Singer's experiences in the film.  It was not a nightmare, nor any dream or hallucination.  It was a true experience in all the sense of that word.  The events, characters, and manifestations that are shown in the film come from Jacob's mind in a sincerely truthful way. They all are symbolic of different aspects of Jacob's psyche.  It is like a dream; but dreams are not as symbolic as Jacob's experiences here.  It is much more than any dream. It is an altogether different form of reality. It is the place where reality seizes to exist.  It is the playground of one's own mind; dreamlike, yes, but not a dream.  The mind is of itself and creates images that are representative of his whole existence and being. His entire life exists solely in his mind at this point.  Physically, he is not on earth anymore, but in a type of purgatory of the mind. Essentially, the whole film is what he sees in his mind on his deathbed; the horror of death, the fear of hell and of staying on Earth when your place is in heaven.The ending features a great camera shot.  Singer is lying dead on an operating table and the doctors walk away from it wondering this man's name. This takes away from the uniqueness of Jacob Singer, the person.  It depersonalizes him.  Instead of having a peaceful, deeply emotional ending where he is walking to Heaven it ends on an impersonal, almost apathetic note, with a subtle hint of uncertainty.  It brings up a fundamental question  what happens to someone when they die??  No one really knows and there will always be uncertainty.  Thus, one cannot be certain that Jacob Singer went to Heaven in this film.  If it had ended on the shot of him going up the stairs with his son, him ascending to Heaven would most certainly be true.  Yet, at the end, he is just one man who has died in Vietnam.  It is a cold and somber ending.  Though he is peaceful and dead, his ties to the world have been severed.  This is a great conclusion, for it takes it away from the personal nature of the main character and it focuses on the more significant question of what death really is??  To the rest of the world Jacob Singer has died and is just another dead body who is `done singing'.  Yet personally in his mind Jacob is going to Heaven and is sure of it.  I love how subtle this idea is brought up here.  The uncertainty of the 'undiscovered country' is a question that no one can answer-yet everyone asks.   This is a very compelling story, with a satisfying ending.  It also has a good number of curves along the way that give it good sustenance. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie Full of Symbolisms","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are some movies that really set a great precedent, and Jacob's Ladder is a leading example. Long before movies like The Sixth Sense or The Others were out, Jacob's Ladder was one of the first movies to play so artfully with combinations of the natural and the paranormal, the real and the surreal, and most importantly, a movie that manages to bring the viewer completely by surprise in the end, by making everything seen up to that point shown in a different perspective. The film is full of symbolisms, which are capable to be grasped by someone only if he/she sees the movie more than once. It is not a horror movie, yet there are some scenes that can definitely scare you quite much.In brief, it is a GREAT, 10 out 10, THOUGHT-PROVOKING movie, but be prepared for a hard ride when you watch it!And now, let me express my thoughts of how I interpreted it.*** WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD ***I subscribe to the following theory as expressed in several variations by other reviewers in this forum Jacob gets hit by friendly fire in Vietnam, and his fellow soldiers try to rescue him, yet to no avail in the end. This is the real part of the film, which ends with the two doctors claiming that we lost him in the last scene.The surreal part that is taking part in Jacob's mind (or soul) throughout this period, is that he descends to hell (subway), straggles with demons (Jezzebel, evil doctors, Santa Claus in the street, security men, etc.), but finally the angels (chiropratic, Sarah, dead son, chemist) show him the way up to heaven. Throughout this process, he is punished for his noughty thoughts (or maybe acts) that he had with Jezzebel when he was married, he is told the truth about what happened to his ladder-drugged battalion (chemist), and he is taught to live with the fact that he has to reconcile with what haunts him and pass away peacefully (chiropractic).It is interesting to note that the film plays with many symbolisms Biblical names (Jacob, Jezzebel, Sara), hellish subway where everything is locked, stairway to heaven with shining light, Jezzebel burns Sarah's and kids' photos in fire, demons with horns and tails, Jake burns in fever, etc. Moreover, the idea is that only Jake is salvated; his friends try to break free with him, but finally are doomed to stay in hell.I think that the more ones sees the film, the more he/she will find out new things. EXCELLENT! "}{"Title":"Gripping and depressing ...","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" HELL, I finally got it and fortunately I liked it.We follow the main character Jacob Singer (played by Tim Robbins) who was a veteran in Vietnam through his life that - from the start - gets stranger and stranger. Having lost his son and been through the war we start to realize there is something seriously wrong with this guy who is more and more lead by fear and despair as he increasingly suffers from creepy hallucinations ... But what is that really all about?This film is twisty and at times confusing but also very compelling. From the craftsmanship of film making this here is on a high level but what makes it work is mainly the really strong acting. Robbins performance is marvelous and we really feel with him and get in a kind of depressive mood ... yes this film is kinda depressing and certainly not a funny entertaining piece. There are two things about the movie that bothered me. First of all there is one scene in the movie that kinda spoils its own ending - but OK. Secondly though the surprising ending works in a way ... from the content throughout the film there remains - for me at least - the big question after the end Does this really all make sense? Considering the ending I can not directly see some of the connections between everything that happens ... but after I talked a bit about it, it kinda grew on me and ... anyway a gripping, intelligent, well-crafted experience.Cause of some doubts I rate this film only (a weak) 8 / 10. "},{"Title":"Devilishly Impressive","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lyne's, Jacob's Ladder, is the freakishly twisted tale of Vietnam war vet, Jacob Singer, who, after being ambushed in Viet Cong by an agent orange assault, returns to his home town in New York City only to suffer from extreme post-traumatic hallucinations. The hallucinations become increasingly bizarre as Jacob struggles to overcome the painful memories of his son (played by Macaulay Culkin) who was killed while he was in the war.Lyne uses seemingly ordinary images to evoke the fear and sickness that Jacob suffers with, from vapid shower curtains and naked spines, to the grotesque slab of meat inside a refrigerator&#x97;all induce a sense of estrangement and insanity. Later he uses more horror-styled elements coiled reptilian tails, saber-tooth's, convulsing heads built on paint bucket shakers, etc.The nonlinear style cuts back and forth between Jacob's present life in NY and his former life in Viet Cong. At times, flashes of a later life (i.e. an afterlife) appear on screen that seem to foreshadow his inevitable fate. Jacob begins to see literal demons infiltrate his perceptual awareness, haunting and tearing at his soul, causing him to sink lower and lower into the depths of madness as he struggles to let go of his memories and embrace death. But are these demons real, or are they simply figments of his hallucinatory imagination? Along the way, he shares multiple conversations with his guardian angel chiropractor, Louis (Danny Aiello), who imparts very peculiar, almost preachy wisdom to Jacob to help him calm his hellish nightmares. Quoting from Meister Eckhart (the master of Negative Theology), he says Eckhart saw Hell too; he said 'the only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you,' he said. 'They're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and&#x85; and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth.' Most of the time, the viewer is unaware of where the story is headed. It's like an LSD trip gone seriously wrong and without that backup friend to soothe or provide remedy. It's also somewhat reminiscent of C.S. Lewis' Screwtape Letters, very self-aware of the macabre and forces you to ponder uncomfortable subjects. The film is one of my favorites, as it merges the gap between the two worlds we exist in&#x97;the dark one and the light one&#x97;not to forget exposes the two voices that exist inside us all&#x97;the devilish one and the angelic one. A must see for the spiritually intune! "},{"Title":"Superb film in every way","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have seen this movie several times and will see it several more times. It is one of the few DVD's I own. It is a mesmerizing, dark, reality twisting look into madness; a constantly shifting discourse on what is real; a gut wrenching foray into the effects of tampering with the human mind to create more effective soldiers. This film, though not easy to watch is one of the most riveting, compelling, challenging films I have ever seen. And to top it all off, the last 2 minutes of the film turn the story on its head in a way that could not have been predicted.Throughout this film I was asking, which of the realities that Singer is living is the real one? Each one is convincing, and shifts you out of your previous interpretation in a most convincing way. And then again, it shifts back convincing you once again that the previous reality was the illusion. His final meeting with his young son (Macauley Caulkin) is wrenchingly beautiful and brings a measure of peace to a film that unrelentingly shocks, jars, and assaults you. And then the final scene, The,Oh my God, what does this mean moment compels a second, third and fourth watching. This film is not for the faint of heart or the easily offended. If you love You've Got Mail you'll hate this. But for a movie that will make you think, make you ponder the meaning of life, challenge you to grapple with reality there are few finer cinematic experiences. "},{"Title":"Simply Amazing!!! A lot more simple than it seems Very underrated","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A lot of people don't like this movie because they believe it's too hard to understand. However, it pretty straight forward, it's simply a representation of what someones goes through before dying, and i believe quite strongly that it's pretty close to that. The whole movie is just a big nightmare and a mental fight for survival. There is many references to death throughout the movie. Have you ever had a dream where somebody you barely know was suddenly close to you, and in your dream it seems like you've known him forever, for example your cousin's friend might suddenly be your brother and seems like he's always been. That's what happens to Jacob's with with his girlfriend. It might seems that the movie skips from one point to another but don't all dreams do exactly that. If you have something bothering you, you might dream of it at night. Jacob's concern was his survival, The movie is simply a representation of dreams. You can relate to Jacob's mental struggles through your dreams. This movie is very underrated, I believe it is one of the best motion picture every created, it's very original, and it leaves you thinking for days, the author is extremely clever!! Almost flawless in my opinion, 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"A masterful psychological journey.","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sublime thriller is a nightmarish roller-coaster of emotions and one of the best psychological thrillers of the 90's.After his harrowing tour in Vietnam, a NYC man returns home where he begins to have horrific hallucinations. But what do they mean and is everything as it seems?Long before it was filmed, Jacob's Ladder was floating around Hollywood in the form of a screenplay. In fact at one point it was called one of the ten best un-filmed screenplays in Hollywood. It's not hard to see why either, as this film is a unique mind-trip that takes a number of twists through out its plot line. Jacob's Ladder is an emotionally powerful film as well. Thanks to its likable main character (lovingly played by Tim Robbins) this film runs from emotions of utter terror; as our hero inexplicably sees demons, to moving sadness; as Jacob recalls his deceased young son. This film is an unnerving and compelling journey the whole way.The direction of Adrien Lyne (director of the 1987 hit Fatal Attraction) is beautifully well done. The film is heavy on dark atmosphere and effectively scary imagery. The moody music score by Maurice Jarre also adds to the spookiness.The cast is excellent, the best of which is Robbins as our sympathetic and heart-felt hero.Jacob's Ladder is the kind of film that offers a mind-blowing journey that most films can only hope for. In the end, Jacob's Ladder is a masterpiece of psychological terror and a truly unforgettable film. A must-see and not just for horror fans.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"haunting","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Most of the people who reviewed this film explained everything about it. I will just say it is one of the most haunting and intense films you will find out there.  Not one you will likely forget.  Tim Robbins, despite making a good salary, must've been haunted by this film while making it...his character goes through so much.  With good support from Danny Aiello, he finally finds the light.  Be forewarned this is a difficult film to watch but it is definitely different and powerful. "},{"Title":"Drama, horror, mystery...it all works!","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Combining horror with some serious drama is often a combination that simply doesn't work out all too well. It's extremely hard to do and to find and right balance but I think that this movie succeeded in this, by throwing in some good mystery that will leave you guessing and keep you watching, right till the very end.I think the key to liking this movie is by knowing absolutely nothing about it, beforehand. Just let the story and all of its developments surprise you. The movie keeps throwing you around. The one moment it seems as if its going to be a horror, the other as if its going to be a drama and the other moment it's being a mystery-thriller, with also at times either supernatural elements in it and not. So basically the one moment the movie is being a realistic one, while the other its clearly being more than that. There is a lot going on but the movie never becomes a confusing one.In all truth, this seems to be a movie that is being more common and similar to some of the genre movies that are made this present day. In that regard this movie seemed to be ahead of its time but it also has as a result that today's audience will probably see some of the twists coming from miles away already. About halfway through it already came apparent for me how the movie was going to end and without spoiling it, all I can say is that I wasn't wrong about it.But having said that, that really doesn't mean that the movie won't keep surprising you with its moments and story developments. Even when you already figure out the ending way before the movie ends, you'll still have a more than great time watching this movie and it won't ruin the experience for you in any way.I said before that this movie is quite similar to modern genre movies and this is true for its story but with its style and approach this movie perhaps feels more like a late '60's/'70's psychological horror movie, such as for instance Rosemary's Baby and to some extend also The Exorcist.It's quite funny. Tim Robbins of course has played plenty of leading roles but I don't remember him carrying a movie as much on his own as he did in this one. He truly is the one character this movie evolves around and I actually believe that he is in every single scene of this movie. He of course does a great job with it and the movie has a great supporting cast as well, with plenty of people in it that at the time were still pretty much big unknown ones but later became well known names, such as Eriq La Salle, Ving Rhames, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Jason Alexander and Matt Craven.An especially at the time quite unique and definitely original movie, that successfully combines drama, horror and mystery!9/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A dark and surrealistic messenger of hope.","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lynes finest hour and a movie that differs considerably from his other work. Its not a pure horror movie because the plot is not simplistic enough. As a viewer you really doesn't know what it is that haunts Jacob. No defined threat appears. I guess its fair to place the movie in the space between the horror and thriller genres.The story deals with the journey between life and death of a Vietnam casualty. As the story progresses you understand that there must have been some government testing of psychotropic drugs involved and Jacob starts to search for other veterans in his old battalion. Frightened and alone he want answers and to share experiences. As a film-maker building the story round a complex chronological time-frame always comes with a certain risk. Will the audience remain concentrated and keep interest for 90 minutes? The magic is not to overdo it and Mr Lyne uses the chronological jumps masterfully to create a sense of floating uncertainty in the story that blends very well with Jakob's haunted persona, unable to come to rest due to his escalating nightmarish experiences.Something could and should also be said about the special effects. No CGI in this one, and there are some scenes in the film that benefits hugely from this. In particular the hospital scene when Jacob passes through the corridor to hell lying in a hospital bed. The flesh and the individuals with foreshortened limbs that lines up on him are there for real, creating a horrifying and disturbing impression. The dance-floor scene filmed in stroboscopic light when Jezzie appears to have sex with something that looks like a demon were made using life-size models and shot in real time.Some think Tim Robbins finest moment was in Shawshank Redemption and maybe it was but i certainly can't think of a better choice to put Jacob Singer alive. Mr Lyne wanted Robbins boyish innocence, and innate joy in existence to play against the darkness of the character's gradual unraveling, and it works tremendously well. Elisabeth Pena as Jezzie is lovely and convincing and Danny Aiello shines, as so often, in his minor part. The ending is superb and adds greatly to the overall impression. It puts an end to Jacobs misery and gives the answers the viewers have been waiting for. But the film also raises questions, some of which lives long after the after-texts ends. Universal questions about our existence and what happens at the end.This is one of my all time favorites. Intelligent, philosophical and grand. Bravo Mr Lyne. "},{"Title":"A haunting experience","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Get ready for extreme creepiness and deranged horrors the likes of which are familiar but not. Jacob's Ladder is about Jacob Singer, a Vietnam war veteran who can't cope with life back at home. He has demonic visions that slowly convince him he is descending into Hell. He desperately searches for answers but is only delivered more questions as he tries to find out why these horrific things are happening to him. The film twists and turns as it spirals down a dark path towards insanity. While watching this film you can never be too sure of what is real and what is hallucination. Reality is blurred to hellish extremes in this film, making it a disturbing yet fascinating experience.Jacob's Ladder begins interestingly enough. It is a little odd and you are sort of just dragged along as the character of Jacob Singer is introduced. We learn that Jacob has a girlfriend but he was once married. He had three kids with his ex-wife, one of which died in an accident. The film jumps back and forth between Vietnam and present day while strange little things begin to happen. Jacob has very odd visions that have a subtle creep factor to them that starts off the mood of the film very well. The film has excellent pacing and it builds very well. The visions become more and more terrifying as things start to come together. And when I say come together I use the term very loosely. We think the film makes more and more sense as it goes along, but everything we piece together we see through the veil of the unreliable narrator. You really can't discern what is real and what isn't. There is mystery in everything and we have no real way of knowing what is actually happening. We are pushed along through this maze with Jacob, making the experience as frightening and confusing for us as it is for him. Jacob's Ladder is almost more of an experience than a film.This movie puts you in a kind of trance. I was hypnotized by the film and I didn't even realize it until the film ended. It was a very odd experience because this film really got into my head, forcing me to watch with unmoving bewilderment. But when the film ended and I came out of the trance I wasn't entirely sure what I had just sat through. I was more focused on piecing together that experience rather than forming an opinion on the film itself. I'm honestly not sure what I thought about this movie. What I do know is that it had some sort of affect on me and for that I can consider it to be a very good film. The whole film captures that dream like quality so well, only it is more of a nightmare quality. The film sets out to be a story of existential terror and it achieves that so I can say that this is a great film just based on the more straightforward opinions I did form about the film.Jacob's Ladder is like a puzzle. You start with all the individual pieces that make no sense apart but when put together they begin to make some sort of sense. You slowly piece together this puzzle, jumping around and finding matches here and there, drawing connections and having things start to come into focus little by little. And then after fighting through this puzzle you almost piece together everything and as things start to make sense the table is flipped and the puzzle comes crashing to the floor, shattering into all its individual pieces once again. Then you look through the wreckage and realize that all the answers were there from the start before you ever started piecing things together. And yet you are still haunted by this puzzle and you will be no matter what. You would have to see the film to understand these ramblings of mine so go see it. It is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"A dark and surrealistic messenger of hope.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lynes finest hour and a movie that differs considerably from his other work. Its not a pure horror movie because the plot is not simplistic enough. As a viewer you really doesn't know what it is that haunts Jacob. No defined threat appears. I guess its fair to place the movie in the space between the horror and thriller genres.The strengths of this movie are many. The story deals with the journey between life and death of a Vietnam casualty. As the story progress you understand that there must have been some government testing of psychotropic drugs involved and Jacob start to search for other veterans in his old battalion. Frightened and alone he want answers and to share experiences.As a film-maker building the story round a complex chronological time-frame always comes with a certain risk. Will the audience remain concentrated and keep interest for 90 minutes? The magic is not to overdo it and Mr Lyne uses the chronological jumps masterfully to create a sense of floating uncertainty in the story that blends very well with Jakob's haunted persona. Unabel to come to rest due to his escalating nightmarish experiences.Something could and should also be said about the special effects. No CGI in this one. And there are some scenes in the film that benefits hugely from this. In particular the hospital scene when Jacob passes through the corridor to hell lying in a hospital bed. The flesh and the individuals with foreshortened limbs that lines up on him are there for real creating a horrifying and disturbing impression. The dance-floor scene filmed in stroboscopic light when Jezzie appears to have sex with something that looks like a demon were made using life-size models and shot in real time.Some think Tim Robbins finest moment were in Shawshank redemption and maybe it was but i certainly can't think of a better choice to put Jacob Singer alive. Mr Lyne wanted Robbins boyish innocence, and innate joy in existence to play against the darkness of the character's gradual unraveling. And it works tremendously well. Elisabeth Pena as Jezzie is also convincing and Danny Aiello shines, as so often, in his minor part.The ending is superb and adds greatly to the overall impression. It puts an end to Jacobs misery and gives the answers the viewers have been waiting for. But the film also raises questions, some of which lives long after the after texts ends. Universal questions about our existence and what happens at the end.This is one of my all time favorites. Intelligent, philosophical and grand. Bravo Mr Lyne. "}{"Title":"What is reality? What is dream? What is subconscious?","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Ever felt like you are loosing grip with reality that you need shopping to get in touch with reality? Wondering if its the news aka. New World Order propaganda? Or someone at work or evil jealousy relatives messed up your head recently? Jacob, a divorcée who lost his only child, trying to live his live after returning from Vietnam war shared more than your feelings and started to have hallucination. Flashbacks to the war time started to get more and more frequent.Little did he know that he was actually living between life and death - in Limbo. Where he had to live with demons and lost souls. As if it's not enough with Jacob to deal with these paranoids in the limbo that he wasn't aware of, he had to go through some WWII experimental drugs lawsuits.How's Jacob gonna get through his short, chaotic, struggling life? Well, pretty much like all of us, just take it like a man!!! In my humble opinion, this is one of the most well written movie in alternative reality genre!!!! Where the writer and director got the guts/go-ahead to show their non-traditional views out there. Movies like this opened the doors to recent great movies in the same genre such as Identity, The Ninth Gate, ... etc.Hope you enjoyed this movie as much as I did! "},{"Title":"Jacob raised his ladder to the top!","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lyne's JACOB'S LADDER is a great film that is already considered as a cult favorite. I only watched it today for the very first time, but as long as I was watching it many other films were appearing on my mind as I was thinking I've been watching these scenes in many other recent movies. In fact, it seems quite obvious that JACOB'S LADDER has inspired many recent movies like THE SIXTH SENSE, THE OTHERS, STAY, November (which I watched yesterday!), DARK CORNERS and even some David Lynch's works, just to mention those I have watched.It's really a great film in its message, in the plot, the production (if we remember it has almost twenty years now, we must say the production is excellent!), the cinematography, the surreal scenarios and weird scenes, like the ones at the party or at the hospital.I didn't get surprised by the ending just because of three main reasons 1) at the beginning I already knew the thematic of the movie; 2) some clues are given along the movie to the final disclosure; 3) but especially this one I've been watching many films with this thematic in the last years so I'm already prepared to this kind of ending. Otherwise, and especially if I had watched it at the time this movie was produced, I bet I (and many other people either) would be surprised by that ending&#x85; Even the title is excellent, because it's a good metaphor to the movie's main thematic. "},{"Title":"Surrealism and horror - this movie just works.","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is one hell of a movie. Very dark, very creepy - seriously, this movie is scarier than most real horror movies, and it doesn't even solely belong to the genre - and very cryptic. What it does right is downplaying the creepy hallucinogenic moments and ghostly specters to where they're not shoved in your face, and to where you'll miss them if you don't pay attention. This gave the movie a very dreamlike and surreal feeling that I haven't seen duplicated by most other horror/suspense movies - which this movie's uplifting ending and overall message sets it apart from.There are a lot of scenes where I even felt like turning this off if I didn't already know how good it was. It's a very disturbing and dark movie where everything that can possibly go wrong, does, and everything that can possibly make sense never happens until the very end. Special points go to the hospital scene for being one of the creepiest and most disturbingly gleeful that I've ever seen. This takes pleasure in making sure you are as uncomfortable as possible and that you never forget it, and it is brilliant.Regarding the ending, well...I don't like twist endings that much anymore. Too often they're flashy and gimmicky and don't really add much to the cinematic experience, and it really takes a good director to do it right. Jacob's Ladder is one of the ones that does it right, because your enjoyment of the movie does not in any way hinge on the twist or the ending. Yes, the twist is pretty drastic, but it's not shoved in your face and you don't feel talked down to when you finally see it. It's quite well written, and I'd cite this movie as an example of how to make a twist ending and a great movie overall.Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Very disturbing","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have heard so much about Jacob's Ladder and it was one of those movies I was always meaning to rent it, but I always forgot it when I was at the video store, but finally I came across it and remembered. So when I watched it tonite, I felt like I went through a major trip, this movie was so mentally disturbing to watch and very horrific, I wasn't even sure if it was a drama, thriller, horror, or maybe all.Jacob is a veteran soldier from Vietnam, he lives with his girlfriend, and he starts seeing these horrific images of demons all around. He has dealt with so much, he's lost his wife and children, including the death of his one child played by a very young Maculey Culkin, and he has dealt with the most nightmarish moments in Vietnam. He thinks he is alone, but then an old friend calls and it turns out that his whole team is having the same problems and are all having horrible car accidents, in order to Jacob to survive he has to get away from the men who are chasing him to shut him up for good.Jacob's Ladder is one of the most disturbing films I have seen in a long time, I was actually shaking after this film was done. A lot of the scenes were just so scary and you felt Tim Robbin's isolation and fear, he was so amazing and this was an incredibly under rated performance, but he's just plain wonderful. I would recommend this, but not for the light stomach, it's a bit graphic.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Litmus Test","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *****SPOILER WARNING******SPOILER WARNING*******   Every once in a while, there comes along a movie that can split the public right down the middle.  Jacob's Ladder has that characteristic.  Well, actually that isn't true, because I think a clear majority of the people would not enjoy this film.  It is horribly depressing (which turns off some), has a confusing and intentionally ambiguous plot-line (which turns off some more), it is dark and moody (which turns off even more), and it has an ending that some people just don't get.  Even though, unlike the Sixth Sense (which it is often now compared to), it blatantly and explicitly tells the audience through characters such as the Evil Doctor (not the chiropracter) and the black palm reader at the party, what is happening.   They both tell him in no uncertain terms you're dead.  Yet because of their characters, the latter being too amicable and the former being too hostile, the main character, and the audience, just can't believe them.  Yes, the movie is disturbing, but to those that follow it right up to the end, watching not only the political and social comments the movie makes along the way, which are actually the weaker messages, but also the mystical insight the movie has to offer in its' conclusion, this movie simply could not be any better.     This movie is like anchovies, most people just can't stand them, but to those who do, nothing else comes close.  To some, this film is a masterpiece of visual, mental, and mystical entertainment.  This final aspect, mysticism, is only compounded by how rare this is in movies today.  Don't get me wrong, I thought Sixth Sense was a superb movie, but it does not try to tackle anything nearly as profound as Jacob's Ladder.  This probably explains the Sixth Sense's broader appeal.  Jacob's Ladder not only makes exceedingly deep statements about death and the afterlife, but about the nature of Good and Evil and the roles that they play in that afterlife.    The demons in this movie turn out to be Jacob's friends, the ones who are trying to get Jacob to realize the truth.  You've been killed, don't you remember? the Evil Doctor tells him just before the wonderfully symbolic action of trying to make an injection into his brain.  He protests and denies the notion of being dead, to which the doctor simply responds, What are you doing here then?  Jacob is reduced to tears as he meekly replies, I don't know.  When the needle is brought to his forehead, Jacob screams.  He cannot accept it in mind or body, and he views his tormentors as the enemy.     In the end, it isn't the government conspiracists, his girlfriend, or even his own platoon, that Jacob is fighting.  He is fighting with his own mortality in a struggle he cannot win, because the battle is already over.  The movie unashamedly and bluntly delves into metaphysical morality with so many symbolic references and ruthless techniques that it becomes a roller-coaster that can overwhelm some and simply nauseate others.    To me it was, and still is, after the umpteenth viewing, a psychological, visual, and moral feast.  A true classic.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely one of the finest films ever","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out and liked it.  However, recently I viewed it for a second time on DVD.  Now, having seen it with better 'movie' eyes, I have to say that few films can deliver what Jacob's Ladder delivers. A phenomenal script side by side with a talented cast that keeps you mesmerized for its entirety.  Furthermore, if you have the chance; see the deleted scenes on the DVD (and laserdisc?).  There is one that stands out. Near the end, a scene was deleted.  It is absolute poetry and, frankly, I can't believe it was left out.  Anyway, there wasn't a '15' in the voting menu...so I gave it a '10'. "},{"Title":"One of the best psychological horror/mystery/dramas you can find","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Have you ever had one of those dreams where, after you wake up, the palpable relief is overwhelming that it was only a dream and not that nightmare you were in? Probably. Most of us can relate to that feeling. Thank God it was only a dream! What if you awoke from such a dream, started going about your daily business, and then realized that *this* was the dream and the nightmare you thought you woke up from was your real life? How terrifying would that be? Jacob Singer is living such a life. He's back home from Vietnam, settled in with a hot girlfriend, and has a mundane job at the post office. He's a smart fellow (his Army mates gave him the nickname The Professor because he earned a doctorate but never did anything with it).But Jacob has inner demons that cause turmoil in his life. He's divorced from his wife, but still feels a connection. And he has to deal with the painful memories of one of his young children, who was killed prior to Jacob leaving for Vietnam. And his memory of a particular event in Vietnam that he can't explain and still haunts him.But what Jacob has to face now is that these inner demons have shown themselves to be real (at least, to him), and are tormenting him. He goes to see his regular VA counselor, only to be told there is no record of such a doctor and no file for Jacob ever having been there. He sees strange things out of the corner of his eye that he can't explain. When he realizes that his platoon mates are experiencing a similar nightmarish existence, they go to a lawyer who checks out their story and tells them they were never even in Vietnam. They were all discharged on psycho grounds after going nutso on a training exercise.Jacob becomes convinced that they were all part of some sort of Army experiment that did something to them, but he can't explain what because the things he is experiencing have no explanation. Were they all part of some Manchurian Candidate group hypnosis experience? Guinea pigs in chemical warfare testing? Is Jacob truly going crazy? Or, is it an example of I'm not paranoid if they really are coming to get me?Jacob's Ladder is a frightfully effective film of a man who may or may not be losing his sanity. Robbins is perfect as the quiet, introspective, amiable fellow who is at the end of his rope and has nowhere to turn. Director Lyne does a great job keeping the horror in the shadows; playing with your mind's ability to extrapolate and fill in a scene. The film works much better as a subtle exercise in psychological horror, as evidenced from a few more explicit scenes wisely cut from the film (but available on the DVD.) Even so, there are images so frightening that you will probably jump a couple of times. And replay them in your head while trying to sleep later. (Good luck.).The film works best if you go in cold. Allow the film to unfold and reveal its secrets, and then watch it again. This movie deserves NOT to be spoiled, but I see plenty of reviews doing just that. Shame on those people. "},{"Title":"Not A Worthless Movie , But ...","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ... Would it be so well regarded if it wasn't so bizarre ?I first saw JACOB'S LADDER in the mid 1990s . It's a film very similar to THE VILLAGE in that it split the critics right down the middle as to its ending . Upon seeing it for the first time I thought it was rather weird and while not exactly cheating didn't seem all that different to  He woke up and it was all a dream  type endingI've seen the movie a couple of times since which is something of a back handed compliment , after all if you know what the ending is JACOB'S LADDER still has some worth . Can you say the same about THE VILLAGE ?I can totally understand why the screenplay had a problem being produced . Imagine you're head of a studio and this script arrives on your desk . How are you going to market it ? It starts off as a war movie , then becomes a supernatural thriller , then conspiracy theory thriller then comes the shock ending revelation which in those days was almost unheard of . The producer and director have probably done the best job possible in making it appeal to a thinking audience but the majority of people aren't a thinking audience and you can just imagine on its original cinema release many female viewers watching the first five minutes thinking there's no way they're sitting through a war movie and walking out , with many of the opposite sex following them after twenty minutes thinking they're going to be watching a domestic drama while after forty minutes the remaining audience are thinking to themselves where the hell this movie is heading I do confess to enjoying JACOB'S LADDER but only in some parts . The party scene is a classic sequence but there's a bit too many slow bits like Jacob's and Jezebel's domestic home life . I guess since Tim Robbins is a fairly well known actor ( And he plays nice guys like Jacob Singer very well ) these days and shock twist endings are in vogue again , not to mention conspiracy theories JACOB'S LADDER will probably be better regarded in 2004 than what it was in 1990 . It's good but it's not flawlessSeven out of Ten  "},{"Title":"A complex spiritual journey.","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is absolutely amazing, has a complex plot and throughout all of it you keep thinking about the possible explanation, then all of a sudden the next scene comes around and your expectations about the possible outcome are shredded to pieces, a very great movie if you like to really deeply understand a plot of the movie and think about it a lot. The ending was great, nothing too fancy, but you could see Jaccob finding the end of his spiritual journey and finally spiritually accepting his death in Vietnam, now he can finally move on from wandering around the world and rest in piece. The idea of having these two ladies in his life, one being his former wife and other his current girlfriend was an interesting add-on as well, hence until the end of the movie it kept you thinking - maybe all of the events are only a dream and he really is together with Sarah right now, but in a coma, because of his son's death? Only at the viewers get a clarification and can if not fully then at least somewhat understand the movie. "},{"Title":"When movies have something to say","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When movies have something to say they (can) become great movies. Jacob's Ladder is one such movie.A Thriller/Film-Noir that sets a standard for the genre, it deals with metaphysical enquiries of the most profound there can be Life, Death, War, Peace, the World outside and inside one's self, Heaven and Hell, Torment and Redemption.Above all things, it's a voyage through a man's perspectives upon the Past and his Present, through his life and his personal fears and sorrow.The acting is superb; the general mood is dark and sad with a lot of eeriness and yet strangely peaceful at times.The viewer will feel the main character's (Jacob Singer) confusion and sympathise with his personal cause.The Sound Track is beautiful and fits quite well with the general imagery and feeling throughout.The dialogues are meaningful (specially between Jacob and Louis, his chiropractor), which (sad to say) has become a rarity in movies nowadays.Get the movie, get the Extras and enjoy this Gem. "}{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder -- A movie you can't afford to pass up","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're frightened of dying, and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. If you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the Earth...'Jacob's Ladder' is a true masterpiece. I'd heard of this in the past, but never actually watched it. I regretted not watching this earlier. Every second of this movie kept me on the edge of my seat. Jacob's Ladder is a psychological thriller, about the Vietnam War. You can't find a more interesting and thrilling feature that is better than this. It is tragic, dark and quite disturbing. I enjoyed this movie a lot, and I hope you do too. So please, watch this movie. You WILL love every second of it. "},{"Title":"Jacob's ladder did climbs up the ladder to success it's one of the scariest horror movies, I have ever saw.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After watching this psychological horror film directed by Adrian Lyne and written by Bruce Joel Rubin, you would end up with nightmares, too. The movie indeed delivers. The story centers around Vietnam veteran Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins), whose experiences both prior and during the war have resulted in abnormal flashbacks and haunting hallucinations to the point where he can't tell which reality is and which is fantasy. In his ordeal, he becomes worse, living in what might be call hell on earth for him. Jacob must desperately try to figure out the truth about what had happened during his service in Vietnam and what is happening to him now. The movie drew from several inspirations for its story and effects, from such works as 1962's short film An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge and the paintings of Francis Bacon. There are a number of familiar themes and symbolism in this film that makes the movie a thinking man's film. This is a story with many possible interpretations, each valid. The movie's setting can most closely be associated with purgatory, but another facet of this masterpiece is that it should be seen in within a Christian context. The film's title refers to the biblical story of Jacob's Ladder or the dream of a meeting place between Heaven and Earth in the Book of Genesis. Its little-known alternate title is Dante's Inferno, in a reference to the painting Inferno by Dante Alighieri. Surprising, one of the biggest influences for the film came from the Tibetan Book of the Dead where the writer spent two years in a Tibetan Buddhist monastery in Nepal before writing this film. It can also be interpretation as Marxist to some. A marxist could say that Jacobs role as a postman was a bourgeois attempt to control proletarians by making them imagine they are leading a surreal life. When Jacob was hanging around the subway and hallucinating, he could have been coming to terms with the grief of being proletarian. That would explain why he saw deformed human figures on a train. I also see Gestalt psychology in this film. Gestalt dream interpretation upholds the principle that everything in a dream somehow is an aspect of the dreamer himself/herself. This is one reason why I support the idea that everybody is a personification of Jacob himself dealing with guilt over what he thinks he's done to his Army buddies. Still, I have no idea about the interpretations of this movie, it's just a few ideas out there. The movie can be a bit confusing as it shifts back and forth between Jacob's chaotic memories of Vietnam, to this prior war memories, and then back to his present life as a mailman. Half of the time, you don't know what is going on. There is so many different sub-plots that it is hard to figure things out. You don't know if the army is out to get him, or if he is insane, or he's been dead the whole time. About the drug 'Ladder'. There are some theories that Jacob create the drug as he was a doctor before the war. In my opinion, there is no real drug in the movie. The drug is a metaphor of what triggers wars throughout history greed, anger, hatred. The more you go down the ladder, the more you come close to your primal state anger, fear, aggression for survival. Jezzy (Elizabeth Pena) is a depiction of his life temptations and his refusal to die. I just wish they explain more about this character and make clearer. The movie can be a bit of a twist, but honestly, it's pretty predictable. The movie is just creepy to the point that it influence other horror movies. It even did influence the Silent Hill video games series. One of the scariest scenes in the film is the hospital ride from hell with all those shaking bodies. It give me goose bumps. The film was too overwhelming to some audience, that about 20 minutes of disturbing scenes, mostly from the last third of the film, were removed from the final cut. Watch the director cut version that have all these scenes add to it, it's one of the few films that the director cut was better than the original. There are moments of nonsensical over the top horror clichés that the movie added. I do have to say it's better than the original screenplay. It was just too explicit and too obvious. In a sense, I think the movie was more 'realistic'. The out of place things can be explain if you think about it. Through this spiritual journey, he encounters the spirits of his friends. All the actors did pretty well in their roles Elizabeth Peña as Jezebel Jezzie Pipkin, Danny Aiello as Louis Denardo and even Macaulay Culkin as Gabe Singer. In my opinion, Macaulay looks out of place in this film. Tim Robbins was great in the film. He was just amazing. Just watch his reaction in the 'dream on' scene. Very heart breaking. This is really a great movie. An effective deep and dark film with a light message of peace and spirituality well-executed. Requires multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Riding the Dark Train...","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Outstanding in every respect, JACOB'S LADDER (like THE EXORCIST and JAWS, among others) still holds up, after all these years. The basic set-up is nothing new, but Adrian Lyne's deft direction, coupled with Rubin's outstanding script, makes for a fascinating film. It's a down-to-earth approach to the metaphysical that's commendable. While I didn't really care for the final scene (I left the theater feeling that the filmmaker(s) had punked out), I've since come to accept it for what it is. Personally, I would've preferred it if the ascension into the light had been the final scene, but it is what it is. JACOB'S LADDER is still creepy, and remains one of only a handful of genuinely artistic fright films to have been crafted in the United $tate$. "},{"Title":"Body and Soul","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a film you won't forget. Love it or hate it or somewhere in-between it is unforgettable.One of the best of the psychological Horror films with political overtones and a nod to the needless suffering that was the Vietnam War. It is a creepy and haunting display of spiritual significance, blind patriotism, unwitting experimental subjects, and the need for detachment from body to soul.It is a magnificent attempt at a multitude of human foibles and is couched in a religious allegory that is neither accepting or denying. The imagery is forever fascinatingly fierce in its sharp unsettling unfolding of the mind body connection and the struggle to let go. It is a disturbing descent into the madness and mayhem of chemical inducement and governmental indifference and denial of complicity.A flawless film that is a singular study of the post traumatic fog of war and the near death experience. A unique and artistic array of style and substance with a great cast and even greater Directorial delivery of a multi-layered, thinking man's Horror Film that bends and shapes the fictional with the factional in an unnerving, and deserving piece of timeless angst and Angelic entanglement. "},{"Title":"A Clever Film","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vietnam veteran Jacob Singer thinks he is going insane. Or worse. When his nightmares begin spilling into his waking hours, Jacob believes he is experiencing the aftereffects of a powerful drug tested on him during Vietnam. Or perhaps his post traumatic stress disorder is worse than most. Whatever is happening to him, it is not good. That is the premise of this psychological thriller/psychological horror film entitled,Jacob's Ladder., based on a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin. It stars Tim Robbins,Elizabeth Peña and Danny Aiello; and it was directed by Adrian Lyne.Jacob Singer is a soldier stationed in Vietnam who undergoes a traumatic experience on the battlefield - the nature of which is initially unclear.Obviously,he is a tortured man finds himself caught in a middle- ground between hallucination and reality.The film then moves into his post-Vietnam experience in 1970's New York, where he feels consistently traumatized, but can never quite remember exactly what happened to him in Southeast Asia or to free himself from his anxieties over the recent tragic death of his young son. Though well educated, Jacob works as a letter carrier for the U.S. Postal Service and has become romantically involved with one of his co-workers, Jezzie, after divorcing his wife. Soon, Jacob's tenuous hold on reality starts to slip as horrifying events befall him; he is nearly run over by a subway train, pursued by faceless demons in cars, and spots reptilian tails and horns protruding from the bodies of those he encounters. He also suffers severe panic attacks related to the chaos that may be reality, or may exist only in his mind. He seeks counsel from Louis, a kindly chiropractor, as his ex- wife Sarah, fellow Vietnam vet Paul, and enigmatic stranger Michael all try to help the tortured soul.Truly frightening and visually unique, this messy, challenging film is anchored by Tim Robbins' remarkable performance.This is simply terrific, original and truly unsettling.It sparks the viewer's interest and maintains high production values, but this confusing film chokes on its ending.But nevertheless,it is one of the most clever films ever released in the 90's. "},{"Title":"The creepy trick layers the dramatic tone of this film","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This gave me a man crush on Tim Robbins after seeing him acted so well. And all this time around I was thinking Where did I saw Elizabeth Pena before? and oh, alright that's here, that's got to be her? No way!? I never heard of this film ever but browsing here in IMDb gave me chances to catch a glimpse of never before seen films that got so much of beauty of its area. This is the first film of Tim Robbins I saw, and the much classic and acclaimed Shawshank Redemption has to be him! There are still so much films in line in my list for this man (e.g. Shawshank Redemption, Mystic River, The Arlington Road, The Player, Hudsucker Proxy, The Secret Life of Words and more).Many would say the story of Jacob's Ladder is rather predictable or maybe I'm just new to this area that I didn't grasp what the film truly meant. It was a horror film in the first place, but it was more of a drama side actually. Its quiet terrifying how much of an ordeal one has to go through before accepting death. It's sensible but disturbing. Jacob's horrifying experience had to be a realization, a fight disguised in hideous recollections, repeatedly telling him to let go, make peace of you and accept death. There so much punishment he experienced only to think that everything was for his good. I'm quiet confused why Gabe is uncredited in this film but nevertheless he's the character that waited for Jacob's redemption and peace sit in. This film dramatic side gives me the chills, appreciating the beauty of the character's experiences. But I would not deny the creepy side. That hospital scene could indeed make anyone sick more than ever. The demons were really disturbing, the atmosphere was eerie and I wish I could see the deleted scenes to emphasize more what I missed. But the current release is fine, it holds true to its intentions and I would recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great and disturbing film","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" few films have ever affected me like 'Jacob's Ladder' ... the story is very much like a Cut-Method type of work used often by William S. Burroughs ... it is non-linear yet tells the story of Jacob Singer, Vietnam vet, postman, chiropractic patient ... he can't quite recall however what happened in the last day or days of his tour in Vietnam and things start to come unraveled when he sees 'fast-moving-head-people' appearing here and there ... as we are transported back and forth and perhaps even beyond the movie's scope of his life, we become disoriented along with him, wondering where things are fitting into the puzzle ... he finds ultimately that his unit in Vietnam was given a drug called 'the ladder' which the army experimented with to increase the fighting rampage and desire of the troops (remember that this was a constant gripe among generals etc during the Vietnam era ... of course, blaming the 'grunt' is a long standing tradition and it was the lies of the top leaders that were the ultimate failure in Vietnam, not any lack of fighting desire by the troops)-- the ladder, as explained by the chemist who was blackmailed into making it, takes one 'right down the ladder, to the base hate' ... it doesn't quite work very well ... but hearing the chemist explain the 'test' of the drug he witnessed will haunt you ...ultimately, what do we find? well I'll leave that for you to watch ... but the disturbing nature of the movie is amazingly deep and moving as the filmmaker is not going for the typical Vietnam story nor the typical scary movie story but it is beyond that, beyond life, as Jacob tries to sort out everything at once it seems ...Danny Aiello is wonderful as the chiropractor who is show hovering over Jacob making adjustments ... the rest of the cast is outstanding as the ensemble comes together magnificently ...Tim Robbins is the star tho and he is perfect ... his boyish shy smile and frightened bewilderment mix and wax and wane through the film in perfect waves of emotion that touch and chill your heart at the same time ...still an amazing film these 20 years later ... i don't watch it often as it usually causes me to sit up all night thinking ... the fast-moving-head-people are enough to freak anyone out not to mention a trip down the basement hallway of a hospital ... let alone the dance scene ... "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder takes you fairly high up, without quite reaching the job","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's safe to argue I think that Jacob's Ladder is a good movie, but it felt to me like it could have been a great one. I know that some folks (including Roger Ebert) argue that it is a great movie, yet I see a bit of error. The problem (as is frequently the case with movies) is in storytelling. The plot elements don't come together in the best of fashions, leaving Jacob's Ladder without a clear sense of direction. One minute it's a horror film, the next minute, it's a thriller, then a war drama, then an emotional/psychological drama. Sometimes it's inventive, sometimes generic.What I DO like about the movie, is that is is almost always interesting. Tim Robbin's gives a credible and very 'human' performance, even though it is not his best work. Adrian Lynn's direction and photography are competent, and when it wants to be, Jacob's Ladder can actually be a real shocker. It is a movie that finds a balance between horror and heart, not too sentimental but not too sissy either. It starts to run out of steam a bit at the end, but I'll gladly say that left me satisfied. "},{"Title":"(Spoiler alert) Here's what it is...","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have watched this movie quite a few times over the years, and there are some things I am convinced of. In summary, the whole movie is what takes place in Jacob's mind as he is dying from his wound in Vietnam.It is common knowledge that the mind does funny things when a person is dying. Everything we see in the movie does have connections with Jacob's life before he went to Vietnam, but his dying mind spun these different scenarios around with threads attached to reality kind of like, What would my life had been if... Take his second wife (some say wife, I thought it was just his live-in girlfriend). He worked with her at the post office, so he knew her before he entered Vietnam. Perhaps he had had unholy thoughts about this attractive woman when he was married to his first wife. Thus, the scenario spins out about what his life would have been like if he'd have ended up with this woman. I believe his son did die before he went into Vietnam, thus seeing him at the very end and his son walking him up into heaven when he finally accepts his own death. His divorce from his wife may have already happened before Vietnam, or may have been on the verge of happening while he was there. His dying mind wonders if she still loves him, or perhaps knows this already and therefore this is in his thoughts.He was bayonetted by one of his own troop members who was freaking out on whatever drug the food that they were previously eating was laced with. Thus, Jacob's dying mind tries to figure this whole thing out as to why his troop members freaked out like they did, leading up to one of them stabbing him in his drug-induced rage. Jacob sees his friend's face before he falls, and sees the man's shocked look and knows that the man was not in his right mind and didn't mean what he had done. His mind spins the tale of what would happen if he survived, how would this affect him and his friends and would they be able to fight this in court to bring the culprit (the army) to justice?Kind of like a feverish mind, he sees impossible things like demons and the shaking headed man. All from a mind that is slowly dying. We've all had a fever and had crazy dreams resulting from it. He even has a fever that almost kills him in these fantasies, tying in with his dying brain. Even though he keeps flashing back and forth between reality and his feverish fantasies, he deep down knows he is dying.Then at the end he finally does die, and is then at peace with his little boy he lost before.These are just some of the answers I've figured out from watching the movie many times.A great story. I had a good time trying to piece it together - figuring it out. "},{"Title":"An illuminating detail","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A detail I believe to be important halfway through the film Jacob is seen flicking through Dante (with Gustav Dore's sublime illustrations) - not 'Inferno' but 'Purgatory'. This is a clue to the specifically Catholic nature of the imagery and central thrust of the film (or at least one aspect of it).I recently watched this movie again when I showed it to my girlfriend who, annoyingly, managed to grasp it pretty well on her first viewing. Needless to say, we sat up for hours talking about it afterwards.This is one of my favourite movies of all time - I believe only 'The Elephant Man' and '2001 A Space Odyssey' can match it in terms of humanity, poignancy and sheer epiphanic power. "}{"Title":"I don't want to rehash Jacob's Ladder","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Oddly enough, what I want to say is that Jacob's Ladder is one of the only movies about Viet Nam that I can watch. I was in high school during the Viet Nam war, and had my share of friends and friends' parents go there and die, or come back changed. However, there is so much more to Jacob's Ladder than Viet Nam. It is an intense psychological drama, a descent into madness, a realization of truth, and an ascent into clarity. I am not going to write a SPOILER - you can read dozens of reviews on this database that will spoil it for you. What I do not understand are the comments that it is confusing. I do not find it confusing in the least. The answers are all there. I first saw it in 1990, and I understood it then. I just saw it, again, in 2008, and all the answers are still there. Maybe you have to pay attention; you know, press pause when you go out to the kitchen for a tasty beverage. Jacob's Ladder is on my Top Ten All Time Best Films List. "},{"Title":"Strong performances and excellent atmosphere held back only by a somewhat ambivalent ending","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Here's a borderline-surrealist horror film with religious and polemic military undertones regarding Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and the treatment of psychologically unhealthy veterans.Jacob Singer (played well by Tim Robbins) has sustained subtle psychological damage during a combat tour in the Vietnam War. Years later he is living in New York City, employed as a Postal Worker (despite having a Ph.D) and abiding a contented existence with his girlfriend, when he begins to see strange creatures inhabiting his surroundings. The disturbances take their toll on his mental health and begin to create problems in his love and social lives. Soon he is haunted by his dead son, conspiracy theories and terrifying trans-dimensional trips. Jacob segues in and out of waking reality, trying to come to grips with what happened back in the war.The actors in the film all do a good job and the pacing of the film is solid too. Jason Alexander and the guys playing Jacob's combat platoon are pretty good, so it's too bad we don't see more of them. I found the music to be surprisingly affecting and haunting, which was a pleasant surprise. It was not one-dimensional either, providing a certain amount of variety appropriate to the scenes. Despite the borderline horror element of the movie, it has a decent share of uplifting moments too. It is not a completely bleak gorefest, though it may not be entirely heart-warming either. The biblical references were a bit hokey for me, but they do provide thematic resonance with the story by the end.Perhaps the significant shortcoming of Jacob's Ladder is the non-concrete ending, which feels more like an easy way out for the film-makers than something open to the audience's interpretation (though it is presented that way). The script was apparently written by the same guy who did Ghost, though this is the better film of the two. Similar motifs appear here as in Ghost demons whisking people to hell, life after death, true love. It's also amusing that of these two films written by Bruce Joel Rubin, the director Adriane Lyne directed Jacob's Ladder, considering he works primarily on romantic thrillers.Jacob's Ladder is definitely worth a look for anyone interested in cinematic pop-surrealism, psychological and ethereal horror, suspense, military trauma or bittersweet love. It's a genuinely inspired movie with fine performances from the cast, but it will not sit well with viewers looking for a concise ending wrapped up in a neat package. I had no trouble concluding the story, but I wonder if my own conclusions were the same as the directors.7.5 "},{"Title":"Angels","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the most amazing movies. I don't think many people will understand this movie or get its meanings with one viewing. I have seen this movie at least three times and after three viewings over a 17 year period, I have finally figured most of the movie out. I understood the meanings of most of the characters except for Loui the chiropractor...until now. Although everything we see(except for the scenes from NAM) is a hallucination, the character of Loui is explained. 1. In most scenes, Loui is always wearing white(his lab coat), 2. Once Loui helps Jacob from severe pain/slip disc, Jacob see's him as a savior, an angel. 3. Loui is always there to help Jacob in times of need. 4. It is Loui who makes the profound statement about letting go and the demons will become angels that help you. I believe Loui is depicted as an angel in this movie. True, 99 percent of this film is supposed to be the mind/brain of Jacob Singer working overtime before he dies, non-happenings, but we get a real perspective on how a man sum's up his life before he leaves this world. Some might say, How could he have dreamed this in a matter of minutes? He was stabbed by his own platoon soldier and shortly after(in the end) he dies. Have you ever fell asleep for a short period of time and dreamed a dream that felt so real that it lasted hours if not days? There you have Jacob's Ladder! "},{"Title":"An intense, creepy psychological thriller with an amazing ending","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is one of those rare films that drags the viewer in, tosses them about and then spits them back out not quite knowing what they have just seen. Watching this movie was an experience, instead of just watching it I felt it. Some of the hallucination scenes were genuinely terrifying and brutal, like nothing I had ever seen before. This was partly because of Tim Robbins realistic performance as the main character Jacob Singer, a Vietnam veteran who is started to see demons throughout his daily life. I won't go into any more details about the plot as it would be no use and it would spoil the experience for any first-time viewers.Adrian Lyne's direction was what also made this film so interesting and unique. He doesn't spoon feed the audience with answers, we aren't served all the answers on a platter. Jacob's Ladder requires the viewers to do the thinking and come up with the answers. It's not an easy film to stomach but if you can you will be rewarded with an intelligent film experience that will surely remain with you for the rest rest of your movie-going life. I plan to re-visit this film many times to uncover some things I may have missed because I am sure there are plenty of secrets to find.5/5 "},{"Title":"A much maligned and misunderstood movie","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am directing this comment at the reviewers (amateur and professional) who, when writing about this film, refer to Jacob Singer as experiencing ''flashbacks''.Yes, OK, he DOES experience some flashbacks but these are only layers of the nightmare he endures.He is mortally wounded - as we remember - at the start of the film and then, as he fights for his life on the operating table, his tortured subconscious reveals to him what life will be like should he survive. His mind has been scrambled by the chemist's powerful drug and despite his comatose state, he learns life will constantly be a battle against powerful demons who are, in the words of his chiropractor, ''tearing him apart''.Thus, the aforementioned chiropractor says the demons could really be angels coming to set him free. And at the end of the film he IS set free by his dead son who takes him upstairs into the light.Yes, the first time I saw the film the last scene in the field hospital made me sit up in a ''what did I miss?'' kind of way. But please reviewers, take the time to work it out and cut out the flashback references from now on hey? I also think it's one of the greatest films of its type in existence and the reviewer in the Radio Times who consistently awards it a meagre two stars needs to get with the message - or a new job. "},{"Title":"Brilliant nightmarish thriller!","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When talking about movies, many people tend to quickly dismiss the artistic values and overall quality of the horror genre by describing it as a clichéd, predictable and juvenile source of entertainment; and while probably most of the popular and well-known horror films do tend to have those characteristics in common (as after all, they are meant to sell), the really good movies of the genre are the complete opposite of that idea, and often are as worthy of praise and study as any other good film. Adrian Lyne's 1990 masterpiece, Jacob's Ladder, is one of those films that break the typical (and usually false) conception of what a horror movie should be, and by exploring the dark corners of the mind, shows off the unlimited potential of the horror genre as an art form.Jacob's Ladder is the story of Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) a Vietnam war veteran who works as postal worker and is trying to start a new life with his girlfriend Jezebel (Elizabeth Peña) after his ex-wife Sarah (Patricia Kalember) divorced him. However, his sanity begins to fade as he is troubled by horrible hallucinations and increasingly severe flashbacks to his days in the war, his previous marriage, and to the years before his little son Gabriel (Macaulay Culkin) died. The visions of monsters and the return of the horrors of the war start to become dangerous to Jacob as the hallucinations get more real as time goes by, but as the line between reality and illusion gets blurred, the discovery that everything is the result of the Army's experimentation on the soldiers just makes his troubles more difficult.Written by Bruce Joel Rubin, Jacob's Ladder's hallucinatory trip to madness is easily one of the most captivating and vivid portrayals of insanity ever put on film, and most of the film's success is thanks to Rubin's cleverly devised script. Complex and multi-layered, Rubin takes Jacob (and us with him) through hell and back in his quest for an explanation to what is happening to him, but given the unpredictable nature of his mental condition, there is never an only answer to the bizarre series of events that happen in his life. As in other of his works, Rubin adds a lot of ideas about life and soul, but unlike the rest of his work, in Jacob's Ladder he explores a darker side of the nature of such concepts. While at first sight all this may sound too ambitious and contrived, Rubin makes it work and the final result is one of the most original movies (not just horror) ever written.While he is better know for his high quality erotic thrillers, director Adrian Lyne does a remarkable job (probably the best in his career) at giving life to Bruce Joel Rubin's story of insanity and horror. As always, Lyne makes an effective job directing the film, but this time he allows himself some experimentation with the camera and the special effects which results in very original (and influential) visual effects, creating a very disturbing atmosphere of decay and disorder that mirrors Jacob's own state of mind. As he worked closely with Rubin in the screenplay, Lyne decided to keep the ambiguity of the film's plot by focusing only on Jacob, but this also allowed him to keep the story's humanity and soul.Tim Robbins is simply perfect as Jacob Singer, and this is definitely one of the best works of this very underrated actor. His portrait of Jacob is frighteningly believable and one of the highlights of the film. Elizabeth Peña is very good as Jacob's girlfriend, but as the film focuses completely on Jacob, there is nothing really amazing or surprising in her delivery. Danny Aiello appears in a small but very important role as Jacob's chiropractor and only friend Louis, who acts as a spiritual guide in Jacob's attempt to understand his experiences. Aiello may have a limited screen time, but he makes the most of it and delivers an unforgettable performance. Macaulay Culkin appears briefly, and one can notice that the kid had a big precocious talent at the time.Jacob's Ladder is definitely one of the most original films of the 90s, due not only to it's brilliant storyline, but also to the way Lyne crafted the film in a simple yet very effective way. While many have criticized the film for having an incoherent plot, it's actually the challenging complexity of the script where the main strength of the film is; and while I admit it's difficult to get at first time, it's one of those films that get better with time as the many details of its plot become better appreciated in subsequent viewings. As one of the best examples of a psychological thriller (a term used very loosely these days), this movie offers a delightful mix of mystery, suspense and horror that few movies can equal.Adrian Lyne's masterpiece of horror, Jacob's Ladder, is a very recommended film to fans of atmospheric and eerie horror films, as this movie proves that the genre is more than guts and gore, and that it can serve to explore limitless possibilities. Personally, this movie has become a favorite of mine because of its captivating plot and near-perfect film-making. An excellent film of the 90s. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Robbins-Culkin Freight Train of Love","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Vietnam vet (Tim Robbins) goes through life not really knowing what to make of things anymore. His blue collar job, his ex-wife, his deceased son... and the growing visions of demons and his belief the government turned its back on him and his comrades.The box cover called this a horror movie for the 90s, but let me say the horror elements are pretty minor. Other than a demon scene at a dance club and a few stray body parts in a hospital, the horror is really in the background. What we have is a cross between a war movie and a Lynchian what is real? film.I've had my share of Vietnam movies, because they're all the same to me. Platoon, Born on the Fourth of July, Casualties of War and Hamburger Hill can all be the same film for all I care. Even Full Metal Jacket to some degree (though luckily the focus is more on boot camp and less on the war). In this movie, the war is everywhere and nowhere... it makes for a backdrop to the actual story. I could have used a different setting, even if it was just a different war (Grenada?), but I guess Vietnam is such a movie cliché that it couldn't be avoided.Now, the David Lynch aspects were very well done. Most of the time you don't know if Robbins is awake, asleep, hallucinating or something else. Many people will be turned off by this. But like Next Door and unlike most Lynch films, you should know the plot by the end and a second viewing will make a lot more sense to you. Well, maybe not the demon part. But the rest.I have said in other reviews that Tim Robbins is possibly the greatest actor in human history. He is like the white Morgan Freeman. And in this, his son is played by the effeminate Macaulay Culkin, who has grown to be a great actor in his own right (even if it's in movies nobody else ever saw, like Saved! or Party Monster). I'll watch anything with Robbins and Culkin, so this movie had me at hello.I watched this on VHS and some of the video was a bit grainy. A DVD remastered might fix this and I think would help. A bit of polishing would make this seem even more fantastic. Visually, that's my only complaint -- all the scenery and imagery was quite impressive for what I assume is a lower budget film. The Vietnam scenes could have been from any Vietnam movie, and the fact they'd bother to construct a set for the small part it plays in here, to me shows the devotion of the film-makers.I would have liked to give this film a higher, perhaps perfect, rating... but there were times I felt the film was dragging. After the introduction and build-up, there are many scenes that could have been cut and we would still get the point. Is being confused for an extra twenty minutes a good thing? I have no idea. And there were a few times the film could have ended, but kept going on... oh well. "},{"Title":"When you're frightened of dying, you'll see devils tearing your life away","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Every time you watch this film, you (and I) will hopefully gather a little more insight into what is going on in Jacob Singer's mind. Normally, film reviews discuss the basic plot of the movie and then the reviewer gives his (or her) opinion of it all, but this film requires so much more. ****SPOILERS ALERT**** It is clear that Jacob is in a struggle to hold on to his life and as Louis puts it so simply devils are tearing his life away. The film is filled with religious overtones that can be related to the biblical names of its characters. There is the constant tug of war between the angels and demons. For example, when Gabe says to Jacob don't go (after he tucks him in bed), this symbolizes Gabe's reluctance to let go of him and succumb to the demons. Other scenes give further insight to this and most involve the angel like figures such as Gabe, Sarah and Louis. But even the demon like figures such as Jessie (notice how she only wears black throughout the movie) is reluctant to let Jacob go. They want him stuck in this purgatory until he is able to make his peace. This explains some of the religious aspects but why the hallucinogenic theme? In my opinion, there may have been a case in the past when these types of experiments were ACTUALLY conducted on military personnel. We will never know but the logic of it all makes it frighteningly plausible. And all of this makes more sense when you watch closely the transitions between Vietnam and the flash forwards and flashbacks as they are exquisitely related. For example, when Jacob imagines himself getting into the shower with Jessie, it is actually raining in the jungle at that precise moment. When he falls to the floor during the party, the soldiers are attending to him. When he catches fever, he is actually catching rheumatic fever as a result of the severe wound he suffered. And most importantly, what sheds light on why there was the whole hallucinogenic overtone is when he is actually getting stabbed. Notice the confused look on his face when he realizes one of his comrades has stabbed him. To him, the whole chaotic scenario preceding this event and the actual betrayal by one of his own could have only been caused by some behavior modifying drug the ladder. This is why this theme is (to a certain extent) based upon in his hallucinations... he is trying to find a logical explanation as to why this happened. Of course, this is only my interpretation of the film. In any case, when you combine the religious, philosophical, and real life aspects this film encompasses, I am not sure we will ever see something like this ever again. "},{"Title":"Bruce Joel Rubin should get a life?","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Great film, but the writer, Bruce Joel Rubin, has now written at least three screenplays dealing with the after-life 'Jacob's Ladder', 'Brainstorm' and 'Ghost'. Of those three, only 'Ghost' explicitly propounds the 'reality' of a life after death. In the other two films, the 'walking toward the light' mentioned by those who have endured near-death experiences could be mere hallucination.'Jacob's Ladder' improves on the plot twist in 'The Sixth Sense'. In the latter, the plot loses potency after the first viewing, because the plot twist is a device that changes your perception of the entire story. In 'Jacob's Ladder', there are clues right throughout the story that he might actually be dead or dying. Therefore, the plot twist is not such a great revelation, but does put everything in the proper context.Because the story is very open to interpretation (ie is the action a product of a dying mind or are these experiences sort of a spiritual obstacle course?), you can watch the film repeatedly and still find plotting nuances to change how you perceive the story.IMO, the major changes Adrian Lyne made to the basic story were for the better. If you're interested in seeing how BJR's vision of angels taking Jacob to heaven might have looked (if attempted at all), rent 'Brainstorm' and watch the final couple of scenes. What is otherwise a good film is let down by these scenes and Lyne was right to go with his preferred option; Gabe leading Jacob by the hand up the stairs. Angels carrying Jacob to Heaven could never hope to be as grandiose as our own imaginations.If there is one particular fault with this film, the drug experimentation sub-plot doesn't seem to work. Even as a red herring, it's weak. On the whole though, I find 'Jacob's Ladder' poignant and thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Creepy, well done, a precursor to a bunch of movies with the same idea","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this film a long time ago, in my teens, and didn't understand anything from it. I did remember that it was a good movie, but for the reason it was so. So I decided to watch it again. Now, with a solid background of movies, I finally managed to do it.It is interesting as a film, because it really keeps you on your toes, wondering on what is going on and why. I know it annoyed the hell out of me when I was young, but now I kinda guessed what the story was. Also, this is the only movie that made me browse through three pages of user comments to see what other people had to say about it. I even read the Wikipedia on Jacob's Ladder.Apparently, there is a guy Jacob in the Bible that dreams of a ladder to Heaven, used by angels to move back and forth. In the end, before you are revealed the truth (**going to spoil it now!**), the dead son of Jacob's is taking him home on a ladder by holding his hand. Of course, in the end the guy is dead. He never left Vietnam, the whole thing was a vivid dream state experience induced by experimental army drugs and low brain oxygenation, he fought Death and... Death won ;)It is a worthy film, though, basically because it is good movie, with good directing and acting. Most of the actors are well known good actors, even the kid (Macaulay Culkin). However, the mood is dark and tense, you should really be prepared to watch it. Just seeing half of it before you switch it off will not do. Also, it is interesting to consider the possibility that he could have survived... then his story would have been filled with demons trying to keep him dead, wouldn't it? "}{"Title":"good movie, but could be better","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I sat down to watch Jacob's Ladder, I expected to see a strange, disturbing film. I got what I asked for. Jacob's Ladder is my kind of movie, but I have one problem with it the ending. After the first hour of the movie, you pretty much figure out that Jacob Singer is dead...at least I did. However, when this happens, I usually find that the ending is something that I did not see coming at all. I was disappointed to see that the ending was what I thought it would be. I was hoping for a big plot twist and for a large gasp of surprise, but all I got was yeah I knew that would happen. With all the scenes suggesting that Jake is dead, such as the party scene with the palm reader, I expected a different outcome. Then again, maybe that is what the filmmakers were going for. Give them something they expect. They'll never expect that. Overall Jacob's Ladder is a good movie with an excellent cast and intriguing story. I recommend it heartily. "},{"Title":"Wow- what a film.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Since this is an overall summary+review, I'm giving you another heads up, *EXCESSIVE SPOILER WARNING* /SPOILERS I had heard of Jacob's Ladder for years, but only the name. I had only bothered checking it out because I've heard it was the inspiration for one of my favorite games- Silent Hill, and I'm surprised I hadn't seen this draining film (As it fits in one of my favorite genres) It begins with a supposed Vietnam flash back, where out of no where they began to be attacked by a seemingly invisible force (All is explained later) and then it stops, and we see Jacob Singer, a seemingly normal man in his 30's or 40's on a train when he notices something odd about the one other passenger. He then gets off the train only to find the station is barricaded, so he trys to find a new route. He does make it home, but things have been changing. He's been having visions of his tour of Vietnam, and they all seem weird as he does not remember them. Eventually he starts to see more weird things, people, or creatures are hunting him down. He tries to find more information from the army- but the army denies all, even that he was ever in the Vietnam war. He gets a call from an old army buddy, who is freaking out. Saying he's going to hell, that they're coming for him. After the meeting, his car explodes taking his life. Strange things continue to occur up until Jacob is injured. He is then dragged through a seemingly hellish hospital, where they tell him he is dead and experiment. He wakes up to be rushed out by his chiropractor (A seemingly angelic character) who heals his injury and gives Jacob advice. The demons, or whatever you'd like to call them, are not taking him to be tortured in inferno, but if he is to make peace and accept the fact that they are coming for him they are really angels trying to take his soul from the cruel earth. He gets another call, he's found the information he's needed from the army. As everyone knows, the army has been rumored to have experimented with drugs to make Super soldiers, well, this was confirmed by this strange man who has also been following Jacob. He was commissioned during the Vietnam war to create a drug for making super soldiers, The Ladder. The ladder was a dangerous drug- first tested on primapes. They then used it on Jacob's unit, saying that they'd get the highest kill ratio. They did, however, the invisible force from the beginning was their allies. Their kill ration increased, but the ladder made them so violent they began to kill each other, and apparently this drug was the cause of everything Jacob has been seeing. He tries to get in contact with his 2 remaining children and his ex-wife, but cannot find them. He remembers what his doctor told him, and as he is alone with the creatures, accepts his fate. And the demon becomes his dead son, who takes him to heaven. They then have one final twist for the viewers- none of it happened. You see a Vietnam medic camp, and the medics are operating on Jacob, he has just died after the attack seen in the supposed flash backs./SPOILERS END /REVIEWI highly recommend seeing Jacob's Ladder, it's rare you see a film quite like it. Certain shots and scenes have their own visual style, and the acting is actually pretty good, and the story is great, and some sequences are so downright weird and creepy what's there NOT to love about a film like this???? /REVIEW END 5/5 "},{"Title":"Hell's Half Acre","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** With his 5th Calvary combat unit suddenly coming under attack in the Mekong River Delta in South Vietnam Jacob Singer, Tim Robbins, scampering in the underbrush for cover is attacked and run through with a bayonet by a VC or NVR solider. In an instant Jacob is brought forward in time, from 1971 to 1990, riding an empty New York Subway car in Brooklyn going to his job in the Post Office.Jacob has been having these flash-backs for some time and it destroyed his marriage to Sara, Patricia Kalember. These flash-backs are now putting pressure on his relationship with his live-in girlfriend, and fellow postal worker, Jezebel or Jazzi, Elizabeth Pena.With the hallucination's getting more and more profound and his grasp on reality slipping Jacob goes to see his doctor at the hospital. It's then that Jacob finds out, to his disbelief, that Dr. Cralson had been killed in a car explosion a month ago.It starts to take shape in Jacob's mind that the events in Vietnam back in 1971 has something to do with his mental condition now and tries to contact his fellow, and surviving, Vietnam Vets from the 5th Calv. Those GI's who were with him during that murderous attack that for some strange reason, after he was left unconscious with a bayonet wound, Jacob has no recollection of recovering from.The movie Jacob's Ladder takes on an almost dateless, or dreamlike, look right from the start. With it going back and forth in time with Jacob trying to find himself and at the same time his reason for being alive in, what seems to him, a world of the dead.It turns out that Jacob's suspicions of him and his fellow GI's being used in some military experiment back in Vietnam was true. This all comes out when Michael ,Matt Craven, who was in Nam working with the CIA gets in touch with him. Michael tells Jacob this strange story of his calvary unit being drugged to make them more aggressive and inhuman in fighting the Viet Cong guerrillas and North Vietnamese troops. What that drug did was get the entire unit so hopped up and crazy that they all ended up attacking and killing each other.The movie gets even weirder when we start, like Jacob, to sense that all that's happening is not real at all. Thats when we see Jacob's son Gabe (Macaualy Culkin),who was killed before Jacob was in Vietnam, and chiropractor Louis (Danny Aiello) acting as if their some kind of guardian angels protecting and at the same time guiding him through this hell on earth that he finds himself in.Once you give it up all is peaceful and serene and those departed that you miss the most are the one's who are there to guide and welcome you into the light. This is what the film Jacob's Ladder tries to tell it's audience and does it in a round about way. As Jacob Singer suffers through a series of unbelievably gruesome events that snaps his mind and leaves him almost insane.There's a very touching and eye-opening scene very late in the movie with Louis, who just rescued Jacob from being lobotomized, trying to explain what's been happening to him without giving away the films surprise ending. Jacob is like a man who somehow lost his soul and went through hell in trying to find it. Only to find out that his determination to hang on to life and not let go is what's causing the hell that he's been going through. Once he did let go his suffering was finally over and he found what he was looking for all throughout the movie Peace. "},{"Title":"What a rush!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A young Vietnam veteran Jacob is plagued by bad nightmares and flashbacks of his duty in Vietnam and his old married life, but not only that he's having terrifying hallucinations when his awake of demons wherever he goes. Now it's up to Jacob to find out what's happening. Is it apart of an Army experiment in Nam that went wrong or is there actually more too it?Dark, weird, surreal, unpredictable and provocative are some words to describe director Adrian Lyne's intense psychological film. The premise of the film spirals into a world of alienation, disbelief and illusions. Where the film turns into a maze of amusement and sudden jolts as you just have to question this puzzle of a story about the mind and soul.The ingenious plot is filled with a lot of surprises and is incredibly unpredictable because ambiguity fills every corner, making nothing seem quite like it is. Which indeed the narrative is rather gripping, quite shocking and is rather out there, but never dull. The story is tight and dense on so many levels with its mix of stunning revelations and metaphors that seem to flow from one too another. Where picking up the little things and hints are the key to trying to understand what's happening. As we are constantly going back and forth in Jacob's life and watching his paranoia state building oh so slowly. It just becomes one baffling mystery. While the vibrantly solid and thought-provoking dialogue throughout the film sucks you right in as well.The stimulating atmosphere comes across as quite morbid, as it's filled with such pain and gloom. While it's helped out by the effectively stark and edgy lighting, the poignantly dreamlike music score and striking location cinematography that keeps the viewer under a false state. There are sound effects that are used to great effect in keeping such an uneasy mood. The visuals and make-up effects are truly bizarre and freaky, as the demons and head morphing images really stick in your mind.Lyne's direction sets up some incredibly well staged moments of suspense, tension and edginess. Where he builds such a murky and downbeat atmosphere that comes across as one surreal dream. You don't know what's actually real and what's not. The pace and editing is reasonably solid too. There are some disturbing scenes that play on the mind, a horrifically unnerving opening, fairly unusual imagery and strange occurrences. Though, what makes this movie standout is the powerfully overwhelming ending that I didn't see coming. It unexpectedly twisted back onto itself and leaves the film open too many different kinds of interruptions. The conclusion totally makes you question what you really saw on screen and what it all meant.There are good performances from the main leads and strong support cast. Excellent performances from Tim Robbins as Jacob, is he really losing it or is he drifting in and out of reality? Elizabeth Penn as Jacobs's worried girlfriend Jezebel. Good supporting roles from Matt Craven, Danny Aiello, Patricia Kalember Ving Rhames and Jason Alexander and a young Maculky Culkin.It really does play on the mind and it will definitely leave you thinking. So a second viewing won't definitely go astray. "},{"Title":"Good balance betweenArthouse and mainstream with influences from Don't Look Now","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As usual I hope I don't repeat anything since I can't read all 156 comments already made. I read some. Many provided great interpretation and insight.One thing is for sure the screenwriters have done their homework and the biblical themes are well thought out. So there must be definitely manyhidden meanings and keys behind seemingly loose plot ends. I don't believe they only got the character's names right.There is one bold theory I have here which I also have for some other movies the screenwriter(s) started with ideas about images and the look and feel of the movie, then spun a story around it. This dosn't mean that this story isn't well thoughtout. It might be. I have the feeling that some clues are provied which are just for insiders or can only be discovered by repeated viewing and some knowledge (of literature most likely).One thing struck me immdiately the resenblance to Nicolas Roeg's 1973 movie Don't Look Now. It's also about a man living in between realities and dimensions of time and space, about the supernatural and it's also about the death of the protagonist's youngblond child involving a bicycle.In the scenes where we see the actual accident (half off screen here) there is even the same color combination (red objects) - this is definitely an hommage to Don't Look Now and maybe we can even draw more parallels betwen the two films. I still have to look further into hat.Tim Robbins is fantastic as usual here since he hardly seems to act at all.My final two cents how does the drug subplot (or main plot for hat matter)fit into a hallucination which can only be constructed and assembled by memories of the mind having these visions? Maybe the movie wants to make the statement that hallucinations can be inerpreted as alternative dimensions where others have access to as well, that every illusion is just a alternative reality which can and does interact with all others.That's why we see most dreams in a movie not from the view point of the dreamer but as if it were a parallel dimension where we (the audience) can stand by and watch unseen by the characters, just as in scenes showing reality it's  movie law that dreams can be treated as an existing alternaive reality. "},{"Title":"A dark and haunting journey","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is one of those movies that people either love or hate. I love it. If you prefer your movies to be safe and formulaic (i.e. mainstream) and don't like weird and/or intelligent films, then chances are that you'll probably hate it. But for the rest, this is a classic. Tim Robbins is very believable and likable as Jacob Singer, as is the supporting cast, and the cinematography and music are excellent. This movie really toys with your head and doesn't quite make sense until the very end. "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out. I was only 15 back then and I was so moved by the film so I had to watch it again the day after. Since then I've seen this movie probably over 30 times and I still love it. By just reading the plot outline you may think this film is just some kind of bad horror movie, but do not be fooled, this is probably as far from a bad horror movie as you can get. Yes, the film is very scary, but not because of any shocking effects or blood-dripping monsters, but because that it is so frightenly deep. It is filled with symbolical metaphors that can be analized for hours and hours. This movie doesn't end with the end titles, this movie continue in your mind for hours and days after you have been watching it. If you just like movies with a straight storyline, movies that don't need to be analyzed, then DO NOT watch this movie, cause you won't appreciate it. This movie isn't just about the story that is told, it is about so much more. If your like this movie, do not hesitate to watch it over and over again, the more times you watch it the more you will love it. I can without any doubt say that this is one of the best movies I have ever seen, infact, probably even the best.  "},{"Title":"A FILM FOR THOUGHTFUL FANS OF THE GENRE","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *VERY LIGHT SPOILER INCLUDED*If you don't mind films that force you to think.  If you enjoy films thathave a deep and meaningful underlying theme.  If you enjoy filmsthat don't follow the typical structure of a Hollywood movie.  If youenjoy films that have a unique voice and don't take the easy wayout.  Then this is the film for you.As others have pointed out, this is a film that you either love orhate.  There is rarely a middle ground.  That's because if you getit you love it and if you don't... you hate it.It's a hard film to categorize, but since it's often found in the horrorsection at your local video store, we'll go with that.  However, if youridea of a horror film is some maniac running around slashingteenagers or CGI ghosts terrorizing a haunted house, then thisisn't the film for you.If you've ever read Dante's Inferno you'll completely understandthis film.  If not, then the general through line is thisIt's the inner journey of a dying man as he comes to terms with hispersonal demons and ultimately has to decide whether he'llchoose heaven or hell in the next life.The acting is absolutely stunning. Tim Robbins gives a tour deforce.  The bathtub scene is so gripping I almost believed he wasgoing to die.The direction is top notch and the cinematography is a wonder tobehold.  It's a darkly beautiful film to watch.  The whole experienceis like a celluloid fever dream.In a film category (horror) littered with Hollywood tripe, this is oneof the handful that can be considered a true classic.A real gem.  "},{"Title":"In the locust wind comes a rattle and hum.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  **********( SPOILER )**********In the locust wind comes a rattle and hum. Jacob wrestled the angel. And the angel was overcome. ~ U2's Bullet The Blue Sky, from Rattle and Hum, 1990.Jacob's ladder. Before long his grasp on reality disappears, more than the room starts spinning and he careers down 'Jacob's Ladder' - a series of nightmares caused by chemicals tested on him by Uncle Sam twenty years earlier. ~ Review by Dave Pallin, Taken from EUFS Programme 1993-94.This movie is a nightmare of confusion, ambiguity and deceit echoed by the film's atmosphere. However, when stripped down to the lowest common denominator, 'Jacob's Ladder' is about a Vietnam vet injured in the field. Jacob is stabbed by a bayonet. Thus, the movie's real-time setting is established for the viewer. While the present is happening behind the scenes where Jacob drifts in and out of consciousness, we soon realize the multi-layer sub plots of his relationships is where the movie really takes place and wants us -- the viewer, to reside. Here, in the mind of Jacob is the action, conflict, confusion, and eventual resolution. Meanwhile, on the surface of the real-time plot, Jacob is found as he lay wounded, and then transported by gurney to a MASH unit where he eventually dies after his last breath effort to reclaim his life through the salvation of defining inner peace for himself.Meantime, we learn that Jacob has three children (Jed, Eli, and of course, Gabriel who was killed in a car accident before Jacob's life in Nam).Once married to a loving and beautiful wife named Sarah, Jacob's real horror seems to be the relationship he experiences with JezebelJacob You're such a heathen, Jezzie. How'd I ever get involved with such a f***in' ninny?Jezebel You sold your soul, remember? That's what you told me.Jacob Yeah? For what?Jezebel A good lay.The real mystery to the movie from my perspective is the ambiguity of this relationship between Jacob and the jezebel... of Jacob and the forbidden apple... the fall of the Garden... of Man's supposed sin. Whatever you wanna call it, it's sexuality and tension at work. Is Jacob and Jezebel's relationship nothing more than fragments of a past relationship that destroyed a marriage before Nam that becomes entangled in his quest for clarity, tangibility, and reality? Jacob desperately wants to wake up from his nightmare. Or is this a fantasy that Jacob had and continues to manufacture in his mind and too gets entangled within the web of his consciousness? However interpreted, it does appear to be the symbolic pit of damnation that has enveloped Jacob throughout the film.Eventually, Jacob does find the light. Is it Gabriel's light -- the light of an angel? Or is it the operating table tent light of the MASH unit -- the light of reality and real-time? Or is it a little of both? Regardless, Jacob has finally ascended the ladder out of the mirage of chemical drugs and government politics, plotting, and deceit into a world of family, familiarity, and serenity.Guided by the voice of reason -- Louis (the chiropractor), Jacob seems to be anchored and grounded in these scenes. This is symbolic of his spine being realign... Being set back on track to stand upright on his own two feet. These scenes are filled with sincerity and trust. Lots of backbone here. *smile*Oh yeah, I almost forgot to mention that in the movie we also learn that Jacob is a letter carrier/mailman. Seemingly an under achiever, the postman is similar to George Bailey (from Frank Capra's, 'It's a Wonderful Life' fighting the battle of Bedford Falls). Both find their salvation in their own backyard. Dorothy had the ruby slippers, George had Clarence and a somewhat rip-off version of Charles Dickens', 'A Christmas Carol.' And Jacob has Louis & Gabe to take him back home to... Kansas? Bedford Falls? Back home to the arms of Sarah. Family does become the symbolic Return to sender in the end.**********( END of SPOILER )**********And the entire irony is the fact that Macaulay Culkin (Gabe) is uncredited in the movie, and deserves recognition for his best performance to date.One Hell of a good movie. No pun intended *smile.*10/10 "},{"Title":"Insanity! Pure and simple!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is in my opinion the freakiest scariest movie of the last 20 years. With maybe the exception of Poltergeist. Bizarre is at peak form in this movie about psycho active drugs, Vietnam, death, life, hell, heaven, and the complex web that is the human mind. This movie skates a fine line between a normal reality twister sci fi movie such as Total Recall or The Matrix and horror movie such as The Exorcist. Adrian Lyne deserves more credit for directing this eerie, moody, atmospheric movie. The writing is great and Tim Robbins does a great job of acting like a man going out of his mind trying to find out if he's out of his mind. This is a movie you don't just walk away from. Very very good. Maybe perfect. "}{"Title":"The belief in conscience as the basic essence of human life","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie first in 1996 and was absolutely surprised by both the movie's thematic and the simple fact that I had never heard of it. I saw a very interesting conflict in this movie that i now think is one of the most basic struggles of mankind - the assumption of memory/conscience as the primal essence of our identity. What I mean is that that element that has haunted the human mind through eternity - death - isn't but the fear of a loss of identity. The horrifying feeling that a life's accomplishments will fade in time, and that the essence that we became in our life will be lost from the memories of others and we ourselves will disappear as memories. This movie brings this dilemma in the conflict lived by Jacob.I could never forget that magnificent idea that describes the movie's climax - in hell, only your memories burn, and the demons that haunt you aren't but angels trying to free you from this earth. "},{"Title":"A horror/thriller that when first watched you just don't know where it is going.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie a long time ago. It was, however, a rather disturbing movie about a Vietnam veteran whose rather mundane life is going to pieces by strange visions. He is also being stalked by what are seemingly demons. Through the movie you watch as this character tries to find answers to why he is being stalked by these creatures and by visions of his deceased son. He tries to read up on demons, all the time going through strange episodes, at one point trapped in a hospital where they want to do some rather strange experiments on him. He seems to be getting somewhere when a fellow veteran lays out a story for him. That is about all I can say without giving to much away, it is though a rather interesting movie and I really had know idea where it was going, though the ending did make sense and you will probably go that makes sense. The images are disturbing and for the most part it is a good movie. I could have used more horror and less thriller, but that is me...I am more of a horror fan as one could probably tell from my reviews. The cast is rather good, the story interesting like I said give me some more scares and this one would have been really good. "},{"Title":"Jacobs ladder, the most chilling film ever made","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Asides from it's religious and moral undercurrents, Jacobs ladder is probably the most genuinely chilling film I've ever seen. There are so many terrifying elements; the sinister and darkly manipulative girlfriend, the ghostly faces on the underground train, but that detached demonic voice in the hospital scene; dream on is the most disturbing and jarring moment moment of all. I think you could waste time trying to figure out the exact significance of every little piece of this puzzle, what's important is to just let it wash over you, you'll find new little nuances every time. That voice; dream on gets more disturbing every time you think a bit harder about what it means, and see Robin Williams face when he hears it... "},{"Title":"THIS is what Psychological Horror is all about","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw Jacob's Ladder when it first came out in 1990, and it STILL moves me to an awe-inspired silence today. It is simply the greatest horror screenplay ever written! And I guess this is a movie you either love or hate (my best friend constantly asked me during every scene change if this is a flash-forward, flash-back or flash-sideways, and for the record she hates the movie, but then again she's into soap opera level plotting/writing with plot holes so big you could drive a semi through them, so of course she wouldn't get it...sorry to sound snobbish, but there it is.) I have never had such a satisfying experience watching a film this complex. The fact that someone could create a complex horror film, TOTALLY void of cliché and predictability makes this film a true diamond in the rough.This is also the film that is the originator of the then highly effective, but now unfortunately overused, shaking head effect. When I first saw it I almost had a heart attack!! I had never seen anything so disturbing!! Then the film only became more unsettling from there!! This movie and story truly blew my mind...especially the meaning of the ending...ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT!!! Tim Robbins is AMAZING as the tortured Jacob Singer, and as a viewer, we can totally relate to his fears as we're as new to his experience as he is! I've shown this film to other friends who have been bombarded by the same effects used in this film (for other ones since), and they STILL think it's the greatest!! A couple even ran out the next day and bought it. ;) LOL) Give it a try! "},{"Title":"Interesting, but a bit wayward","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSThe success of this film is down to the brilliant way it is very eerily shot, and some of the hallucinogenic images are wonderful - the trip through the hospital with limbs everywhere and the ice cold bath scene being particular faves. If nothing else does, these will keep you glued to the screen.However, I think it's always difficult to construct a narrative by relying solely on a constant stream of crazy images and shock tactics to carry everything along. And while the events are certainly different, there is a sense about half way through that the film is lacking any sort of direction. Just where is it going?But from here, as the story threatens to go a bit stale, Adrian Lyne craftily connects all of the previous demon guff together with the discovery that other members of Tim Robbins' battalion may be suffering the same symptoms, due to a government chemical of some sort. This plot twist managed to peak my interest in the film again and leads nicely into the final few scenes where everything is cleared up and the true nature of all the events and hallucinations are explained.Tim Robbins is his usual dopey, just what is going on? self - which works well in this situation, while the film also features Macauley Culkin at the height of his career. Look out for that.Although the Good/Evil, Heaven/Hell, God/Devil stuff does get a bit annoying at times, the film is a very intelligent one which deserves the praise it gets.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies of all time.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Jacob's Ladder' obviously isn't the first puzzle movie ever made, but in many ways it is a precursor to the recent spate of twist movies ('The Sixth Sense', 'Fight Club' et al), and my opinion vastly superior. Along with 'The Usual Suspects' it can not only be enjoyed after multiple viewings, it actually improves after each one. It is much more than a mere plot gimmick, it is an excellent example of imaginative film making at its best.Tim Robbins, in his transition from actor in silly comedies (anyone remember 'Erik The Viking'?) to more credible movies like 'The Player' and 'Bob Roberts', is perfectly cast as a Vietnam vet caught in a nightmare he doesn't understand. This is one of his best performances to date. Elizabeth Pena ('Lone Star') also gets a chance to shine, and Danny Aiello ('Do The Right Thing') leads a strong supporting cast, many of whom are much better known now than they were when this movie was made - e.g. Jason Alexander ('Seinfeld'), Ving Rhames ('Pulp Fiction'), Pruitt Taylor Vince ('Heavy'), Eriq La Salle ('E.R.'), even Tenacious D's Kyle Gass.This is a spellbinding movie, superbly directed by Adrian Lyne (who would have thought he had it in him?!). 'Jacob's Ladder' comes with my highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"has problems, but there's a fascination to it that doesn't decrease","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is a frustrating movie. You want to love it, especially if you like Tim Robbins (one of the greats of his generation, when used right anyway) or just pure surrealist works. Bruce Joel Rubin's screenplay attempts to connect two kinds of films the David Lynch-era surrealist work, and the Coming-home-from-Vietnam flick. But he needs either more ambiguity, or less clutter in the construction of the script. Certainly his dialog also needed work, but to say specifically where would be tricky. Sometimes he makes some scenes sound truthful for what they're worth (i.e. Jacob with his 'woman on the side'), and then others just feel hollow. But perhaps the chief problem is that one invests a lot in this character- thanks to Robbins he is somewhat likable- and it's all for not, basically, when it's revealed what the entire film has been.But despite the flaws in the script (for another thing, even at two hours it feels too long), surprisingly Adrian Lyne makes it work, at least partially as a story and more-so as a visionary. The direction here is some of his best yet, and it goes a ways to try and make up for the flimsier context. You want to keep watching this, especially after the throat-grabbing 8-minute opening in Vietnam, which is a total freak-out sequence. He also goes a ways with his collaborators (DP, editor, sound, the works) to make this what the writer had intended a disorientating experience where scenes flow as if in stream-of-consciousness, and where life and death hangs on the balance when least expected. At the least, it's a well-conceived and executed work of paranoid film-making.So I guess, perhaps, the disappointment is in the expectations. From what I heard this was supposed to be a true masterpiece of the surreal and strange, and a unique post-Vietnam war movie. But perhaps considering Rubin wrote the script in the 70s, it should have been made then, with a stronger rewrite. There's a really terrific movie somewhere here, but it's just hard to find. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can understand, truly, that the majority of the people reading this will disagree on my statement of this film as the best movie ever, however, those of you who do understand and agree, whether you consider it the best or just great I consider you all great connoisseur's of this fine art... No offense to those who do not...) Now, my review is based on the following you will not see greater acting done in any movie, the attention to detail is astounding, and the directing excellent. However, let it be known, that the strength lies in (as always) the astounding manuscript. This is, simply put, an amazing story. Some people may be fooled into thinking this is some kind of horror flick, but let me assure you, it is not! It is a story of love, hope, dreams, life, death, and ultimately the final deliverance.As I will not go into the details of the actual story, just take may word for it (and others on this forum I'm sure) see this movie!!! If it is not for you, then at least you know that you gave it a try to take a sincere look at the deeper aspects of life...Btw, the bathtub scene after the ice bath, with his falling tears... Best in movie history??? Have a good one, my fellow movie buffs...) 10/10 "},{"Title":"Like an intense Twilight Zone; one of the best and most underrated psychological horror films to date","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" JACOB'S LADDER (1990) **** Tim Robbins, Elizabeth Pena, Danny Aiello, Macaulay Culkin, Patricia Kalember, Matt Craven, Jason Alexander, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Eriq La Salle, Ving Rhames, Brian Tarantina. Absolutely chilling visceral psychological thriller fully realized by director Adrian Lyne about Jacob Singer (superb, modulated perf by Robbins), a Vietnam vet living a hellish nightmare of flashbacks, demons among us and the otherworldly horrors that beckon to him. Very intense, scary and unsettling depiction of one man's fight to remain sane. Like an intense  Twilight Zone with more than its passing resemblance to Ambrose Bierce's An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge. One of the most talked about controversial endings in film history. Script by Bruce Joel Rubin that was one of the hottest unproduced screenplays for a decade. See it! "},{"Title":"Flashback or Reality?","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is not like anything I have ever seen. It is a viscerally frightening film that kept me on the edge of my seat. Tim Robbins delivers a unique performance as Jacob, a Vietnam warrior who gets seriously wounded in combat and finds himself in a desperate struggle for life. And between life and death, heaven or hell, where does Jacob belong? That's something Jacob will have to find out for himself and that'll be the fight of his life.Although the ending seems to be dark and ambiguous, I think the film proves to be intellectually and logically complete. If you see this movie merely as a hapless man's ordeal on physical world, you have missed the main point and I recommend to watch again look beyond the visuals, don't think the events on a linear time scale and pay a strict attention (especially talking of Jacob's chiropractor, Dr. Louis) to the hints scattered throughout the movie.Tim Robbins' performance is flawless and fascinating. Adrian Lyne directed the movie very well; the emotions and the tension that are aimed to be brought about are achieved quite successfully. One interesting fact about the movie is that when you watch it for the second time, you notice a lot of things, which you did not notice or could not make sense out of in the first place. Names, small incidents, conversations, even the advertisement in the downtown train take on a new meaning once you know what is really happening to Jacob Singer. I strongly recommend Jacob's Ladder to the people who like psychological thrillers and soft horror movies.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is a very scary, surreal, and confusing film, and it's told entirely from the point of view of Jacob Singer, a man suffering from PTSD who begins to believe he's being pulled into hell by demons.Or at least it is for most of the film. Since the film is told from the perspective of Jacob, you're along for the ride with him for all of the film. When Jacob is scared and confused, so are we, and throughout the film we don't know exactly what's real and whats in Jacob's mind - and neither does he. Is this is when the film is at its best. When Jacob's Ladder is at its best, it's surreal and terrifying and absolutely bizarre. For most of the film, the events were very ambiguous and what was reality and fiction - and what exactly was happening - was entirely up to the viewer. However, towards the end, the film gets less and less ambiguous, until literally all knots are perfectly tied up in the end. There are moments toward the end where things that are better left unexplained are literally directly explained to the viewer. They don't even try to suggest it, or leave hints to it in the film to be discovered in multiple viewings. Remember the scene in Psycho where the completely random man comes in in the second to last scene just to explain something that we could've figured out ourselves? This film practically does that for pretty much every mystery in the film, one in particular, and in this case it's even worse. I'm not saying every film needs to remain ambiguous, but this one in particular would've been so much more interesting if it was, because there could've been so many different interpretations of it, and for most of the film it was that way, which is why it's so baffling that they decided tie up all the knots towards the end. "},{"Title":"Interesting film. However, it tried to be too many things.","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob Singer is a Vietnam War veteran. He lives in New York city with his girlfriend (Elisabeth Pena) working as a post-office clerk. We learn also that he has two kids from a previous marriage, although nothing is revealed about his ex wife, namely if she is still around and if they still keep in touch because of the kids. He also has a PhD. The couple appears to go along well but certain things do not seem to fit in. Singer appears to 'see' certain ghost-like images and experiences delusional episodes. At some moment he is approached by a strange man and an old army colleague who hint that the army experimented with some untested chemical even to American soldiers during the war.Jacob's Ladder is an interesting film, which however tries to be too many things at the time. For a big part of the film the tension was built towards conspiracy theories, nonetheless there was also an angle with strong supernatural elements that defied any logical explanation. That's not necessarily bad but such a contrast took away from the overall credibility of the movie.Anyway, the film tried to balance between such possible scenarios and eventually ended with something that seemed like an easy way out. In any case, I enjoyed the movie's atmosphere but be aware that there are some loose ends. Danny Aiello's role is also to be noted, although I felt afterwards that his role was inserted not just to provide a meaningful resolution to the protagonist's struggle but also to explain things to us (the audience). A 7/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A harrowing journey made pointless by a final plot twist","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Tim Robbins excels as an ex-combat soldier who wanders around evil city streets, hounded by death and destruction, flashing back on an incident in early-'70s Vietnam wherein his Army troupe came under the influence of something man-made and horrific. Director Adrian Lyne revels in an austere style that is sleek but not always fashionable; the filmmaker puts pain and paranoia in a visually grandiose cinematic context which can be off-putting, especially when considering some of the twisted, unsettling images he foists at us. Robbins is used to good advantage; he's easy and grounded in his role (under the circumstances), and he's an interesting presence. Unfortunately, Jacob's Ladder is flamboyantly heavy-handed, a drama-cum-horror movie dragging exasperating loose ends behind it. Screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin creates an anguished netherworld of nightmarish suffering--which Lyne hammers away at, sometimes tastelessly--but he betrays the audience in the end with a cold slap that renders the entire film nearly superfluous. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Some of Tim Robbins best work","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Some of Tim Robbins best work. He portrays the terror his character feels without overdoing it. The film has to do with the nature of reality. What is real, and what is not, and it goes very deep. This is often boring, but not in this one. Elizabeth Pena was also very good, and very beautiful as well. She seems to have passed away recently. Much too young. Some other familiar actors showing up include Ving Rhames, Eriq La Salle, Danny Aiello, Jason Alexander, S. Epatha Merkeson, and Macauley Culkin. Quite a cast, as it turned out. I give the movie high marks, as it kept my interest throughout, and the payoff at the end was quite powerful. "},{"Title":"Ghostly Undertaker","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Iconic movie that I watched during my year as a masters student reading mysterious and mythical visual spirituality tombs from the depth of sociological catalogue. My teacher was an Irish sage who worked part-time as an undertaker. He came back from my past time via a weird sin. Sufi rituals and Buddhist Nirvana on a Hindu fest has resurrected my ashes that found hash, LSD, Russian Politics and eventually East London. The visual style of the film shot and distributed on tape is iconic. Iconic film. What a way for ex-consultant from German McKinsey. Try copy the tropes, but you will never get it right. Based on a purist novel. "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is of those films that stick in your mind, hours, even days after the fact of watching it. There are many psychological horror films out there that are smart and have an executed story, but Jacob's Ladder is above them in many facets. The film implements a dreadful feeling right from the get-go, in which the film progressively gets more hopeless and sinister. The characters are tragic and bland in nature, all portraying people that are in desperate situations or stuck in a terrible rut. It's safe to say, that Tim Robbins and Elizabeth Pena exceeded any expectation in this movie, both being somewhat risky parts to play in their given roles.The attention to detail in many of the demonic horror scenes is striking and gives a great opportunity to the viewer to re-watch and pick up something different. Throughout all of the film's scenes it's noticeable that the dialogue and script is carefully calculated, having very few plot-holes. The story constantly flips back and forth introducing new characters and time periods, becoming borderline confusing at parts. However, after multiple times watching the film and being comfortable with the film's direction and messages, it not too hard to understand after thinking about it. The ending came quick, leaving an unsatisfying taste during the credits but it's done very well. Jacob's Ladder is an essential watch and a gives great takes on life, worth and meaning. "},{"Title":"Very emotionally affecting, engaging to watch and quite profoundly sad","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is not a horror. It's really a drama with some aspects of a thriller. I didn't find it very scary. There are horrific moments but they're more about sadness and despair. We suspect from near the start that many of the things Jacob (Tim Robbins) sees are not real. They seem to be hallucinations. Which gives us an easy explanation with which to dismiss anything we don't understand he's crazy. But naturally, the plot thickens. He wants to know what caused his situation, why is he like this? He's a Vietnam veteran but his memories seem incomplete. Something horrible happened when he was there and maybe due to shock he's blocked out some of the details, we aren't sure.Although the film could certainly be interpreted in different and interesting ways, I feel like it's quite clear what was going on by the end. Before writing this review I felt compelled to write in detail what my logical interpretation of the movie was, to get it clear and understand it properly. I'm sure it will stay in my mind and evolve over time. It touches on surreal, intense ideas. It may possibly be extremely realistic.There are times when you could become frustrated watching a movie like this. The writer/director can do whatever they want, tease and taunt you and while you hope it'll make sense by the end, it very well might not. You begin to wonder when you'll get some answers and when the whole point of it is going to sink in. But with Jacob's Ladder, we have a constant throughout we feel the same way as Jacob. There are emotions to connect with the whole time. He is perhaps suffering from PTSD, but it doesn't matter. He's seems alive and sane but something horrible is happening to him. That's the worst thing about illnesses sometimes is not knowing what caused them or whether they will improve or not.The ending really impacted on me. Everything began to fit together and make sense. Everything had an explanation. It was moving and sad and shocking. A few of these weird semi-horror movies like The Wicker Man and this just make me want to hug and comfort the main character so much. Their pain is heart-breaking. But in that way it makes you feel less alone. Whatever suffering you go through, you can always remember these characters and feel a deep connection.There are interesting connections to the bible including several character names (Jacob, Jezzabel, Eli and Gabe) and references to demons and angels (and visions of them). The writer apparently was interested in Buddhism and there is an idea of letting things go. By carrying painful memories, you increase your suffering. You can't change them but you can move on and maybe find new happy experiences. Death is a bit of a theme throughout as well. It reminds me of the samurai code where you accept your inevitable death and progress from there. You will notice also that Jacob is often seen lying down, maybe mirroring the fact that he seems to be having a never-ending nightmare. "},{"Title":"Confusing and Complicated but still worth watching !","Date":"7 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Finally I watched the movie, this movie has a big cult following and it's one the movies that you have to watch twice for better understanding. So about the movie this movie grips you from the beginning and hold you tight on your seat. The main character of the movie is Jacob ( the title refers to him ) Vietnam war veteran and mourning for his child. The thing is that you view this movie from the Jacobs perspective you really don't what's going on. As the movie passes Jacob realizes that things are different and are changing dramatically or in other words going more complicated.The thing I don't like is that I'd left with a lot of questions and after watching it I'd to read a lot from different sources. This movie is a combination of mystery and thriller, the events changes so quickly that you're left confused but I guess the plot is revealed in the end.There are also some bizarre scenes in this movie which I found rather disturbing anyways if you're looking for a movie that completely requires your attention so this is the one. "},{"Title":"Great nightmarish images","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New York postal worker Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) has nightmarish hallucinations stemming from his horrific Vietnam War experience. His wife Jezzie (Elizabeth Peña) struggles to help him. He is also haunted by his first marriage to Sarah and his dead son Gabe (Macaulay Culkin). Louis (Danny Aiello) is a chiropractor whose adjustments unleashes a long paranoid demonic nightmare.This is a great movie of a personal nightmare. It's a very good performance of a paranoid character from Tim Robbins. Some of the images are actually quite disturbing. It may be the first time that I noticed the shaking head effects. The long nightmare does meander a little. It's hard to expect hallucinations to drive a straight line to a destination. The final reveal is problematic and pulls the rug from the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The metaphors in this movie are so abundant. The director likes to show certain things scenes that might not be a part of the story, but add much to the story in general, the way a writer might prelude a chapter by describing something connected to, but not in line with the characters. Mourning his dead child, a haunted Vietnam war veteran attempts to discover his past while suffering from a severe case of dissociation. To do so, he must decipher reality and life from his own dreams, delusion, and perception of death. I am not saying the film is a classic, but it was pleasant. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. "}{"Title":"Hallucinations and visions of demons and a secret organization who is trying to capture him","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is not an easy movie to watch. There are a lot of details and flashbacks that is incorporated into the story line. The movie has a mystery/thriller/horror based theme and can easily be distinguished. The movie Jacob's Ladder stars Tim Robbins as Jacob and Elizabeth Pena as Jezzie. He is a Vietnam War veteran dealing with everyday life. After years of coping with the death of his child, he finds a picture of his child and that is when everything starts going downhill. After his failed marriage and the death of his young son, he finds a job at the United States Postal Office and meets a woman, Jezzie, there who helps him through his issues. Jacob starts to have hallucinations and visions of demons and a secret organization who is trying to capture him. From the hallucinations, he can't telling from what is distinguish the real or the illusions. He starts to see faceless men and with the help of his unit from Vietnam, they come to the conclusion that they are all having the same visions and believe that they were experimented on, but have no proof. His previous doctor and close friend from his unit both die in a car explosion after trying to figure out why they are having those visions. After being captured by men whom he believes is the organization that his behind the hallucinations, he fights them off and manages to jump out of the moving vehicle and is transported to what seems to be a mental hospital. When fully realizing where he is, he is tied down and is experimented on. Right before the procedure, Jezzie appears and is helping them out with the procedure. Jacob then awakens in his apartment and fights with Jezzie because he does not know if she was really lying to him or if it was just all a dream. After talking to his chiropractor Louis, the scene changes to the Vietnam War where is having a lifesaving surgery, but does not survive. The ending titles informs the viewers that drugs were being tested and used on soldiers at the time, but the government denies the accusation. I find this movie to be a lot like Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind. Both movies are really hard to understand until the very last scene and have a lot of little details that work into the movie. The lighting in the movie is dark throughout the entire movie and there is not too many scenes where there is a lot of sunlight. The only scenes where there is sunlight is his flashbacks to his memories with his ex-wife and child. This movie is a really great film if you are wanting to watch a mystery thriller with a hint of horror. It blends in all three genres really good and there are many familiar actors scene throughout the movie that brings the movie to life. "},{"Title":"I'd been waiting to watch a movie like this for a long time","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'd been waiting to watch a movie like Jacob's Ladder for a very long time, I thought the premise behind Jacob's Ladder was exponential, a man who die's and his life is taken away with illusions and memories examined, and the difference between reality, what's real and what's not is frequently at hand in the audience's mind. These idea's are perfectly directed by Adrian Lynne. This movie show's us the deep intimate value of this Jacob's life, contrastingly it also show's us how he is just another dead soldier who is almost nobody to any one else and will be forgotten by all except maybe just a few people who knew him well, but to even them this deeply personal man's existence still disappears as really only one man lived as Jacob Singer, Jacob Singer. The writing in this movie could've been a little more well developed, however the direction and premise is perfect so this movie deserves a perfect 10 out of 10. I wanted to write a movie along the line's of the premise of Jacob's Ladder, it was inspiring to see the premise I had on my mind on screen. The audience is always guessing figuring out what is going on, is insanity, is it a conspiracy, who is the bad guy, is it supernatural, is he dead. "},{"Title":"Interesting stuff.","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" From director Adrian Lyne (Fatal Attraction) and screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin (Ghost) comes this provocative drama with touches of horror. It combines elements of psychological thriller, hallucinatory spook show, and conspiracy story to make for entertaining viewing. It alternates between separate scenarios often enough in order to have its audience questioning what constitutes reality and what doesn't. However, if one is aware of the primary literary influence, it may remove just about all of the suspense for them.Still, getting to that conclusion is reasonably fun. It helps that the performances are so sincere. Tim Robbins stars as Jacob Singer, a Vietnam veteran now living a regular life as a postman in NYC. He begins to be plagued by disconcerting visions, and comes to believe that something sinister is going on, getting together with his comrades from 'Nam and even hiring a lawyer (Jason Alexander). At times he lives with a girlfriend, Jezzie, played by sexy Elizabeth Pena, at others he's involved with a different woman, Sarah (Patricia Kalember) with whom he's had three children.There's a plethora of unnerving imagery to be seen in a film that is often experienced rather than just watched. Director Lyne keeps things always somewhat off kilter and nightmarish. Rubins' story is compelling in the way that it juggles its elements and keeps its viewers on their toes. The cast is excellent all the way down the line; it's cool to see people like Alexander and Ving Rhames before their breakthrough roles. Danny Aiello is great as Jacobs' chiropractor and good friend Louis. Matt Craven has one fine scene as the provider of the key exposition. Also co-starring are Pruitt Taylor Vince, Eriq La Salle, Brian Tarantina, and S. Epatha Merkerson. Macaulay Culkin appears uncredited in a small but important role. The music by Maurice Jarre and cinematography by Jeffrey L. Kimball are two very worthy assets.This is a good film that people may want to discover or revisit.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the most terrifying movies ever seen","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There are a couple of facts to take into account to understand this movie 1. You will be much more likely to understand it if you are familiar with Christianity. Careful! I don't mean being Christian yourself, (I am an atheist) but knowing something about Christian believes.2. In order not to make this an spoiler, I highly recommend to read about the interpretations of the bible verses referring to Jacob's ladder, which you can find elsewhere in the net.Having said that, the film is one of the most bizarre and and creepiest chain of events I have ever witnessed, with some very well placed portions of nothing happening filled of quibbling only in the light of those attentive.Having some particular knowledge about some of the Christian interpretations of life and dead, will show you that at the end, there is very little left to interpretation in this movie.A master piece of terror indeed, but probably for a very selective audience. "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder is the strongest horror / drama movies I've ever seen.","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The theatrework is immense, lighting and perspective is masterful, a highly highly crafted aesthetic. The storytelling is very balanced & articulate, conveying the emotional life of Tim Robbin's character and the perceptions of reality he must contend with. It accomplishes what most horror films set out to do in the first 30 minutes, and then continues to weaves a vivid and evolving story for another hour and a half. Certain visual motifs rocked me to my core, vivifying the ancient function of drama anew. Man, resonance on so many levels. The main themes seem to be the fear of the ephemeral, paranoia & longing, uncertainty as to what is real. Perfect for the renewal of spring, after winter's dreaming ) "},{"Title":"Just raw art in every way! So that its frightening in its honesty.","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs Ladder drills straight down to your thalamus from the start.Based on what might partially be a true story, the film takes the viewer into the out of control mind of a war veteran. Tim Robbins delivers an amazing character, we care for, worry for and be afraid with. The directing is also very masterful yet never more than what it needs be, keeping the viewers focus on the story, instead of fancy lights or film tricks. Maybe this one touches me personally but I rarely I deem a film worthy of a 10... Wish I could go back in time and watch it for the first time. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Jacob revisited","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is admittedly a movie, which made an immense impact on me when first watched years back, albeit prone to not understanding the full story given my age at that time. Now but a fluttering memory I decided to revisit the surreal world created by Adrian Lyne in his sole venture into the genre of horror.Jacob (Tim Robbins), a war veteran, who survived a deadly attack by enemy forces in Vietnam, now leads a normal life as a postman. Nonetheless his reality is submerged in the past with countless flashbacks not only about the occurrences in Vietnam, but also of the loss of his son prior to the war. These increasingly influence his life as he slowly derails into morbid demonic hallucinations, which question his sanity and the reality that surrounds him. As the visions start to overcome him, he seeks the source of it all, quickly focusing on the military involvement in his madness...Adventurous vision still permeates through the screen with Cronenberg-influenced atrocities harrying Jacob and a tentative atmosphere of suspense building an engrossing movie, albeit flawed by overreaching ambition and lack of directorial competency vividly apparent. The dark and murky reality created by Adrian Lyne still however stay in force, embracing imagination in the way only movies from that period seem to be able to. Aided with a gripping story the venture into the mouth of madness keeps Jacob's Ladder an enthralling piece of cinema, albeit somewhat diluted as ideas and concepts used in the movie have been rehashed by the genre, making this original movie lose some of its punch.Nonetheless deeply atmospheric much in the manner of Videodrome or Harry Angel and with rough bleak camera work predominant in the era, keep it a classic worth watching. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After a long time of waiting to see this movie, that time finally came to an end today, and I must say I am quiet impressed by what I saw, this film is creepy, twisted, and brilliant.The film is quiet creepy, like there are scenes in this movie that will really flip you out at times, it is very well done considering CGI wasn't used a lot in this time era. Although I must say I was expecting a lot more out of it, it wasn't as scary as I was expecting it to be but at the same time it still found a way to creep me out, Tim Robbins put on a Phenomenal acting Job, you can almost feel what he is going through.The images of the demons that are seen in this movie is absolutely wild, the way that they are portrayed in this film is like a seizure, because a lot of the demons that are shown have fast head movements and in one particular scene there is the use of strobe lights when some of the demons are visible and I don't recommend anyone with epilepsy to view that scene.The atmosphere of this film is dark and depressing which is another trait that makes this movie so fantastic because you can almost feel the way Jacob(Tim Robbins) is feeling. Its also one of those movies that really confuses you at times but in the end it all comes together.This film is not for everyone but it ranks high on my movie list. "},{"Title":"A dark, mysterious and inventive drama","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film was a definite cult film back in the early 90's. It seems to have fallen somewhat out of fashion in the subsequent years. I think the reason for this is simply that the ideas Jacob's Ladder played around with were very new at the time of release and have subsequently become old hat as many films have expanded upon them in the years that followed. But I think it's important to remember that this movie had a lot of originality about it when released. Apparently it didn't do all that well at the cinema and was a bit of a sleeper; it seems that it might even have been a little ahead of its time.It tells the story of a man called Jacob who is bayoneted while on service in Vietnam. We pick up his story when he is back in New York. But this is an NYC of demons and lizard-like monsters just below the surface. Jacob is then made aware that something terrible happened that fateful night in 'Nam.Once you know the secrets of Jacob's Ladder it becomes clear why the New York City of this film just feels so wrong. The fact that there is never any sense of time having moved forward is clear once you know what is actually happening. There is always a sense of strangeness about this world, a place replete with biblical references. True horror always seems to be just below the surface. When Jacob ends up in hospital, he is taken through a mental ward that is a surrealist nightmare of deformed monsters. This is a truly inspired sequence of the macabre. The film never truly matches this moment at any other point but that's not to say that there is no other striking imagery; there's a reptilian sex scene at a party, ghostly beings in passing cars and trains and a nurse with a demonic horn.It may not seem as ground breaking as it once was but Jacob's Ladder remains an imaginative dark fantasy. "},{"Title":"Creepy Movie  Great Ending.","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I wouldn't watch this movie if you're depressed, you might just cut your wrists before it's over. And you still might after it. It's a dark desolate wasteland of a movie that depressed the hell out of me. Mostly it just felt strange, disturbing and disorienting. Ninety minutes of vertigo, is how I would best describe this movie.I almost walked out on this movie, but I stayed. And I was so surprised by the ending that I left the movie actually glad that I watched it.This movie was well directed, well acted and well written.It's a movie that I hated watching, but it'ts thought provoking surprise ending had me thinking about it for days.Not exactly, a wringing endorsement, but I do think it's worth watching. "}{"Title":"Strong atmosphere","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm wondering if the twist ending would have been quite as obvious to me had I watched it twenty years ago, before twists like this were common enough. As it is, it's fairly easy to spot from miles away; that means that there's no need to judge the film by its twist, and, thankfully, allows us to watch it not as a mystery thriller but as a surreal psychological drama. Even without the surprise effect Jacob's Ladder is an incredibly powerful movie, that sets the viewer into an uncomfortable atmosphere. The acting is good, even if I was skeptical about the casting of Tim Robbins in the lead at first. A solid film that has aged better than most. "},{"Title":"A new Raskolnikov","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A strange story about freedom and guilty. Modern image of Crime and Punishment. Our life like a shadow of the dreams and fear. Like a research a way of personal truth. No salvation, no cure. Only a refuge in a great lie. This movie is an important experience. Not like a theoretical experience,like a game without value, like a joke. Jacob's Ladder  is a trip in your mind, in your memory, in the life's essence. I am the other said Rimbaud. But who? A ghost? A shadow? A body? A toy? The essence of movie is the relation with the world and the form of honesty. The presence of God in this movie is the way of resurrection. The car, the boy, the work accident, Jezzie, Louis , Miller are the steps of a very special salvation. And Tim Robbins, in his best character, a new Raskolnikov, know to give a great sense of truth to Jacob Singer. A real master-piece! "},{"Title":"The Movie Silent Hill Wishes it Could Be","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had not seen anything by the director of Jacob's Ladder before, but I became interested through the IMDb reference page that said it was a major source of inspiration for the Silent Hill video game series, and the inspiration is clear enough to see. Misty/smokey halls, decrepit buildings, disturbingly deformed humans/demons, and the general tone that makes you doubt the narrator's sanity. But what was captured by the SH games much more than the SH movie is psychological aspect, the idea that our thoughts affect our environment more than the other way around. Jacob's Ladder also has a surprisingly happy ending for such a grim movie, but brings to mind the famous line by John Milton Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light. It's also telling that the working title of this movie was Dante's Inferno. "},{"Title":"Awesome, scary, Tim Robbins, what more could you ask for?","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs Ladder is kind of like if Taxi Driver and some of David Lynchs work had a child. Moments of the film are almost an exact replica of my dreams and many moments are very surreal. The film is very strong and it keeps a steady pace throughout the entire two hour and ten minuet period. There wasn't a single moment that I felt bored at all. Tim Robins is fantastic as Jacob Singer, a returning Vietnam war vet who starts to lose his mind. Jacob starts to see demons throughout the city and the people he trusts are the people he should fear. Most of the performances in the film are strong, but the films weak point comes around the third quarter of it. Around the time Jacob starts to meet with his platoon members after the war, scenes with them felt very weak and forced. Besides that point of the film, it is very disturbing and very horrifying. I think I love the film so much because it reminds me of my nightmares, my nightmares aren't some dude with a knife chasing me through a house, mine make me feel helpless and scared. I love having nightmares, that's why I love Jacobs Ladder. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect blend of horror, drama and metaphysics","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the best movie I've ever watched. I believe that the secret of a good story is its ability to surprise us, leaving the solution to the last possible minute. Jacob's Ladder makes us wonder what is happening all over the movie, but solves the mystery, entirely, in the last seconds (leaving very few clues throughout the film about what really happens). Many movies have a good story, but unfold it confusedly, and the end doesn't tie all the strings. Just for that Jacob's Ladder deserves a position as one of the best movies, as it excels in storytelling. But there is much more. It's horrifying in its images, disturbing in its ideas, but liberator in its central concept. Reflecting about the message the movie passes, I have two opposite feelings one of wonder, the other of sadness. Wonder for the greatness of life, but sadness for the conscience that we will never understand it completely. Jacob's ladder comes from the Holy Bible, in the book of Genesis a ladder from which angels and people can transit between Heaven and Earth, appearing in a dream by Jacob. Through the movie, this name means many things, and is another testimony to its brilliance. "},{"Title":"A Very Disturbing Film!","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes this is definitely Kubricesque. Yes it is a true horror film. The editing adds to the realism. If you like feeling uncomfortable, if you like being freaked out, if you don't mind a seriously creepy and disturbing film, this one is for you. I am not a fan of horror films but I watch one occasionally. This one reminded me of the creepiness in The Believers with Martin Sheen. Can a film be too realistic? I think so and the criteria is the level of disturbance it creates. Did it cause you to have nightmares? Did you feel overwhelmed by the film? If so, I think it went too far. Such a film was Murder One with Henry Thomas. In Cold Blood came very close. I realize there are many folks who enjoy this type of film. I will say that Tim Robbins was very good in Jacob's Ladder as was the rest of the cast. The blood, gore and demons were very effective and the film was as nightmarish as is possible on film. If you hang on until the end there is some relief in the revelation of the plot. So, if that's your 'cup o' tea', this film is for you. "},{"Title":"How to find Lewis Black (Jacob's Doctor) in Jacob's Ladder","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was driving me crazy. I knew Lewis Black was in Jacob's Ladder, and I knew he played Jacob's doctor. After lots of searching, I finally found the right scene (possible spoiler) No, he's not the evil doc in the torture chamber (Davidson Thompson), and of course not the chiropractor (Danny Aiello). You can find Lewis' big moment at 4652, as Jacob is chillin' in the tub. (Sorry fans, couldn't resist). Lewis' scene is only from 4652 - 4657, and other than expressing a kindly doctor demeanor to poor Jacob, we only see his hand and pants leg after that. His line is, You're a lucky guy, Jake. You must have friends in high places. If you blink, you'll miss it, so I hope you find the timings helpful. "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is without a doupt, my favourite film of all time.Jacob's Ladder is a film about War, Peace, Life, Death and Insanity which is gritty and surreal, but also uplifting and breath taking. The ending is brilliant, the story is intriguing and the actors are inspiring. Tim Robins is Perfect as Jacob Singer, a man struggling to keep a hold his sanity in a world that is falling apart around him.Everything about this film is great, even the uncredited Macally Colclan, who plays Jacob's son 'Gabreal' is fantastic. This Heartwarming film is so good I recommend it to anyone I met. Watch it, and observe a brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Entering the 90s with a Bang!","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This avant-garde adventure is a mind trip that Adrian Lyne created effectively with the underlying strong and peculiar screenplay. Tim Robbins and Elizabeth Peña act very well and change the viewer's perspective constantly with their shifting demeanors. Lyne's directing is crucial in being able to be disjointed while being somewhat coherent and captivating. There are frequent frightening elements mixed with paranoia, confusion and ordinary day-to-day life. The film has a societal message as well as a more personal one. The layers of complexities are not daunting, but are woven in such a way that the viewer is well engrossed into the narrative, empathize, feel and think.An innovative film with lasting effect, this can be characterized as a tuned down version of Cronenberg's Naked Lunch (1991) and a precursor to many other noteworthy films such as Dark City (1998) & Abre Los Ojos (1997) / Vanila Sky (2001) "},{"Title":"Think hard about this one","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm not going to go over and over what everyone else had said here. The only thing I have to add about Jacob's Ladder is this How often do you watch a film and get to the final scene, and say to yourself My God...is that what was really going on here.... You then feel absolutely compelled to re-watch the entire film, to re-evaluate its entire substance and comprehend the imagery and symbolism that you are now acutely aware that you missed in your first viewing.How often does that happen to you?I really didn't want to say more than the above text, but IMDb requires more comments so here goes. Some of my favorite scenes are - Jake's first train ride (incredible symbolism); the scene where Jezebel has a dance with an unexpected dance partner (so full of Old Testament imagery); any scene with Danny Aiello (why didn't he get an Academy Award nomination?); the final scene (re-wind and watch again!) "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece.","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is IMO a masterpiece in every respect. For me a masterpiece is every piece of art that works in multiple semantic, aesthetic and emotional levels simultaneously, achieving maximum artistic value in all of them. Some say the story is convoluted and often incomprehensible. That's greatly exaggerated. Apart from some flashbacks (jumping back and forth in time) the story is pretty straightforward and comprehensive. This film embraces so many important or profound aspects of the human life and experience Life, death, war, love, family, religion, consciousness and altered states of, mental illness, human rights, government authority and so on. Everyone should watch this movie. Underrated as hell! "},{"Title":"What is real? I am real","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Recently I watched it again. I am so eager to say something about it, anything - but what can I say? The first time when I have seen it there were of course the shock, the surprise, the tension and the awe. Now I was able to study more detached the masterly concept, construction and atmosphere of Jacob's Ladder. Still I don't know what to say and how to put it! OK, let me appear dumb here and just rave about a tremendous film revealing the reality behind reality, about the simple things that appear to be in fact essential things, about the madness and the sheer egotism in war, about dignity and the lack of it, about Louis the overweight angel and about mind creating its own hell and paradise...Everyone should watch this film once. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is by far one of the best films I have ever seen. I have seen it several times in my life, and have known how the ending goes, but every time I watch it the ending just ends up being such an emotional experience for me. Makes you really think about life and death. The visuals are stunning, and this has some of the most unique camera angles i've ever seen.it's a different movie. a mind trip that's for sure.so, if you're into movies that mess with your mind, and have a twist that shocks you at the end. then i suggest you check Jacob's Ladder out. it's worth it. "},{"Title":"After being wounded in Vietnam and repatriated to the US a vet's life seems to unravel as he heads deeper in what appears to be insanity.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a movie that you really have to pay attention to and even then you won't understand what it's all been about until the last couple of minutes. But those last couple of minutes are worth waiting for, so don't leave the room!Tim Robbins (Shawshank Redemption) is wounded in Vietnam in a firefight but with peculiar circumstances. He is evacuated and next we see him working as a postal worker in the US. He's living with a Hispanic co-worker and there is talk between them about his ex-wife. After quite a while in the movie with his co-worker he wakes up one morning with his ex-wife and tells her how he had this strange dream that he was living with his co-worker. This is the first what the hell just happened moment and it gets weirder from then on. Evil things start to happen to him as he journeys in and out of spooky situations on what seems like the road to hell. At different times different groups seem bent on doing him in. His saviour on several occasions turns out to be his chiropractor. (I told you it was weird).Can't really divulge anymore without giving it away. But this has remained one of my favourite movies since it was first released and deserves much better acclaim than it has received. It's a thinking man/woman's horror movie. "},{"Title":"The less you know about this one going in, the better","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Possibly no other mainstream produced film of the 90s can be described as being as much of a head trip as this one. This was really unexpected from director Adrian Lyne, best known for erotically charged yet dull and safe fare such as Fatal Attraction and Flashdance. What wasn't unexpected is that hardly anyone saw this upon initial release. Thats a shame as its really an impressive, horrifying, and overall depressing experience thats almost a masterpiece. No other film manages to blend reality with a character's hallucinations to the point you can differentiate them so well. Jacob's Ladder is a film quite unlike any other.The acting all across the board is quite good. Tim Robbins is a rather one-note actor but when hes good, hes really good. Even some of the supporting actors whom I'm usually unable to take seriously (Jason Alexander and Macaulay Culkin) do good jobs. The true stars however are Bruce Joel Rubin's intricate screenplay that lends the film to multiple viewings and Lyne's stylish and atmospheric direction. Just to give you a heads up, the less you know about this one going in, the better. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Young soldier dies in Vietnam combat.  In his dying moments imagines his life as it might have been, interspersed with moments of realization of the horror of his situation.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't say I enjoyed this movie; it was far to disturbing, especially at my age when I'm looking into my grave. But I do wonder about the comments other viewers have made, as if the more clear cut scenes portrayed a real life, rather than the flashbacks and flash forwards of the dying brain. Whatever the writer and director intended, it was a very well done and engrossing work. The line between real life and horror is very fine.Join the Howard Beale Memorial Society. Get Mad. Fight Back. Get Even. Turn the Rascals Out, and the sooner the better! Save America!! A tribute to Paddy Cheyefsky and a wake up call for America.Lew Warden "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the best movies seen, in part due to the barrage of twists and turns throughout the plot. Another factor is this movie is the type of movie that makes one think. What is particularly interesting about the idea of experimentation brought up in the film, is that I have actually learned a lot about the government experimenting on people in the past as part of my education of ethics in experimentation with people. To my shock and horror the government really has done very unethical experimentation on unwilling and unknowing candidates (such as the Tuskegee experiments). One might want to consider exploring the questions raised by this film. Perhaps in raising such questions we can learn something of value. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What's so great about this film is that it is very circular. Did the vets go through the drug-induced nightmare or didn't they? The film takes us to the modern life of a man who sees demons everywhere he looks. Paranoia and hallucination seem to be following him. When he meets with some of his old war buddies, he realizes the paranoia is not specific to him. What caused it? In the film, we at first learn that a drug that turns soldiers into ruthless killers was given to the soldiers to make them destroy their enemies. It all seems to fit until the last frame (making this a film which needs to be watched until the end). It ends up leaving us with more questions than it answers, however, it is clear that the film has something to tell us about morals in wartime.ZooTrouble "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the most atmospheric, truly chilling films of the 90's. It doesn't need to try and prove itself with slasher scenes and the like, and it is a worthy equal to the excellent Don't Look Now made in 1973. Tim Robbins is another Hollywood actor who chooses his roles very carefully and refuses to toe the line, keep the status quo, do a film for the sake of a box office hit, however you choose to express it and it has paid off. This film also sensitively portrays how a parent copes with the loss of a child, and the final scene is very moving even to me as a non parent. I keep waiting for something to equal or surpass it and as yet nothing has. "},{"Title":"Coqui","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder remains one of my all time favorites, despite being at times, confusing, disturbing and horrific. This is why we watch movies, right? Regarding the filming in Puerto Rico, as anyone knows who has visited that beautiful island, when the sun sets, the coquis start singing. This is the Caribbean Tree Frog and the scene early in the film when Jake is laying wounded in the jungle, was a dead giveaway as to the location of the shoot. I didn't need to see that credits to know where it took place. The gurney scene remains among the five most terrifying sequences that I have ever viewed. "}{"Title":"the ladder is terrifying","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs ladder is a very terrifying film about a postal worker Jacob singer who is haunted by visions of demons and bizarre situations.i want to review Jacobs ladder without giving the plot away,its a great movie but you must see it for the first time and really pay attention. i recommend the new DVD with the newly added deleted scenes.its a very moody and downright creepy movie and the cast is outstanding.Tim Robbins plays Jacob singer.also with Elizabeth Pena(la bamba)ving raimes,Macaulay culkin(uncredited)Matt craven,Danny aiello,and Jason Alexander.directed by Adrien lyne(fatal attraction)so watching this not knowing what to expect will be a surprise,its no predictable horror film but a very well made horror drama.the music is especially good. i always remember the soundtracks to movies,sometimes it can be a bad movie but the soundtrack is sometimes good,this movie everything works Jacobs ladder is one of my personal favorites.i was very lucky to find the DVD in a bargain bin at the local wal-mart for $4.88.none of the newer movies can match the suspense of Jacobs ladder,the ladder is terrifying,graphic and nightmarish.i recommend it very highly.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"2006 and I still think its a great film","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I agree with c_t from Canada. I watched this film when I was about 17 when it came out, I didn't really grasp the full meaning of the tale then. Since then I have seen it a few times since. I understand the plot a lot more, and I still love the film. I don't go for gore, or psychological horror (thriller), prefering something more supernatural. This film actually does the psychological horror with hints of the supernatural, in my opinion, very well. Its also cleverly thought out and brilliantly acted. I'm surprised not more people remember it, I thought it was destined to be a classic and I still (2006) recommend it to those I know, who haven't seen it. It creates an emotional empathy with Jacob as he experiences his pain, confusion, demons,flashbacks, and an good deal of suffering, that is rare in such a film (the empathy is the rare bit). Not sure if it really fits into a typical genre, although is better for it. "},{"Title":"Underrated!","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A captivating movie. That's for sure! This is a low-budget movie that managed something no other war movie ever has. You might argue it's different; I say, it's better! The movie follows a tormented soul (Tim Robbins) that's been apparently heavily affected by the Vietnam war. The directing is so good, you can't tell whether the scenes are flashbacks, dreams, nightmares or present. The imagery is especially staggering. The rumor on which the movie is based might not have any documented evidence, but I believe it couldn't have been presented in a more poignant fashion while keeping some balance. If, in the 1940's, I told that the U.S. government had 1000's of people working on a weapon that's supposed to be million-folds more destructive than any other bomb of the time, how many would have called me a conspiracy theorist? The unexpected ending adds up nicely to the other elements to make this one a true classic. "},{"Title":"confused?","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It seems a lot of people have trouble with the drugs / conspiracy part of the narrative and how that fits with the central theme of Jacob escaping purgatory, some suggest it's a loose-end that is never tied up and should have been elbowed from the film and even that it's irrelevant. It's absolutely vital! On one level it's a classic slight of hand and in my opinion works very elegantly. It's ultimately not important what happened in Vietnam, who made the drug or what it was. It provides a rational explanation for his nightmarish experiences in his post-war 'life' - he can explain his nightmares and visions as a hangover from the drug experiment. It does exactly what its supposed to, you are supposed to see things through Jacobs eyes and miss all the obvious signs as to what is really happening. In storytelling terms Jacob needs a reason to ignore or misread the signs and the hallucinatory aspect of the back-story provides a perfect cover. It also provides an engaging narrative for his post-war 'life' - a reason to search for answers. Without this aspect of the story we'd be left with a post-war vet having nightmares - just like all the rest - it would be too easy for him to simply accept this as a the norm, and without his questioning the journey of discovery ceases to exist. "},{"Title":"Enchanting!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this film for the third time last night and realized that with each viewing it gets better.I love the way it's supposed to be hallucinatory, but yet most of the film consists of very 'real' scenes - e.g. Jez (in the kitchen) 'I bought you apple juice, it's in the fridge' Jacob (in the bathroom) under his breath '..not red cheek' Jez 'It's red cheek!'. The every-day-life quality of the script along with the naturalness of the characters makes the creepy scenes very unnerving. It also makes it all the more heart breaking watching Jacob being wrenched away from this normality by his demons.This was one of the first 'twisted reality' films made in the 90's and has possibly had influence on films such as 12 Monkeys and Donnie Darko. If you like these films, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"Jacobs Ladder is one of the Best Horror Movies of the 90s.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs Ladder is one of my newest favorite films. Iremember hearing about it on several occasions and when u saw it at a video store for cheap, i had to grab it. The only this movie i didn't like was the fact i didn't see it sooner. The way it was filmed and directed makes you feel as if you are Jacob, through the movie you're just as confused and scared. The acting in this film was amazing, the effects were stunning, and you walked away in a state of awe. I recommend Jacobs Ladder to those of us who enjoy a horror movie not just for the gore or the killer, but for the overall under the skin feeling and for the effect it will give you even when the movie is long past over. "},{"Title":"Anybondy know anything about the program in the movie?","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am doing research for a civil action. Any information would be appreciated. Though it was a great movie.The Advanced Media Group and Global Entertainment Group was Founded in 1987 by Stan Caterbone. Global Entertainment Group, Ltd., and Tony Bongiovi's Power Station Studios of New York , joined forces to produce the first digital movie and other related technologies for the film and entertainment industries. Later, In 1989, Advanced Media Group was founded to develop and market information technologies with American Helix, focusing on optical publishing with CD ROM technologies. Located in Lancaster Pennsylvania, Advanced Media Group has performed services and or developed technologies for the following enterprises Department of Defense DARPA and the Defense Mapping Agency (DMA), NASA, Amp Incorporated, Exxon, R.R. Donnelly GeoSystems , Microsoft, American Bankers Association, Apple Computer, Texas Instruments, Compaq, National Institute of Standards and Technology or NIST, The Pentagon, and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Commodore Computers. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This wasn't an amazing movie and i fond it to be bit weird at times, but with that said I really really really liked the ending of this cool, freaky,strange,movie. But what i don't get are all the people who say thats a stupid ending,or whats going on?I'm 13, i got this movie and the ending as well. Tim Robbins is good in this movie, and Louis, the chiropractor, but what struck me the most about this movie are all the weird flash backs and the Demonds that Jacob encounters, I was a-bit shocked by the great ending of this film, it tops of a really good film that keeps us guessing until the end. Truly a good old mysterious movie. "},{"Title":"to anyone who gave this film a negative rating","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" after ploughing through twenty pages of positive reviews for this, i eventually found what i was looking for, the negative ones. upon reading them, it seems that the people who gave this film a bad rating have no ability to interpret the films meaning. they probably wanted to see another scream or i know what you did last summer because everything is explained for them there.as for people saying the ending was rushed or poorly structured or badly directed, you have to remember that the ending was written like that for a reason. adrian lyne did his very best with it and i think he did a good job. just because you don't understand why a film would have such a finish doesn't mean it's bad, it just means you don't get it. try reading some fiction, that should help develop a bit of imagination in you people. "},{"Title":"Very creepy, very convoluted....","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" JACOB'S LADDER is an exceptionally creepy film, very adept at conveying a pervasive sense of impending doom. Credit the film editor with effective segues from one 'reality' to the next as this film bounces between four alternate worlds. There is Jacob pre-Nam with wife and kids, Jacob in Nam, Jacob post-Nam with Jezebel, and the hallucinatory trips occurring in the post-Nam world. This film succeeded for me when it was unclear which of these worlds were real and which were fabricated (if any). With the boundaries of existence blurred, there is ample room for the viewer to make his own conclusions as to what is really happening to Jacob. The camera work and clever direction by Adrian Lyne combine with these story elements to form a very disturbing picture.Unfortunately, this film becomes too convoluted as it tries to identify and define everything that is going on in the story (ie the mind of Jacob). The last 20 minutes or so of this feature defeated what I was enjoying for the first two hours. A film is a collaboration of talent, each person with their own vision, hoping to streamline it all into a watchable whole. Sometimes there are too many voices. Watching the special features on the DVD, it is clear that some of the flourishes that Mr. Lyne brought to the table were essential (much of the hellish hospital sequence is of his vision), but I feel that too much was said, and it detracts from that whole.One undeniable virtue of this film is that it was ahead of its time in horror technique. Lyne does retain some of the creepy landscape and ominous shadow staples of horror films, but the frenetic, jumpy camera work is the real backbone of the movie. The head moving faster than the camera scenes were terrifying, apropos considering Jacob's own head seems to be moving faster than life. Nearly two decades later I see much of these stylistic elements emulated consistently. It was Lyne's idea that by hinting at the monsters in the shadows, without clearly showing them, would prove more effective because the viewer's imagination could then provide an image of whatever scares them individually. Bravo, Mr. Lyne. Score one for the lost art of subtlety. If only he could have held the same reserve when stumbling through the denouement.The characterization of the supporting cast is lackluster, with the exception of Danny Aiello's sensational turn as Louis, the 'Oracle' of this film. Were it not for the superb acting of Tim Robbins, I feel this film would have fallen flat as one full of style but short on substance. It is Robbins' acting that grips the viewer, keeping us rapt for two hours, trying to sift through the pieces of a ruined mind to find the truth among the rubble.Most horror films have hardly any plot at all, and succeed brilliantly in spite of this because they are fun, mindless entertainment. JACOB'S LADDER condescends to be intellectually complete, so it is graded on a tougher scale than other genre efforts. Lyne should have taken the same approach to plot as he did toward visual scares and let the viewer fill in the blanks. Things are scarier that way.7/10* Recommended. Not perfect, but very good. Great look, Robbins excels. "}{"Title":"A slow climb up a dark ladder","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thought that this movie was excellent. It had terrific acting, plot line and music. I loved this movie because it really gets into your mind and plays around with you. This is the type of movie where you have to sit and watch it and you cannot just get up once in a while to get a snack because you will most certainly miss something.It is about a war veteran named Jacob Singer who is having flashbacks about the war and about his deceased son. The movie goes back and forth between flashbacks, dreams and reality and takes the viewer through many rungs of thrilling action.This movie is a little slow but it is a great movie and has risen to the top of my ladder. "},{"Title":"If you think this is a horror movie you are mistaken.....","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is much deeper. If all you see is a troubled Vietnam vet and scary demons when you watch this movie you missed it. You must look past the visuals, which are well done. This is a movie about what poisons life, what ties us to this world. You need to discover what and who the real demons are. There are hints through out the movie. Pay strict attention to the chiropractor. After you see the ending your first instinct will be confusion, mostly because of how we, as normal people process information on a linear time scale. The lesson of this movie is huge, and painful if you get it. This movie can be a very helpful guide to learning how to let go... "},{"Title":"Very disturbing film but a good one indeed","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's ladder was one disturbing film. It stars Tim Robbins as Jacob Singer, and Robbins is perfect for the role. He was vulnerable and sad, and gave us a strong character we could sympathize with. If anybody could not feel sympathy for him, then there is definitely something wrong with you. Now on with the story.Jacob Singer, after returning from Vietnam where he was stabbed, begins to have hallucinations and very disturbing dreams involving his life before Vietnam and his life after. Not only that but he sees strange creatures which seem to be following him around and also at times seem to become one with the people he knows. Believing that chemical warfare in Vietnam has caused this, he goes about trying to find out what it was, and we as the viewers begin to wonder if this is just a man going slowly insane or is there some truth to what he believes.Long before M. Night Shylaman there was this gem of a picture which follows many of the same principles of Shylaman's work. Jacob's Ladder offers up a twist ending also, and it was one of the most haunting conclusions to a film ever. Once you see it you will know why. Jacob's Ladder loses some points though because it did move slowly at times, and was confusing at other times, but if you watch it through to the very end that confusion will fade and you will walk out of the theater still feeling strongly affected by what happened. I can say no more except to say that the music used at the conclusion was just about perfect. "},{"Title":"branches","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs ladder inspired many trilogy's for the silent hill series. It was said by Konami that it was one of the movies that inspired them to make the Silent Hill franchise. It can be safe to assume that Jacob's Ladder was one of the mostly inspired by works. Konami perhaps acknowledges this by adding references to the film in the Silent Hill games. There aren't too many references in Silent Hill 2, however, there are many in Silenteferring to Tim Robbins, the main character of the movie, Jacob Singer. Hill 3. Below are some references from Silent Hill 2.Lyne House Key -------------- Key named after the director of Jacob's Ladder, Adrian Lyne. Perhaps another reference may be the Dear Tim memo. Referring to Tim Robbins, the main character of the movie, Jacob Singer. Normal to Nightmare Hospital Transition --------------------------------------- After you beat the Hangers boss you will witness James being transferred to outside, as the hospital has turned into a nightmarish delusion. You can see the roof, which looks like grating, like in the insane asylum scene where Jacob is being wheeled on the gurney. Above him he sees similar grating and some strange people/things. For James, one can say he's also being wheeled on a gurney and similar sounds are heard.Monster Framing --------------- The monsters in frames, or cages, if you will, are another reference to the movie. More specifically, the scene where Jacob is being lifted up to the helicopter in the cage-type stretcher. The cage monsters in this game include the Hangers (boss), the Mary/Maria Demon, and the hanging corpses in Pyramid Head's Labyrinth Lair.head Twitching -------------- The twitching heads of the Patient Demon and the final boss, the Mary/Maria Demon is probably a reference to the movie, as this can be seen in certain Jacob's Ladder scenes. But it is altered a bit in this game.Silent hill is as jacobs ladder, needs a deep dept of understandment Since you can say, Silent hill series or Movie is the spin off for Jacob's ladder. "},{"Title":"It gets under your skin","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is a hallucinogenic piece that starts with a soldier in the Vietnam War who's been badly wounded. It has some elements of classic horror but could be described better as a psychological thriller, where the director achieves the effect on the audience of putting them in the shoes of the protagonist through effective imagery, camera angles and an excellent script and acting. Tim Robbins, as usual, makes his character quite lovable and is backed by stellar performances from the entire supporting cast to makes this a movie that is difficult to forget and will capture your full attention for the entire 90 minutes. I'd highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes to be made to think outside the box a bit, and also to horror movie fans like me because it has some disturbing and, at times, gory images. "},{"Title":"A very powerful and underrated film","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob Singer is a war veteran whose life seems somewhat strange after his spell in Vietnam.Hallucinations interfere with his life as he tries to figure out how to step out of the realm of abnormality he's been submerged into.The death of his son is something which comes back to haunt him, further escalating his trip into madness beyond uncontrollable.With brilliant acting from Tim Robbens, Jacob's Ladder takes the viewer on an unforgettable journey through emotion and torment that accumulates in this great film.Powerful and underrated, I give this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Oh, Misery - Trapped Between Heaven and Hell","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Those who are dismissive of this film usually describe it as an extended Twilight Zone episode - in itself not a bad criticism anyway. Oddly enough, it most resembles An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, a portion of a French film from '62 which was slotted into the Twilight Zone series for one night. Another episode it resembles is Shadowplay - which examined what little difference there may be between dreams and so-called reality. The point is, when we dream, we usually accept it as reality while dreaming, until we wake up. Here, the main character of Jacob (Robbins) seems to gradually find himself in the middle of a nightmare from which there is no escape. The film captures the dreamlike quality usually evoked in the better films - films are our dreams in a general sense regardless - and here it's done with purpose, seasoned with a nightmarish tinge. A viewer will note this quality very early, as in the subway sequence where Jacob can't seem to step out of the way of an oncoming train. It calls to mind those disturbing dreams where we're running or evading and can't escape no matter what we do.The film accomplishes what it sets out to do by bombarding the audience with tactile sensory impressions (especially effective on a huge movie screen) and an unwavering mood of escalating dread, doom and despair. Also quite effective is the remarkable musical score by Jarre, whether accentuating a sense of melancholy or the sinister design threading through the story. With its unique style, one would think this is a film of the seventies - edgy, unbalancing, discomforting, layered, stressing Vietnam horrors - and, indeed, it was first conceptualized in that decade; it just didn't make it to the screen until over 10 years later. There's a slow deliberate pace which those accustomed to the quick cutting of the nineties onward may find difficult to appreciate. I also believe that the premise of the story can be applied to the various viewers of the film if you're completely at peace with yourself and the world, with no serious problems troubling your mind, you may gaze at this film bemused, holding it at arm's length. However, if you're grappling with personal demons and unanswered questions, this film may cause more questions to surface 'Are you really where you are, in that house or apartment, and doing the work you do? Or are you...really...somewhere else?' "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Well-Written","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Warning - Major SpoilersLet me start by saying that I had to watch this movie four (4) times before I truly understood it. For some people, a movie this complicated can be horrible, for others, a wonderful experience.The movie starts with Jacob in Vietnam. He experiences a horrible fight one evening that we later learn was between the members of his squad. He manages to live through the battle and returns home. Back in the United States, Jacob returns to a normal life . . . for a little while. Then the demons start to appear, seemingly stocking him. He looks for solutions in various doctors and psychiatrists getting the whole ball rolling.At first glance, the events play out like a Vietnam vet experiencing some flashbacks and post-war stress. There are a few important keys to keep in mind though1. Jacob is always going to the chiropractor for a stiff back. The chiropractor tells him that he should probably be stiff since he's dead.2. There are parts of his memory that are missing.3. Absolutely the most important part of the film is the very last scene where Jacob is being lifted into a helicopter and the medics are saying they are losing him.This all roles into one marvelous twist - Jacob actually died in Vietnam and the entire movie was a hallucination brought on by The Ladder. An absolutely genius bit of story telling and a must see for the serious viewer. "},{"Title":"A Profound and Riveting Film","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) is an American soldier serving in Vietnam in the late 60's. He and his comrades are relaxing in a clearing in the bush when they suddenly begin to feel terribly ill, some of them vomiting and undergoing frightening convulsions. There's a report of movement in the bush, gunfire erupts, mortar shells explode all around, and the soldiers respond with frenzied violence culminating in Singer being bayoneted in the stomach by an unseen enemy and later taken aboard a helicopter for medical evacuation.In the next scene, Singer awakens from a nap on a deserted New York City subway car hurtling along the tracks. He doesn't know if he's passed his stop. He walks into the next car and asks a woman where they are. She just stares at him creepily. As the subway comes to a stop, he looks down and sees a disheveled figure lying across some seats by the exit, and there appears to be a squirming, snakelike creature protruding from his body. Singer hastily exits the subway car to find himself locked underground with no one else around. There appears to be an unlocked exit on the other side of the tracks, but as he makes his way across the tracks, he has to dodge a train that comes racing out of nowhere, and as the train flies away from him, he sees grotesque faces staring out at him from the windows.Singer goes home to his girlfriend Jezebel (Elizabeth Pena) and tries to carry on his life as usual. He's an underachieving postal worker with a PhD living in a grimy New York apartment. But he's plagued by more and more demon-like figures and frightening experiences and learns that others who served with him in Vietnam and were with him on that fateful day in the bush are having similar experiences and dying one-by-one in mysterious ways. He goes to sleep and wakes up to find himself in bed with his former wife (Patricia Kalember) in their old apartment, and one of his young sons (Macaulay Culkin), who was fatally injured by a car years ago, walks into the room complaining that he can't sleep. Jacob tucks him into bed, bids goodnight to his other two children, and the next thing he knows, he's back with Jezebel. He becomes increasingly disoriented and frightened by his nightmarish experiences and desperately seeks answers to what's happening to him. A former Army chemist seems to have part of the answer, but his chiropractor friend Louis (Danny Aiello) may have a much bigger part of it when he quotes the great Christian mystic Meister Eckhart The only thing that burns in hell is the part of you that won't let go of your life your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away, but they're not punishing you, they're freeing your soul. Jacob's Ladder was released in 1990. Its director was Adrian Lyne, who adapted it from a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin. A number of prominent reviewers panned the film as a pretentious exercise in heavy-handed symbolism and incoherent obscurity, but I don't understand how they could have been addressing the same film I saw. I found Jacob's Ladder to be a remarkable meditation on life and death and an extraordinarily compelling piece of film-making. If I had a top ten list of my all-time favorite films, Jacob's Ladder would definitely be on it. I give it an exceedingly rare A+ If you see this film on DVD, I strongly recommend that you get the Special Edition version with a Special Features documentary on the making and meaning of the film. It features illuminating commentary by director Adrian Lyne and screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin. "},{"Title":"slight spoilers early and often..read carefully","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Good film that was unfortunately spoiled by M. Night Shamalayn. The sixth sense truly spoiled the surprise ending of the film. but still the picture managed to shine through and show its excellent qualities.****SPOILERS OVER****Superb acting from Robbins makes the film, and it even manages to overpower Elizabeth Pena's at times amateurish acting. Pace remains fairly swift through the film. Good storyline that screws with your head and has you consistently questioning what is happening. I highly recommend this film to any fans of the psychological thriller.****MORE SLIGHT SPOILERS****One deleted scene that is truly important is the transformation of Elizabeth Pena's character...the inclusion of this scene would have dispelled much of the confusion about this movie "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is truly well done! I saw it for the first time the other night and need to watch it again. Some of the images are just very disturbing...amazing it's from 1990 and I can list a ton of recent movies that try and do some of the tricks this movie did...no where near as good as Jacob's Ladder. The entire movie has this foreboding feel, this heavy pressure because the viewer doesn't really know what will happen next. From the first real disturbing image near the beginning to the car scene (those of you who have seen this movie know what I'm talking about)...truly horrifying.DEFINITELY worth checking out! "},{"Title":"a Truly Great movie","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of my all time great films. It is so good on so many different levels.It casts an atmosphere that is both mysterious and compelling, and can be interpreted in a number of different ways. Unlike so many movies in recent years, it is not the sort of film that one can watch with half an eye. It commands your full attention at all times. The casting is excellent,as is the direction and editing. A rewarding experience that I would recommend to anyone. It will leave you thinking about it long after the credits have rolled. If you haven't seen this on the big screen; get down to the video shop ASAP. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A truly under rated masterpiece","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I first saw this film I didn't fully get it partly because it took me a bit by surprise, I had never heard any hype about it, even though it definitely deserves to be hyped. Some would say the story line does not fully make sense but they would be the people who lack a sense adventure and imagination when it comes to their choice of film. If your after a film that you can get something new from every time you watch it then watch this. The film has lots of deep spiritual meaning and parallels that should keep you thinking a long time after the genius-of-an-ending and is ultimately about finding an inner peace. Although this is a very dark journey it is also up lifting and inspiring......carpe diem. "},{"Title":"When Jacob begins to question his time in Vietnam, his world begins to collapse around him","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This deceptively dark film hides an underlying message of hope and reconciliation in the face of death. Jacob's (Tim Robbins) life and sanity start to collapse as he begins to investigate the possibility that he and his friends were drugged by their own government while in Vietnam. Events around Jacob become stranger and stranger, as he is pursued by demon like figures, witnesses those that he loves appear suddenly ugly and deformed and experiences suspiciously lucid flashbacks to Vietnam. At it's heart this is a deeply symbolic film of a man learning to cope with the reality of death and not only bears a second watch but practically demands it, as I guarantee you will notice new things and understand the film that bit better. In my humble opinion this was one of the best films of the nineties.  "},{"Title":"Unreal Reality","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Compelling stuff. Tim Robbins as a Vietnam veteran who is experiencing some rather strange goings on. Well, that's an understatement actually. His life is in constant danger and is not helped by flashbacks to the war and a marriage during which a son died. Is it the extremely spooky people with no faces trying to kill him or is the US Government involved ?The film dispenses such an aura of claustrophobia that the viewer is in danger of becoming as haunted as Robbins. As the movie progresses and his experiences become more and more surreal you are half expecting no satisfactory conclusion to the story. Far from it - the finale makes you play the whole movie through your mind again and it's then you realize you've just witnessed a terrific film.  "},{"Title":"Just surprising","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on TV many years ago and I was then expecting a silly movie on a post-office employee who sorrows about war traumas but as the time was going by and the actions in the film were evolving to what they finally came to be, the film drew totally my attention. A good director should be able to drive spectators through all kinds of emotions that is an achievement of this Adrian Lyne's movie. Jacob's Ladder can have the spectator pass from total indifference through fear, expectation up to an understandable sorrow (so it accomplishes which is related to the basics of Greek drama). Alejandro Amenabar's The Others makes it the same, therefore Jacob's Ladder is considered one of its main influences and should be better known and voted. "},{"Title":"What a masterpiece","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is truly the most horrifying film of all time.I've read so many reviews about this film and most of the reviewers who have slated the film have no idea what they are on about.Each time i've see the film i notice something new in the storyline and eachtime it gets scarier.The way the film is shot in constantly gloomy lighting till the end was fantastic..the ending was superb seeing Jacob go up to heaven with his son sitting on the stairs waiting to collect him and the sunlight breaking thru the window.The thing that makes this film horrifying is the battle between heaven and hell..(which way will it go)or is he already in hell until he dies?...It's true you can interpret this film in so many ways and thats the SCARY thing.Danny Aiello's character was superb playing his angel...To be honest all you need to do is hear what Aiello says in the film and thats most of it understood.  "},{"Title":"spoilers","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A film like this is not easy. You have what the director gives you and this is what you must interpet through his imagery. The film has this feeling of unreal parallels. I never felt like I was viewing reality, but what Jacob was seeing. Indeed, the ladder is the drug. The drug was used on soldiers. Whether this occured in Taiwan or Vietnam isn't really the point. The direct actions of the military does effect why Jacob does is killed. The drug does cause the caos that occurs at the beginning. Danny Aiello's Louie is the most important character in the film when it concerns Jacob and the bizarre happenings around him. You see, Jacob is holding on to life and the demons he sees aren't really demons. He is holding on with all he has and these demons actually are angels wanting him to let go. He is dying folks. Everything that occurs after Jacob is gouged by the blade from his own soldier's machine gun(because of the ladder experimental drug everyone loses their concept of reality and simply act on the impulse to kill) is happening in kind of a purgatory cave. So we have the hallucinations of a man hanging on to the thoughts and things that occured during his tenure of life before Vietnam..the people,places, and happenings all seem so real..but are simply memories and/or semi realities. Well, I may confuse more now than you were after your viewing. I got it. Jacob was dying. What you saw was what Jacob was holding onto so he wouldn't die. The weird things that occur is essentially life being stripped away. *****/***** "},{"Title":"THAT CREEPY PARTY SCENE....","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The scene in Jacob's Ladder where Tim Robbins' girlfriend invites him to a wild dance party is unlike anything you've seen before (and this was released in 1990!) No CG FX here!     And it starts slowly, beginning with the beautiful black woman's palm reading of Jacob on the stairsteps, with that music blasting in the B.G. You're dead.Then comes the nightmare trill of James Brown's song mixed with the shouts of the dancers, the disco lights, and that demon lurking in the other room that only jacob sees, the one staring right at him.Cut to Jacob's girl dancing with some guy, only the guy dancing with her morphs into this bird-like creature and thus begins one of the most bizarre, beautifilly edited sequences ever shown on film. I'll stop here.If you haven't seen this scary shocker, check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Visual Stories Ever","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The fact that this movie is about the moment of death, and how our struggle to stay alive we might see as demons clawing our life away (death's grip).  Then when looked at from another angle, the devils are only angels, taking our souls to heaven. Of course we don't learn this, in full, until the last visual on screen.   Which only urges you to re-watch it to discover even more.  Mix the story with brillant direction and equally brilliant acting and it makes for one of the greatest visual stories ever told.  "}{"Title":"Very depressing","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is really deep and I got really depressed by it. It's really touching I must say. When I see this, I only go more mad about U.S.A and i feel like I wanted to turn into a hippie and go back to the 60s to show how awful I feel about the war of Vietnam. This film is a truly masterpiece and I think it gives a fair shot of what a tragedy of war can end up like.My tip is to not see this movie while being in a good mood, because it will most likely ruin it.. "},{"Title":"Spiritual Redemption through Dante's Inferno. (Spoilers!)","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob Singer (Dante) makes his journey through Hell as he he journeys through the redemption and nightmare of his days in Vietnam. The Ladder was an experiment that was used on Vietnam soldiers to make them more ferocious and animalistic to kill enemies. Now this drug has destroyed these soldiers mental states as they live post war lives. Beautifully shot Jacob is at a journey through Hell as he eventually is led by his son to Heaven. Throughout the movie Jacob is dying and does not realize this and because he struggles with this and cannot let go he sees demons tearing his life apart. Only when he chooses to let go is when his son leads him to heaven. Rating 10/10. "},{"Title":"Presented for your consideration...","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a wonder, a film that refuses to be a simple straight forward telling of a tale and prefers to remain instead an enigma, a mystery.THIS IS NOT A SPOILER, just an able assist for those who are befuddled by it... Notice if you will that at the very beginning of the film, a place and date appear on the screen. Notice further that you will never see another place or date on the screen throughout the film.A superb exercise in the realm of personal reality, Tim Robbins' performance is outstanding. Not for the weak of heart, disturbing in its depiction of an external reality as experienced by the main character...  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The story is incredible, and Tim Robbins plays one of his best part. Music, story, photography are exceptional. Dream or reality, both are mixed in a subtle game. For me, simply, a big film!!!! It's a must see. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and truly terrifying!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all i gotta say that this movie scared the s***ake out of me! It was really disturbing. Anyways the movie was really good itself The acting was really good expecially Tim Robbins, he was so believable. Elizabeth Peña was good too. And the visual were outstanding! Thats all i can say. The movie was sort of depressing. But overall i enjoyed it. To me this is the second scariest movie (My first one is THE EXORCIST). It had its flaws, but the movie is so well made that you wont even notice. I love every minute of this movie. Is one of my favorite.10/10 for sure "},{"Title":"don't sleep on this movie","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this is one of my favorite contemporary horror movies.  being that there are very few truly original or disturbing horror movies from the 80's - today, this is a rare diamond of a film.Tim Robbins is one of those few rare actors who has an incredible presence on film and absolutely shines in (almost) all of his works.the story is well-written, thought provoking and scary.  it starts with a relatively simple concept that leaves you reeling by the conclusion.  you may have to watch this one a few times to get everything that's going on.not gory but a great psychological film. definite must see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"I'll Tell You Why This Is The Best Horror Movie Ever, and One of the Greatest Films of All Time","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah, I really love this film but it deserves it.  From the big picture, down to the tiniest details that only emerge after an 8th viewing, this film is flawless.Everyone I've ever known (myself included) doesn't ever really understand this movie the first time around, which is to its credit.  (See below for my interpretation.)  But this film is brilliant not because its confusing, but because of its high philosophy, perfectly framed over its wild story.  This is the best movie I have ever seen in terms of capturing a waking dream (or nightmare as it were.)Thought-provoking is an almost demeaning phrase for this movie, as it successfully tackles the big issues of good vs. evil, redemption, and the meaning of life itself.  So far, this film may not sound like a horror movie, but there are plenty of moments that are not only frightening, but so disturbing that they'll haunt you for weeks.  All that on top of great acting, cinematography, and score.  If you care about being an intellectual (and are therefore sickened by so much of the moronic cinema out there,) please watch this movie.  If you don't get it, come back and read the final part of this review.*SPOILER WARNING* If you've seen Jacob's Ladder and you don't quite get it then ... Jacob is dying.  From the first scene in Vietnam to the end, Jacob is suffering from narcotic delusions on top of the flashbacks of his life. The movie covers Jacob's spiritual salvation (or damnation) as he is visited by angels and demons to resolve the major dilemmas of his life (his son's death, his would-be infidelity, etc.)  But in the end, nothing in the movie ever really happens in reality; it's just Jacob's final visions as his soul exits to heaven. This movie IS the tunnel of light at the end.  I told you it was brilliant!  Watch it again, and appreciate the subtle allusions to religion and literature, and background details like random people having tails or horns.  Now that you know what really happens, this movie will show you that much more. "},{"Title":"Find your truth for yourself to let go","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a fascinating movie. Probably this is the only Adrien Line movie not so much about sex (although there is a bit in it), but through a wild exploration of someone who lost control of all his life and really longs to get it back. Jacob Singer is a nice guy. His Vietnam history has not changed that, but is a reason for weird nightmares, that get more an more real until he is no longer able to differ nightmare from reality. And inbetween there is always these flashbacks of the war... This movie is very well cut. The different stories all reveal more and more of the true background and the end is really astonishing and revealing all there is to answer. Tim Robbins does a great job, and not less unforgettable is Danny Aiello as the Chiropractisist. This is a horror movie and it causes weird feelings and fear. Be prepared to see shaking heads everywhere... "},{"Title":"a powerful experience","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What makes Jacob's Ladder (and very few other movies) special is that there are two groups of people reading the reviews of this film. In the first group are those looking for other people&#129;fs opinions in order to make up their minds to whether they should watch it or not (what movie reviews are there for) and in the second group are those looking for answers to what this movie was all about. To those in the first group I will say this is a must see. End of story. Period. The second part of my review is going to address the second group, to say What's my interpretation of the movie.***SPOLERS AHEAD***I won't I could grasp everything in this film. I also had to read a few reviews in order to shape up my understanding. The only real thing in this film was that Jacob died that very day in Vietnam stabbed to death by one of his own. Whether the rest was all a flashback - or a flashforward is somewhat unclear. But what is clear that the rest of it was a creation of his dying brain. It was a sort of journey from hell (the subway) up the ladder to heaven (his dead son). There were people who tried to hold him back like Jezebel and those from the car which were all some sort of demons and there were those who tried to help him like Louis and the chemist. I guess that Jezebel was probably a daydream that he had earlier in his life, before Vietnam when he was happily married, as most of the married men have-you know just something different than you wife (the moment when he was in bed with his wife telling her about the dream about him living with another woman and she told him This is what happens when you cheat on me with another woman in your dreams). And as with dreams and hallucinations there is no clear-cut account of the events that had passed through one&#129;fs mind-just a bunch of unrelated occurrences. One moment you are with your family, the next you are chased by a car or a train (the most common nightmare), then you are with your friends (the others from the platoon) determined to do something and the next moment they call off without clear explanations. It is a dream so there is no clear explanation. But being in all this mess while dreaming, thrown from one place to another, there is always a place where all long to be in order to escape and put an end to these nightmares, a place where we will find our peace. This place is called Home. This is where Jacob wanted to go and this is what he told the cab driver Take me home. Now he was finally in a safe place. He could let it go.  "},{"Title":"An Amazing approach to film making","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was just one of those movies that did something to me. It's whole feel and direction was like nothing I have ever seen or felt before. The complexity of the story was nothing short of a miracle which left you wondering just where you were in every scene only to be enlightened  at the end. This movie must be one of the most under-rated movies of all time, it has everything a great movie needs. This is perhaps the reason why it has been somewhat overlooked since all great movies tend not to be geared to the commercial masses since these people do not understand the issues and thinking put into movies like this. For me this movie tackles life and death, It does it in such a way as to open your mind up to possibilities and does not just spoon feed you with someone else's theory. This movie is a thinking movie don't watch it to relax for a night, because this movie demands your full attention all the time. A true legend of cinema and its movies like this that make the whole thing worth while.  "}{"Title":"Drama and Horror meet in this piece of art...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This review reveals minor details of the plot.I have to confess, this movie is the most disturbing and melodramatic film I have ever had the experience of seeing. It just touches your soul. Jacob Singer amazingly starred by Tim Robbins, is suffering from severe hallucinations, hellish hallucinations, which are seriously disturbing him. The story develops trough this idea, as the visions get worst and worst. Danny Aiello is also great. Elizabeh Peña stars as Jacob´s strange and multi-faced girlfriend. Adrian Lyne´s true masterpiece, Jacob´s Ladder is a film that touches your soul and your mind. It will SURELY mess up with your brain, and you will need to see it more than once to truly understand it. But be warned, it´s not an easy movie to watch. Watch out for the ending... it will surely make you go wild!  "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins should of won the Oscar","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a film. After seeing this movie I looked up all of Adrien Lynne's work and started to rent the films. I loved the Direction, Cinematography, Acting by Robbins, who was just insane, and I mean sick. The whole movie has you going up and down a ladder between 2 worlds and you don't know what to beleive at times. The movie has you guessing throughout every minute and keeps you glued to the tube. What exactly happens when you begin to die? This movie has more disturbing images than the Exorcist and Texas Chainsaw Massacre combined. It sure bugged me out. Watch it! **** 4 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Rating revised yet again...","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There will never be another Hollywood movie made about death again.  At least not like this... not without angels, fruit bowls, and Meg Ryan floating in the sky with Nicolas Cage.Recently, I revised my *second* rating on this film to something very low, due to the ending and the way it skews the plot no matter how it's interpreted.Also recently, I had a death in the family, and watched this introspective, philosophical, brutally honest film again with tears streaming down my face.I can't help but succumb to the blunt atmospherics, the almost-entirely-sincere portrayal of clinging/surrender/ ultimate release, and.... just the fact that it could have ever gotten made.  In early 1990's Hollywood.  As with the film Dead Man Walking, I stand in awe with head bowed.  It's so interesting that Tim Robbins was involved in both of those movies.  And with The Shawshank Redemption too -- the man is a marvel.This isn't a horror film, folks, unless you look upon your own death with horror.  Unless you look upon the death of those you love with horror.  If so, you may not be really living.  Look again. 9/10.  It could have been perfect, if the ending hadn't been *too* ambiguous (doesn't work very well however you take it). "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It has been a long time since I saw this the last time. Yesterday I bought it on dvd, remembering that this is a must own, and definetly a must see, if you are a fan of horror, mystery, fantasy genre. This is the kind of horror film I like the most. The ones that make you think and play over the plot in your mind several times after you´ve seen it. Along with a great story with biblical references, Jacob´s ladder has amazing cinematography, directing, music and last but not least acting. Tim Robbins has been a favourite of mine for a long time. He plays out the frightened, lost man suberbly. The cast is great as a whole. The action scenes in the film, struggles in a fast moving car, sights of demons are uniquelly shot and directed. The movie never loses its grip and keeps you guessing and wondering with amazement what is to happen next. As many of reviewer has already mentioned, this one is highly underrated. The Imbd score should be at least be over 8. My advice - see it, buy it on dvd, you will not regret! "},{"Title":"Excellent storytelling","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film holds you in a state of confused suspense, throwing up questions and teasing you with answers until the revelatory ending. Director Adrian Lyne stimulates the right-brain with abstract images and sounds while providing just enough logic to keep you engaged - you're trying to piece together the jigsaw while wandering what the hell is going on, it's a strangely engrossing experience.It's difficult to talk about this film without spoiling it so I will be vague and say it's essentially about letting go in order to move on. It succeeds by immersing you in the experience of this - by the end you have learnt what it is saying about the human condition through feeling it, not being told it - which is exactly how good storytelling should work. It takes you to some very dark places - I watched it alone at night and was terrified, but it's far from gratuitous, the story depends on it.If done badly this film could have been a real mess, but the quality of direction, acting and all the other components see it through, and it deserves classic status.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant film","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this film a 10 because in my opinion it's pretty much perfect, as a mystery/thriller/philosophy sorta thing.There's just enough information that it's understandable, but little enough to mean that you need to watch it a few times to truly 'get' it... it's very scary but not a horror, which is clever... it works on many levels, as an anti-war film about government testing, a philosophical film about what's real and what isn't, and just as a story about a confused and increasingly horrified man who has no idea what's happening to him.Most the names are symbolic - mostly biblical or paraphrased from Paradise Lost or Dante's Inferno - and if you know their significance it really adds to the message of the film. Great acting, decent special effects (for the time) and some clever settings and camera work too.In all - a very clever film, I think it's one of my favourites. If you haven't seen it - the ending will blow you away. Then watch it again. And again ) "},{"Title":"A classic, ahead of it's time!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say without giving too much away? Jacob's Ladder is by far one of the best and most underrated films ever!Tim Robbins plays war veteran Jacob Singer, who, after he comes back home, has strange, nightmarish visions of Demons and creatures who persuade and follow him. His paranoia tears him into an hurricane of emotions, war, nightmares, monsters, tears, philosophy, shadows and chiropracy.The directing by Adrian Lyne (Lolita, 9 1/2 weeks) is fantastic and show manny things who later turned into stereotypes. The actors are fabuloas too, manny of them had too be discovered after this masterpiece (like Ving Rhames who plays a friend of Jacob Singer).The story is psychologically perfect and there is no one who can sleep well after this brilliant Horror-War-Film haluzination.11 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Real or surreal?","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film cleverly depicts the death throes of US soldier Jacob (Jake) Singer through a series of psychologically traumatic events that touch upon the occult.The film proceeds on three levels. Firstly you have the events that take place in Vietnam, not the bulk of the presentation but the most important (due simply to the sequencing of events). Second, is Singer's life in New York as a postman, where the majority of the action takes place. The third level is that inside Singer's mind, his visions of demons and interaction with his dead son. This formula is quite simple, however it is presented in such a way that the viewer, if not confused, is captivated by intrigue.I would recommend this film to anyone who likes to see films play with time asking the viewer to differentiate between real and surreal. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film.  Questionable ending. *SPOILERS*","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am one of those people who cannot accept the ending of a film/book to be left open to the reader to figure out for themselves.  Therefore I have to assume that the entire movie was in Jacob Singer's mind before he died. It took a couple of viewings for me to fully understand that, but once I did I felt cheated.  It reminded me of that season of Dallas where the entire year turned out to be a dream.I still think the film is done incredibly well and is super creepy.  I think everyone should watch it.  Just the whole aspect of saying the entire film never happened was pretty lame. "},{"Title":"It all falls apart...","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Less than a year ago, I would have given this film 5 stars.  Therefore, it's with great reluctance then that I give it only 3 stars in this review -- let me explain why.** SPOILERS ALERT **Without going into material that's been discussed a thousand times already, there are basically two interpretations of this film that make sense (without stretching things too far).  One possibility (and to me, the most likely) is that Jacob is dying in Vietnam, and his current life in NYC is simply the imaginings of a fevered brain (and his clinging to life), and at the end of the movie he makes his peace and passes away.  This is the Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge theory.  The problem with this interpretation is that it basically leaves the mind altering drug subplot unexplained (how could he know, if he was dying?).  It also fails to explain why he's repeatedly told you're already dead throughout the film (the palm reader, in the hospital, you killed each other stated by the chemist toward the end.The other potential interpretation is that Jacob was dead from the start of the film, and the flashbacks to Vietnam actually are flashbacks, and that Jacob is a ghost in purgatory or something.  This takes care of the subplot involving the drug, but it fails to explain the synchronicities between the vietnam flashbacks and his current experiences.  Worse yet, it destroys the ending of the film -- the light at the top of the staircase fading to the light being turned off at the operating table, and Jacob being declared dead in Vietnam.  If he's a ghost, why does the screenplay try to fool the audience at the very end by suggesting that he was gradually dying throughout the film? In the final analysis, Jacob's Ladder is not open to interpretation at all, as has been stated by many people.  Rather, it's completely closed to interpretation, since choosing either of the two possibilities leaves a large number of plot holes and implausibilities, making the film look ridiculous.In making either interpretation possible, the filmmakers have actually made *neither one* satisfactory or true to the plot (which is much more manipulative than I had previously thought, especially after reading the original screenplay).  With the plot down the tubes, the film has nothing left to ride on except atmosphere, acting, special effects, etc.1/10 for the plot, 4/10 for everything else, 5/10 total.  Too bad, I used to really like this movie. "}{"Title":"Darkness and Symbolism Recipe for Greatness","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You cannot fully grasp this movie without getting to know the story behind the title, linking the whole thing together. In the Bible, Jacob (son of Isaac) had a dream where there was a ladder leading to heaven with angels ascending and descending to heaven and to earth. This is a basis for the theme of the movie. When his chiropractor tells him that his demons may be angels, this is it. Angels are constantly coming to Earth and leaving, therefore fulfilling that symbolism. Another symbolism in his drawer Catcher in the Rye. This is very significant because if you remember Holden Caulfield is trying to hold people back and save them. Think about it, you'll get it. And finally, the one thing i don't get unless its dark for the sake of dark, would be the limbs on the floor of the hospital and the torso of a man with a black head shaking. All in all a great movie, a bit of a disappointing ending, but a clear definition between the multiple realities in the movie. Tim Robbins' best work that I've seen. "},{"Title":"Fantastically disturbing and scary cult film","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There's no doubt that Jacob's Ladder has provided the inspiration for several films and music videos with its dark and extremely horrifying images of the rising paranoid insanity that appear in hallucinatory flashbacks at first.As the story progresses the line between what is real and what is not become blurred both for the lead protagonist and the audience in such a way that you cannot escape questioning yourself during and after the movie. Questions about the plot and questions about life and the choices we make.Since all special effects were done live and not in post-production it contains believable disturbing and bizarre images which most CGI created effects cannot match.Straight to my top 10 when I saw it one late night on television, went out and bought it for my collection. "},{"Title":"It's not good, it's a classic movie.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film takes place within the dying mind of a soldier in Vietnam. Jacob believes the war is far behind him and that he is living his life with his wife and a job as a postman. A life that is torn apart by strange creatures that his chiropractor tells him are demons or angels depending on ones point of view.Not a horror movie in the strict sense of the word, but Jacobs Ladder has an atmosphere of disturbing creepiness. As in any good H.P Lovecraft story you don't get a good look at the nightmare creatures, which makes them more scary than not. The film utilizes much more realistic fears as well as the demons, such as the surreal psychiatric institute sequence, and conspiracy theory paranoia, etc. The concept of the other-worldly creatures being demons or angels is similar to Hellraiser, where the cenobites are either, depending on how you look at them. Unlike that movie Jacobs Ladder doesn't feel like a fairy story. It feels like a freezing blast of wind from the depths of death itself as Jacob's soul is burned away.Everything is right in this movie. The direction, acting and dialogue are flawless. The plot is intricate and complex but unfolds logically at a natural pace. The photography is atmospheric and good to look at, and the special effects are understated and yet really make the impact they are supposed to.This film isn't just good, it is a classic - a movie of movies standing high above the usual junk we get to see. Intelligent, thought provoking, and yet slick and entertaining just like a really good movie should be.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film that's very underrated","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay this is weird. A few nights ago I rented a random indie flick called The Tunnel, and it was all about dying and time. Then last night I was over at my friend's house, and he had just bought Jacob's Ladder on dvd. We watched it, and I remember how much I love this movie. What's weird is that The Tunnel and Jacob's Ladder both go together real good. If you liked Donnie Darko, you should view Jacob's Ladder for the fact that it tread that ground before. Heck all three of those movies are alike, and yet they have different styles. What makes Jacob's Ladder so great though is Bruce Joel Rubin's script. The film is one of a kind. Get these movies! Jacob's Ladder is not the greatest movie ever, but it's real underrated. If you like dark films or intelligent horror, you owe it to yourself to see it once at least. Then afterwards go find these other lesser movies like The Tunnel, Donnie Darko, and even The Sixth Sense. They're all good films, but Jacob's Ladder kind of started it all. IMHO. "},{"Title":"Amazing film that is much more than what meets the eye","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Jacob's Ladder as a young man when it first opened in 1990.  I remember liking it and being very intrigued by the film.  I couldn't exactly say why I liked it at the time; there was just something about it.  I have since seen the film numerous times and it has become one of my favorite films of all time.There are two reasons why I think this has happened.  The first reason is because the film itself deserves multiple viewings.  There is too much to take in with just one viewing.  I have noticed something different each time I have watched the film.  The film also speaks to the viewer on multiple levels.  The film can be seen as a psychological thriller, a conspiracy film and a spiritual odyssey all wrapped into one.  Many people have made the comment that this is one of the greatest horror films of all time but I actually don't see the film as a horror film at all.  I think you are really missing out on a lot if you fail to take in all of the religious symbolism in the film. This movie is packed full with a whole lot more than what we see on the surface level.  I also think that the ending is one of the most uplifting in cinematic history.The second reason why I hold this film in such high regard is because of the way it speaks to me as a person.  I liked the film as a young man but I love it now as a husband and father of three young children.  The torment that Jacob goes through after having been separated from his family and losing his youngest son can only truly be understood and appreciated through the eyes of a father and a husband. The director really draws you into the character of Jacob and his painful journey.  You really empathize with his loss, his guilt and his spiritual journey.                            **SPOILER** ** After just recently viewing the film again I noticed something I had never seen before.(I've seen the film over a dozen times) It appears  in the next to the final scene where Jacob is sitting on his couch and hears Gabe's music box.  If you look in the upper left hand corner of the screen you will see the top of a lamp shade.  As the light from the window hits the shade the shape of an eye appears. It looks as if the eye is looking down on Jacob.  I couldn't believe it when I first saw it.  I had to rewind it and ask a few friends if they also saw it.  If you have noticed this please e-mail me and tell me what you think.  I can't decide if this is a strange coincidence or another intended bit of religious symbolism.**  "},{"Title":"A Vietnam vet struggles to identify his reality in purgatory.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Here's why this is one of my Top 10 Movies Tim Robbins, as Jacob Singer, really draws the viewer into his first-person story of a Vietnam vet struggling in purgatory.  From the opening scene the viewer is immersed in horror - one doesn't know whether this is real or imagined.  After what starts off as not another Vietnam movie! soon dives into an unimaginable hell.  The scene transitions to a subway stop (Bergen Street)where Jacob wakes thinking he almost missed his stop.  He gets off to find all exits at the subway stop are blocked he is stuck between the streets above (heaven) and the dark rails below (hell).  The ominous nature of the movie is emphasized in each scene as in the subway (Hell poster) and Bergen Street stop (Ecstasy poster).  The movie exacts constant deliberation by the viewer to discern which reality is really his. "},{"Title":"This movie is really something special...IM NOT JOKING AROUND","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Most people I suppose never see movies like these. Jacob's Ladder was a film made 11 years ago and it's the only scary movie that really made me jump out of my seat. I saw it 3 years ago and all the copy-cats need to stop because they never work to scare you. SPOILERS...This is the first film to use that shaky head technique you see in other horror films and music videos. This is the only movie that does it right by presenting it in the most unexpected fashion possible. You see alot of upsetting things that only this movie can scare you with. Faces, weird looking, deformed looking faces. EYES suddenly changing color. I don't want to spoil everything for you but if you ever played the first Silent Hill game, you'll know what this movie is like. Kind of anyway.The movie is really difficult to understand the first time you see it, so if you like to know story, DARE I SAY WATCH IT AGAIN UNTIL YOU DO. You know why? This is the only movie that scares the living crap out of you the second time you watch it. Or third. Or Fifth. It all depends if you're scared of other scary movies besides this one. I'm not, and that's saying alot. The first time I watched this, I kept my closet light on for three nights. I asked if I could sleep in my parents room, but they wouldn't let me. When I went to bed, all I could think of was the disturbing images that stuck in my head. I'm not kidding. I felt like there was someone in my room that would show up in my face any minute I opened my eyes up...but it was all in my head. What I'm trying to say is, everything you see in this film affects you psychologically. It really messes with your head. It may take a week for you to recover. Even if you've never in your life been scared of movies. It might even take longer to repair the brain wounds you recieve, if you're scared of some movies. Or even longer if you're scared of all horror, suspense, thriller movies you've seen. That's what makes this film so special. You won't expect to have nighmarish things bouncing back and forth in your head when you go to sleep. That's something that I think most people will remember this film for. Also it's deep, find-it-out-your-self-story, that's sure to intrigue you for years to come, just like books like The Giver. There so many different ways to view or understand this movie, I guess it all depends on what you think.Also the acting and mood is swell. It is completely orignal, it has a good sense of realism, even if the things you see in it is impossible. I recommend this movie to anyone, and I do mean ANYONE. Like I said, if you've never been scared of a movie your whole life, this one will change that. If you like to read books, and are a very open minded person, this is a great title to figure out at the end. Even if it means sleeping with a something figure in your thoughts, screwing up your brain functions...any cost, you must see this movie. Or just go on ahead and buy it. Period.  "},{"Title":"I'm going to hell...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***SPOILERS AHEAD, SO PROCEED WITH CAUTION***Still with me? Ok here we goI understood this movie completely in one scene, where Jacob tells Louis that he looks like an angel, an overgrown cherub. Don't ask why, but I just did. The way I look at at the whole thing is, Jacob was accidentally killed in a fire-fight gone bad and he's feebly trying to hold on to the memories that are keeping him in limbo, so to speak. Little by little his grasp is pulled away until he is able to die with a clear conscience. It happens in screwed up ways but sometimes you need to be harsh to get through to someone, especially when that person is being stubborn.The reason that his other Vietnam buddies are there in his nightmare as well could be this since they all died at pretty much the same time, under the same circumstances, it could be that they are all in the same stage of limbo, trying to figure out what happened. I think the same can be said for the chemist who appears at various points in the film. It may be that he is there to exorcise his own personal demons before he himself moves on. It is very easy to imagine that character getting killed off in some way, the most probable cause being his involvement in something that went so horribly wrong. I doubt, as someone pointed out earlier, that the firefight never happened. It would've had to have been reality for Jacob to accept his fate.I'm not going to try to explain any more of this movie because I think it's too large to cover in so many words. If you're interested in hearing my answers to questions you may have, you can contact me at the email address above. Or even better, watch the making-of documentary on the DVD. I think it might clear up a lot of the questions you may have.As for the movie, there are parts that kind of move a little too slowly but this can honestly be one of the most disturbing films I have ever seen. Certain scenes, especially the bathtub scene with the ice, still manage to get me every time I see them. There are scenes in this that play like the worst of nightmares. The performances are great, Tim Robbins especially, and Adrian Lyne manages to craft an excellent film simply by not showing us too much. It's clear upon seeing the film that he really wanted to get every single detail of not just the script but the overall idea of the story up on the screen and that may be where the movie's biggest flaw is. I agree with the conspiracy subplot really not leading to anything as someone else mentioned. The movie was pretty long as it is and it seems as if they felt they wouldn't be able to hold an audience for longer without fear of losing them completely. Wow, I honestly have a lot to say about the movie but I won't be able to get it all out, I think. I'll make it simple. I saw the movie like about two years ago. I went out and bought the DVD the next day because I liked it that much. Watch this only if you are open minded. This film is pretty much different from the normal movie experience. Watch it and if you want to let me know what you think, I'd love to hear a response. Rating ****1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"A further interpretation ***SPOILERS***","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  NOTE the following is based on my own interpretations of the events in the film and the story, so correct me if you wish.  Ok, clearly everyone at this site knows that by now, Jacob (played by the never better Tim Robbins), is dead.  The majority of the film itself, which takes place after Jacob has returned from Vietnam, is Hell.  Take for example the scene in the subway.  I believe that the film follows Jacob's ascent, hence the title, Jacob's Ladder, from the depths of Hell to the gates Heaven.  The scene in the subway is the lowest level of Hell, which is where the train has brought him.  Jacob is annoyed that all the gates are locked (they're locked to prevent him from escaping).  Despite that, he is eventually able to get out.  Ok, he manages to escape from the subway and now he's on the streets, another level.  He returns home to Jezebel (Elizabeth Pena).  The apartment that Jacob shares with her might as well be the Devil's lair and Jezebel might as well be the Devil him/herself or whatever, since she tries and often successfully, to deprive Jacob of any happy thoughts he might have.  Jacob with some heavenly help, is eventually able to escape and find his way home.      It seems that Jacob is not alone in his struggle to escape the grasp of the Devil.  Several of his old Vietnam buddies are having the same problem.  An old friend of his comes to him asking for help.  But it becomes increasingly apparent that as the story continues, he is powerless to help his friends.  When they back out of his court case, you can conclude then, that his friends are already too deep in the Devil's grasp to be of any help to Jacob.  This entire segment of the film was meant to stray Jacob off course of his ascension.  Watch during the part of the film where Jacob is at the hospital.  As he is being wheeled on the bed by the doctors to his surgery, Jacob is constantly looking around him.  He's now back in one of the lower levels of Hell, to be more specific, the pits.  You will know what I'm talking about when you see all of the hideously scarred and deranged people in the hospital.  Note, that when you see the people in the cages above the hallway that he's in, you can clearly see a reddish glow in the background, as if something is burning, hence the fiery pits.  Then Danny Aiello's character, Louis, comes and rescues him.  Louis, as you can clearly see, is Jacob's guardian angel.  Louis ultimately sets Jacob on his path to Heaven.       Bearing all of this in mind, Jacob is caught in a struggle for his soul because the mood of the film is constantly changing.  You basically know when and where Jacob is just by the way you're feeling when you watch. Of course, this movie is not perfect.  The entire conspiracy thing does tend to get in the way of the storytelling, which is why I gave this film a nine instead of a ten.  But it was good effort though.I believe that tonyvoci, who was the author of the previous comment, so far gives the best interpretation of the events in the movie.  Though I do feel that I am at a loss with one thing in the story.  If anyone knows what Paul's role in Jacob's ascension was, please post it up at this site.  I will be forever gracious.                   "},{"Title":"Among the best movies ever dealing with consciousness and dreaming","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is difficult to review a movie of this caliber without revealing crucial details to a first-time watcher, but Jacob's Ladder approaches one of the best films I've ever seen to visually grapple with an individual's ability to experience reality and to be conscious of his own being.  Therein lies the true horror; Tim Robbins deftly shows a man pursued by his inner demons and who cannot cope.  Without ever quite knowing which version of his reality he's participating in, he begins to deal with his flow of dreamstates by victimizing himself- creating nightmares.  Adrian Lyne's skill as a suspense director with superb soundtracking (with a good deal of voice effects and ambient noises).  Set in an 70's-ish New York and in Vietnam, this movie has an excellent knack for transitioning the viewer from scene to scene, especially with the warmth of color tone.  I recommend seeing the original version before the Director's cut-  I've found the 'making of' also very valuable- and prepare to sit in awe for a few minutes when the film finishes.   "}{"Title":"A horrible nightmare","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That's the sense I get from watching this movie like I'm caught in some horrible nightmare.  You close your eyes, but you can still see the monsters.  You can hear their voices, but cannot see any bodies.  People you know with distorted features.  Demonic images.  This movie scares the crap out of me each time I watch it.  Like The Exorcist, it doesn't seem to lose much of its impact with each viewing.  Also, the plot is horribly easy to understand.  I can't imagine why so many people have trouble figuring out what's going on.  It's a linear movie that runs in real-time. "},{"Title":"A circle movie","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen this movie back at 1990 when I was 22. Long before trying to do my own films. Yesterday night I saw it again on DVD. I think Adrian Lyne is a master even if he is not yet been accepted as one. I do not care. This movie made me stand up on my bed and not wanting to view it while I was lying. This the whole image. Imagine. "},{"Title":"harrowing but beautiful (to an extent)","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ***CAUTION SPOILER INCLUDED (my take on this complex film)***Read this only if you've already seen it and want someone else's opinion on it.In my opinion, this film is NOT related to any government conspiracy involving Vietnam Vets.  I think that is all a part of Jacob's deathbed nightmare.Jacob is killed (accidentally?) by a comrade in the jungle.  From the look on each man's face when you finally see this episode at the end, you can see that the killer is shocked to discover that it is an American he has killed, and Jacob is terrified to discover that he has been killed by friendly fire.  As he lays dying, he is stuck between life and death and fights to remain alive.  From the speech Aiello, an angel, gives him about devils and angels and dying, you can see that this is exactly what is happening to Jacob.  He is faced with the demons of hell, and Aiello, his chiropractor, is adjusting and fixing him, trying to lead him to Heaven.  Jacob is distraught over the death of his son, and he and his wife Sarah have been struggling and having marital problems before he leaves for Nam.  Their troubles are made manifest in the person of Jezebel, who is indeed partly devil (look at the name).  All of Jacob's fears and demons confront him in this horrible time between being struck by the bayonet of his fellow American soldier and actually, physically dying.  Aiello tries to convince him to make peace with his life and let go, following him and Jacob's dead son Gabriel, upstairs to Heaven.The veterans subplot, in my opinion, is Jacob's deathbed rationalization of the horror of being killed by friendly fire.  The man who killed him clearly didn't mean to do it.  The horror of dying in such a manner haunts him, and he creates the drug storyline as a mental justification in order to make some sense of the horror of dying in such a way.I think that this certainly simplifies a lot of what happened in the film, and it is certainly not so easily explained.  However, I just wanted to put out there what I think happened because I feel that a lot of people are too caught up in the drug conspiracy - once again...my opinion. **** END OF SPOILERS***I think this film is ruined by Lyne (and the writers') insistence on throwing more mud in the face of Vietnam Veterans by portraying them ALL as vulgar drug addicts (as seen in the beginning of the film).  This portrayal is FAR from accurate...how tragic that generations of Americans have been brainwashed by media and films like this one to believe that all, or even MOST, Vietnam veterans were like that.In any case, still a very powerful, haunting, harrowing film very much worth seeing.  Just remember to take the Vietnam scenes with a grain of salt.  "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The visuals are as compelling as they are horrific.Tim Robbins is fantastic. Arguably one of the best performances of all time (IMO, great acting doesn't appear as though one is acting). Robbins IS Jacob Singer.I have watched this movie 4 or 5 times; and every time I watch it, it's as though it was my first viewing. If you 'get' this movie, it borrows itself in your soul.Don't try to explain the movie or apply reason to it...It is, what it is... "},{"Title":"The music is to die for!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Get the Soundtrack and a good pair of headphones.  You won't be disappointed.  This is a great but underrated movie that must be seen multiple times to fully enjoy.I can only imagine what the DVD experience would be like.RJM "},{"Title":"Soul Searching","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The 1990's is filled with many interesting horror films.  This one started the decade right, and by the end of the 20th Century, we were witness to others like it; The Blair Witch Project, The Sixth Sense, The Others, et al.   Jacob Ladder--already pointed out by one savvy critic--is very loosely based on Ambrose Bierce's short horror story, An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.  Both 'Ladder and 'Bridge are about a soldier (former the US Army, latter Civil War) who undergoes an extraordinary journey back home.  To say anything more would be criminal.  I will address one other point 'Ladder seemed to have started a trend in subsequent horrors by featuring a scene in which a malevolent creature (usually some type of ghost) is shown having some type of epileptic seizure.  The other films to use this effect include the remake of House on Haunted Hill.  With horror films being what they are (then or now), it is often difficult to scare audiences.  This one has at least one frightening scene that made my behind jump off the theater seat.  "},{"Title":"wotta ending","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  jsut seen this film on BBC2 last night and was blowna way by the ending. i cant get my head around it yet. ive never seen a film just do that wit a ending. it was kinda dissapointing but amazinggreat film though u can see a lotta stuff from this film somehow must have inspired teh writers of the x-files...its that kinda movie.. "},{"Title":"AMAZING!, WARNING *SPOILERS*","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS**** While talking to Roger Ebert recently about this film  we were surprised so little people saw that this movie takes place in purgatory.  The limbo state between heaven and hell.  Jacob is died in Vietnam and he is dead at the beginning of the movie.  He is on a train at the beginning where he reads 'welcome to hell' .  Indeed he is on his way to hell.  He is living with 'the devil' in sin who he has sold his soul to for 'a good lay'.  The chiropractor is really an angel.  Note how he's framed always with light behind him, he 'rescues' Jacob from hell i.e the hospital.  He tells Jacob 'the only things that burn in hell are the memories you won't let go of' - hence the burning by 'the devil' of Jacobs photographs.  Like the angel says the only way he can leave hell is by making peace with these memories.  Jacob is troubled with the death of his son, who he meets at the stairs to heaven (golden light) and makes peace with him.  His son takes him by the hand and leads him up to heaven.  There are countless other symbolic images and dialogue pointing to this theory.***   A haunting, exciting film.  Improves with each viewing!!! "},{"Title":"Almost great","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Hmm.  I'm kind of ambivalent about Jacob's Ladder.  On one hand, the movie creates a great sensation of paranoia and fear, particularly in the unforgettable hospital gurney sequence (must-see viewing for fans of Silent Hill).  Director Adrian Lyne should do another horror movie, because here he demonstrates an incredible flair for atmosphere and nightmarish imagery.  Good cinematography, a haunting score, and nuanced performances by Tim Robbins and Elizabeth Pena don't hurt either.  But there's a huge subplot, relating to the government conspiracy and cover-up of what really happened to Jacob and his platoon in Vietnam, that doesn't lead anywhere.  A huge portion of the movie is devoted to Jacob investigating the conspiracy, culminating in a very long conversation scene with a chemist who seems to hold the answer.  This entire story thread becomes more or less meaningless at the end, when everything is explained in a way that has nothing to do with a cover-up.  It's like there's an entirely different movie trying to take over.  They should have jettisoned the conspiracy plot, or even made it into a completely separate movie. Too bad, because otherwise Jacob's Ladder works really well.  It could have been a really great film, one of those rare horror movies that help us define what it means to be human.  As it stands, it's worth seeing once or twice. "},{"Title":"Gripping, watch carefully","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At the risk of giving too much away, I'll say that this is an exceptional movie, especially for anyone who is skeptical that the military/government always tell us the truth.  But do watch it carefully -- It's not that deep, but I've read several reviews from Big Name Critics that clearly indicate they didn't understand the movie at all.  "}{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ****Possible PLOT SPOILER****This is am outstanding movie.  I am not going to speak for everyone or for the audience, because not everyone is going to like this movie.  It should be watched more than once, but leave some breathing time in between the viewings.  It is heavy.  People who don't like thinking movies, granted this isn't-technically-a thinking movie, probably won't like it.  The movie resolves everything, in a way.  The twists and turns as we travel through the abyss of Jacob's dying mind are astounding.  This movie presents a original, to this reviewer at least, package, and handles it well.  I am left with a warm feeling after watching and enjoying this movie.  Not for everyone, though. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made.","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The main topic in this movie deals with the question of what the American government has done to Vietnam soldiers concerning drug experiments. It's a dark, scary movie with superb acting by the cast, especially Tim Robbins. Although not great in every film, he reaches the same quality as in e.g. The Shawshank Redemption. Having said that, you can draw your conclusions. The most intriguing however is the story and even more than that the end. When I watched it for the first time, my reaction was Oh no, My God, how can it be? If you don't know anything about these things I promise it will knock you off your feet, out of your seat or whatever. Overwhelming!!! 9 out of 10 for sure.       "},{"Title":"One of the first majour films to enter the Reality to assist humanity in waking up.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILER(S) CONTAINED HEREIN.Jacob's Ladder (1990) excellently illustrates the existence of multiple realities/Universes/worlds/existences/dimensions; scientific reference  select quantum mechanics physics' theories; philosophical/spiritual reference  In my Father's house there are many mansions.Jacob Singer actually dies physically during the Viet Nam War.  This movie illustrates accurately the immortality of the human spirit.The movie is classified as fiction with a purpose and as a teaching movie illustrating facts of the realities (truths) which have always existed, to the best of our understanding of the word always.Superb work by all cast and crew. "},{"Title":"Absolutely THE best!","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you should watch ONE film in your whole life, this would be it. The script and acting is really AMAZING, but there are two different reactions to this movie.On one hand those that THINK they understand the plot during the whole movie until the end scene - they will hate the movie since their theory will be drastically over trown at the end of the movie.Do not underestimate the plot in this movie. It is filled with symbolism to help interpret the movie and will keep you spellbound watching it over and over again until you cought everything.... And in the meanwhile the experience will grow.You can't really explain the plot before you see the movie - but it's not what you think at first. Buy the DVD with the directors commentary and extra scenes! "},{"Title":"Give it another try","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film when it first came out and went away more than a bit confused. After 10 years passed and numerous, more popular films, have aped the ending and style and after a decade of realizing Tim Robbins is the greatest working actor today, I decided to give it another try. Not only did it make a lot more sense, I came to really appreciate the incredibly powerful performances, beautiful dialogue and excellent direction. Wish a couple of the deleted scenes had been included in the film, but it's still a thoughtful and intelligent film that packs an emotional wallop.  Oh yeah and TIM ROBBINS ROCKS! "},{"Title":"ghost?  what ghost?  (spoilers)","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (SPOILERS!!)I really loved this movie.  I do not think he was a ghost.  I think of it more like Slaughterhouse-5, time travel sort of stuff.  He kept jumping forward and backward in time, from before the war to after the war to during the war and back again, never knowing where he was going to wake up next.  He died in the war, but that doesn't mean the post-war stuff didn't happen, or that he was a ghost when it happened.  I think he lived his life in random order, and happened to die in the middle of his life instead of at the end of it like one would expect.  Each time he woke up, he didn't know which woman would be in bed next to him, or if his son was alive or not.  I particularly liked the part when he woke up next to Sarah, and he said I had the worst dream.  I was living with that woman Jezebel from the post office.  It was horrible!, and then the look on his face when he woke up again in the bathtub with Jezebel next to him.All in all, I just felt so much for Tim Robbin's character, and I was so caught up in the whole experience of the war scenes and the hallucinations...  I have watched this one twice, and I will watch it again. "},{"Title":"Best movie of last two decades of the 20th century","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Probably no movie has ever had me gripped tighter to my seat. Few movies have ever elicited so many strong emotional responses. Positively no other movie challenges the mind on so many different levels.On the surface Jacob's Ladder is a horror movie. It also makes a strong political statement. It speaks mountains about human nature and religion. And its an intriguing puzzle to boot.As other reviewers have pointed out, some of the scary effects originated here have since become cliche. The cinematography is as good as it gets. The acting is too. We know what's become of Tim Robbins, Danny Ailleo, Jason Alexander, and Macaulay Culkin, but what's become of the Elisabeth Pena who was the most outstanding of all here?Watch this movie without distractions and without worrying about if the person you are watching this is enjoying it or not. However, it's best you can share it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"One of the most clever and unique films every made","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disturbing. If I had to use one word to describe Jacob's Ladder, that would be the one I would choose. But to be honest there are so many other words that come to mind when I think of this movie. It's just so finely crafted and mysterious...you never know what's around the next corner. Why this movie is so obscure I will never know. In my opinion this is a classic that should be seen by anyone who considers themselves to be a true fan of film. 9/10 "},{"Title":"An extremely well-written journey","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I will be brief, in that most of the viewers who wrote comments before me said so much.  I agree that Jacob's Ladder is a very 50/50 kind of film - some having loved it, some having not understood, and hated it.  But I don't believe you have to be into mysticism or morbid art to enjoy this film.  It simply states that here is a guy going through a horrific, and eventually peaceful revelation - so take his journey for what it is - don't over-analyze.  Basically, if I were to summarize the plot in my own words I would say *****SPOILER AHEAD - BE WARNED*******Jacob Singer is an ex-Vietnam veteran who has nasty flashbacks to one particular night before an offensive overseas.  He can never seem to complete an entire flashback to figure out exactly what happened that night. Also, between flashbacks, in his everyday life as a postal worker, Jacob begins to see and experience things that are, in a way, paranormal and scary - he sees what he calls demons.  He feels pain, and sickness, and above all confusion as to why he feels like he's losing his mind.  Others he comes in contact with (a fortune-teller at a party, and an Evil Doctor in an insane asylum) tell him simply - you're dead - you've been killed.  He, and the audience don't know what they (or the filmmakers) are trying to pull, but towards the end of this film, Jacob comes in contact with a chemist who was hired to create mind-altering drugs for the boys overseas during the Vietnam War (actually he was given a choice - do such, or spend years in jail for manufacturing illegal drugs).  This chemist sheds some light on Jacob's perplexing life - that a drug only known as The Ladder was created by him and tested out on his platoon during the war.  It was supposed to enhance anger in the soldiers, but instead, it caused the members of the platoon to rip EACH OTHER to pieces.  And with this knowledge, in the end ****BIG SPOILER***** Jacob is forced to confront the fact that now is the time to let go of his memories - his home, his son who was killed, the war, and simply rest in peace - and as we learn by the final scene, once he does so, we are brought back to the harrowing fact that Jacob Singer never actually made it out of Vietnam, and the entire story we saw was his hours of dying slowly - trying to let go of life, and eventually accept his eternal sleep.*** END OF SPOILER*****I believe that Adrian Lyne did a great job in directing this masterpiece, but above all, Bruce Joel Rubin deserves most of the credit for writing this tale of what could be compared to as Dante's Inferno (which I recently learned was the original title of this film).  I believe the scenes that show madness, demons, blood and gore are used to say that hey, death has horrific elements - don't pretend otherwise - you have to go through Hell before you get to Heaven and his Chiropractor Louis - who is his angel simply states in the film, If you're frightened of dying, and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing you're life away, but if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the Earth. And the fact that, just before he *****SPOILER***** ....joins his dead son in Heaven, he goes back home to his original house and lets his memories lie with a photo collection of his family, says to me that this film's symbolism is used beautifully and sparingly at the moments where the viewer is called upon to accept Jacob's death as well.  It was scary at times, but for the most part, Jacob's Ladder was a terrific journey through the mind of the dying, in the moments before the inevtiable occurs. I, as a filmmaker myself, hope to make a movie like this someday.  Watch it - you'll think about it for years to come. "},{"Title":"horrific horror","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If your a fan of horror flicks like me, you should love this movie. If you don't, watch it again. Then watch it many more times. Many horror movies coming out nowadays seem to have that whole Sixth sense feel. You know, its that creepy foreboding feeling of terror that draped over you like a dark mist. Jacob's Ladder tops all that with its amazing imagery and awesome plot. It's plot makes you really think, and if you've got a playstation, pick up the game Silent Hill, which was partially inspired by this movie. "}{"Title":"surprisingly intriguing.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" this film was surprisingly good. i'm not used to encountering talented acting, interesting plots or good scripts in mainstream films. it has a definite atmosphere and style which evokes emotion in nearly every scene. even the cheesy shots where the main character looked at photos of his family and children touched me. there are so many potential interpretations.. below i'll talk a bit about mine.*** WARNING - SEMI-SPOILER AHEAD ***it's odd that most of the people reviewing this film accepted his death. i was under the impression that his death was just a metaphor for his ability to move on. 'The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you. They're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth.'i took this to mean that his death was his ability to let go of his guilt and heartache and take the positive parts of his memories and experiences and the strength he had gained through the pain and move on. "},{"Title":"One of the best Horror films, ever!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The only disappointment in Jacob's Ladder, is the fact that it shows just what a talented director Adrian Lyne really is, yet he throws his talent away on such popcorn based romps like Fatal Attraction and 9 and Half Weeks. After the riveting opening deep in the Vietnam jungles we are introduced to Jacob Singer (a never better Tim Robbins), a New York postal worker troubled by dangerous and disturbing visions, visions that could be linked to his tour in Vietnam, or something much more sinister. Most people hate this film because of the punishment that Jacob takes in the film, everyone is out to get him, his only true trustworthy companion is Luis (Danny Aielo, sp), his chiropractor, who is often on hand to give Jacob cryptic information. But the film really belongs to Lyne, he really has a handle on the subject matter, this may have been his least successful film but this is the film people will be talking about years after his retirement. He shoots 70's New York as a dark hellhole, filled with freaks and demons. Bruce Joel Rubin should also be applauded for his script, even though some of the twists are quite obvious he leaves so much open to interpretation.Tim Robbins is one of my all time favourite actors and in this film he really nails the paranoia and fear that Jacob is forced to go through if he wants to achieve his redemption. Like I said, so much is left to interpretation that one person could watch the film, and have a completely different idea than someone else who watched it at the same time, there are so many elements at play, good and evil, heaven and hell... It's hard to understand why this film hasn't achieved more of a cult following, it's still has to be one of the most underrated film of all time... I would recommend it to anyone, but at the end of the day I love the film, so no-one else matters...9/10  "},{"Title":"The movie is about letting go, losing fear...","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is one of the most brilliant yet misunderstood movies of our time.  Most people are so disoriented by the movie that they are just trying to figure out what's happening to Jacob Singer.  They miss the point of the movie.  To let go of what you identify with, your wife, your children, your character, encounter that fear and overcome it.  Jacob's Ladder is characterized as a horror movie, but it is much more.  Look beneath the surface, watch it a few times, and uncover a hidden gem! "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This must be one of the most underrated movies of all times, at least it seems to be so in the country I live in. When people are asked about this masterpiece, they think of me as one of those artsy snobs that comments about avantgarde movies that no one has ever heard of, except for the director himself. Jacob's Ladder is very mainstream kind of movie, with the exciting plot and beautiful visualization, plus excellent acting. You can watch it for several times, go through its complex layers, and I guarantee you'll never get bored by it. Dont we all sometimes feel alienated in our societies, feeling as a part of one huge experiment? "},{"Title":"Simply one of the best films, ever.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is how more 'thrillers' should be directed. From the very first moments it draws you in, makes you feel that you are starting to understand this character and his surroundings, then pull the rug out from under you!It has a super story, great plot (that makes you think - how unusual!), haunting images and great tension. I was surprised to find myself thinking of this movie after having watched The Sixth Sense. Both are superbly directed. Both approach roughly the same area from totally different perspectives, but to devastating effect.  This should be in any self respecting horror/thriller fan's collection!  "},{"Title":"Various comments.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would say alot more about this film, but most of it has been said. I liked it, and have noticed that many of the elements from this film, especially the trip to hell or as some people might call the hospital/asylum scene, has been used in a few other medias, the first one that comes to mind is the Playstation game Silent Hill made by Konami. It uses the motif of corruption and rust and has scenes where the world changes into something very like the asylum. Of course the game does use elements from other stories, but one that I hear the most is how it uses elemets from Jacob's Ladder. "},{"Title":"Full of well-used symbolism and excellent cinematogrpahy","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film; what makes it great is the light-dark imagery, the use of biblical symbolism, and the cinematography in general.  The only thing I would like to add is that the DVD version includes 3 extra scenes; in the third scene, titled The Antidote,*** START SPOILER ***Jacob's chemist brings him a bottle which supposedly will cure him if he drinks it.  What follows is a horrific nightmare.*** END SPOILER *** "},{"Title":"Definitely in my all time top ten.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was recommended as a 'must see' by a friend. Without knowing anything about it I rented it from the local video store and have never been so rattled by a film since I saw Reservoir Dogs. I think its unfair to pigeon-hole the film as horror. Although there are scary moments, its by no means a Friday 13th blood and guts affair. Thought provoking. "},{"Title":"PTSD or not PTSD","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is featured in Psychiatry and the Cinema on the Priory site. Jacob Singer has flashbacks, recurrent nightmares, hypervigilance, irritability and other features characteristic of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. He would seem to fit the criteria for Vietnam veteran PTSD, but there are some aspects to this story that make it more of a ghost story. In some ways this is a precursor to The Sixth Sense, because there is some doubt as to whether Jacob is really alive at all through the film. The PTSD explanation works well for the first 80% of the film, but he latter scenes imply that Jacob is only on earth as a lost soul.Resolving his psychological attachments and 'letting go' turns the demons of his existence into angels that convey 'upstairs' to heaven. "},{"Title":"Great movie - MAJOR SPOILER !","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Warning - big spoiler below !I've got nothing but praise for this movie. Other reviewers have commented on the intelligent plot and fine acting - I'll just add that the director did an excellent job of building a very creepy, tense atmosphere without resorting to cheap scare tactics (Exorcist III is another film that does this very well).I have one major problem with the plot, however (big spoiler coming up!). Towards the end, Jacob meets up with a chemist who explains that his platoon was used to field-test an experimental combat drug. Most of the movie later turns out to be a invention of Jacob's dying mind, so the entire chemist sub-plot is simply part of his fantasy. *But* the opening minutes of the movie suggest that the drug was REAL; we see Jacob get bayonetted by an US soldier. So is the BZ drug real or not ? Either way, I don't think the movie is completely consistent.This question aside, this is well worth seeing. The DVD version is also recommended - it adds some deleted scenes and a director's commentary. 9/10 from me. "}{"Title":"Haunting film on death and dying that is sure to linger in your mind","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this film after a friend called me and said how in love with it he was. The first thing that stuck out to me were some of the spooky, haunting visuals, such as the vibrating faces, which is a tool I loved. I remembered seeing something almost identical to it in 1999's House on Haunted Hill, which the filmmakers on 'House' must have obviously been influenced by this movie or borrowed the imagery. Because as far as I've heard or read, Jacob's Ladder is the first to use the vibrating heads, even though they, as well, were influenced. But they took it from a Francis Bacon painting. To me, it's better in Jacob's Ladder, though it's also very, very cool in Haunted Hill. The thing that makes it better in Jacob's Ladder, however, is the fact that it has more than one simple meaning. It represents madness, fear, helplessness, which are all emotions experienced by Jacob, played by Tim Robbins. So it stands for more in this film, therefore it's spookier and more effective. I love the concepts of this film, conceived by writer Bruce Joel Rubin in 1980. It took him ten years to get it made. It's about a man coming to terms with his life, the tragedies in his life, and the wonderful things in his life. He needs to let go of his fears before he can find peace. If this kind of sensitive, unusual material were in the hands of a more careless director, it could go over the top. Fortunately, Adrian Lyne dealt with it on a more human, reality-based level. He took the scary imagery out of real life, such as the frightening aspects of human deformity (i.e., a doctor with no eyes, just skin; a nurse with scab-like horns on her head; midgets and dwarves in an insane asylum.) And another good thing as far as imagery goes, the filmmakers understand that oftentimes, less is more. As striking and haunting as the vibrating heads are, and as much as I'd have loved to see more, I'm glad they only used it three brief times or so. You can impress the same emotion/idea upon the viewer through showing them one image for five seconds as you can by beating them over the head with it for ten minutes at a time, over and over. So, in short, Jacob's Ladder was an idea that was put into the right creative hands, starting with Bruce Joel Rubin, even though his screenplay was evidently more conventionally Biblically visual, including more demons and beaks and wings and fires, etc. which is all very cool as well, though familiar and therefore not as threatening, as Adrian Lyne wisely pointed out. This movie is a deep, deep deep one with a deep message on life and death. You don't see many movies out there that deal with the kind of material like this in this way. It's a very sad, forlorn film, but in an unconventional way. And that's what makes it unique. ELizabeth Pena was a striking Jezzie, possessing a rough kindness. She cared for Jacob and loved him, but there was a certain oddness to her that throughout the film you don't know whether she's good or evil, or a little of both. Danny Aiellio (spelling?) was, in essence, Jacob's angel helping him through the events that were driving Jacob crazy. He was the leader showing him through the Inferno, much like in Dante's Divine Comedy, which is deeply rooted in this film. So again, this film has many, many depths, which is why it will be talked about and appreciated for a long, long time, as it should be. It stuck with me immensely after I saw it only once. I have since bought it. And the imagery, as well as the aspects of the story and messages with always stay with me. "},{"Title":"Stunning, Atmospheric...","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is one of the most atmospheric movies ever filmed.  I'm afraid to say too much here because it may give away the plot, but imagine how alone you might feel going through the experience of dying, what the whole experience might be like.  Now project that nightmarish atmosphere into a film, and you have Jacob's Ladder.This film has been overlooked by much of the moviegoing public.  Many will find it too baffling and depressing to sit through, but if you (are able to) give it a chance, the ending will just blow you out of your chair.  There's such a massive plot twist at the end, and it explains the whole film.  Yes, this is one of those films where you don't really know what's going on until the end, but the fun is in the journey, not the destination.You may not be entertained by this film.  The overall atmosphere is so dark, so haunting and feverish and nightmarish that it's very hard to take.  But I have to say this is in my top-ten list of favorite films based on originality and atmosphere alone.  The acting is so-so except for Tim Robbins, who brings a lot of life to the part.*** Minor Spoiler Below ***There's a sub-plot involving a chemical warfare agent that really doesn't fit with the rest of the film (if you take the ending to explain the entire film, it doesn't work out right).  But that's a minor quibble (to me), because this film is so leaden with horrific atmosphere, it could put Santa Claus in the hospital with a case of clinical depression.9/10 (would be 10/10 except for the no-fit 'chemical agent' subplot). "},{"Title":"A Mystical Exploration","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know why this film is put under the category of 'horror', but I suppose that this might be because we don't have a genre for 'mystical exploration'.  For anyone who has studied theology or mysticism, especially Gnostic or Christian mysticism, this film is a CANDY STORE of symbolism and mystical references.  Consider the title!  The beauty and art of the film is that it places cosmic and transcendental explorations that are present in the bible, Gnostic texts, & etc, and translates them into the context of the life of an ordinary man!  How much easier to relate to than the bible!  If you like mystical study, or theology, if you read the bible and found it dogmatic and sterile, WATCH THIS MOVIE!  It will utterly TRANSFORM how you view scripture and mysticism by placing it in the context of the ordinary... hopefully transforming the ordinary as well! Happy watching!-T "},{"Title":"this is one of the most under-rated movies ever","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple months ago and it is definitely one of my favorite movies of all time.  After reading some of the comments by other IMDB users, there seems to be a lot more symbolism than what I picked up on during my first viewing.  I still loved the movie and I plan on watching it again to see if I can understand it a little better.  I'm amazed that it isn't on the list of Top 250 movies of all time, it should be in the top 50. "},{"Title":"My thoughts.","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this film immensely. The visuals were stunning and the music was so sad! My over-riding memory of watching the end of this film was that there were at least three different interpretations. I know the one I was sympathetic to, (being a father of a boy of Culkin's age), any comments? "},{"Title":"psychologically frightening","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a flash-back filled character profile of a post-war vet, Jacob Singer.  The flash-backs made it somewhat confusing, but nevertheless, it was an awesome depiction of his life spiraling out of control. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Dark","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This deeply dark but moving film tells a tale relevant to all of us. This journey through the twilight between night and day, and life and death is truly remarkable. Our hero Jacob Singer an X Vietnam veteran is confronted by demons both imagined and real. His life is spiraling out of control and he has little power to prevent it. Andrian Lyne crafts a masterpiece utilising flashbacks, pyschological horror and heart stopping moments of terror. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Psychological Thrillers Ever!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I could go on for a long time about how this masterpiece of a film continuously sent chills down my spine, but I'll keep it short.This is an entertaining and scary film with a great performance by Tim Robbins.  If you have not seen it yet- Please do!  It is a lost classic. "},{"Title":"A masterpice to me, but some of the cuts are unsound.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When Jacob's Ladder first hit theatres, I loved it.  It effected me in incredible ways and made me very philospohical (annoyingly so) for months. One comment makes the rather brash and arrogant assumption that if you like Jacob's Ladder, you're too young to have seen better.  Pfeh. Ridiculous...just because the film is entirely original is hardly reason to condemn it.  The stylistic treatment and creative departures from the norm are simply fantastic.  I personally look at the film as a metaphor for personal trauma rather than JUST about dealing with hallucinations and themes of death.  That aside though, something ALWAYS felt lacking in the film to me.  After having seen the DVD edition with features quite a bit of cut footage, I must say that I do NOT agree with some of the cuts made to original version.  This isn't really a spoiler, but the DVD contains a lengthy deleted sequence that extends the role of the Chemist. This scene would have fleshed out the last portion of the film IMMENSELY. The fact that it's missing leaves a gap in the film that I felt when it was brand new and in theatres.  While I don't like the originally planned ending, the other deleted material is a TRAGEDY to have been omitted. "},{"Title":"One of my favourites of all time","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film is very strong on all counts.  It's not a horror film, but frightening none the less.  Tim Robbins (as always) was magnificent in a role that couldn't have been easy to play.  While this film awaits its deserved recognition as a classic, see it and tell your friends you knew all along.   Sad, beautiful, and creeepy movie.        "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you liked the 6th sense you should like this more eldritch and disturbing film.  Some have sniped that this is derivative of the Twilight Zone episode/Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode Occurrence at Owl Creek bridge.  But that Ambrose Bierce story carries the germ of Jacob's ladder but the film if considered derivative  is a much more fleshed out modern interpretation of that tale.I cannot comment on Carnival of Souls, I have not seen it, but I enjoyed this darker, thoughtful film than the much hailed 6th Sense.  6th Sense was good but its storyline  depends more on the twist ending then Jacob's Ladder did. "},{"Title":"A great, often forgotten, film.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A very beautiful film. I always remember this 'The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you. They're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth.' "},{"Title":"Surreal Visceral Thriller","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It might lack a little bit on plot, but I don't think that is as important as you liking the lead character enough to make the journey with him.This is a disturbing, scary movie.  It's also a very sorrowful movie because Jacob's journey is mostly a painful one. The predecessor to Sixth Sense and Stir of Echoes (Which I thought is very overrated)This still can hold its own with either. This one packs just as much of a wallop in every aspect. Great script by Bruce Joel Rubin (Mr. Spirituality) Great direction, and Tim Robbins is perfect.Get the DVD it has a lot of extras including deleted footage that explains an underdeveloped subplot.Look for Benton from E.R. and George Costanza from Seinfeld.  "},{"Title":"Terrifying, disturbing but ultimately fascinating","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What you see isn't what you get. If you're fancying an easy-watching film with an easy storyline you're in the wrong place. Jacob's Ladder doesn't make easy watching.It is a very powerful anti-Vietnam movie although much of the action itself is based upon the after-effects of the war. Jacob Singer has found himself in a world which doesn't make sense- his only real help is his guardian chiropractor-Danny Aiello- who attempts to help him through his hellish world.Tim Robbins in his best performance to date, along with Aiello, and you may recognise the little son!If you like a film which can challenge the mind, and doesn't conform to the usual Hollywood stuff - I recommend. Superb!  "},{"Title":"Haunting and memorable film will stay with you long after you've seen it.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  JACOB'S LADDER, once seen, is not easily forgotten.  The main character, Jacob Singer, is having terrifying flashbacks to his Vietnam War days.  Even worse, he is apparently being pursued by demonic figures that are after him for some unknown reason.  We do find out by film's end just what Jacob's terrifying dilemma really is.  I'm sure that like myself, most viewers have their own theories on the exact meaning of everything leading up to that point.  I won't go into mine however, since I do not wish to ruin the experience for new viewers.  All I will say is that the movie is somewhat reminiscent in tone and structure to 1962's cult favorite CARNIVAL OF SOULS, although the ending is not nearly as dark and is far more memorable and moving.  Getting to this ending though, can be quite a disquieting and unnerving task.  Certain parts of this film, such as an extremely eerie scene early on in a subway tunnel, and a later scene in which Jacob ends up in what could only be described as the `Hospital from hell', will leave an indelible stamp on your brain.  The acting is excellent straight across the board.  Tim Robbins is quite sympathetic as the haunted main character.  Elizabeth Pena, as Jacob's live-in lover, exudes a perky sexiness that is very appealing.  Finally, lets not forget Danny Aiello, who does not have much screen time, but is quite likeable in a pivotal role.Before concluding, I'd like to comment on a point made on February 13th by a gentleman from Alabama regarding how totally unnecessary it was to include a certain &#145;plot-element' which ultimately explains the truth behind Jacob's Vietnam experiences.  Those who've seen the film know what I'm talking about.  I totally disagree with this view.  Try to imagine the plot implications of what &#145;might' be causing Jacob's visions without this element and you will see that the viewer would then be left only with the biblical interpretation, thereby lessening the power of the film's ending and rendering it more obvious. By including this extra plot element, and occasionally bringing it to the forefront, the writer kept the audience on their toes and constantly thinking till the last moment. My final rating for this film is a 7 out of 10.  The reason it is not higher is because the overall viewing experience of JACOB'S LADDER can be quite an uneasy one.  Like the discomfort you'd feel sitting in a totally dark room, hearing noises you couldn't explain.  Nevertheless it is a film well worth the time of any serious moviegoer.  I say this because it is almost a certainty that 10 years from now you'll still be able to recall some of the scenes and emotions connected with this film.  That is something you'll probably not be able to say about 90% of the movies you'll see in your lifetime.     "},{"Title":"Superb acting, effective Old Testament symbology, sound plot, and moving finish.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Tim Robbins plays Jacob, a vetren of the Vietnam war, now a postman living in NY dreaming horrible nightmares about demons. His youngest child, Gabe is dead, and having divorced his wife, Sarah, he now lives with the dark-haired, dark-eyed Jezebel(Elizabeth Pena). The scenes of battle in Vietnam are even better than those in APOCALYPSE NOW, and throughout the movie build up the suspense and mystery of what exactly induced these dreams. In curiosity and against the will of his mistress, Jezebel, he contacts his old army buddies, and reads Dante's INFERNO in search of clues  to the causes of the demons.Old Testament symbology is used effectively in the documentation of Jacob's personal salvation. Note the names of the characters, almost all Old Testament figures. Danny Aiello plays the part of the angelic chiropractor who sheds hope on this black scene. Arguably the best actor in the movie, Aiello emotes compassion in the viewer for Jacob in his pain.The finish of the film is as rewarding as the body of it promises and then some a stunning plot twist which, despite its unexpectedness, stands up to the scrutiny of close plot examination. This movie should definitely be viewed more than once.p.s. Although Macaulay Culkin acts in this film, he isn't yet the brat in HOME ALONE, thank God!p.p.s. Jacobs ladder is a real ladder with each rung spaced out at increasing increments used in training by the army, in addition to being a biblical symbol for salvation. "},{"Title":"A confusing but ultimatly moving film","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to agree with other peoples comments. A highly underated film.From the horrific start you are taken to what appears to be normality, but then what you feel at times is reality changes suddenly and constantly. So that you are never sure what is reality, what is illusion and what is flashback or at times I even wondered if some of it was even flash forward. This attack on all the senses continues throughout the film. Just when you think you have worked out what is going on it's all change.Without giving the ending away I can honestly say I didn't see it coming.I have seldom seen a film that has held my attention so much and at all times has had me wondering what the heck is going on. Everybody involved in the making of this film have done an excellent job.This is a film I would recommend to friends and one that I would happily watch again. 9 stars "},{"Title":"Proof of an underestimated director's gifts","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Director Adrian Lyne has often been subject to criticism for having helmed material thought to be none other than commercial fluff (9 1/2 WEEKS, FATAL ATTRACTION, INDECENT PROPOSAL, FLASHDANCE), despite the enormous integrity his direction has brought to these otherwise maligned films.  It's very easy to attack a film's artistry simply because of the audience to whom it appeals, or even its overall success.  Because I've always had a great fondness for Lyne's direction, it pleases me to say that I believe JACOB'S LADDER defies the commercial formula for his other films and allows his gifts to be seen for what they are.Lyne's contribution to this highly visceral, extremely frightening metaphysical thriller allowed it steer clear of the more familiar, awe-inspiring presentation normally used to adapt screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin's works (BRAINSTORM, GHOST, MY LIFE, among others).  By keeping the film's supernatural manifestations grounded in three-dimensional reality, and none-too-visible, the film's impact remains implicit and allows the audience to use its imagination and find the fear in the film, so to speak.  Because of the suggestive approach, we are allowed to concentrate on the convincing performances, nuances, and merely the threat that these obscured images propose, rather than having it all spelled out for us.Though the $40 million dollar film was actually considered a box-office failure at the time of its release, it has still managed to maintain a dedicated cult following to this day, which perhaps would not have been possible without Lyne's more unpredictable approach.  And given the film's beautiful cinematography by action-film lensman Jeffrey Kimball, Maurice Jarre's eerie score, and sincere acting, the film clearly deserves its status as a triumphant cult favorite.People seem to forget that Lyne has not only brought technical credibility to his work (what with gorgeous camerawork and clever editing), he has also managed to motivate his actors to give some of their best performances (this includes actors who were already established, such as Glenn Close in FATAL ATTRACTION, as well as those who were not taken as seriously until working with Lyne, such as Demi Moore in INDECENT PROPOSAL).  True, some of the material he has worked with is rather wanting, as things like 9 1/2 WEEKS, FLASHDANCE, FATAL ATTRACTION, and INDECENT PROPOSAL, may have started out as nothing more than big-budget exploitation films, but one cannot deny the respectability that Lyne has brought to them.Lyne is just as noteworthy as his other British commercials-to-Hollywood-transition contemporaries like Ridley and Tony Scott, Alan Parker, and others.  The fact that he saved JACOB'S LADDER from becoming a more sensationalistic, OMEN/EXORCIST clone is a testament to that.  What remains is a gripping, terrifying, well-acted and directed thriller whose success must be measured by the continual impact the film has to this day, and not by its initially questionable box-office figures.For others out there that have an affinity for this film, as do I, please pick up the loaded DVD Special Edition ASAP!  It truly does the film justice.  "},{"Title":"a good film that is almost irredeemably damaged by a stupid plot element","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While the premise for Jacob's Ladder is brilliant, it's a shame that screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin couldn't resist trying to insert a social statement into a plot that is otherwise based totally in spiritual and philosophical matters.  To be more specific (but without using a spoiler), Jacob's epiphany about what really happens to him in Vietnam is stupid; it's unreasonable to think he could possibly arrive at this conclusion.  And what's worse, the addition of this plot element totally deconstructs an otherwise perfect allegory.  It's unnecessary and it's presence is a crying shame.But, nevertheless, I do like the movie.  What it does, it does well.  Some legitimate scares and a general creepy atmosphere benefit the film, as does the performance of Tim Robbins.  Furthermore, the juxtaposition between Jacob's life in New York and his experience in Vietnam is handled well - as are the biblical references.  But, be warned.  This is the kind of movie you have to watch twice to catch all the subtleties.  8/10 "},{"Title":"The realest film I've ever seen!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is not a horror film but if you consider yourself to be an extremely analytical person such as myself, then this one could be mentally disturbing.  I relate 100% to this film because I had a bad trip back in'95 and ironically enough that was the first time I saw this film.  Aside from all the biblical references, confusing flashbacks, and substory about mortality I found it very difficult to watch this film, although I was enjoying it.  I recently found this jewel of a film at Walmart for like 5 bucks so I had to add it to my collection, and sure enough when I viewed it I jumped at every scene that featured Jacob and the masked man with the convulsing head.  With all the thought provoking comments and analysis I have read, this movie boils down to one thing and that is to simply enjoy your life while you can.  That is exactly what this film expressed to me in relation to my episode, and due to Allah's will I am alive today to relay that message.  One of the best films ever.  Highly underrated and overlooked.  Simply put, beautiful and disturbing, I give this film 109 stars. "}{"Title":"The realest film I've ever seen!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is not a horror film but if you consider yourself to be an extremely analytical person such as myself, then this one could be mentally disturbing.  I relate 100% to this film because I had a bad trip back in'95 and ironically enough that was the first time I saw this film.  Aside from all the biblical references, confusing flashbacks, and substory about mortality I found it very difficult to watch this film, although I was enjoying it.  I recently found this jewel of a film at Walmart for like 5 bucks so I had to add it to my collection, and sure enough when I viewed it I jumped at every scene that featured Jacob and the masked man with the convulsing head.  With all the thought provoking comments and analysis I have read, this movie boils down to one thing and that is to simply enjoy your life while you can.  That is exactly what this film expressed to me in relation to my episode, and due to Allah's will I am alive today to relay that message.  One of the best films ever.  Highly underrated and overlooked.  Simply put, beautiful and disturbing, I rate this film with 109 stars. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Show","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is everything you could ask for in a beautiful story.  Tim Robbins plays Jacob Singer, a Vietnam vet who suffers hallucinations, haunting flashbacks, and gets into weird situations.  He is at the end of his rope. Jezebel, his girlfriend, cares very much about him.  This movie has a lot of symbolism in it, some that are so miniscule but so important that you miss it.  It's a movie that is rare and unique and makes you both smile and cry. By the end, you feel as if you were Jacob, wanting all the chaos to stop. The main key is Tim Robbins who plays Jacob, whether he's just doing what he does day in or day out or if he's crying you pity him.  The opening scene is very horrifying.  It takes you to Vietnam where the problem starts.  What I like about this movie is that each scene will end abruptly and suddenly your somewhere else, trying to make sense of what's happened almost like Jacob is.  One of the most heart wrenching scenes is after a party, Jacob is in bed shivering while Jezebel is telling him she doesn't understand what's happening to him.  She finds out he is running of fever of 106 degrees, with the help of some neighbors, he's put into a bathtub filled with cold water and ice.  He's crying and screaming but then we're taken back to Vietnam in a flash.  He also had a past with an ex-wife who threw him out when he employed at a post office after going to college six years for a doctorate. They had three boys but one dies and the fact continues to destruct Jacob throughout the film.  Confused yet?  Well, on the first viewing it is.  Butit's such a great movie that, you need to see it more then just a couple of times.  The beautiful ending, which I won't give away is so gorgeous, with the score and the acting, that you'll need to get a box of kleenex.  And don't be reluctant to see it because it's classified as horror, believe me the only horror that it shows is the reality, because if you miss this, you'll be missing out on one hell of a show. "},{"Title":"Powerful. See it -- but one viewing is probably enough.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Time Robbins performs well in his role. The movie portrays a strong sense of loneliness, depression, anxiety and paranoia (ala LSD). There is a powerful mood created of helplessness... of being on a rollercoaster ride without control or hope for an end to the escalating fear -- like your worst nightmare.It is easy to get lost in flashbacks and disjointed story line and it is difficult to sort out reality from the imagined -- as planned by the film's creators. Stronger than any physical torture, the mental torture is especially disturbing.This is a film that will leave you thinking about, and talking about it for hours and days afterward. I'm glad I watched it, but am not sure I could or would want to watch it again...  "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladders Is One Of A Kind","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a psychological thriller in which Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins), a Vietnam veteran, is suffering from hallucinations which seem to have some connection with what happened to him one night in Vietnam war. Jacob finds himself living in different time realities and he just cannot grab at the present time. He sees demons and nightmarish visions strangely combined with flashbacks of that night in Vietnam which make him pass out. When he regains conciousness, he wakes up to completely a different time reality which, too, turns out to be a false at the end, leading him to another false reality. He cannot make sense of the situation and thinks he is losing his mind. He constantly finds himself trapped in neverending sequences of nightmares that he cannot wake up from. This cycle never ends until the end of the film when all the other realities vanish, leaving out only one reality which makes Jacob's Ladder a brilliant movie. Jacob's physician Louis probably express the main theme of the movie best in these words So, if you're frightened of dying and... and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth.I think this movie is unfairly underestimated and not given enough credit. Tim Robbins' performance is flawless and fascinating. Adrian Lyne directed the movie very well; the emotions and the tension that are aimed to be brought about are achieved quite successfully. One interesting fact about the movie is that when you watch it for the second time, you notice a lot of things, which you did not notice or could not make sense out of in the first place. Names, small incidents, conversations, even the advertisement in the downtown train take on a new meaning once you know what is really happening to Jacob's Singer. I strongly recommend Jacob's Ladder to the people who like psychological thrillers and soft horror movies.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Though I am no Vietnam veteran, after seeing this movie, I feel like one. Tim Robbins plays Jacob with a lot of flair and experience. The movie's scenario is wonderful (quite scary now and then!), and the flashbacks used to tell the story are original. Even Culkin plays great and the ending is very good. This movie is a masterpiece and I recommended it to everyone!***** out of *****  Alden "},{"Title":"An engrossing and nightmarish journey into Jacob's mind","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the story of Jacob Singer (played superbly by Tim Robbins), a soldier in Vietnam who is injured in combat and returns home to New York City, where he works at a post office. He starts to see bizarre faceless people on the subway and in passing cars. In his personal life his wife (powerful performance by Elizabeth Pena) begins to change. His friend and doctor are killed. Then he meets a man who tells him of a strange hallucinating drug that was used on the soldiers in Vietnam. It is a completely enveloped nightmare for Jacob and the audience, with the dreamlike visions and hallucinations and distrust of people. His only hope it seems is his buddy, Louis, played by Danny Aiello. The finale, which has recently been plagiarised by a recent film which in a sense I won't mention, is shocking and can be interpreted in different ways. This is an excellent and engrossing film, brilliantly acted and directed and one you will always remember. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies I have ever seen","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Whoa mama. What a brain-warper. I don't know if you can categorize this movie. Is it an edgy drama? A psychological thriller? A trippy horror flick? A religious film? A government conspiracy film? The rubic's cube structure and baffling ending always leaves me with both an exclamation point and a question mark. But Adrian Lyne's underrated classic has is a kicky ride with a groundbreaking visual style that has been borrowed in lesser films, most recently the new House on Haunted Hill.  "},{"Title":"A mental labyrinth","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When people ask me what is my favorite movie, I usually tell them Jacob's Ladder.  No other film have I viewed as often, nor as intently, as this one.  But I didn't really understand exactly what was going on until the second viewing, because the plot is extremely convoluted and weird.  You are depriving yourself of an intense experience if you miss this film--but be warned, many scenes are disturbing, if not horrifying. "},{"Title":"Flawed but interesting experimental film!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a visual experiment along the lines of the short story An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge...While the movie does take you places we wouldn't ordinarily be going in a typical Hollywood contemporary horror film, my problems with the movie deal with it's inconsistencies...The biggest one being...if the movie is a flash forward from the Vietnam era(late 60's-early 70's), why do we hear disco music when it hadn't been introduced until much later in the decade? This is the problem I have with the movie...it's one thing to have a story about a drug trip, but to throw everything at you and answer away any inconsistencies by saying Well he was high when it was happening...sorry, I don't by that...do some more research before shooting begins guys! Oh yeah... look for McCauley Culkin to make an appearance towards the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie - extremely spiritual subject matter","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film is extremely abstract, but for me it is about a man who is in the process of dying, and is in a kind of purgatory. He must get rid of his demons (eg. the memory of his wife and child) to pass into heaven, where he is led in the end by the spirit of his dead son.Jacob's Ladder is my favourite movie of all time. No movie has ever touched me like it did. "}{"Title":"It's A Wonderful Life for the Viet Nam generation","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say?  This is one of my all-time favorite movies, and it'll level you if you really take it all in.  The summary above is how a friend described it once, and in an off-hand way it nearly does the film justice. I saw this in the theater when it first came out, not really knowing what to expect.  It was such a powerful experience that my legs were literally physically weak by the end, and I almost couldn't walk back to my dorm. It is intense in a way that nothing else I've seen is--in a deeply spiritual way.  Given a chance, this movie will reach deep into your heart and your soul.  The themes from Dante and Eckhart that run through the script are not squandered in the least.  In a lesser movie, they would be pretentious decoration, but not here.  This is the story of a man shaken in his faith in almost everything--a modern-day Job--a man who goes through such torment and horror that, finally, simply allowing him to die is the most merciful way to end the film, and it is a truly beautiful ending.  The terror at work here is not at all of the usual variety--it is a sort of mystical terror, and this is the kind of movie that has the potential to leave you a different person after watching it.  (It seems perhaps relevant to mention at this point that I am not a particularly Christian person, and you don't have to be to appreciate the imagery and themes here.  The film employs Christian ideas and thought, but from the perspective of the mystic, not in an orthodox manner.) The multiple comments to the effect that this movie will require repeated viewings are certainly deserved, as it is complexly structured and may seem very ambiguous or even chaotic at first.  Who truly appreciates Citizen Kane upon a first viewing, though?  Who really comprehends Hamlet the first time he reads it?  This is certainly also a work which needs to be seen a few times to really sink in, but if you give it a chance you will almost certainly want to. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films ever made","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder may not be the most innovative or technically great film(qualities that the American Film Institute honors) but artistically it is one of the greatest films ever made. Jacob's Ladder is a complex multilayered movie (too complex and multilayered for most). I won't go into details because they have already been covered by other users. I will say though that anyone considering watching Jacob's Ladder should understand that it will probably take multiple viewings to come to a complete understanding of the film. I would also recommend seeing it on DVD (the deleted scenes and documentary are great). If you take the time to understand this movie you won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"It's worth the multiple viewings that it requires","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie three times now, and I finally understand how everything ties in to everything else. It takes a few sittings to realize exactly how everything comes together like this, but once you understand the big picture, it takes the film to another level entirely.This is a brilliantly allegorical story that has a few genuinely creepy and disorienting moments. But beyond being an above-average psychological horror movie, it's also a well-executed take on The Divine Comedy that borders on the surreal. The acting isn't always convincing, but Lyne's direction and Rubin's script (not to mention the haunting score) make up for this.Well-crafted throughout, with a few minor but noticeable flaws. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film - why the mediocre IMDB rating?","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I've only just watched this film, and I haven't had time to really mull over it to the extent a lot of the other IMDB web-site surfers seem to have, but already I'm confused.... I've never seen such uniformly gushing plaudits for any movie (all richly deserved) so why isn't this in the top 200? Or top 50, for that matter?One part I thought was cinematically brilliant - in the party after Jacob starts wailing on the floor, the stroboscopic images of people standing concernedly over him, and the subsequent transition back to 'Nam. This is a really fantastic flick actually; Aeillo's spiel about Devils really being angels - who would have thought of it? But watch the film and it makes total sense! A true gem. One that I'll certainly be watching again soon (I've a four day rental on it - woo hoo!). "},{"Title":"Like a shifting, interweaving state of waking sleep","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must say, upon first seeing this film, that I was luckily in a mood to see just such a fine piece of work.  In portraying the purgatorial state of mind in which Vietnam Veteran Jacob Singer finds himself, Adrian Lyne has crafted a moving meditation upon the world of consciousness, the mind, death, and redemption.  Set against a dreamlike, sometimes nightmarish landscape in which Singer slowly slides farther and farther away from reality, we are subjected to an intense, flash-forward, toward a point where our protagonist must let go of a past he can never forget, and a future that he will never know.  Simply put, Jacob's Ladder is a one of a kind masterpiece, an emotional, unforgettable film which will tear your soul apart.      "},{"Title":"Lyne is forgiven","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, Adrian is forgiven.He has made some bad films, but because of this masterpiece he has written his name in the directors hall of fame. A person who can make a movie like this should be remembered forever. Jacob's Ladder is a movie landmark.It's that simple. "},{"Title":"This film should be seen","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Never before has a film been both genuinely terrifying and genuinely moving. On first viewing, it is incredibly disorientating, tearing you from utter pain and confusion and dropping you into warmth and safety with no warning. The gradual explanation of the events that Jacob witnesses is strangely comforting, but offset by the very tangible dangers that he is forced to confront.  And then, when it is over, and everything makes sense, it leaves you feeling empty and drained, even moved to tears. Unique.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant and complex","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Bruce Joel Rubin's script once had the distinction of being one of Hollywood's best unproduced screenplays, an opinion trumpeted in the pages of Premiere magazine.  In 1990, when Adrian Lyne finally put Rubin's script on the screen, it was also revealed to be one of the most convoluted, one that doesn't seem sure whether it wants to examine the government's use of its soldiers for experiments with a dangerous hallucinatory drug, near-death experiences, or the gradual acceptance of death.  Jacob's Ladder deals with all of these subjects, but in such a way as to guarantee that the viewer can interpret the film in almost any way, and on any level, he wants. The result is a complex, fascinating film with an extraordinary cast.  As he demonstrated a few years later with The Shawshank Redemption, Tim Robbins sure knows how to pick a winner.  Everyone else is good, too, especially the lovely Elizabeth Pena, who I would like to see in more movies.  "},{"Title":"More than a movie, a hypnotic dream","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film breaks many rules, purposefully confusing the viewer about the limits of reality and the truths in the film. It is difficult to describe, but far more difficult to forget. Haunting and frightening, you'll be thinking about it for weeks afterwards, sorting out the realities. "},{"Title":"Very very interesting...","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film, and as you have already heard, it really makes you think about life in general. I have to be honest, the first time I saw this movie at the end I only kinda understood it. But recently, I came on the internet to check out the comments. The light bulb in my head came on, I saw all the references to what his imaginary life was about. I have decided to rent it again. (or buy if they have it in stock). It is a very powerful film, Tim Robbins is a great actor as he is in other movies like The Shawshank Redemtion. Anyone who likes thinking movies and not mindless effects movies should rent this. "}{"Title":"Very poignant film","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It took me many reruns to really understand what this marvelous film is about. Tim Robbins, as Jacob Singer, is a superb and talented actor. It has the impact of 2001 A Space Odyssey, and yet I don't remember seeing it advertised. I have both the soundtrack and the video, and will treasure them for time to come.  "},{"Title":"It's not often that you see a movie that changes your way of looking at the world, but Jacob's Ladder is one of them.","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's not often that you see a movie that changes your way of looking at the world, but Jacob's Ladder is one of them.  Don't be fooled into thinking that this is some stock horror movie. . . perhaps the greatest dis-service done to this film is that it is classified in the Horror category, along with Friday 13th and the like.  Unlike most movies, the horror that Jacob's Ladder explores is more of a psychological one . . . the naked fear that men face when confronted with the reality of their own death.  In the case of Jacob Singer, confronting this reality takes the form of a bizarre journey of the mind where strange demons conspire against him in an effort to rip his life apart.  The ending to this journey . . . and of the movie . . . is very well done . . . it's both eerie and uplifting, if that is possible. And, although it may sound corny, the movie actually teaches you something about living in the world with these demons, something you can take with you long after you've returned the movie to the video store.  A very solid film. . . that promises to haunt you for a long time after you watch it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful Horrifying script","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The storyline (Girlfriend, Vets) is Jacob in purgatory mixed with his life flashing before him (wife, child) along with in his fears (or unresolved issues that must be let go off-- son dying and what and why did he see his own company kill each other). The start of the movie with Jacob in the subway - he is on the way to hell - he gets off at a stop which is shut down, notice he tries to climb the stairs and can't get out? and he runs back down the subway track (or the tunnel with the light at the end of it). Don't forget that your fears or things you hold on to are burned away (Fever in the tub symbolizes him holding onto sleeping with his wife with his son still alive). I love Louis quote If you're holding on then you see demons tearing your life away....If you're at peace then they are really angles setting you free. GREAT FILM One of the best "},{"Title":"Exceptional movie, very dark and oppressive","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A very clever film with a strong religious undertone. A brilliant performance by Tim Robbins as a man struggling to make the final choices and direction in his life, whilst in a state of near death. An absoloute must see film 10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a masterpiece.  When I rented this movie I was expecting a usual, run-of-the-mill horror movie.But what I got was something completely different.This movie is the story of Jacob Singer, a Vietnam vet who has a doctorate in arts, but works for the Post Office.  Before he left for Vietnam, he had a son die in an accident.  Now he's divorced and lives with one of his co-workers. Strange things start happening, though; he is soon having terrible flashbacks from Vietnam, and he is seeing faceless demons everywhere.At first he thinks he is losing his mind; but when his doctor and friend are killed in car bombings.  He begins to suspect that the Army had exposed him and his friends to something in Vietnam.This movie excels at making you feel what the hero feels.  When he is remembering his dead son, you can't help but feel sad with him.  When he is scared, so are you.  But this movie doesn't rely on jump scenes or cheap thrills.  It's more of a low-level psychological horror.  With one of the best endings I have ever witnessed in cinema.Some people feel sad or uneasy when this movie ends, others leave feeling happy or content (I'm one of the latter).  One thing you have to admit, though, is that this is a beautiful movie.  "},{"Title":"Amazing under-rated Film  - Must See!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Showtime has begun to replay Jacob's Ladder with a 30 minute 'trailer' that has interviews with Lyne, Robbins and others.I have seen Jacob's Ladder four times. As of this last viewing, with the help of this Showtime featurette, I can honestly say that I understand this movie. I clearly didn't before. More importantly I believe this movie has finally come of age and is truly brilliant overlooked film making!Lynes commentary obviates the fact that Jacob's Ladder is made up of three distinct story lines; two of which are somewhat obvious while the third (and main) story line reveals much more than previously understood. The two obvious stories are Jacob's Vietnam experience and his relationship with his family and death of his son. However, the main story with the 'demons', ' Jacob's girlfriend', and the 'chiropractor'is the real shocker.While watching notice that the two 'obvious' story lines are shown as surreal flashbacks and seem perhaps imaginary. The main story line seems like the 'real' world. In fact it's just the opposite! Vietnam and his family are the real stories. They are the only things that have actually happened to Jacob. The main story is actually an allegory of Jacob's death! He is dead! He is in purgatory! His new (always naked) girlfriend, Jezz or Jezebel is there to tempt him into staying in purgatory and further confuse him. She burns his old family photos to hid these memories and she keeps him alive to torment him. Later at a party she is shown dancing in a near 'orgy' with other demons. The 'demons' are the other lost souls in purgatory. The subway train that nearly hits him is filled with these souls as they are apparently being delivered to hell. The chiropractor reveals later that they are either 'demons to torment' or 'angels to deliver' depending on whether or not you have accepted your fate and made peace with the past. (Much like the spoon fed concepts of Isabellas suicide in What Dreams may Come.) His dead son, his primary torment, ends up being the angel that delivers him once he has excepted his fate and understands how he got there.Once you realize all this, the movie reads like a brilliant novel. All the subtle things that previously seemed bizarre and confusing become very meaningful and strikingly brilliant. All the characters names and all the little things they do have meaning within the context of this 'hell'!You must watch this movie again with this in mind.User; Boggle-2 nailed most of this in his review too! Good Job! "},{"Title":"brilliant, beautiful and eerie","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't understand why this film is so underrated. It's a tale that is at once horrifying, sad and ultimately very beautiful with a message of hope. Tim Robbins is a brilliant actor--Jacob is vulnerable, scared sh*tless, and has no idea why all the strange things are happening to him--and Robbins pulls off this difficult role brilliantly. (He is also kinda hunky--so cute you just want to gather him up in your arms and comfort him...but I digress)I saw this movie when it came out 8 years ago...and was reminded of it while watching David Lynch's Lost Highway, and knew I had to see it again. There are actually quite a few parallels between Jacob's Ladder and Lost Highway--both are very dreamlike and surreal, nothing is what it seems to be...both have plots that are initially confusing, but gain more coherence on further viewings...neither have linear but rather, almost *circular* plots...both have protagonists that have absolutely no idea what is happening to them or why...both have long silences and strange images that enhance the suspense...I could go on. There are differences however Jacob's Ladder contains a message of hope that is totally lacking in Lost Highway, and though both are surreal and dreamlike, Jacob's Ladder is much more mainstream, and will therefore appeal to a wider audience. Beside's Robbins' poignant performance, Danny Aiello is very strong as the angelic chiropractor. Very haunting movie. It really makes you think. Not a movie you are likely to forget. "},{"Title":"State of the Art","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it's all been said by the others before me, including the director himself. What I will add is the need I have seeing the movie. I've got the need to make everyone see the movie, everyone I know. It will make them all be better people. I would love to read the story, or a novel that's behind it. Frightening and beautiful, but not in the bizarre way. The film is the ladder if you ask me. It's just like Michael said, it wakes the primary vision of one's life, the vision that he's got for himself. "},{"Title":"the 90's smartest nailbiter","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps the best work from a director who has gone as far as a resurrection of Nabokov's Lolita to challenge the social norms of his medium, Jacob's Ladder weaves an oblique, demented and symbolic recreation of the moment of death. Criticized as muddled, inconsistent and full of extraneous footage, the film operates as the product of one split-second of imagination - a powerful and beautiful testament to the associative power of the human mind, and its link to the quasi-immortality of the human soul. Threaded through the surface of the dense epistemological and metaphysical parable is another gripping story about experimentation with mind-controlling chemistry in the Viet Nam war.  Lyne's masterful handling of the paralleled stories evidences his virtuosity.  Perhaps the brightest scene in the movie takes place in an abandoned rail car between Matt Craven (Michael, the chemist) and Tim Robbins (Jacob).  This dialogue is well-scripted and executed to near perfection. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary and touching","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  About a century ago, Ambrose Bierce wrote a short story called An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge. The story was so powerful that it eventually became a movie, a Twilight Zone episode, and (in updated form) a novel called Jacob's Ladder. Adrian Lyme transformed the introspective, psychological drama into a haunting movie - part mystery, part psychology, part supernatural - but all very sensible when the secret is revealed.When you watch it a second time, and you must, you will pick up on a myriad of subtleties you missed the first time. The imagery and the metaphors are richly layered, and the visuals are excellent.This movie is underrated. It is a superb movie filled with nuanced performances by Tim Robbins, Elizabeth Pena, and Danny Aiello. A special treat is one of the most affecting and natural performances ever given by a child actor, and it is delivered by none other than the pre-famous Macaulay Culkin.It just gripped me inside and never let go. There is nothing more frightening than to know that what we fear most is hidden inside the things we trust most. Our friends may betray us, our country may betray us, and ultimately we may betray ourselves.And there is nothing more rewarding than to face and make peace with these fears.Terrific movie.  "}{"Title":"A must-see for any serious film lover","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The ordeal through which Jacob (played by Tim Robbins, in one of his best roles) lives in Jacob's Ladder is unforgettable.Ostensibly about the delayed flashbacks of a Vietnam veteran who has been subjected to drug experimentation without his knowledge, this movie, upon a second viewing, reveals other dimensions. Actually, each time one sees the movie other possible interpretations come to mind, until the viewer finally decides that-like life itself- there is no one correct way to explain the different realities presented. Perhaps that is why it is so deeply haunting and engrossing, because it raises so many questions about the meaning of reality and the subjective nature of perception. Aside from these deep subjects, the acting is excellent. This is Tim Robbins' best movie (with the possible exception of Shawshank Redemption, another underrated film), and Danny Aiello is wonderfully natural, as always. I recommend this movie without reservation, but be prepared to lose a little sleep after watching it. And be prepared to watch it AGAIN, and again... "},{"Title":"Emotionally wrenching, intellectually stimulating","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Stirring, scary, surreal -- a daring and captivating film. The story is viewed through the eyes of the main character, who is unable to maintain a single reality for any length of time. Sometimes reality is beautiful, sometimes it is terrifying, but it is always demanding something of him he doesn't know how to give. Is he paranoid? That would explain the delusional nature of his world. Is he trapped in some awful nightmare? Is his world insane because he's insane, or because he, alone, is sane?  Each world is so real, so convincing. What is real? What does it mean to lose your reality?Superb acting by Robbins and Pena. The visual feel of the movie enhances the movement back and forth from one time and place to another. The multi-layered mystery underlying the plot engages your attention and your sympathy, and the resolution tugs at your heart. "},{"Title":"Very Positive","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is an amazing film.  At first I thought it was just bizarre but it is quite cool.  The ending just wowed me.  It is my second favourite movie.  I don't know why so many people thought it was just average. "},{"Title":"A very heavy and emotion stirring film.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this picture three times to date.  Each time I was immersed in the story and lived the main character's nightmare along with him.  I'm not sure if I ever really understood the movie completely and I will probably see it at least one more time.  This was one very disturbing film and I look forward to seeing it again.  I would also highly recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"A Vietnam veteran experiences violent switches between realities and thinks he is losing his mind.","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder must be one of the most underestimated movies of the  nineties. It is a haunting, horrifying but ultimately beautiful tale of a  Vietnam veteran (Jacob) who experiences strange flashbacks, and keeps  waking up in different realities. He thinks he is losing his mind, until  someone contacts him with some answers to his questions. The movie is  surreal, and at times confusing, but the incredible twist in the end sheds  a completely new light on the film. Tim Robbins shines, as does Macauley  Culkin before he became a Home Alone-brat. Danny Aiello has the part of his  life as Jacob's angelic chiropractor. Unmissable.   "},{"Title":"One of the most important horror films in cinema.","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is an innovative horror film by English director Adrian Lyne, one of the most successful filmmakers of the 80s. Tim Robbins impressively plays Jacob Singer, a Vietnam War veteran who seems to be going to hell. Interestingly this is happening to him in a New York City that's not far from reality. The city's scenery was intentionally filmed to look medieval. Some scenes were influenced by medieval paintings. Meister Eckhart, the Christian mystic mentioned by Louis, lived in the Middle Ages. Scenes, some very unusual, come and go and the viewer may not understand what is happening on first viewing. This is not a straightforward film, but what makes it especially compelling is Lyne's direction together with Jeffrey L. Kimball's cinematography. Almost every scene is memorable, and there are some unforgettable images. People nowadays seem to forget that memorable images is what cinema is all about. Jacob's Ladder certainly delivers on this front. The supporting cast do a good job, with Danny Aiello as Louis being the standout. I mentioned that this is a horror film but one can also call it a psychological thriller. It's a film with an 80s look and an effective soundtrack. It's not perfect but it's one of my favorites to watch. I easily recommend seeing Jacob's Ladder. "},{"Title":"A bizarre and drug induced little gem with plenty of hidden political agenda amidst the craziness","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacobs Ladder is by far something very unique. It takes the age old conspiracy theory of medication and chemical weapon usage in Vietnam and puts a whole new spin on it by giving us Jake (or Jacob), a post-Vietnam war veteran who suddenly starts to experience the bizarre world of demons and hidden conspiracies and a world that is haunting him after being shot in 'Nam. What Jacob's Ladder boils down to (and this is a major spoiler so don't read any further until you've seen the film), but Jacob's Ladder is the last of his life flashing before his eyes. He's descending the ladder into death because in reality he hasn't even left 'Nam and is dying on a stretcher and see his dead son, his ex-wife, his girlfriend, his best friends and comrades and the demons of death all around him. But you never know any of this until the film closes. Jacob's Ladder is dark, and very moody...very solemn and depressive and scary and the ambiance fits the entire mood of the film so that it works very well. It's just a little too dark and moody to really be incredibly effective and some of the performances aren't quite as bold as I would have hoped. Still Jacob's Ladder is a twisted little tale that will leave you breathless.Tim Robbins is terrific, really underrated I think as an actor and this small gem of a movie is no exception because his absolutely disturbing portrayal of the haunted Jacob is brilliant from his depression, to his fear to his total break down that he has. Robbins certainly handles the intensity of the role very well. The only problem is the supporting cast aren't strong enough to meet him half way although fortunately the supporting cast are all very back seat to his story. Elizabeth Peña plays Robbins' girlfriend who he appears to seek solace with but her help becomes too far from reach as he slips deeper into his hallucinations. Other than an attempt to make her eye candy (something this film does not need), Peña is rather bland and more gets in the way of Robbins' performance than she does add to it. She just always seems to pop up rather than be there for the role. Danny Aiello is appropriately creepy as Jacob's so-called chiropractor and has this air of wicked around him. It's hard to explain but he has this shadow that makes you doubt his motives and he does explain the 'ladder' theory to him. Also watch for a young and uncredited Macaulay Culkin as Jacob's dead son who plays a significant role in the film.The film is very stylish in many ways but also in some ways forgettable but that is almost the style of director Adrian Lyne who has made some very stylish and peculiar love stories (9 1/2 Weeks, Indecent Proposal, Unfaithful) and Jacob's Ladder adds to that peculiar list. Jacob's Ladder is very dull and bleached out and has this unique and significantly depressive way about it that makes you almost sad as you're watching it. That means you probably won't have a good time watching it but at the same time you can't not watch it...it's like having a bad dream much like Jacob is doing. The political message is not to forget Vietnam or what may or may not have happened there and although it's not forced down your throat by any means the flashing scenes of 'Nam and the brutal melt down Jacob experiences keeps the message at the front of your mind. It's worth seeing if not just to study the dark and depressing nature of Adrian Lyne's films. 7/10 "},{"Title":"possibly the best film of all time","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I ought jacobs ladder being told that it was one of the scariest movies ever.When i did try to buy it the guy at the desk kept warning me about how disturbing and harrowing the film was. And he wasn't wrong although this film is harrowing and disturbing it's also very touching and beautiful in it's own small way.The whole film was about Jacob Singer (brilliantly played by Tim Robbins)and the things he see's every day; like being told he's dead seeing his girlfriend dance with a monster and seeing hobo's with tails.This film keeps you entertained till the very end with a dramatic twist and a very interesting scene were Jacob see's hell. This film is guaranteed to satisfy every film lovers need and is worth a respectable 9/10 "},{"Title":"Jacobs nightmares","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film was by the most disturbing i have seen during the nineties.The films premise is basic but enthralling,a Vietnam soldier who is wounded during battle evisions the demons in his life,but translated as not flashbacks,but his life flashing before his eyes.Looking ahead after the death of his son by an accident,the mixtures of dreams and flashes starts to echo in his memories.Which starts a chain reaction of visions so horrible that he thinks hes going insane.This story has some merit about scientific experiments done by their own government using a chemical agent which causes agressiveness in the soldiers,hoping for quick results by rampaging through Vietnam as the ultimate killer suddenly has a turn for the worst.Each soldier starts killing each other,with no remorse or mercy.But in jacobs case,he wasn't succumbed to the chemical as the others were,in fact it somehow altered his perception on his surroundings of the subconscious.Giving him frightening visions of demons and what if scenarios during his demise on the gurny in nams mash unit.I thought it was a great film,the creepy creatures with no feeling of human essence,driving him insane with faceless people.A demon of sadism on a gurny shaking with unholy vibrations and a hood on its head.The presence of evil in every corner of his mind,hoping for a way out of death,only to accept it,as an appease to his sons memory.Knowing he should not have been in Vietnam,but being home for his wife,and son.Excellent film,hats off to adrian lynne. "},{"Title":"Lyne's Divine Comedy","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The point of departure is Dante's fifth circle of Hell (designated for the wrathful)and then New York is reimagined as the city of Dis (surrounded by the river Styx). The center is the time spent in Purgatory, mostly the seventh terrace (for the lustful). The finale resolves in the ninth sphere of Paradise (with the angel). As a trip through the three realms of the dead, this glances off of Bergman's The Seventh Seal.The style is noir, so the main character is ground up by the machinery of his fate. To heighten the dislocation, Lyne casts a clueless actor to play the clueless main character.What is difficult to depict visually is the theological ruminations of Meister Eckhart (using Aiello as the medium -- he steals the show). There's no subtle way to do this in a popular film, so the essence of Eckhart is simply announced. Along the way, Lyne references his own Fatal Attraction - use of the bathtub - to 'liquefy the soul'.Lyne makes a complete investment in a world - Kimball's cinematography is the centerpiece here. Every last detail, every lock of hair, every costume and song (esp. My Thang from James Brown's Hell) reconstructs New York of the late 1970s -- it convincingly looks and feels like a period movie. The car abduction borrows straight from French Connection (note the baby carriage).This could have been one of the greats -- a cinematic self-examination of the soul -- unfortunately, they chose to turn this into an indictment of the 'government'. This is worse than tarnish, it completely ruins the containment of the narrative. Whatever we believe or reject about 'conspiracies', it's an argument for another place and time; there was no need to go down that road here. Tsk, Tsk. "}{"Title":"Eerie... just amazing","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have been a fan of the Silent Hill game series for the PS2 for years. I read somewhere that parts of the games are influenced by this movie. I had to rent it just to see for myself. Right away, I noticed a certain place that is in the 3rd game, and if you have played the game you will get chills when you see how Jacob reacts to the same situations you have to react to in the game. It creeped me out, and at first I thought it was just gimmicky.This is one of those movies that is impossible to explain. You must see this movie to believe it. Even if you haven't played, or even heard of Silent Hill, this film will make you think a lot. I wish I would have watched this movie when I was younger... before I joined the Army and learned what can happen when you are government property.I rate this movie at a 10 because of the way it made me feel. It is the ONLY movie to ever give me chills or make me feel emotional in any way. Be sure to buy/rent the DVD so you can watch the deleted scenes. "},{"Title":"Haunting portrayal of the descent and ascent of the hero","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First film that I am aware of that used a cinematographic technique of rapid and hyper movements (especially head shaking) to indicate other worldliness. I was impressed. Another technique that impressed me was the hallucinogenic effect interspersed periodically to support the idea that the viewer is seeing through the eyes of the protagonist.The story did a great job of keeping the audience focused on the mysterious nature of the plot. The spiritual philosophy espoused by Danny Aiello's character resonated as a kind of mythological device that aided the protagonist on his terrifying and confusing journey. The device was a kindness (helping the protagonist to bear his crucifix) and a measure of hope for both the Tim Robbin's character and the audience.Overall, the movie did a wonderful job of portraying a man's decent into hell and his ultimate resurrection. "},{"Title":"One of the best psychological Thrillers","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Vietnam war is over. War vet Jacob Singer (T.Robbins) returns home. He finds himself a new job and his second wife (Elizabeth Pena) loves him very much. But soon Jacob realizes that something strange happened to him in Vietnam. He starts seeing weird things , ugly creatures chase him in the subway , and even his dead son (Macaulay Culkin) from his first marriage comes to visit him. Jacob's Vietnam buddies are also having the same symptoms. Together they find out the truth about the horrible experiments that took place in Vietnam. The worst thing about Jacob's nightmares is that he is not dreaming...He realizes that too late...and falls down from his ladder.Now this movie is not really a horror. It's more like a psychological thriller with horror elements (which are used very effectively). Its never boring , though the story is a little hard to follow. Its not your typical brainless horror flick. As the movie goes, it slowly shows Jacob falling into madness and despair. The atmosphere is creepy and even unpleasant at times. But those are one of the factors that make this film a masterpiece.The acting is almost on the highest possible level. Tim Robbins looks great as the paranoiac Jacob. The supporting cast includes Elizabeth Pena (Jacob's wife) , Danny Aiello (Jacob's doctor) , Ving Rhames ,Eriq LaSalle (Jacob's Nam buddies) , and even Macaulay Culkin (Jacob's dead son). The ending of the movie is truly powerful.Verdict  One of the strongest movies i have seen. Good acting , good plot , atmosphere , great ending - everything to keep you in your chair. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite film","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" How could such a weird movie rank as my favorite? Because Jacob Singer embarks upon a journey into fear and madness that ultimately ends with his enlightenment. Though the plot and story line are extremely complicated and even confusing, it is the story of everyman; of how we will all deal with our ultimate destination.Singer finds himself in a hellish copy of New York which looks exactly like the one we are familiar with but populated with devils and monsters who terrorize him at every turn. He lives with a sexy woman from work who turns out to be one of the demons herself. He finds himself being transported to alternate realities - first living with Jezi in the evil New York, then in bed with his divorced wife, but now happily married again with all of his children, even his beloved Gabe who had died. Then he flips back to hell again. Weird.Danny Aielo is the key actor. He is the angel who tries to explain what is happening to Jacob. At one point in the movie, Singer finds himself on the operating table with evil doctors telling him he is dead, but he doesn't believe them. Eventually, Jacob listens to Aielo and finally escapes his tormentors. The last scene is incredibly powerful.I guess this movie is like a labyrinth with multiple paths, all of which are confusing. You never know what is really happening; if Singer is really living in New York, if he is having an LSD flashback, or if he is dead. When he bounces back and forth between living with Jezzie and his wife, you really get confused. It is a strange view of what might occur to us when we die. "},{"Title":"WARNING This film requires a brain.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THERE ARE SPOILERS CONTAINED IN THE FOLLOWING VITRIOLIC RANT. YOU'VE BEEN WARNED. Jacob's Ladder is a fine film. It's easy to see why the vast majority of the movie-going public might have difficulty understanding this, however, as the film contains only two explosions and there is no soulless explanation of EVERY SINGLE BIT IN THE FILM for our less adroit friends.The fact is that you need to think whilst watching this film. I'm sure most people dislike Jacob's Ladder because they started reading a review, got as far as the word 'Vietnam', and wandered happily into cinemas expecting Chuck Norris to kick some Viet-Cong kid's heart out of his back. Needless to say, they would have been sorely disappointed when they were blindsided with a bit of story, and it's this feeling of illiterate pique that has stayed with them. Here's the story in a nutshell, for those who would have preferred Tim Robbins to have turned into Jean-Claude van Damme and blown up a helicopter Jacob Singer's nightmare is just that - a nightmare. He was mortally wounded in Vietnam whilst under the influence of a mind-altering drug put into his food by the army. Unwilling to accept death, his mind constructs an alternate world in which to hide. The world is populated by demonic monsters and angelic chiropractors because of the way Jacob's mind works - he's a theology professor. His whole world is a construct (a bit like the Matrix, for those who are having difficulty following this), interspersed with brief glimpses of the real world, where he is dying. It's only when he is able to accept his own death that he is able to find peace. His enemy all the way through was his own mind and his own fear. When you look at it that way, there's really no room for an oily man in a vest, is there? This film is, unfortunately for fans of Jerry Bruckheimer, a drama with a vaguely ambiguous plot and a character-driven story.Those two explosions should go some way towards fixing that for the popcorn-snorting movie morons, tough, shouldn't they? "},{"Title":"Confusing, bizarre but still fantastic.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Since so many have already posted excellent comments I will just add that this is a film that I have carried with me since I first saw it back in 1990. The images and the overall tone of this brilliant shocker deserves to be seen by all fans of great psychological thrillers. Truly recommendable! "},{"Title":"One of the great horror/thrillers of all time","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw Jacob I came out of the theater with muscle aches on my legs and arms. This is how tense this movie kept me from begining to end. What a movie, what a trip ! This movie is one of the scariest movies of all time, it has been greatly overlooked and everytime someone asks me which is my farorite horror/thriller movie, Jacob, Angel Heart, and the Legend of Hell House come on top (although the later one I have not seen in over 28 years).  This movie has some of the scariest scenes of any movies, not just gore but scary stuff (check out the bouncing head at a party, who came up with this stuff!!!). Elizabeth Pe~na and Tim Robbins are great, Pe~na in particular. I don't agree with some of the people here who say the plot does not make sense. It completely does if you take as a given a certain premise. Read below what it is (although I might give away a bit of the plot).The premise is that at the moment of your death (or after) things will be revealed to you using characters that might be dead or alive, in the fight for your soul Angels and Demons will disguise themselves as people you know. "},{"Title":"Better the second time around","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Travis said it well...It certainly resonates watching this film in light of the world's current events. The fact that this film takes place in the Viet Nam era gives it a certain quality of innocence, for me anyway. I loved the film but when it first was released, I read no reviews about it. I wonder what was said about the film then. I am sure it may have lost a majority of the American Public except those who took it strictly on the surface as a horror flick. Danny Aiello gave me such comfort...he is so well cast, he moves me everytime...also gives me cause to LIKE my chiropractor. "},{"Title":"It's all been done before, and alot better...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is one of the most hyped up movie I've read about on the internet. Direct Adrian Lyne seems to enjoy in borrowing from other movies which have done it alot better...Take Fatal Attraction...Those who loved it probably never saw the Eastwood classic Play Misty For Me...And no, Flashdance was NOT a poor man's version of Saturday Night Fever...Jacob's Ladder is an overlong, pretentious character study along the lines of An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, as well as Carnival of Souls...There's even an old episode of the Twilight Zone called The Hitchhiker that did it better...Sorry folks, but those of you who love Jacob's Ladder for it's originality, are probably too young to have seen the movies that did it all better...But that's ok, I know alot of people who used to call Brian DePalma a genius, because at the time Hitchcock's Rear Window, Vertigo and the Man Who Knew Too Much were not in public release...Watch the originals, then watch Jacob's Ladder again, look at all its inconsistencies, like Disco music from the late 70s played in 1972...Then ask yourself...Is this movie REALLY a classic like 2001? Or have we just been thrown everything and the kitchen sink, and then been asked to look at this as a classic? Even the new Bruce Willis movie The Sixth Sense did it better folks...and once again, though it was a good movie, it certainly doesn't merit classic status that the originals do. "},{"Title":"I was just a hippie chemist, what did I know? Splendid psychological horror.","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is set in New York where postman Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) lives in a small apartment with his girlfriend Jezebel (Elizabeth Pena), however Jacob begins to have visions, dream & hallucinations & suffers from paranoia as he becomes more & more mentally unbalanced. The lines between fantasy & reality become ever more blurred, then he is contacted by an ex army mate Paul (Pruitt Taylor Vince) who confides in him that he too is experiencing the same symptom's & that he is going to hell. Shortly after Paul is killed when his car blows up, Jacob thinks it might be an army conspiracy & that they were 'given' something during their time in Vietnam. Can Jacob discover the truth before he completely loses his mind?Directed Adian Lyne this is an usual psychological horror thriller which forces you to think about it & the themes & issues it raises & isn't that straight forward. The script by Bruce Joel Rubin which takes itself extremely seriously is a pretty complex piece of work, it initially comes across as a detailed character study of Jacob but then throws in lots of conspiracy theory's, strange dialogue & a simple yet effective ending where you'll have to rearrange things in your head & come to a conclusion that suits your own interpretation of events. Jacob's Ladder is a well written film for sure with good central character's you care for & draw you into the story, it has some memorable dialogue, it has numerous twists & turns, it manages to blur the boundaries between fantasy & reality within the film so your never quite sure what your watching or in what context your watching it. As a whole I thought the story was very engaging & it hooked me, I think most people will want to see how this turns out & will want to follow it right through to the end. On the negative side I don't think I'd want to see it again anytime soon, it's perhaps a touch too long at almost 2 hours although having said that I'm not sure what I'd want to see less of.Director Lyne does a good job of portraying a gritty harsh New York, the film has a few creepy moments & some off beat imagery including Jezebel appearing to be raped by some tentacled creature! There's plenty of religious symbolism too with constant references to heaven & hell, overall I'd say Jacob's Ladder has an unsettling atmosphere to it. There's a touch of gore including some gory Vietnam footage & severed limbs but this is all about the story. There are a number of deleted scenes from Jacob's Ladder floating around & having seen some of them they're worth tracking down although I'm not sure I'd put them back in the film especially Jacob's final confrontation with Jezebel.With a supposed budget of about $25,000,000 all I can say is where did all the money go? Seriously that just sounds like a huge amount of money for what ended up on screen, it's well made for sure but there's no big 'name' actors in it, no big special effects scenes & not that many locations either. The acting is uniformly excellent especially from Robbins who makes this film what it is.Jacob's Ladder isn't for everyone that's for sure but if you like challenging films that make you think then you could do a lot worse than this & it's just that bit different. A dark psychological horror thriller that's well worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Maltin FINALLY changes entry in 2011 edition","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" MAJOR SPOILER ALERT!!! Reading this will turn a 10 into a 7.5.Mortally wounded Jacob Singer is lying on a cot in a field hospital in Vietnam, fighting to live. As his life ebbs away, he experiences hallucinations and flashbacks that terrify him. Just before he dies, we hear a doctor say that those who fight hardest to live have the hardest time dying. That is when we suddenly realize that what we've perceived as reality and as fantasy have been turned on their heads for almost all of this film.This revelation at the very end shatters our perception of this film. I haven't seen it since 1991, but I will never forget its impact. It took me 20 years to get Maltin's reviewer to change his/her entry, and I guess it will take longer for most IMDb contributers to catch up. "},{"Title":"intriguing study on the  psychological impact of war","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" without giving too much away,Tim Robbins is Jacob Singer,a soldier who survived Vietnam.twenty years later though,he is having flashbacks,and is losing grip on reality,not knowing what is real and what is fantasy.Elizabeth Pena,Ving Rhames,Eric La Salle,Danny Aiello,Matt Craven co-star.Jason Alexander and S.Epatha Merkerson also have small roles. Robbins gives a convincing performance,but i really liked Pena and Aiello.i thought they were both outstanding. this is a pretty good film,though i think they could have cut out 20 minutes or so.the film is also a bit of a downer at times,which is understandable given the subject matter.this isn't really a complaint,more of a personal observation.it's also very heavy on the drama,so don't expect a lot of action.anyway,for me Jacob's Ladder is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Some Good Scares, But........","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Tim Robbins is a Vietnam Vet living in New York City who starts to experience war flash-backs, violent hallucinations, and horrific dreams. The plot centers around Jacob (Robbins) trying to explain the demonic occurrences starting to consume his life. This is a very well done film but it does have some continuity problems. Before the negative stuff though, let's talk about the positive stuff. There's a solid cast of great actors assembled here, and they all turn in quality performances. The directing, special effects, cinematography, sound, and editing are wonderful. There are more than a few originally done jump scares and the whole film is dark and creepy.I do think that the script and screenplay drag at times. There are also some continuity issues that are glaring deficiencies in my mind. For instance, what is the exact time period of this film? It was released in 1990, but looks like the early eighties, and has a plot that places it in the late seventies?? I just think there is too much plot material left out, which is left up to the audience to figure out. That's fine if the audience needs to figure out a few things, but come on..... I don't want to spoil it for people, so I'll just advise first time viewers to be ready to fill in many blanks.Like I said, this is an excellent movie. It has many more positive attributes than negative ones. I do recommend that any serious horror fan view this film at least once. It's pretty unique as far as horror movies go despite it's plot holes. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies that i enjoy","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Lots of people have said tons about this movie already on IMDb . i just wanted to say the surreal / mystery vibe to this movie is really haunting and stands the test of time. Not only is Tim Robbins great but EVERY single extra, background person, supporting actor are just fabulous! The director really got the best performances from all involved in this movie. Everyone did a great job, it keeps you guessing and thinking the whole way through and the storyline is great. If you haven't seen this movie do yourself a favor and rent / buy it now. It's very reasonably priced on DVD. Flashes back from Vietnam era wartime to the present but it is not necessarily a war movie by any means. All the camera work is awesome with a lot of different locations around the city. This script must have been huge because different stuff is happening all the time w/ lots of attention to detail. "},{"Title":"Unlike any other","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I will be the first to admit, I didn't understand this entire movie. However, I'm not sure I was supposed to. There was a previous comment claiming that the movie was not as successful as the Sixth Sense because there not 1 final twist that makes everything fall into place and makes the audience gasp to themselves in understanding. No. This movie is much different. Even with the knowledge we obtain in the end of the film, there are still open ends left to the viewer themselves. A very very bold and innovative movie, I think of it as a outstanding cross between Platoon and Donnie Darko. I recommend this movie to anyone with a passion for understanding what really happens in the human mind. "},{"Title":"on of the best movies ever","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's a masterpiece; a classic, which will last for long, long time as an example of the best of cinema; the visually poetic movie and emotionally engaged cinema. Allow yourself some concentration while watching and you will see. this strange movie has it all; good story, good directing, good acting, etc. and on top of all of that it has this strange formula of truly engaging the viewer into Jacob's clime of the ladder from the painful chaos of human degradation into heavenly emergence decency and triumphant; liberating but meaningful death. It is an epic journey for our troubled souls to emerge from pain and confusion into meaning and content. It's the use of pain to reach serenity and real peace. Thank you Bruce Joel Rubin and Adrian Lyne. "},{"Title":"Horror I think not","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" have viewed this film several times now and no way I would call it a horror, more of a love redemption story.possible plot lines history Promising young Doctor to be blames himself for the death of his son. Finding himself in Vietnam he is accidentally killed by a fellow soldier in a fire fight. He takes a while to die. On the table he has issues to deal with the death of his son possible affair with a coworker(Pena) the abandonment of his wife, and children(who may not exist) the possibility of going to hell how to escape from hell how to address these issues how to surrender to death and not fear. You might remember that Dante had a guide through the seven circles of Hell and I offer that Jacob's guide was Louie.As Kate Bush said Heaven is Hell, Hell is Heaven. You just have to surrender your mortal fears and accept. Jacob addressed the issue by accepting the love and trust of Gabriel and entered the light and died at peace. My take anyway. Too bad this sort of film is not made too often today. Happy screenings "},{"Title":"Unforgettable and VERY creeepy!","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder does have some loose ends but if you just ignore them it turns out to be a hell of a ride! I watched it two nights in a row and still didn't get it fully...but there is a very deep and meaningful message within the weird scary plot. The story Jacob's Ladder is actually based on William Blakes idea of a ladder to heaven. But also the it clever says that the drugs (given to the soldiers) are a ladder leading to utter madness.Some scenes are some of the most memorable I've ever experienced but in a sort of possessive way (for example, the mental hospital scene...damn that was scary!). It subtly freaks the viewer out sort of David Lynch style (dreamy) but I prefer it to Lynch's stuff as it's much more disturbing and enjoyable.But ultimately it turned out to be a brilliant movie with a lovely twist and leaving a confused viewer wanting more! "},{"Title":"Excellent Psycho Drama","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this move in 1990. It was one of my favorite movies and I remembered the whole plot. I watched the movie again today in 2007 with my teenage daughter. She intensely watched the whole movie. After the movie we had a very interesting discussion on human perception, time distortion and death. To be able to share such a deep subject with your teenage child is a wonderful thing and I thank the makers of this movie for causing the conversation to happen.I don't think this movie is for everybody. The spatially gifted will probably love it where the more language gifted may not get it. Since most movies are made for the language brained, it is a treat to have one for the spatially inclined. "},{"Title":"My favourite movie ever","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember watching television with my wife one evening just before the movie was at the theatres. A commercial came up introducing the movie, and being my type of movie, I said to my wife we should check it out on opening night at the theatre. I was glued to my seat from start to finish as there were so many twists and turns, you didn't know where the movie was headed. When they flashed,the closing note at the end of the movie about the drug BZ, a large number of people in the theatre were shocked. Not about the drug, but about the fact the story never really took place.Jacob Singer was lying on the operating table in a trance, halfway between life and death, and none of the story or movie actually even happened. A guess it comes down to the stories about the supernatural and the journey between life and death. A great piece of original filmwork by a genius director. "}{"Title":"I don't believe in God","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't believe in Heaven or Hell.I was brought up as a Muslim, then a Christian, then finally was allowed to consider for myself the mysteries of the infinite.This film shows us an interpretation of these concepts which is disturbing, blasphemous and offensive to some.To others it is a refreshingly dark alternative to the mass-produced viewpoints we must endure on this journey through life.Aiello is probably the closest thing to a Guru the earth-bound soul will find. His counsel is clear, forceful and backed with the logic that only experience cannot deride. Robbins, as Singer, is Man. Man in all his weakness and curiosity and furtive searching for the meaning for his existence. Pena is that close person, the one whom we trust, yet we fear, because our own paranoia will not allow us to accept that someone else may share our views.This film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Jiggling face goodness!","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I want to kill Macaulay Culkin. This thought occurred to me as I was watching Jacob's Ladder and realized that the only reason he is in the movie is because studio executives made them put a kid in the movie to be more relatable. He screwed up way too many good movies when he was a kid. Home Alone would have been a lot better if it was just Joe Pesci breaking into an empty house and stealing crap.But anyway, this is Jacob's Ladder, written by the fag who wrote Ghost. (by fag of course I mean an English term for cigarette, because I want to light this guy on fire) Jacob's Ladder is a lot better than that piece of crap, and is actually a really good movie. It's just that the writer tries to screw everything up with his sorta weak ear for dialogue. Thankfully, Bruce Joel Rubin (if that is your real three names), you failed on all counts. Instead, Adrian Lyne (whose name for some reason reminds me of fabric softener) makes this into one of the best freakouts in the history of movies of the films of the cinema. Shaky head people abound. And this is the first and last time I've ever seen stubby legged drooling people and breastfeeding women crawling on the same grated ceiling at the same time. I've seen them on different grated ceilings, but this is the first movie to combine the stubby legged drooling people and the breastfeeding women in the same sequence.Some of the imagery in this movie is just plain brilliant. And by brilliant, I mean Known to cause Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, which is what I mean normally when I say brilliant. But some sit questionably near scenes of Tim Robbins staring at pictures of Macaulay Culkin and crying in a non-horrified way. This is of course the fault of the studio. Screw you, studio.So, anyhoo, this movie also has Ving Rhames in it for a couple scenes, but for some reason it isn't quite as good as you would expect when it comes to the Ving Rhames factor. For one, I don't think he ever punctuates a sentence with motherf**ker, and for two I don't think he ever holds a shotgun, both of which are what happens in every other good Ving Rhames- starring movie.Okay, so the movie doesn't really have a story. But it does have things that happen or don't happen. And it has a very good idea behind it. It's one of the movies I would want to watch in the last 24 hours of my life. That twenty two of those hours will probably be porn is beside the point.Anyway, Bruce Joel Rubin. He's just as much of a pretentious dick on the DVD documentary as you can tell he is by knowing that he wrote Ghost. His script often alternates between obvious sentimentality and juvenile dirty tough guy talk I remember writing when I was twelve and thought I could write a movie. Bruce Joel Rubin was not twelve when he wrote this movie, or at least he's the oldest twelve year old I've ever had the misfortune of seeing. Okay, I'm exaggerating. The writing sometimes bugs me and interferes with my enjoyment of the rest of the awesome, awesome movie. But anyhoo, regardless of my nitpick (that stupid, infinitely pickable nit called Bruce Joel Rubin), it's a good freakout that keeps you in a constant state of dread, disturbance, and depression.Unfortunately, I'm still not out of this state. Help me. "},{"Title":"I recommend you climb the ladder","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't know how this film managed to slip under my radar until now but I'm very glad I finally discovered it!So much of the tone, style and imagery of this film has inspired films and television which have been made since. It's certainly a movie designed to mess with ones' mind. This is an intentional device to draw the audience further into the plight of Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins). I don't want to give much away but what you see the first time is never what you will see later.The FX are genuinely creepy and they aren't that complex. A lot the scariest images and moments in this film are all created in-camera. The conspiracy elements anticipate the X-Files; especially in relation to the Vietnam War. Tim Robbins gives a convincing performance. He makes Jacob Singer a very likable guy -- the everyman we can relate to and feel for. The film is rife with Biblical imagery and allusions from the title onwards. There's a lot more to unpack there and I look forward to doing so in future viewings. "},{"Title":"De battre mon coeur s'est presque arrete! An Experience that only dementia will erase from my mind","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thought I read so many comments or this amazing movie but realised I had only read 3 pages out of 11! This could explain why some reviews don't seem to get many points in way of helping others.... With no real purpose, looking through the TV guide on a lazy Sunday night Jacob's Ladder had 4 stars (which a couple of years ago our Sydney critic would have given only 3 but all of the sudden every rated movie went up one star! I mention this because I'm so annoyed about the ego trip some of those critics seem to embark on - I had to include this.) Certainly the mention of Tim Robbins did get my attention. And so I ended programing the VCR and eventually watched Jacob's Ladder!... And watched it again...And will watch it again! What a treat. I find rather daunting to join in the commentaries having read such intelligent, well written and interesting reviews of this wonderful piece of work. But I have no qualm to join in with those who have seen many options to look and Analise it rather than stubbornly demand or inflict a theory on what this film is about.I'm rather amazed that I actually did not feel perturbed by some of the scenes but just wonderfully thrilled. Is it because perhaps I have made my own peace, will I never know? Yet the range of emotions that story took me through was something rare and much enjoyable. Forgive me to use the title of a french movie I watched recently for my intro. In English it was I think The beat, my heart missed Perhaps those who have already watched Jacob's Ladder would then find my choice appropriate. I won't try to say what has already been said so many times and much better expressed than what I feel able to do. I simply want to add to the flow of amazed and contented viewer as the tribute to those who achieved such a high level of entertaining work. I will not give it a rating out of 10, just will tell you that I enjoyed it immensely. "},{"Title":"If it's your first time, then watch it with a friend...","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Fantastically original story idea which gets right to the base of human paranoia, hallucination and the post-traumatic stress of war. Tim Robbins is awesome throughout as our world weary anti-hero, never quite believing what's happening to him and never quite sure if anything he see's or says is real. Director Adrian Lyne includes some truly scary and disturbing scenes which are definitely not for the weak-stomached or easily upset. A mean crossover of war, horror, thriller and even film noir. Switching between flashbacks, dreams, reality and imagination of the mind this film is definitely worth checking out, but if you've not seen it before then you had better watch it with a friend or you'll have your own problems with paranoia and monsters on the underground... "},{"Title":"Become witness to a Vietnam Vet's Nightmare","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder is a compelling psycho thriller with elements of reality and surrealism coming to a psychedelic spin, leaving the viewer gasping for air and hoping that it's all a bad dream.Tim Robbins plays a Vietnam Vet with psychological scars. His attempts to cope with reality in working class New York City streets seem to be fruitless, as his long suffering girl friend begs him to seek help. A sub-plot about Robbins' young son (played by an uncredited MacCaulley Kulkin) having been killed in a bike accident adds to the confusion. The powerful ending negates the entire story. The final line spoken in this film is awesome! "},{"Title":"A scary movie, and somewhat difficult to follow.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film was very difficult to understand. I watched it last night with my girlfriend and it scared the hell out of me. I understood the plot up to a certain point, but at the same time it seemed almost Tarantino-like in it's jump from past to present; which is also what made it difficult to understand. As the previous person stated, was his unit in Vietnam experimented on or was it all just a dream? If it was just a dream, how could the ending have taken place? That's what I don't understand and maybe another enlightened IMDb user could help me with that. I think it was well done, but I would've liked to understand the plot better, so I think I'll go and read the book, maybe it'll make more sense after that.Hope you enjoy!!Josh "},{"Title":"*** WARNING THIS IS A SPOILER ***","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Some of the commentarians on this film are wrong when they say Gabe (son played by Macaulay Culkin) died. He didn't die; this is part of Jacob's nightmare. This is proven in the scene after Jacob returns from the hospital and he's looking through his collection box (dog tags, Viet money, etc.) The last thing he pulls out is a letter from Gabe (scrawled in crayon) saying I miss you Daddy, come home soon. (or words to that effect) This is the most important scene in the film. It proves Gabe's death was just another hallucination torturing his soul. It symbolizes the agony ripping him apart brought on by the realization that his OWN death (Jacob's) ensures that he will never see his precious child grow up. Gabe does NOT join Jacob in Heaven; he sees him alive at the end only because he has finally made peace with his own mortality (as described by Louis (Danny Aiello)). He walks him upstairs to tuck him in one last time; the staircase is NOT a path to Heaven.This is one of my five favorite films of all time. Only Tom Tykwer's Run Lola Run & The Princess & the Warrior, Errol Morris' first documentary The Thin Blue Line and the Wachowski Bros' psychological thriller Bound are better.  "},{"Title":"Intense, thrilling, unpredictable! But at times, confusing too!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having just seen this movie i am in a state where i don't know how to describe it, but i guess my topic describes it well enough, because thats the essential part of the movie.The movie is quite thrilling as mentioned, it's a complex and complicated history that really leaves you thinking a lot, if you're into stupid movies this is not for you, this is an intelligent thriller that demands a lot of thinking from you, it's complicated though at times. It brings up some good subjects, jumps a lot back and forward from dreams and reality, and i guess somewhere in between i got lost a tad, and in the end i was rather confused, when i had just seen the movie i thought something like f*** i didn't get the end 100%, and that actually made me want to rate it worse than i did here, but when i think back at it, the movie was actually quite enjoyable and it kept me to my seat all the way through, so even though i found some parts confusing and unexplained i still think it was a well made psychological thriller, i should see it again to be honest, because i think the pieces would fall easier in place the second time you see it.8/10 "},{"Title":"everything is in his mind","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  here is my interpretation of the moviethe attack is real. it's not americans killing each other, but a real vietnamese attack. seconds before the attack begins, Jacob is the target of some jokes of his comrades. although he knows those are not meant in a disrespectful way, he is unconsciously affected by them. the jokes wake in him a small feeling of bitterness. in the dream, at one moment a crowd of girls mock at him. he doesn't take it personally(he laughs), but he resents it (at first, he won't pay heed to them leave me alone, i don't even care about you attitude).the plot that develops in his mind may be the result of a constant fear of being subjected to army experiments that may have been in process at that time. after two years in vietnam, some rumors must have slipped to the soldiers, therefore thoughts like god! i, myself, may be subject to one such horrible thing someday! i'll never know though, they'll be using me like rats, b***ards. as soldiers had nothing better to do most of the time waiting in bushes, these sorts of paranoid (or not!) discussions must have been a constant. the daily fear of the unknown in war was instantiated among others by means of this issue - one cannot survive the constant anxiety. if one succeeds to put names to such mental terrors, one feels slightly better. if no better solutions can be found, you start making up things, or exaggerate rumors. thus, the army experiments paranoia.during the attack, some chemicals are being triggered, most probably by the vietnamese. in the rapid succession of facts, the rapid head-shaking, the vomiting,  the gore, all those horrific images woke up all the borderline attitudes and fears. for the ordinary armsmen, i speculate that these attitudes involved an extraordinary aggressive stance. for a professor, used with thinking and analyzing and cutting things to the barebone of phenomena, this experience must have triggered the very intricate plot that follows in his mind.btw, the 6 years ph.d. diploma, the intense sexual relationship, the larger than life character that he is - after ph.d. works as a postman that knows he can be successful, but devotes his life to simplicity - which is a pattern of victimization, louie admires him for his thinking. in real life, he might as well be an ordinary, submissive professor without any personality. the hint that after two years of army and stress, he succeeds in making a joke which makes his fellows applaude him - is very useful in this matter. jokes in this extreme situations i guess are a matter of maintaining mental health. they are escape from reality. his joking skills are obviously not that good, which may be another clue to the intricateness of the plot that develops in a mind filled with unspoken feelings.in the end there is this text that ackowledges the existence of a hallucinogenic chemical used in the warfare by the americans. it puts my interpretation open to doubt, but there should be ways of compromising the two. due to an accident, the americans were subjected themselves to the drug, instead of using it on the enemy. "}{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder FOR FUNN","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder, one of the best sitcoms to ever come out of the '80s, is back in the air in the A&E channel. The wacky crew of the Jacob's Ladder can always make me laugh out loud ever afternoon after a long, tiresome day of high school. The whole cast is terrific, especially by Harry Anderson (Harry), Marsha Warfield (Roz), and Richard Moll (Bull), but I say the guy who really brings down the house with his sleazy and smart-assed attitude is John Larroquette, or better known as Dan Fielding in the show. It's hilarious to think that he is so horny all the time, that most women would degrade him as something lower than dogs***! But some don't notice how Dan is a good, caring person at heart. You don't know what I mean, you say? Watch Jacob's Ladder at the A&E station. "},{"Title":"Great movie, lame ending","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved it, but I was offended by the watered down ending.  With the caliber of the rest of the film, I expected more than the fluffy ending, not to mention the 2 hours spent developing what I think is an awesome scenario and then less than 5 minutes to tie it up.  Now I ask you, what kind of Dante's Inferno is that?...  But all in all, I thought it was a really intense movie and I loved it.  Extremely entertaining.  Disturbing.  "},{"Title":"some great moments","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  High Production Values, good Psychological Thriller,  dark and obscure, sometimes not easy to watch, not for everyone need an open mind but there's some very terrific scene, like the hospital/mental ward/afterworld purgatory, it's a great moment and rarely see in a movie. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all times","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie that I first saw many years ago when I was a teenager. I did not understand it then and thought it was a strange movie. Then a couple of years ago, I saw it again on the television. That time it really got to me and I could not stop thinking about it for many days. Since then it has popped up in my memory many times and I would really much like to see it again, but I have not been able to find it on DVD (outside USA). "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ripoff of Carinval of Souls tries to copy everything that made Souls great right down to the ending, but falls short. This creepy film is about a war vet who is plagued by strange visions and keeps seeing his dead son lurking all over the place. He also begins to see demonic creatures from another planet. Is earth being token over by demons? Is Jacob going crazy? What really is going on? This film bites off far more then it can chew. The ending is rushed and unconvincing. Rated R. "},{"Title":"Costs of War","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is a chilling reminder of the cost of war. All the characters and situations can be instanteously recognized by anyone who lived through the period. The tag line accurately says, The most frightening thing about the nightmare is that the actor isn't dreaming. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A thinking man's horror film","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  By far the most frightening film I've ever seen.  That is not to say the movie fits into the horror genre, because it certainly does not.  The perfectly plausible premise of a man experiencing demons and encounters with the notion of death are, thankfully, conveyed without much of your usual spills and chills technique.  The viewer is taken on an exhilerating journey without having a clue where the story is going and the destination is more than worth the trip.  Robbins is perfect, Culkin is just fine (thank you) and Adrian Lyne has put together one of the most beautiful and unappreciated films of the 90's.     "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is the forerunner to films like The Sixth Sense, Pi and The Game. It also has the best elements of Carnival of Souls. It is about Jacob Singer, a Vietnam Veteran who is having flashbacks of Vietnam, his dead son, and is also having hallucinations of demons. To reveal any more of the plot would spoil the films' amazing psychological impact. It is like being stuck in a nightmare, than waking up to find yourself still stuck in that nightmare. Tim Robbins is excellent as Jacob, and Adrian Lyne keeps things moving in this excellent, and very psychological thriller. It is a bit depressing, but it is so fascinating you wont care. One of the most original thrillers of the 90's.PLOT 9 DIRECTION 8 SCRIPT 9 ACTING 9 MUSIC 9OVERALL 9  "},{"Title":"Robbins' class shines through","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I actually thought that this was weak story-wise, but Robbins' brilliance as an actor made it watchable.  He plays a 'Nam veteran who has been experimented on while out there, and we follow him as he works to find out what happened to him and why it is affecting him since.This film is a bit all over the place, but Robbins holds it together with his customary style and class in front of the camera. "},{"Title":"10/10 - much more than horror","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Classifying Jacob's Ladder as a horror film was quite a mistake. People who look for a horror movie will be dissatisfied. The ones who would really appreciate this film don't usually consider watching horror movies.This is an artistic (but sometimes horrifying) thriller its message is layered for patient exploration. The horror of the opening scenes is quickly replaced by a clever military thriller, then it is enriched by parables (yes, Biblical ones) and subplots (like the one about the atavistic male agony between family and freedom.)  Finally it gives you the answer (for a question you may have not even asked yet.)The more you (and Tim Robbins) look for answers the more you loose your sanity. But this film shows you that there are more important things than your sanity. If you give up the quest the movie is gone - and you lose much more. If you follow his path you may experience a catharsis that you will probably never forget. This movie may enrich you. It is art in a strange disguise. The experience may serve you as a guide in your life. Just remember when the time comes. (I know what I am talking about I was an EMT then an ER doctor)I hope I'll remember. I know I will.PS Indeed, the end of the movie is not totally original. But what is? Indeed, the story is convoluted. But what else do you expect from a good movie? Indeed,the plot lines sometimes shift, causing intellectual and emotional turmoil in the viewer. But this is what art is about! OK, it is not the summit of philosophy or theology, but this is a movie. One of the best ones I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"The greatest movie ever made?","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is surely no movie which benefits so much from repeated viewing as Jacob's Ladder. What at first can be interpreted as a mere feature length supernatural conspiracy thriller (sort of like a grown up X Files), eventually evolves into an afterlife allegory of astonishing scope and power. The hints are subtle and obscure The woman Jacob lives with for much of the film may seem harmless, but her name, Jezebel, is laden with connotations, as are quotes like 'you sold your soul, remember' and her open hostility towards Jacob's son, through whom salvation lies. What is never in doubt is the central spiritual role played throughout by Danny Aiello (did anyone ever tell you you look like an angel Louis?) or the vivid reality of the truly terrifying demons that appear round every corner.Bearing in mind this translation of the movie,it has long since confused me what role the whole paranoid 'hallucinogenics in Vietnam' plot serves. I think perhaps it simply makes the whole experience a great deal more coherent and accessible to those who can't be bothered to watch for biblical references. There is of course one more suggestion, which is that the entire plot is rooted in Dante's Inferno, which I'm not even going to pretend to have read! So why is this my favourite movie? Well, it has the most beautiful ending I can think of (the only movie, along with ET, that makes me cry). It has some of the greatest scenes, particularly the party scene, wherein Jezzie appears to be mating with some demonic creature on the dance floor. Above all, it has unprecedented depth for a movie in the nineties and, as with The Shawshank Redemption, a Tim Robbins performance which elevates it still further. For your own sakes, BUY Jacob's Ladder... "},{"Title":"Location Assistant Credit","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" My name is Mr. Gaspar Ponce, I was the Location Manager for A Show of Force Director, Bruno Barretto in Puerto Rico and my IMDb credit for Locations Assistant (Puerto Rico Crew) for Jacob's Ladder is not posted, please I will appreciate a correction and validation if someone takes the time to watch the film, I'm on the credits for the Puerto Rico crew! The film was a great experience, many of the local crew (Puerto Rico) have worked together the prior year in A Show of Force. Director Adrian Lyne is a true professional, the prove is in the pudding, great film. The recreation of the Vietnam jungle in Puerto Rico was quite easy, the local Civil Guard assisted with the helicopters and military vehicles from the era. The lead Mr.Tim Robbins also a top notch professional showed the makings of the great actor he became.ThanksGasapar Ponce "},{"Title":"Memorable and haunting....","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Tim Robbins delivers an excellent performance as honorably discharged Vietnam War Veteran Jacob Singer who works in New York City, and starts to have horrific flashbacks.Elizabeth Pena is believable as his sometime girlfriend, attempting to help him....or hurt him? He sees visions of operating tables, his friends in Vietnam being brutalized, and horrible ever-changing backdrops of death and the war.Matt Craven has a small part, but is a chemist who knows something about what has happened to Jacob Singer and his war buddies. Hence the biblical name Jacob, his girlfriend is named Jezebel. The ladder itself refers to a psychological meltdown.There are many well-written segments and this qualifies as a do not miss. It is mostly a psychological thriller, so please don't dismiss this as yet another war movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A ladder to a peak.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In  a Rolling Stone interview,not only Tim Robbins does not say a word about this great role of his,but he also lets the magazine write such moribund projects like Jacob's ladder.How can he underrate himself like that?Adrian Lyne has not produced masterpieces when he directs JacobFlashdance,9 1/2,a waste of film,and fatal liaison which makes up for its triteness by stealing the grand guignol bath tub scene from Henri-George Clouzot's les Diaboliques.And yet,this is a masterpiece.How come?This must be the screenplay a maze,where nightmares and reality are intimately connected.We think we are back to reality,we are still in a bad dream,and in the long run,we don't know where we stand anymore.Until the very end,which for once will not disappoint you because ,along the plot,there are strange signs,clues that justify the conclusion.But you will not be able to guess it anyway.Some scenes are very important for that matterduring the party,a black girl who plays the fortune-teller with Jacob's lines of the hand;the discussion with the chemist;the discovery ,in the hospital ,that there are absolutely no files concerning Jacob;The unfortunate hero climbing the stairs with his long lost child.Lyne uses threatening settingsthe subway of which the doors are locked;  a bathroom turned into the antechamber of hell;the lawyer's office. Special effects are used only when necessary and to  good results.The soundtrack is precise and haunting.And the director does not forget emotionyou will shed a tear when you hear Jacob talk about his beloved little boy whose photograph he's found again.Some will say it was influenced by carnival of sorts.Perhaps so,but the latter is botched,a dated B movie,with an amateur side.On the other hand,Jacob's ladder  did influence The sixth sense ,and a lot of the laurels bestowed on Bruce Willis's blockbuster should have been given to Adrian Lyne's movie.It stands as the best fantasy and horror film of the nineties,in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"deeply involving,intriguing- until the end.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film twice- to see if there was something I might have missed that would explain it. Then read Maltin's review, hoping he could explain the feeling I had after seeing it that I had been conned. Well, no answer, as Maltin agrees .  (Don't think this is a spoiler, as it's in Maltin's review) The ending negates the entire film.  Still, it's fascinating , involving and enjoyable to watch. Very original plot -which would have been even better with different ending. Not a film you'll enjoy more than once, due to ending.   "},{"Title":"has not aged well...","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well my review will probably be hated on by die hard Jacob's Ladder fans. So let me spare you guys the need to click unhelpful on my review by telling you just don't read it and skip ahead to someone else's (you can even click helpful because I warned you not to read it ;-).Now that thats out of the way here are my two cents. I rented this movie because I like movies that play with your mind, make you guess about reality, and you have to put together. If you look at most of the critical reviews on here most of them say something like this movie is confusing or I can't understand it. I like movies that are difficult and in terms of the premise I have no problem with this one. For me I found both the acting and dialog to be less than exciting. Most of the rave reviews on here say that the main actors performance was great. I don't know if its that I'm watching this in 2012 and so much has changed but I just don't see it. Neither is terrible but the dialog is not sharp or witty just passable and the acting doesn't draw me in and at worst its not completely believable as in one scene where his girlfriend throws away and burns some of his childhood and past photos because he tears up a little over a shot of his dead son and she says in justification of her actions, I don't like things that make you cry. Who does that? Whose girlfriend acts like that? Anyway, there are lots of other heady twisted movies out there that have come out in the last 20 years that not only play with your mind but in my opinion have stellar acting and supporting dialog. If you are looking to watch this movie my advice is to go in without any expectations. I had high expectations after reading some reviews on here and I was disappointed. However, this may just be your cup of tea. If not let me take this time to recommend an awesome indie sci-fi film in this same rubber reality genre that I just saw. It is Moon starring Sam Rockwell, has superb acting, effects, and story. In my opinion while Jacobs Ladder may have helped spearhead this genre movies like Moon have made it somewhat obsolete. "},{"Title":"do movies have to make sense?","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i often read comments on movies like mulholland drive (and other lynch movies), jacobs ladder, etc...and some people give it bad ratings because the say it makes no sense, it´s weird, and things like that.i just wondered why this is considered a bad thing. i mean i didn´t fully understand  mulholland drive and jacobs ladder but there was no single moment during or after watching these movies where i thought that i was not entertained. it was really fun to watch them , they made me think  a lot about... so why should they be bad?just wanted to know what others think about that... "},{"Title":"An explanation of this film if you don't get it.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Do not read this if you haven't seen the film because I have to give away the twist to explain what most people just don't get. The only other movie to exceed Jacob's Ladder's terror on the viewer is the original Exorcist, though for different reasons. Jacob's Ladder is a movie about Death, not Vietnam.  It's not a war story.  It's based on Dante's Inferno, hence, the films other title.  It's the only film to capture the pain, terror, and disorientation of a man dying on the floor of the jungle in Vietnam after being accidently bayoneted in the gut by one of his own platoon while under attack.  The success of the film is that the story strikes a nerve with the viewer.  To watch Jacob's Ladder is the closest thing to participating in the thought process of a dying man.  It's terrifying to watch what is happening to Jacob because we participate in his dillusions. And the films success is that it conveys the terror of death onto the viewer through a very clever story line and disturbing scenarios that Jacob appears to be experiencing AFTER the war. I hate to ruin it for you all.  He never went home folks.Fortunately, Danny Aiello's character explains what is happening to Jacob - and the audience.  He says to Jacob, If you fight your death you'll see devils tearing away your life (what you love in the world), but if you accept your death, the devils are really angles setting you free.  Danny Aiello was the angel setting Jacob free. Jezebel was the demon tearing him away from the life that he loved and missed back home.  Sarah was his wife that he longed to be with and Gabriel, his angelic son, was killed before he went to Vietnam.  However, even if Gabriel wasn't killed before the war, the thought of a dead son by a father is one of the most powerful story devices to evoke pain.  No father wants to outlive his child. Gabriel in the movie was, and is, the angel at the gate of heaven just like in the Bible. When Jacob died he was reunited with his son, what he most dearly missed and loved in the world. And the casting of McCauly Caulkin as Gabriel was possibly the finest casting of an angelic face ever done in film.  Hats off to the casting director.  When you see the movie you'll get it.  If you get caught up in the sub-storys within the film you'll see devils tearing you away from understanding the film.  These sub-plots keep you the viewer off balance to add to your terror. There was no drug used on the soldiers only what they smoked themselves.  That was part of his hysteria brought on by the trauma of war and smoking pot in Vietnam.  Ever hear of Pot bringing on paranoia?  That paranoia is something many people can identify with which helps drive and sell the story.  The car chase scenes and the devils are the demons of death that are tearing away his life and Jacob is running from them.  But in the end Jacob dies on the table with a smile on his face.  He died at peace with thoughts of the son he loved and the beautiful life he left behind.  I hope this helps.   "},{"Title":"Tormented everyman struggles with his personal demons &#133; or does he?","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A genuinely scary but at the same time moving horror story, which unfortunately suffers from occasional muddled moments.Tim Robbins makes a very appealing hero, and Andrian Lyne directs with aplomb, plunging us into a seedy, trash-strewn New York, which is both desolate and eerie, particularly in the subway sequences. To all intents and purposes, this gritty, brooding ghost story should have blown its audiences away. However, the main question at the time was, and remains what's it all about? On one hand, there's clearly some kind of high-level conspiracy to keep the Vietnam vets in the dark, or even eliminate them; while on the other, an occult, even demonic force is apparently at work. And this weird paradox is never really resolved, which is undoubtedly the film's main weakness. Who is the hippie chemist who turns up right near the end, for example (Jake's already dead at this stage)? And if what this movie is really about is a tortured soul's struggle through Purgatory, then why is so much time (and so many characters) given to the investigation into the chemical testing incident? These oddities aside, this is one effectively realised chiller. The convincing urban grime is juxtaposed with supernatural elements that at first glance would seem more at home in medieval myth, yet it complements them perfectly, invoking a genuinely disturbing atmosphere, while Jake's descent to the gates of Hell (located in the hospital basement) is one of the most hair-raising moments in cinematic horror.In our age of militant atheism, the fact that our hero is eventually redeemed by the intervention of angels and heavenly spirits has made it fashionable to mock this movie, but that's missing the point. If anything, JACOB'S LADDER is a metaphor for the battle through life as much as through death. Not everyone in this movie is stone-cold evil. In fact, apart from the briefly seen demons, hardly anyone is. Sure, there is selfishness, ignorance, impatience, dishonesty, lack of pity, not to mention the impenetrable wall of bureaucracy &#150; these are the main obstacles Jake faces. But then don't we all? A fascinating parable of the modern age, for the most part intelligently told. "},{"Title":"Basement Steps","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When a film plays with the narrator's credulity, and if it is essentially cinematic then I am predisposed to like it. This film has the additional benefit of some competent actors. Plus, we all like to dump on government lying during the Nixon era.I think this is a waste of time in spite of those benefits, and it took a while to put my finger on why. You have two choices for the usual model for these things.One is what I will call the David Lynch/Peter Greenaway model. In that model, the world we are presented with is usually attached to an on screen viewer who we subliminally identify as the narrator/interpreter. Behind that is the world we see. The sense or nonsense of that world is inherent in the world. For us to experience the film at all, we have to invest in, enter that world and live by its rules. It is a risky thing for those of us who give our all when experiencing a film. In the cases of Greenaway and Lynch, we are rewarded by insights we can carry back.A more common model, the Scooby-doo model is that there are three worlds. You have the safe world you live in as a viewer. It is not involved or compromised in any way except the reinforcement of the thin notion that someone CAN and might manipulate that world the way you are seeing on screen. Then you have the normal world of your on-screen protagonist, presumably much like yours. And finally you have the world as scrambled by some agency.In this model, the world you see may not make much sense. You are not expected to understand it or be rewarded for doing so. You might find this out too late. There is a solution, to why that world is the way it is, and the reward of the film such as it is comes from the detective's satisfaction of being told that solution. Usually the scrambled world is animated by myths associated with demons and such and that is the case here, though we have no actual referenced cosmology.The story does have some technical appeal. The film is framed by a battlefield injury at the beginning and the death of the narrator the next day at the end of the film from that injury. In between we have his visions, mostly mixed segments of his family, an imagined life with a sexy coworker and of course his pursuit by demons. Embedded in this vision is his imagined study of demonology. He gets a doctorate in the subject and occasionally understands what is happening. This idea is remarkably clever, that an imagined world would include an activity that allows growth in introspection sufficient to understand that it is imagined. There is a parallel concept, quite similar, where events in that world explain why the world is artificial. I liked this, a lot, but as a clever concept only. It doesn't help the film.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"The dreams one has at the moments before death, an earlier Mulholland Drive.","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So many people interpret Jacob's Ladder incorrectly. Except for the brief early and late scenes in battle, everything in the film depicts dreams, hallucinations, and memories during those few minutes before death, as he is fighting for his life. Understand that simple premise and everything makes perfect sense, because it doesn't all have to make sense to us. Very close to the recent film, Mulholland Drive, where the dying girl has very analagous scenes going through her mind.Jacob's Ladder is a quite good film. "},{"Title":"a movie with an identity crisis","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If a veteran haunted by bad memories wrote a story about survivor guilt and how bad it was in the 'Nam, and it fell into the hands of an anti-war liberal who wanted to turn it into a political thriller about military experiments with hallucinogenic drugs, and if he ended up working for a corporate studio that wanted to turn it into a cross between Exorcist-style horror and family-friendly Heaven flicks, this is what it would end up looking like. Although artfully directed and effectively unnerving, Jacob's Ladder tries to say so many things so half-heartedly and confusedly that it ends up saying nothing clearly and coherently.Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) has somehow survived a bayonet gut wound and is now living in New York as a postman. But he really should know better than to leave his blonde wife and kids for a black-haired, foreign-accented shiksa named Jezebel, particularly when she has a large scar on her right breast just where Jacob should have one. Weird things begin to happen, which combine with harrowing combat flashbacks to make Jacob feel he is going insane.Although Dr. Singer is clearly a complex character, we never learn much about what made him who he is, apart from the Vietnam experience and the loss of his young son. We never learn why he left his wife, who seems to still love him and who he dreams of returning to. The political subplot creates a tension between fantasy and reality, but ultimately feels like a distraction from the personal. The final plot resolution is both unsurprising and unpredictable, given the confusion of themes in the movie, and leaves us feeling we've just watched a two-hour episode of the Twilight Zone. "},{"Title":"The most frightening thing about Jacob Singer's nightmare is that he isn't dreaming.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lyne's JACOB'S LADDER moves in time and space between Vietnam and New York with hallucinatory force. Something bad happened on the Mekong Delta, on October 6, 1971, and it is still affecting war veteran Jacob in Brooklyn as he attempts to live a normal life with coworker and girlfriend Jezzie. Louis, an understanding chiropractor, tries to help him cope with his nightmarish visions--some of which occur at night, while others intrude into his daily life. When Jacob gets a call from Paul, who was with him in Vietnam, it seems that Jacob is not alone in his visions.I was pretty excited to see JACOB'S LADDER. It seemed like a very interesting little movie and it has gotten a lot of praise these past few years since after its release. I'll just say now it's a freaky disappointing movie. It's definitely one of the most weird, twisted movie I've ever seen. Some of the images in this film were disturbing, nevertheless unique. It's a visually interesting film with an interesting premise. In fact, my eyes were glued to the screen every second. I just wanted to know what happened.Well, once the whole truth was explained, I was disappointed and not surprised. Honestly, I knew what was going to happen because I've read short stories that ended similar to this film and I've seen films that had the same concept as this film. I think I've written a short story that had a similar concept of this film, but getting to the point, it was predictable and really disappointing. I wanted a better explanation although the explanation here was sufficient and seemed tolerable enough.Another downfall of this film is that even though I was interested in what will happen in the film, it's really uninvolving and dull. The score is really somber and quiet and some of the images splashed across the screen actually felt quite tedious. Actually, the movie experience was quite dreadful, which is a good thing for this movie. It manages to give the audience a feel of dread and foreboding. I think the castmembers did a decent job, though I don't have a name that stood out in here.Now I'll say something paradoxic Even though I don't like the explanation in the film, I do like the ending. It's really different from the tone of the film and gives the audience an emotional catharsis after what they've endured in the previous scenes. Overall, JACOB'S LADDER isn't a pleasant movie to endure, but it makes people think and has people talking after the film, rather than being just another forgettable film. See the film if you must, but be warned that it's challenging in some ways. "},{"Title":"Dark philosophy about souls and demons","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder instantly reminded me Tarkovsky's Stalker, especially with its soundtrack. Director's devotion to urban desolation is also very similar, though, on the contrary to Stalker, here it's used as an infernal environment for hellish torments of one's departing soul instead of the Stalker's final chaos which turns everything to vanity and brings the ultimate peace. Jacob's Ladder could possibly be a much deeper and more philosophical work of art if, instead of delivering only authors' thoughts on what happens when we're dying while full of unreleased memories, desires and other demons, it delivered something of a Boschian message, warning us of what happens to us when we live mindless lives lacking of beliefs. In fact, while watching the first third of the movie I strongly suspected such a point, thought wow, but then was disappointed. Nevertheless, the movie is incredibly solidly made and direction, music and cinematography are really top notch. There are many interesting concept points besides demons the guardian angel as a kind doctor, Purgatory in the form of a hospital or unfree souls as mental patients. I cannot say that Jacob's Ladder has some kind of unreleased potential, as it often happens with similar movies, no, it's made very well and does its job, even giving you points to think about, but its potential is too depressive and disgusting to make me rate it high. May be it's my own prejudice but I cannot rate high movies with similar messages inside, despite how profoundly they made. "},{"Title":"A Ladder without steps","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is clearly outdated. It can be considered classic or whatever but this movie is boring, melodramatic and no longer relevant as cinematic experience. Geek teenagers that think about themselves as movie freaks and watch old movies may find this one thrilling and exciting. Not me. I admit that at the time of this movie release it could be fresh and extraordinary, but not according to year 2007. In 17 years a lot was done, a lot was seen. And BTW I've seen many old sci-fi movies, not all of them were affected by time and still great cinema, like Soylent Green, Silent Running, A boy and his Dog, Dark Star and more. This films are true classics, they are standing out of time and in each generation they have potential viewers that will admire their ability to be interesting despite their age. But not Jacob's Ladder.His themes are chewed up, the plot seems banal and clumsy, many dull moments. From philosophical point of view it's not rich at all, it is lacking real imagination. Not total waste of time but definitely not excellent cinema either. "},{"Title":"What about 1973 version?","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have a bit of a mystery that I would like someone to help me solve. I distinctly recall seeing an excellent movie with this same plot and I am fairly certain with the same title (soldier in hospital, confused and bizarre memories, final twist having to do with all the flashbacks and so forth being his final conscious memories prior to letting himself die of his wounds.) I am quite certain that it was in the the period 1972-1974 because of where I was in my life and the people I talked to about it after seeing it and being impressed with it. . Has no one else any recall of this earlier version, rather than this Robbins remake--which I have not seen)? It is rather mysterious since I was describing this movie recently to someone and he alerted me to the existence of the Robbins version which I had previously been totally unaw3are of. I am not making this up! Thanks for your corroboration. "},{"Title":"Way out of Lyne","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A confusing movie over all that desperately lacked an ending, and which found me leaving the cinema with only one word in my head to describe the experience Weird!Jacob's Ladder seems to be about hallucinations, or was it dealing with the fear of death, or was it the effects of drugs used on soldiers in the Vietnam War, or was it about.....? I don't really know. Did Adrian Lyne? Though Tim Robbins performance is quite admirable, and the film achieves scenes and moments of frightening inspiration, it is never consistent and never manages to settle on a theme. A sad waste of potential.Sunday, July 7, 1991 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Like a Bad Dream, Impossible to Understand...","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jacob's Ladder is an expertly crafted pyschological thriller that messes up somewhere in the second half. It has a great sense of vision, of paranoia. As we watch the film unfold, we want - and expect - something big to happen at the end, something tremendous, for something to explain the film's duration. To explain why everything is happening, and further, whether it even happened at all. But the end dupes the audiences, it withers away, tries to solve too many things in the last five minutes. You may be wondering if the film even solves anything at all by the end. Well, I won't ruin the movie or tell you what happens, but I will tell you instead that nothing much happens at all. I'm not even really that sure what happened, why, or if it happened at all. It's not that I wasn't paying attention - it was director Adrian Lyne. He had a million different interlocking things going at once, and he kept building them and building them, and eventually they caught up with him and he just couldn't handle them, or the answers to unlock them, so he just snapped together a bad ending in about five seconds.The film starts in Vietnam. A platoon of soldiers suffer a mysterious phenomenon, and their heads start to spin (almost literally). Suddenly, an attack begins, and the soldiers start to get killed one-by-one. A few soldiers remain, including Jacob (Tim Robbins), and a character played by Ving Rhames.Years later we catch up with Jacob on his casual ride home from work. This day is different, he is on the late subway train home. He snaps out of a dream, and realizes he doesn't know where he is. He wanders over to another part of the train and asks an old woman where they are. She doesn't answer. Then he starts to notice strange things. There are horned creatures chasing him. A subway train nearly runs him over on the tracks, and a million odd faces watch from the interior of the fleeing train.The next day Jacob is almost run over by a car, which, when he jumps out of the way and looks, is inhabited by goblin-like creatures with rapidly-moving heads. We get a lot of flashes in this movie of spinning heads, and we are led to believe they are nightmares Jacob has. We know they are somehow connected to the spinning heads in Vietnam that day. But as Jacob looks for answers, he soon finds himself slipping farther and farther from reality.Jacob's Ladder is like a bad dream, the strange kind of nightmare you have at night, the kind that make you wake up in a sweat and think, What did all that mean? We never know when the movie is pulling our legging, or when Jacob is having a delusion, or whether they are even delusions at all. Have you ever woken up at night, sat in bed and thought about that weird dream you head? The one where images have suddenly appeared for no reason, punctuating the fear of your illusions? Trying to analyze Jacob's Ladder is much the same It's impossible to really analyze without seeking a professional. Random images of spinning heads and horned demons are spliced with scenes and in the end I just couldn't tell what was going on.I recently attended a screening of Lawrence Kasdan's Dreamcatcher, based on the novel by Stephen King. In my review, I said, Rarely has a film so withered away in the second half as 'Dreamcatcher.' Well, I guess Jacob's Ladder is a rarity, then. 2.5/5 stars, maybe 3 on a good day -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Looks dated and recent movies have done this kind of story in a better fashion","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On 06 Oct 1971, in Vietnam, the American soldier Jacob Singer is wounded by a bayonet during an attack to his platoon. He wakes up in a New York subway while going home late at night after working overtime in the post office. He is divorced from Sarah, lives with his colleague and lover Jezebel in a small Brooklyn apartment and misses his young son Gabe, who died in an accident for which Jacob feels responsible. During the next days, Jacob is chased by demons and finds the army conspiracy against him, while having strange visions during different moments of his life... Jacob's Ladder is a crazy journey trough the mind of Jacob Singer, the lead character.This psychological thriller plays with perceptions and you're always wondering where is the story going and what is really going on,you'll keep trying to figure out what is real and what is fiction until the answers are finally given to you. And even then one can argue that the movie is open for interpretation. Unfortunately this movie looks incredibly dated to me, from the scenarios to the musical score to the dialog.It screams 90's very loud.Keep in mind that this film was released 19 years ago and if I had seen it then, I would probably have a different opinion.But this is 2009 and a lot of movies have been made since then and some approached this kind of story in a more successful way. And by the way I think the concept is amazing; the execution on the other hand could be better.If you want to watch something similar to this but much more interesting two films come to mind; Stay(2005) and Vanilla Sky(2001). 6/10 "},{"Title":"This is overall not a horror film","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" My friends this is not a horror film, the only people that would be horrified of this movie, with all do respect are Vietnam vets, it does have its parts where demons appear and that its why this movie does not get a lower rating. I would consider this movie more DRAMA than HORROR , drama makes you think a little more, in my opinion horror is suppose to scare the crap out of you am i right or wrong? I do give this film credit for a couple of scenes, that subway scene had me scared a little, the lady was pretty freaky. Overall this movie makes you think, as one of the previous comments said, at times it makes you think of where this guy is instead of focusing on getting a good scare, I actually like watching my horror films at about 2am in the dark on my computer with my headphones on, I like a good scare. This movie overall did not do this, it had me waiting for the big one , you know where something just scares the crap out of you, but when the film was over, I did not feel the void filled. The movie seems to go down hill as it moves on, the only thing that i am thankful for is that the chemist explained the situation at the end, or else I would have totally been clueless about this film. "}{"Title":"Bravo TBN! Bravo Tim Robbins! Bravo Regal Cinemas!","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jacob's Ladder set a new standard for Christian filming. Left Behind took it a step further. But Jacob's Ladder is by far the best Christian film to date. I like the fact that TBN makes wonderful films that aren't really open about being Christian. Take for instance their company Providence Entertainment's The Joyriders and Extreme Days, they have messages for families and little things hinting toward Christianity. It's almost like subliminal messaging to people. Anyway, Bravo to Adrian Lyne and Diane Venora (we already saw Tim Robbins's fine performance in DOOM FACTOR) for making this film. I always loved their work but when a Hollywood actor makes a Christian film I will support them to the end of their career.At first the picture may look like a sequel to The Omen series and then like End of Days or Stigmata, and thats really good. It's almost like TBN sends a message saying Hollywood isn't always wrong (End of Days/Stigmata/The Omen) but here's the difference! I would say if you like Hollywood's end of time movies that this is a film for you, but that would be wrong! This is completely by the BIBLE and even quotes scripture. See none of this is fake and what you see will actually take place. Yes of course a few things have been changed for your enjoyment. Like the beast you see near the end. We know that the anti-Christ is a true beast from hell but no one is for sure he'll have horns and look like an earthly beast. It's just TBN's way of saying that's his true form, we will just never see it.Due to the recent events that have taken place in Washington D.C. and New York City, many theatre chains have decided not to show this film. I feel this movie shouldn't be noticed as just another terrorist flick from Hollywood (Collateral Damage/Bad Company). It should be a film that could bring people closer. Jacob's Ladder focuses on how in the end-times our freedom will be taken away as an American. Just a thought.Take my advice, support this movie! Make it a hit! Show TBN we care about seeing films that focuses on what we were put on this world for! Show Hollywood that they aren't the only thing that can make a great movie! See it at AMC and Regal Cinemas (or wherever that is playing it) and make them not to regret filling their auditoriums for the weekend! 4 STARS ALL THE WAY! "},{"Title":"Really weak plot","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was much more annoying than scary. Watching it I was confused at all the things that were going on. The events had no link to each other and were really pointless. Just scary filler that was meaningless. The problem with this movie is that, in my humble opinion, the plot device used totally ruins the movie. The bulk of the movie itself is entertaining, but the ending is just a massive let down. I remember I was so mad after seeing the ending, because it was so simple and made all the movie's events and character development totally meaningless. Insufferably stupid ending ruined the movie. Much better movies out there. The Machinist is a much, much better, comparable, if not similar movie. "},{"Title":"What the?!?!?","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie should have been good with the cast it had, but it missed for me. ***Spoiler Alert*** This is a movie that depends on it's twist ending and I'm going to give the plot and the end away here, so don't read if you don't want to know the end.This is an absolutely brilliant movie that just goes wrong somewhere along the way. We follow the life of Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) after he gets back from Vietnam. Strange things start happening to him and he starts seeing things. When he is asleep, he has the same dream over and over about a massacre in Vietnam. Reality slips in and out with some frequency until the end when you find out all you thought was a dream, was actually happening, and the reality was the dream.Well, Bleh!!! One of the first things I learned in my creative writing class is the and then I woke up ruse in stories is a cheat and I felt cheated here. We go through some BRUTAL and I mean BRUTAL scenes in this movie and we go through the same hell Jacob Singer goes through. I wanted better for him.I know this was supposed to be ground breaking, but I'm not sure that ground should have been broken! "},{"Title":"Was It All Worth It?","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Adrian Lyne here delivers one of his usual slick movies, but was it worth it? Tim Robbins, still looking rather baby-faced and pudgy despite his height and being over thirty, here delivers a beautifully judged and restrained performance, proving what a fine actor he is. It was only the next year that he achieved real fame, in 'The Player'. The story is about a group of Vietnam veterans who were unwittingly the subjects of a chemical experiment which went wrong, and are still feeling the nightmarish after-effects. This is always a topical subject, because everyone now knows that the Pentagon during that war was 'outtacontrol' and threw chemicals around like jelly beans, burning down a large proportion of the trees in Southeast Asia in order to kill two or three Cong, tinkering with the minds and emotions of their own men by giving them hallucinogens, and generally acting as most armies act in time of war. (Where there's a war there's friendly fire, fragging, and own-side casualties such as these.) But the film is a mess. Many parts of it are over-done to a ludicrous extent, there is far too much facial jiggling, much too much teasing of the viewer by letting him glimpse something but never enough, and other corny techniques. Jumping back and forth between fantasy and reality, normal life and dystopic hallucinations, doesn't make anything clearer. This is one of those movies where they think that if they are earnest, everybody will understand. In fact, it largely comes out as gobbledygook. And then there is Elizabeth Pena. She is really scary. And Danny Aiello is at his most menacing. It is all too much, much too much. Gimme a beer and turn that thing off, as they might grunt in, shall we say, the Bronx. "},{"Title":"Jacob's Ladder","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Imagine if you will the conclusion of The Sixth Sense and the same theme of Ghost, then you will end up with this entry in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, from director Adrian Lyne (Fatal Attraction, 9 ½ Weeks). Basically Jacob Singer (Tim Robbins) is the New York postal worker who just about survived a wound fighting as an American soldier in Vietnam. He is divorced from ex-wife Sarah (Patricia Kalember), he now lives with his colleague and lover Jezebel 'Jezzie' (Elizabeth Peña) and children in their small Brooklyn apartment. Over time he starts having nasty hallucinations of hideous demons, strange events, and his chiropractor friend Louis (Danny Aiello) saying biblical things about Hell and devils. As well as the flashbacks of Vietnam Jacob is also seeing and seemingly talking to his son Gabe (Macaulay Culkin) who has been dead for some time after being hit by a car. After a near-death experience with his fellow Vietnam buddies, they confess to him that they are having bizarre hallucinations as well, so they wonder if the army did something to them. Soon enough this question is answered when Jacob is approached by Michael Newman (Matt Craven), and he reveals that the army invented a chemical to increase aggression, this was called the ladder. Returning to his home he had with Sarah, Jacob goes through a collection of memories, and sees Gabe on the staircase, taking his hand and going up to a bright light, i.e. heaven. It is revealed that Jacob died from his Vietnam injury, and that all his hallucinations are because he has been dead for some time. Also starring Pruitt Taylor Vince as Paul, Jason Alexander as Geary, Eriq La Salle as Frank and Ving Rhames as George. I didn't realise Jacob's Ladder was a term to describe the ladder to heaven, if I knew that before it may have given the plot away a little. On the other hand, it may have helped, I didn't understand all the random things happening in amongst a very thin plot, the effects are mildly interesting, I don't quite see why it is must see horror thriller, I suppose it is inventive though. Okay! "},{"Title":"what a mess!!!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  jacob's ladder is a messy confusing movie, that leaves the audience in a daze and wondering just what in hell happened. the movie drifts in and out incoherently - failing to grip the audience at any point in time.the solace is in tim robbins' brilliant acting, as the harrowed vietnam veteran. however, there is hardly any sympathy for the character or his ordeals because of the shoddy script and confusing screenplay. no redeeming dialogs to keep the viewer engaged. this was a very disappointing movie, especially considering the kind of critical acclaim that went with it.Possible Spoiler ahead!!!!! the movie attempts to take the viewer into the minds of a war veteran - but fails miserably in connecting with the audience by giving some coherence to it.a confusing 3! "},{"Title":"Lyne takes liberties with the material AND the audience...","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"     He's not the first to do it, and I'm sure he won't be the last, but Lyne has taken incredible liberties with both the material he has been given and the audience who pay to be entertained.  Just the merest hint of the plotline - Vietnam vet is plagued by disturbing occurrences - is sure to have had Lyne in a paroxysm of glee.  Oh goody, I get to be experimental!, he doubtless thought.  Let me tell him that there is a fine line between producing an experimental movie and a shambolic mess; which is what this film becomes.   It starts off well, but by the middle section just dissolves into an exercise where 'plot' no longer seems to be a consideration.  The best efforts of Tim Robbins could not prevent me from becoming angry at the dismantling of such an intriguing setup.   There may be those of you who think that I do not like David Lynch because he is often called 'experimental'.  This could not be more wrong.  I love Blue Velvet and like Lost Highway despite not really understanding the latter.  The difference between a Lynch film and this is that Lynch NEVER takes advantage of the material he is given in order to be weird.  He just does what he does, and if you do not like it, then that is your lookout.  Lyne is a director whose other films have been pretty linear, and who obviously used this project as a way of indulging himself, with no thought for those in the audience who might like a coherent plot - or at the very least a CONSISTENT one.   An ambiguous storyline like this is not sufficient excuse for such a lack of structure.  One of the most misdirected films I have seen. "},{"Title":"Confusing and Went Nowhere!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Look, I was jumping out of my pants when I was about to see Jacob's Ladder. I heard it was OUT OF THIS WORLD. What the heck, it didn't even make one bit of sense. First this guy gets wounded at war. Then you find him waking up to a sex starved woman (elizabeth Pena) mixing with the fact he is seeing demons of the unknown.What made this movie so confusing is that he kept switching from dream and reality. One life to the next, past to present. I was using all my brain just to try to figure out where he was let alone watching the movie! I really enjoyed the graphics (no computerized which amazed me) but I really wouldn't recommend it to anyone who wants to watch a simple horror movie you can follow along with. "},{"Title":"Bad Bad Bad","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Warning spoiler     This movie is one where you love or hate it, and I hate this one.  My wife considers this film one of the most stupidest films I ever seen.  We remember it, because it was our third date in collage, and after the film we decided to start going out together as a couple.  This movie moves back and forth from Tim Robbens life as different people,which is haunted by these demons.  We find at the end the struggle is in his mind, and the tricks the minds plays when one is dieing.  Except for a scene where this head shakes at this party, I jumped out of my seat to my girlfriends delight, this film pack very little punch. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen A LOT of movies and this one is by far the worst one. I can't believe the fact that people obviously like the movie, considered the ratings. Nothing happens...Jacob only seem to have a great depression and wander around with hallucinations and anxiety...don't watch this one!!! "}]