[{"Title":"itsie bitsie spider","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie a lot since it came out and everytime I still don't get bored with it, Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings is great, lots of cool stuff in this movie and especially if you like those spiders. John Goodman was awesome as Delbert McClintock the local exterminator, this movie will keep you at the edge of your seat. Arachnophobia is a must see for horror and spider fans, its a nice piece of movie making. "},{"Title":"Freakish thriller","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arachnophobia is a very entertaining horror movie produced by Steven Spielberg. It's takes the fear of spiders to the next level. The film opens with an expedition in South America where a very deadly tarantula puts the bite on an American photographer, killing him in the process. Just before the body gets transferred back to the U.S., the spider sneaks into the coffin. Once in the states, the tarantula quickly mates with a domestic house spider and that creates the ultimate nightmare. Before you know it, a new strain of spiders have been born, that these little creepy crawlers are just as lethal! Jeff Daniels is excellent as the new doctor in town who hates spiders. He begins to realize something strange is happening. A couple of deaths occur, and the doc feels that these unexpected demises might be spider related. And man it's a scary ride to the finish. Arachnophobia literally gave me the creeps. And it's also funny. Many of the film's comedy is provided by John Goodman as the town exterminator. He's literally a hoot. The thing about this movie that surprised me is that I was pulled into the story right from the beginning and it kept my attention all the way to the end. Arachnophobia was directed by Frank Marshall, Spielberg's long time collaborater, in his directorial debut. Marshall did a very good job his first time out helming a film which looked like a promising career move at first. He made his second film, Alive a few years later (I've not seen this one yet). Then he made Congo, which was one of the worst movies of 1995, and hasn't directed another movie since (at least not to my knowledge). But Arachnophobia was an above average debut for Marshall. He's got good potential as a director. This isn't a brilliant movie, but a good one. And it's lots of fun. One word of warning if you have a fear of spiders, don't watch this. You'll probably hate it. Don't say I didn't warn you.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Ewwww, Spiders...","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spiders are not a favorite of many people, something about eight legs does not appeal to the masses. The movie Arachnophobia plays on the fears of an audience, while mixing in enough humor to engage the viewer with a standard horror story. Jeff Daniels plays a big city doctor who moves out into the country to take over the practice of the soon-to-be retiring doctor who has served for about 140 years or so. The Daniels' character is also scared of spiders, so when killer spiders enter the town, we have the standard ingredients to the standard horror movie. The spiders look convincing enough to scare almost anybody, and the exterminator, played by John Goodman, offers enough jokes to lead to an entertaining movie. There is nothing Earth-shattering about the film, but for popcorn season, this movie will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia is a good spider flick!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arachnophobia is a great spider film that stars Jeff Daniels,Harley Jane Kozak,John Goodman, Julian Sands, and Peter Jason. The film isn`t really scary but its the creepyness that gets to you! Arachnophobia has good acting and it has a great beginning! Good music too! I recommend Arachnophobia to all creature and horror film fans alike! "},{"Title":"Scariest Movie Ever!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"29 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen a lot of movies in my life...too many movies some might say.  I have never been so scared in a movie than I was with Arachnophobia.I'm terrified of spiders.  I think everything about them is just evil.  And don't give me that They eat bugs bull, I don't care, spiders are still evil.  My wife kills the spiders in our home.  I know that's pathetic, but she earned that duty.See, I would've never seen Arachnophobia had it not been for my wife, then fiance.  While it was in theaters, my buddies all wanted to see it, but in fear of wetting myself in front of them, I told them that I had other plans.Fast forward four years, my fiance & I were at our local Blockwood video store, looking for the perfect scary movie, and she finds Arachnophobia, knowing darn well that I'm terrified of spiders.She asks if we can get it, and I agree, trying not to look like a pansy in front of the girl I want to spend my life with.  By the  end of the movie, I was as white as a sheet and gripping her hand so tight, she couldn't feel anything in her hand.  I seriously spent most of the movie with my eyes closed.For that reason, she kills the spiders in our home.  She felt so bad about scaring me like that.I know that there are quite a bit of you that think this movie is too humorous to be scary.  That's biggest load I've ever heard. If you hate spiders, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!   "},{"Title":"By the numbers.","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It follows the formula as if in a Marine boot camp. Strictly lockstep. A nice young doctor, his beautiful wife, and two lovely kiddies move out of the city and buy a ranch house in a small town. The house seems to have everything they want. It even has a large, well-stocked wine cellar. The cellar is always dark, cluttered, and musty.One after another, townspeople begin to die mysteriously. The young doctor, Jeff Daniels, an arachnophobe, thinks something is going on and asks for autopsies. The old doctor, Henry Jones, the one who refuses to retire, disagrees vehemently. Nobody believes Daniels. The people of the village scorn him and tease his children. The local infestation controller (exterminator to you) is matter-of-fact about the affair. Then the old doctor himself becomes a victim and Daniels finally gets his autopsies.Spiders did it.An forensic arachnologist, or whatever he is, Julian Sands, is called in on the case. He identifies the culprit as a deadly Venezuelan species that is organized like the social insects -- termites, bees, ants, and so forth. They have drones, workers, scullery maids, boot blacks, queens, and all that.Then, more or less suddenly, the little creatures are all over the place, dropping from the ceilings, crawling into the shower to spy on Daniel's teen aged daughter, proving that they're not entirely evil. A final confrontation involves the wine cellar, Daniels, and the queen of spiders, now grown to the size of an elephant seal.The direction isn't bad, given the idiocy of the plot. What can you do with a thousand spiders except have them crawl all over the place and leap at people from hidden places? What else can you have them do? A toe dance to the incidental music from Rosamunde? Form a twenty-foot pyramid like tiny circus acrobats? In case you're in any doubt about what you're supposed to be thinking and feeling, the musical score stuffs innumerable cues down your throat. Yes, when Daniels explores the wine cellar or the barn with a flashlight, it's a spooky scene. You can tell because the violins are going orgasmic with tremolo.Jeff Daniels, by the way, is the perfect actor for a role like this. His instrument only has one note. Not that that's necessarily bad, because Gary Cooper only had one and a half. That marmoreal aspect fits precisely. If he were more expressive he'd have become screaming mad by the movie's end.The film is bound to leave its mark on the history of cinematic mediocrity. "},{"Title":"highly recommended","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Ross Jennings is a renowned doctor from the big city who relocates to a small town in the country. Not only does he not fit in with the local residents, but he also has an uncontrollable fear of spiders which are prevalent in the surrounding area. To make matters worse, a new, lethal breed of spider has made its way from South America to their hometown, and produced a far more deadly breed that's slowly taking over their once peaceful little community. Exciting, creepy thriller with first-rate special effects, hair-raising chills, and an excellent cast. Not for the squeamish or anyone with the titular fear, especially at the film's nail-biting finale. *** "},{"Title":"Scared of spiders?","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Are you afraid of spiders? We believe everyone is afraid of the furry eight legged spiders.If you are afraid, then force yourself to watch this incredible movie! South American killer spider hitches a lift to the US in a coffin and starts to breed and kill. This is one of the scariest spider films of all times.A great cast with Jeff Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, John Goodman, Julian Sands and more.We'd recommend this movie to anyone who has not seen it. Check it out and you won't be disappointed especially if you have Arachnophobia..... "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     I did not start watching Arachnophobia expecting to like it.  I was surprised to find that it was really quite enjoyable and kept your attention.  It sounds like just another stupid take off of The Birds (1963) and something not really worth your time.   I think what made this movie work was that it had lots of humor and the spiders did not seem too unbelievable.  It had lots of shadows from the spiders on the walls and behind the curtains which has an eerie effect on the audience.   I would recommend renting this movie.  Watch it with an open mind and try not to think, This is stupid. "},{"Title":"Monsters everywhere","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie used to scare me big time when I was much younger, and as far as I know, I've always been a fainthearted when it comes to spiders. I thought that, maybe after all these years without facing a spider situation, this movie would be just a simply entertainment to me. Boy, I was wrong. From the first time the characters see a spider I got anguished. After the first spider bite, I asked myself if I really wanted to go on in that journey. Jokes aside--I'm a bit serious actually--, I can honestly state this is a very well done movie. It uses an unexplored theme in horror movies-- at that time-- to create a terrifying story that chills almost everyone. Characters are well developed, and so is the plot, giving credibility to most scenes they built. Also, plot has enough elements to entertain you, even thought they don't talk/show spiders every time. Of course when it wanted to reach a climax spiders were all they showed, but that's the way horror movies use to get there, and I respect that. We have 103 minutes of tension, fun and jumps, and even thought we know or imagine how it's gonna end, it never fails in any aspect. I just don't know why they label this movie as comedy-- in my opinion, this is a very serious business hahaha. All in all, Arachnophobia is a surprisingly good movie that impacted many children in 90's and will scare everyone who has this phobia, for sure. "}{"Title":"It's just a spider, man","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, Summer 1990 - what a time to be a kid, or even just a film fan in general. There were so many classics out that summer (Gremlins 2, RoboCop 2, BTTF 3, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles), Arachnophobia wasn't one of them but I was excited by the trailer (which used a weird, alternate version of the Gremlin Rag) and I was a fan of John Goodman and Julian Sands, having recently seen Raising Arizona and Warlock at the time. I didn't actually get to see the movie until the next summer when it was on in a bar in Gran Canaria though. On my way back to the hotel I ran up some steps, which made a tassel from my shorts flip up into my face. I thought it was a spider. I freaked.Many people are afraid of spiders, actually. Including you. There's probably a spider in your bed right now. That tickle on your arm a minute ago - that was probably a spider. You know that packet of grapes you've been munching on? I think maybe an exotic arachnid hitched a ride here from some far off land in it. I'd sleep with your mouth closed tonight if I were you.A fear of spiders has been in our blood since cave man days. It's a common sense in our DNA that won't go away. They have made easy villains in movies for many years, from the awful Tarantula to the awful Kingdom of the Spiders (which is still a very enjoyable film) and the overlooked Eight Legged Freaks. Frank Marshall tackled the er...eight-legged freaks before the advent of CGI, when creature effects were brought to life with puppetry and animatronics (done here by Chris Walas who seems to have retired now that his craft is obsolete) and it helps the movie feel real and tangible, but it's just not creepy or disgusting enough.Jeff Daniels plays an affable GP who moves to sleepy rural Canaima, California to escape the city life. The very day he arrives is the moment when a newly-discovered, highly aggressive species of spider arrives in a coffin from Venezuela. It mates with a local right under his nose and sets up a nest in his barn and basement. The locals begin to die of bites from their young and Daniels gradually figures it out as a spectacularly small amount of bodies piles up.Goodman (channeling Carl Spackler from Caddyshack, for some reason) and Sands come and go, the latter making some truly moronic decisions, while the spiders remain mostly off-screen. Much of the running time is devoted to all the boring bits in-between. Arachnophobia plays it safe when it really should have overwhelmed us.Even by 1990 PG-13 standards it could have set the bar pretty high for any spider-flicks that followed. Instead we get the occasional glimpse, a few deaths, and a couple of scenes of tension before the action-packed finale which, thankfully, saves it.Had David Cronenberg (who, strangely, went on to direct a movie called Spider) or John Carpenter tackled the story we might have had a classic, as it is Arachnophobia is merely mindless entertainment with the familiar Amblin touch. "},{"Title":"Needed to be darker","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Director Frank Marshall brings us this movie about a South American deadly spider wreaking havoc in a small American town. The plot from Don Jakoby and Al Williams has its share of scares, but I have to say, not much more.John Goodman is quite funny as local exterminator Delbert McClintock, but others, including Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings and Julian Sands as Dr. James Atherton, are just there for the ride.This Steven Spielberg project, on which he shared executive production duties with director Frank Marshall, was one of his dreams come true. Arachnaphobia needed a darker approach, even a darker humour.Saturday, February 23, 1991 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Was Rooting For The Creepy Spiders To Bite The Main Characters","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If spiders give you the creeps, stay away from this film. You will be uncomfortable watching it, to say the least! I'm so-so on the creatures but this gave me some creepy moments, too. As one person said, It makes your skin crawl.The spiders didn't bother me as much as most of the characters in this film. They were annoying to me, especially Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings. This guy blasphemes about as many times as the spiders appear.The only fun person in the film is John Goodman, who plays the exterminator, Delbert McClintock. Too bad Delbert didn't exterminate a few people while he was at it! "},{"Title":"Spider Scare.","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia (1990) Dir Frank Marshall / Cast Jeff Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, John Goodman, Julian Sands, Stuart Pankin Everybody fears something whether it be nuclear war, death, the dark, or a box of tic-tacs. Jeff Daniels plays a doctor who fears spiders. He and his family get acquainted in a new town until his clients start dying. His family remain supportive but the local kids call him Dr. Death. Spiders that were accidentally transported from South America appear to be the cause of death. Researchers are summoned and formula elements begin despite decent setup. Director Frank Marshall cranks up the tension because we do not know when these creepy critters will emerge. Daniels is convincing because viewers can identify with his fear but it is all too obvious that he will have to face it. Harley Jane Kozak plays his wife but the role is by the numbers standard issue. John Goodman adds comic relief as an exterminator in a role that would seem flat had it not been for his gifted comedic talent. Julian Sands is appealing as the contacted scientist although he does things that many horror film morons fall victim to when it comes to enclosed dark places. Stuart Pankin plays the local Sheriff who will realize just how useless he is in the face of spiders. The film is well made technically with its share of thrills. It plays off a common fear of spiders that is immobilizing. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Spider from South America comes to The US in a man's coffin and starts killing people in a small town.","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a great film on spiders. I first saw this when I was a child. I am proud to say I have it in my DVD collection. This movie has two big stars in it that I feel give a good performance. They are John Goodman and Jeff Daniels. Daniels plays a doctor from a big city who is to take over as the head doctor in a small town. When he gets there though the old man thats supposed to retire does not feel his is ready to retire. John Goodman plays an exterminator. You have to see the movie to know more on it.The story is pretty good. It may require some thinking. It is like this. The opening scene is a guy going on a trip to South America. After taking picture some pictures he goes to sleep in his tent back where they are staying. A very venomous and deadly spider crawls into his tent and bites him. They way this bite works is he goes into like a seizure for a few seconds and then he kills over. He complained of a fever when he was there so they though it was the fever that killed him. When they are shipping the body back to the US the spider crawls into his coffin.When they get to America the spider finds its way into a barn. In the barn it breeds and creates smaller faster versions of itself. Very slowly people in the town die. The new town doctor decides to get to the bottom of this.I recommend that everybody see this movie. I think it is a pretty good thriller movie. The spiders can look creepy and is a must see for any spider fan. Don't be turned off by films like spiders 1 and 2. Don;t let a movie that is over done with action and special effects like eight legged freaks. This is a good popcorn movie. So if you like thriller movies go watch this. "},{"Title":"Slickly-made scare comedy has Spielberg's patented homey touch...","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Steven Spielberg produced this big-budget bug movie, yet it's got nothing on 1977's low-budget thriller Kingdom of the Spiders, nor is it a cheesy excitement on the level of Bert I. Gordon's latter-day monster movies. Killer spiders from South America make it to the rural U.S., causing bland family man Jeff Daniels to call an exterminator (enter John Goodman, funny as a super-cool spider-killer, yet it's an intermittent cameo that calls too much attention to itself and sticks out obtrusively). There are some enjoyable, ingenious bits, yet nobody came up with a really novel way of introducing or disposing of the spiders. B-picture formula given high-tech treatment is mild fun for about ten minutes, tops. ** from **** "},{"Title":"It made my Skin Crawl","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a movie this isn't really all that great. The cast, the script and the direction are all adequate, and there's nothing really special about it as a movie. Yet i have scored it 7/10, seems weird; but let me tell you why.If the bugs had been something other than spiders then i would have given this a 5 or 6, that is about the score it deserves as a movie, but if your like me, and your an arachnophobe then this movie surpasses this score significantly, it makes your skin crawl and has you thinking every shadow is a spider for weeks afterwards. Aside from scaring the s**t out of me it also made me laugh a lot.For arachnophobes, who enjoy a fright this is the film for you7/10 "},{"Title":"Spielberg ripoffs","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unlike Dean Devlin and Roland Emerich (who are coincidently making a film about spiders;big spiders) Frank Marshal and Kathleen Kennedy are the authorized Spielberg rip-off, having spent many years as producers of Spielberg productions. Unfortunately, they decided to try doing movies on their own and this is the silly result.Where as Spielberg movies are high concept films done with a lot of flash and style. The Marshal Kennedy films are low concept with some flash and borrowed, left-over style. Film making by the book only. Arachnophobia is far better than Congo; their next effort but that isn't saying much. The movie is bland and incredibly forgettable. Why? Not much happens. You can get all the subtlety and nuances from this one line descriptionBig Amazonian spider hitches a ride to small town U.S.A and gives birth to infestation of killer spiders.That's what happens. That's all.No attempt to add any complexities. Or rather there are sad attempts that fail miserably and end up feeling like no attempt at all. Nothing is funny here. It could of been and should of been. All this plays on is the basic fears of spiders. Big whoop. If your scared of spiders you won't wanna watch this. So who is this movie for? People who aren't scared of spiders? If so there is little to keep us interested. There is a lot of talk from the Spider expert telling how scary it is. But who cares. It's a bunch of spiders. Granted a whole lot of them. Whoooooooooooo cares. The giant infestation of insect movies were better in the seventies. That's where they should stay. Look out moths! Look out worms! Look out roaches!Just doesn't sound scary. "},{"Title":"Not bad. Not great.","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Netflix has been throwing a slew of films into the streaming ethos lately that I remember loving in my youth (I'm in my thirties as i write this so you do the math) and I aim to see how they hold up against my preteen memories. I chose this flick because I remember it being a big deal and everyone went to see it in my neighborhood. Arachnophobia (1990) was hardly the Jaws (1975) of my generation, but being produced by Steven Spielberg helps put the picture in the wheelhouse. Does it hold up? We shall see.Dr. Ross Jennings (Daniels), a general practitioner, wine enthusiast, and (you guessed it) arachnophobic, moves his city family to the a small town of Canaima, California to take over when the town's doctor retires from his practice. But his idyllic plans are sidetracked when a new species of spider makes its way from South America to the small community. Breeding with domesticated house arachnids, a new breed of seemingly harmless spiders are unleashed on the town. When the sweet but stern matriarch dies mysteriously, Jennings is blamed for her death due to misdiagnosis. Shunned by the town, Jennings begins to investigate the odd deaths of several other residents and soon discovers that the one thing he fears most is taking over Canaima. With the help of the local pest control expert (played memorably by John Goodman), Jennings tries to stop the eight-legged plague before it's too late.Now, I remember liking this film very much when I was a lad, but I don't remember it taking so long to get to the punch. This film drags during the first act, trying to set up a lot of back-story. Not the worst thing in the world but it does get tiresome. The script is well written and could have easily gone towards the schlocky end of the spectrum but manages to keep the premise as highbrow as it can for the subject matter they where dealing with. I liked it, but a few edits could have kept this piece a bit tighter. "},{"Title":"The Horror is the Comedy","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The directorial debut of Frank Marshall, otherwise known as the producer of everything you ever loved from the 1980's, Arachnophobia is a creature-feature that was heavily marketed as both a comedy and a horror film. It is one of the better regarded disaster films from the 1990's, the decade that saw a dramatic resurgence of the genre, with a 91% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. At best, it deserves a low 60.Strangely for a 90's disaster movie, Arachnophobia's acting and screen writing are both quite sturdy. The reliable Jeff Daniels plays a dry-witted but rather pleasant urbanite GP called Dr. Ross Jennings, who has arrived from San Francisco with his family (all of whom are played reasonably well). Jennings, who (big surprise here) suffers from arachnophobia, clashes with the colourful locals before having to confront a sodality of aesthetically displeasing arthropods from the rainforests of the Amazon. The plot is largely logical and believable in its progression, bar a few inexplicabilities here and there. While it is all rather run-of-the- mill, it is competent, enjoyable, and at times even clever.But where the film thrives on writing and performance, it falls pathetically short of the mark on matters of tone and technical ingenuity. For being an individual with the titular phobia, I found this film profoundly flat and pedestrian. You'd think that if Alfred Hitchcock was able to instil blind terror with the mere sight of a flock of disgruntled birds, then Frank Marshall would be able to at least quietly unsettle with the image of spiders invading a living room. It would be unfair to say he did not manage to extract any terror from those scenes, but where Marshall could have spent a nice chunk of his 103 minute runtime building a pronounced aura of menace, he instead tries to crack jokes so tepid a late 80's sitcom wouldn't dare touch them with a ten-foot pole.The film, quite simply, should not have been a comedy. Besides the Sam Raimi-esque camp of the climatic showdown between Jennings and the boss spiders, the jokes just do not work. Some of them are even downright grating. Halfway through the film, the arach-attacks start taking centre stage, and the narrative is given a sudden surge of suspense. What does the film do then? Why, it devotes an inordinate amount of our time to a stupid comic relief character called Delbert, because that makes sense. It's not as though there's infinitely more interesting material to be followed up about extremely venomous spiders; no, what we all need &#x96; nay, what the 90's needed &#x96; was an insect exterminator (played by John Goodman) whose entire humorous conceit is that he's fat, has a weirdly effeminate voice, and may or may not be very good at his job.Worse still, the production values have a television film vibe about them, particularly the music. Composer Trevor Jones gets some nice strings and brass involved in the climax, but otherwise the whole thing sounds more dated than the incidental music for 'The X-Files'. Delbert's leitmotif is the undoubtedly the worst offender. You could overlay it on the 'Too Many Cooks' video and it would be a perfect fit.The film's best moments are its scenes of rather understated horror. There's no grey-blue style Platinum Dunes lighting, few grating musical stings, and the actors never play fear as some grotesque pantomime of terror. It's subtle and it's sincere. In conclusion, Arachnophobia is an enjoyable but forgettable creature feature that might serve as appropriate viewing for a rainy Sunday afternoon, but little else. "}{"Title":"Slow at times, but very funny","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Obviously there are a lot of people terrified by spiders, because I thought this was a very funny movie, and until I watched the movie years after it was made, I had initially heard people calling this movie scary. Arachnophobia is very funny, the actors played their characters very well. One classic scene in the movie is when he is expecting to find a spider on the wall in a rather heart-beating moment, and it ends up being the shadow from a coat hanger on the wall. I just love that moment. John Goodman's roll in this as the exterminator was very amusing too. The movie itself is kind-of like a mix between Back to the Future III and another comical movie made years after, Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining killer spider movie","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Moving to a new house in the country, a doctor finds a spate of strange deaths in his small town are the work of a ravenous spiders accidentally brought from Venezuela and must find a way of stopping the creatures from spreading.Overall this one was wholly enjoyable and featured a lot to like. What really works well for this one is the exceptional build-up to the actual discovery of the spiders in the area, which here is well-done from the opening here being unable to piece together the coincidences of the expedition and coming into the town which is even more important as these here are the most important. The first deaths here are conceivably accidental deaths a small-town doctor that's certainly portrayed as done here would put off as accidents, overlooking the obvious evidence for their folksy ways in order to prolong the story but using this tactic for the better here to sell the idea of their invasion on the town. As well, the film also scores nicely here for by actually going for some rather exciting action here that manages to exploit the real creatures utilized for these while making the film even more fun with these scenes. The early attacks in the town are fine with the doctor's house, the football field and a rather fine scene at the abandoned house from earlier where it finally alerts them to the existence of the spiders as the hunt through the house produce some suspenseful times of them popping out at people, the discovery of the biology that helps them determine the course of action in here as well which all sets up the biggest part of the film in the finale. This is all sorts of fun with the series of swarming as they come out of practically every single hole along the house, cover most of the furniture crawling towards them and forcing the group into numerous defensive and escape tactics to get away which manages to put them in even more danger through even more swarms coming along during these moments as they're fun, chilling and highly enjoyable, though even this fun pales to the pure thrills down in the basement. Now isolated, he has to deal with the general eeriness of the film location, the tense searching around for it and the action-packed tactics to bring it down all make for a spectacular sequence that makes for an utterly exciting scene that gives this one a lot to like. There's not much to dislike here, which really begins with the rather alarming need for coincidences to pile on the story in order to get the spiders there. It's way too gimmicky not just to get the spiders into the country but also to get them to the barn where the rest of the story takes place. As well, the humor here isn't always funny and can come up lame at times, which is pretty tough to identify and sometimes halts this one unnecessarily. Otherwise, there's a lot to like with this one.Rated PG-13 Adult Language, Violence, and mild scenes of children in jeopardy. "},{"Title":"Often cheesy but nonetheless effective spider invasion yarn","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This popular, family-orientated monster movie is just one of the wave of nature's rampage films which have been churned out in the past thirty years. ARACHNOPHOBIA builds upon the clichés already set up by previous offerings into creating a crowd-pleasing template which has been copied by every such movie since. You should know the routine by now after the initial set-up, there's a slow beginning, then a string of deaths culminating in an all out, widespread invasion at the end. Unfortunately, ARACHNOPHOBIA tends to be cheesy or clichéd when it should be frightening, but there are still a couple of effective scares to look out for, so spider-haters beware.With Steven Spielberg as producer, you know things will never get too nasty, although this film thankfully lacks the stultifying sentimentalising which Spielberg sometimes crowbars into his films. Frank Marshall's direction is slick and enterprising, and the film's high budget shows in the elaborate sets, vivid photography and the realistic special effects - a mixture of real spiders and partially-convincing animatronics.Jeff Daniels takes the lead as the boring doctor, and I'll be frank I don't like his performance here, and I don't like Daniels as an actor. Something about him just makes me want to switch off. But, I stuck with it, and Daniels is at least passable here. John Goodman, however, steals the show as the frequently-hilarious exterminator who seems to think that he's John Wayne. Also appearing are Julian Sands (BOXING HELENA) as an amusing feminine doctor and Harley Jane Kozak, who's okay in a supporting turn as Daniels' wife. The supporting cast are unfamiliar but all play their (mostly clichéd) characters well.The initial opening, set in a studio-bound South America, is quite fun and promises a lot. Sadly after this the film goes down a gear and is quite slow-paced for an hour, where nothing much happens apart from characterisation. Fortunately this is a movie that gets better as it goes along and things are soon picking up with the various spider attacks which are amusing to watch. However, my favourite part is the unbelievably cheesy yet enjoyable finale which sees Daniels going one-on-one with the spider queen and her male, who have taken up residence in his wine cellar! You won't believe it as Daniels shoots the spiders with a nailgun and sets fire to him, and a big suspension of disbelief is indeed required, but this is still well-executed. Despite being made as a crowdpleaser, ARACHNOPHOBIA has some genuinely creepy moments in the spider's nests and is worth a look for undemanding monster movie fans. "},{"Title":"I laughed at it!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! I'm sorry but when I was a kid always laughed at how people try making spiders look evil. I found this movie really enjoyable because Jeff Daniels is once again acting like a nice guy. I know this movie is suppose to be made for horror but I don't find spiders at all scary in this movie. Like this one scene Jeff Daniels is saying he's scared to death over this one little spider he ends up putting a glass over anyway. This movie just screams that it is from the 90s and I loved it! I just can't take this film serious seeing as how the spiders don't even seem threatening. Like seriously the spiders are just normal sized ones. I liked this film better than 8 legged freaks and I liked the style of this film better so it's a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrifying '90s film!","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobes will be terrified and people O.K. with spiders will have a new fear after watching the well-made and significantly terrifying horror thrill-omedy Arachnophobia. In fact, this is the movie that made me scared s***-less of spiders for the rest of my life. The one scared s***-less in this film is big city doctor Ross Jennings (Daniels). The film follows him as he tries to save his family and new country hometown of Canaima from the deadly offspring of a spider accidentally brought over from Venezuela by entomologist Dr. James Atherton (Julian Sands). These deadly spiders are crossing Canaima wanting to kill every living thing there is, even cats and crows.It's genuinely terrifying, including a few surprisingly laudable jump scares, but I solemnly think that this movie could've done with a little less of the effective humor layered on top of Don Jakoby & Wesley Strick's script's graphic and disturbing nature. Although doing that would've added more to the horror, I can understand that it's there to ease people's nerves a bit. If there's one guy to do the job, it's plucky exterminator Delbert McClintock (John Goodman, hilarious), finding every way possible to kill the spiders when his deadly pest spray works none. This is Frank Marshall's directorial debut and succeeds at making this film lighthearted when it needs to be and horrifyingly sensational when need be. He makes you feel for this doctor when his reputation as a doctor and overall good citizen in this small country town falls apart. Daniels does great work here as the arachnophobic doctor, perfectly expressing inner fear through his whole body when his sympathetic wife (Kozak) shows her a spider web, when he has to take a single step towards a spider, or when he constantly warns his kids before they go on sleepovers. It's the type of behavior seen in so many people because spiders are arguably the most terrifying creatures in existence. Jennings is someone to root for, but if Arachnophobia contains any hint of emotional resonance, it's through the element of surprise and utter horror. This is one of the creepiest films to come out of Hollywood in a long time and it's a must-watch if you're into the elegant old-school scares. I'm sure you'll scan every crack and crevice in the house once this 110-minute scare-fest wraps up. "},{"Title":"Cross Poltergeist, Eight-Legged Freaks and Beetlejuice","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia is okay, but typical. A rare species of spider ends up traveling to the United States in a coffin, and wreaks havoc on a boring family, including the dad, who is terrified of spiders.The entire time I was watching this, I couldn't get the image of the picture-perfect families from Poltergeist, Edward Scissorhands, etc. out of my head. The countryside homes reminded me of the town from Beetlejuice, as did many of the actors. The soundtrack was very Addams Family-like. From the early eighties to early nineties, the era had several films each with similar characters. It was hard to view this film as original. Not only were the spider web effects incredibly fake-looking, but the film stretched on and became incredibly boring. The acting was okay but not very good and the soundtrack was typical.There's no real side to this movie, I can't call it good or bad. Just typical. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to have some viewers squirming in their seats.","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Longtime Steven Spielberg associate Frank Marshall made his directorial debut with this slick film, a thriller with comic overtones that capitalizes on the inherent dislike many human beings take towards spiders. Marshall does succeed at making this an engaging bit of business that's exciting and suspenseful when it needs to be, in addition to being funny. It's well paced, with lots of well orchestrated animal action enhanced by some terrific effects work by Chris Walas. The story is well cast right down the line, from the leads to the supporting players to the character parts.During a scientific expedition in the mountains of Venezuela, a tropical arachnid sinks its teeth into a photographer, then hitches a ride back to America inside the mans' coffin. It ends up in the small town California town of Canaima, where it soon mates with a local spider and produces legions of lethal offspring, which attack the local citizens. Forced to become the unlikely hero is the new doctor in town, Ross Jennings (ever likable Jeff Daniels), who just so happens to have a debilitating fear of spiders.Co-starring are Julian Sands as an authority on arachnids, Harley Jane Kozak as Ross's patient wife, and a priceless John Goodman as a goofy exterminator who comes complete with his own comic musical theme. Other familiar faces include Stuart Pankin, Brian McNamara, Mark L. Taylor, Henry Jones, Peter Jason, James Handy, Roy Brocksmith, Kathy Kinney, Mary Carver, Juan Fernandez, and Frances Bay. The excellent score is by Trevor Jones.The movie isn't without silly and unbelievable moments, but in general it's solidly entertaining, with a particularly intense finale in a cellar.Recommended to those who are always up for a fun creepy-crawlie tale.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Spinning an odd tale","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The problem with Arachnophobia is that no one seems to know what kind of the movie they wanted to make! I like the film because it's just different, but it is not clear whether they wanted it to be a comedy, bringing John Goodman out was funny and provided a more light hearted sense to the movie. But it also tried to be scary and did have its moments. It ended up just being kind of a mishmash, but I found it entertaining. I like Jeff Daniels and I love spiders. Spiders make something out of nothing and most people make nothing out of something. We have benefited from spiders far more than we have lost because of them. "},{"Title":"laugh and clap","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia like a reviewer once said is a 'rollercoaster ride from start to finish'. Which it basically is to the viewer. A bungling photographer Jerry Manley is a part of an expedition lead by Atherton Julian Sands(Warlock). The party flies by helicopter over mountainous terrain that has a dip thousands of feet below. Down below is amazon like rain forests. The latter has an agenda to collect unknown butterflies and spiders. After collecting a assortment of insects they get a rare find and more. A place they had entered was probably better off untouched considering what trouble awaits.A bunch of isolated deaths occur in a small town of Canima. A doctor Ross Jennings just recently arrived gets a bad rep. He also loses his only patient Margaret. It's not long that he is against time to stop a deadly spider infestation. He gets a spider expert Collins' who works for Dr. Atherton to check out some so-called spider bites in the morgue. Atherton is studying a new spider species that has workers' or drones' like Bees and ants. Atherton finds out the new spiders are related to the ones responsible for the deaths. Nice scares. As someone who has seen spider movies before Kingdom of the Spiders 1977 starring William Shatner, Eight Legged Freaks well some of it. I recommend it to people who like suspenseful plots with spiders as the prime antagonists. "},{"Title":"Creepy just looking at the spiders","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" James Atherton (Julian Sands) leads an expedition in the Venezuelan jungle to hunt for unique insects living in an isolated ecosystem. They find many unusual creatures including a spider he suspects is a drone. This would be a new species of spiders with many drones. A male kills one of the team and sneaks into the coffin. It hitches a ride back to the States to the small town of Canaima where it mates with a local spider creating an even more deadly new species. Dr. Ross (Jeff Daniels) and Molly Jennings (Harley Jane Kozak) are new in town with their two kids leaving behind the big city. Ross is deadly afraid of spiders. Molly deals with any spider relocation. The old town doctor changes his mind and refuses to retire. And he gets off to a bad start with the town sheriff. The worst part has to be the spiders that have made a nest in their barn.Spiders are creepy. If you're afraid of them, this will not help at all. Every close up is creepy. Jeff Daniels is great as the scaredy cat. He brings a lot of charm and humor to the role. The light heart tone really sets up the horror perfectly. It is one scary movie. "}{"Title":"Genuinely Thrilling and Genuinely Funny","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The title should be a hint, but if spiders give you the willies, Arachnophobia will be your own personal horror show. The icky factor is dialed to a 10, providing some effective moments of skin-crawling. In other words, Arachnophobia is a deliciously fun ride, with genuine thrills and legitimate laughs.The amusingly self-aware plot is that by unfortunate chance, a deadly Venezuelan spider was transported to a small town where the spiders quickly multiplied and begin killing various town residents. The nest is, rather coincidentally, located in the farm of arachno-phobic, Ross Jennings.It is so rare to see a film get this mix of comedy, chills, and thrills down so perfect. Never does one element seem to outweigh the other. The tongue-in-cheek delivery of the story is highly enjoyable, and there are some genuinely creepy-crawly scenes. All of this leads up to a thrilling (and chilling) climax that is fantastic fun.There is a lot of mastery in the build-up in this film. Spiders are often dancing around potential victims, tantalizing the audience with another gruesome death. Will it bite her? Will she notice it? We watch with morbid curiosity and a grin as we writhe with anticipation and (perhaps slightly twisted) delight. The spiders are nearly as creepy as they could possibly be. They're silent and quick. They can jump (which adds a whole new layer of terror). And some are quite large. We see them hide in food, and exit out of victim's nostrils. Arachnophobia creates a sense of paranoia that will stay with you long after the film has ended.And yet, the creepiness is kept from getting too nerve-wracking thanks to its self-aware attitude and campy spirit, which insures a fun time, even when you're chewing your nails away and intermittently brushing off your shoulder.Jeff Daniels as Ross Jennings isn't given as much to work with as some of the other cast members, but he makes for a likable lead. The real stand-out, however, is John Goodman as Delbert McClintock, who provides the biggest laughs of the film, and steals all of his scenes. He's woefully underused, however, as he appears in just a handful of short scenes. The supporting cast also has their share of funny bits, including Stuart Pankin, Roy Brocksmith, and Kathy Kinney.Trevor Jones' score is surprisingly fun. The cheesy and dated music (an unintended result that has come with age) adds to the fun, and the pleasant town melodies make the comic build-up to the spiders' reign even more chuckle-worthy.Arachnophobia is a surprisingly clever and smartly made movie. It provides a satisfying blend of comedy and suspense, coupled with solid performances and a hot heaping of camp. It's fun, it's reasonably creepy, and just a really good time. Watch it with friends and have a blast. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a 22 year old, yet not one of the best.","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a child, my uncles had a pretty impressive collection/library of video cassettes, some bought but most of them recorded from television (it was the early 90's, before one could download almost any film from the web). They also numbered each cassette and cataloged their collection, so any time I wanted to watch something all I had to do was look it up. That was how I first heard of Arachnophobia. I had been in elementary school and asked if I could watch it, and was given a huge No! because it would have supposedly given me nightmares.Around 20 years later, I've finally closed the circle and watched the film. And you know what? They were right, it would have given me nightmares. Fear of spiders, or roaches, or any form of insect is very common. I personally used to have a huge fear of cockroaches when I was a child. Arachnophobia takes these fears to the next step, by adding some fiction that might as well be true.For a 1990's film, I'd say it was great. The good screenplay, the closeup shots of the spiders, the unnerving thrill you get when you know the spider might attack - all make for a more than worthy experience. However, overall - I can't say this is one of the better ones. I've since watched They Nest (Creepy Crawlers) and it was much scarier... Still, I'd recommend this film to anyone who's ever experienced or been met with a fear of insects, as well as anyone considering themselves a true Horror fan. "},{"Title":"King of spiders movies","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not scared of spiders, my sister scream bloody murder, when she see one, I don't mijd if I see a eight legged friend. This movie did a great Job, making suspense and tension for whole movie One of scene that had me on edge of seat, as got to be the two girls singing the song about spider, coming down and then spider getting closer to the girl foot and at the last second see moved. That is great example of writing and directing, as it got me to cringe a little, (I don't think I ever used that word Cringe before, as I hate that word, sorry going off topic here). Also like the fact this movie as some of the most hysterical, scene in horror movie, that made me laugh out loud. The acting was outstanding from the whole cast and also the eight legged spiders did great job of acting as well ). I love this movie, great movie, I am going to give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The itsy-bitsy spider crawled up the water spout; down came the rain and washed the spider out.","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When a photographer is bitten and killed by a spider in the Venezuelan jungle, his body is shipped back to his home town of Canaima in California. Unfortunately something has hitched a ride in his coffin&#x85;&#x85;Mixing B movie conventions with modern day fun, Arachnophobia sees Frank Marshall direct and Jeff Daniels, Julian Sands, John Goodman and Harley Jane Kozak line up in the cast. Tho horror and comedy on the surface doesn't seem to be a that hard to blend together, it's surprising over the years just how few horror comedy movies can claim to be successful and have been able to to win over a like minded audience. In fact, if we move away from the likes of Sean Of The Dead, the B movie creature feature, especially in modern times, has few offerings of worth. We can certainly mention the awesome (and best of the modern bunch) Tremors, which turned a small Worldwide profit, and then we turn to Lake Placid and Arachnophobia. Both of the latter made considerable amounts of cash (for the genre) and are propelled by a degree of star wattage. What was in Arachnophobia's favour too, was that spiders strike the fear of god into many people, thus, as Marshall said himself on the publicity junket, People like to be scared but laughing at the same time. Arachnophobia achieves this in spades, mixing real spiders (Avondale breed) with model and magnet work, the effect achieved is nervy giggles coupled with creepy goose flesh putting in an appearance.The cast work hard to make it work. OK, Sands remains as wooden as he always is, but in this case his pompous bug professor calls for it. Daniels as the modern doctor hoping to start a new life in the country, is an excellent lead, a fine actor who's no show on the A list of Hollywood remains an utter mystery. But it's with the big jolly blunderbuss that is John Goodman that Arachnophobia gets its frothy B movie fun. His inept, half witted but knowing pest controller, Delbert, engages in that small town Americana way. An innocence to the terrors of the world that makes for a nice play off with the Arachnophobic Dr. Ross Jennings (Daniels). Nicely shot around Cambria, California, to fully realise the small town under arachnid siege, Arachnaphobia is the perfect comedy creeper for all the family. Enjoy even if you have to watch from behind your hands. 7/10 "},{"Title":"the spider house rules","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Sort of a cross between horror and comedy, Arachnophobia is sure to make you afraid to stick any body part into an unknown space. In the grand scheme of things, the movie serves as a good warning about the dangers of bringing non-native species into a new region. Obviously, the whole thing is basically entertainment, but how can you not like it? Jeff Daniels as the spider-fearing star and John Goodman as the ultra-tough exterminator are reason enough to watch the movie. I would like to learn more about spiders, but I don't have time, so this movie plus Spider-Man are the main exposures that I have to arachnids. Definitely a flick that you gotta love. Also starring Harley Jane Kozak.That one scientist should have known better than to go into the barn without protection. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one of the scarriest movies I have ever seen. I'm a horror fan, but most of them are not scarry. No one is afraid that possessed dolls, men that won't die, or dead men in their sleep are going to kill them. The plots are just too unbelievable. The only thing they are good for is gore and something to laugh at. Instead the title of Arachnophobia is one of the most common fears today. Many people are afraid of spiders and most of us get shivers down our spine just thinking about those pointy little eight legs crawling on our skin. Most of the plot is not that unbelievable. New species are always being found in the rain forest and this wouldn't be the first time that a creature has hitched a ride over to the U.S. The only problems I find in the story are in the end. I will never understand why the spiders swarmed the house, but while I'm watching it I never care because I'm too busy jumping. The other thing is while Jeff Daniels is fighting the general. The spider running towards him at full speed while on fire is a bit exaggerated.The movie also has a good comedy relief. Many of the towns people are somewhat humorous, but most of it is presented by John Goodman. He plays the town exterminator who tries to talk like a professional, but it's clear that he has no clue what he is saying. He also acts big and macho after stepping on a spider. Most of the movie is a cliche, but it makes fun of the cliche if you know what I mean.I have loved this movie ever since the first time that I saw it and even after watching it a million times I still jump and shiver at the same scenes even though I know exactly what will happen. After watching the movie there will be some scenes that will stick in your head. Personally, I was always very cautious about taking showers after watching the movie.  "},{"Title":"The itsy bitsy spider kills a bunch of people","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Making a comedy about killer spiders is a pretty ambitious plan, because killer spiders (even fictional breeds) make me feel somewhat uncomfortable. Just look at the popcorn scene and you'll know what I'm talking about, that's just incredibly creepy. The weird scientists and the goofy exterminator give some kind of comic relief but argh, there are the spiders again. The best scene in the entire movie is probably the showdown between our main guy (a rather bland Jeff Daniels) and the villains, because that's the scene where they actually start doing something about them. That's pretty much my pet peeve with this movie, there isn't really that much action, and eventually it feels like it's over before it has started. Nobody bothers to fight the spiders until the last ten minutes, which tends to make the movie a tad boring. Very creepy though. "},{"Title":"An arachnophobe's worst nightmare - Eight Legs, two fangs, and an attitude!","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (One bite from one of these bad boys, and trust me, you won't be getting spider-like powers!!!)Just to get this out of the way, I'm not scared of spiders (I'm not an arachnophobe), so I have to fake it here, somewhat. While I don't necessarily have a fear of spiders, I don't particularly like them, and I try to maintain a sense of compassion for these delicate and majestic creatures by not squashing them when I find them inside my house and instead collecting them up and releasing them back out to the wild.But Arachnophobia carries the danger of just plain giving me the creeps and throwing me into pure, 100% arachnophobia. Every time I watch it or when I'm just flipping through the channels, I still have to check everywhere around me to make sure there are no eight-legged creepy-crawlers creepy-crawling around.Arachnophobia is one of the most distressing horror films I've ever seen, and remember, I'm not even scared of spiders. It's also just plain one of the most frightening horror movies I've ever seen. It succeeds by exploiting one of the most common fears that I'm sure most people have, and this can be quite distressing for anyone who actually does have a fear of spiders. Yet despite its frightening, creepy-crawly delights, only occasionally does this movie actually take itself seriously. Why? Because it's a horror-comedy, and an occasionally very funny one at that.The film begins with an American scientific expedition in a previously unexplored part of the Venezuelan jungle, where a new species of spider has just been discovered. It's a big, mean killing machine, and it kills one of the members on the team and hitches a ride back to the States in his coffin, to a picturesque Southern California community. After mating with a domestic spider, a deadly, unholy brood hatches from a large pulsating egg sac and begins terrorizing the town. An elderly widow keels over in her living room. The star quarterback drops dead on the field during football practice.Dr. Ross Jennings (a believable and well-cast Jeff Daniels), his wife Molly (Harley Jane Kozak), and their kids move into the same house where the deadly Venezuelan spider and its domestic mate have also taken up residence in the barn. Ross's dream of a booming practice goes up in flames when the doctor he's supposed to replace decides not to retire. His other dream of a wine cellar is also destroyed due to the dry-rotting carpentry. And then those pesky spiders later move into the basement, which is just more bad news for Ross, who has a paralyzing fear of arachnids.Jennings theorizes that the deaths are the work of a deadly new species of spider and of course he's right. But it's not going to be easy to convince the chief of police and the other townspeople of what's at stake. That's when a world-renowned expert on arachnids, Dr. Atherton (Julian Sands), is called in to investigate. Atherton is also the same scientist who first encountered the lethal eight-legged creepy-crawler in Venezuela.Arachnophobia, for all its creepy-crawly delights, is still a very frightening movie experience. It's also very funny. Much of the humor is provided by John Goodman as the good-hearted local exterminator Delbert McClintlock, who's forced to bring out the big guns because the eco-friendly chemicals he's been using for years are no longer effective against this bigger and badder new breed of mutant, eight-legged freaks. Produced by Steven Spielberg, Arachnophobia director Frank Marshall put forth enormous craft in balancing the horror and humor elements of the story and not really jeopardizing any of his credibility. His ingenious use of live (non-lethal) spiders and animatronic ones is all of skillful and brilliant.After watching this movie, whether you're scared of spiders or not, you'll be checking your bedsheets for weeks afterward.8/10 "},{"Title":"Welll....","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I tried to like Arachnophobia and have no complaints about the way the movie was done because I guess it did what it set out to do. But there's no getting around the fact that this movie is-well-kind of icky. Which I guess it intended to be.I can't say I liked this though I valiantly tried to get through it and somehow did. But this really was one of the more irritating movie horrors out there. I saw this in the theater and was 1)grosed out, 2) A bit irritated and 3)not scared. Although I try to see the positive in most movies I just don't have much good to say about this. It's still not the worst of the worst but its up there as being one movie I could have done without seeing and saw it in the theatre to boot. "},{"Title":"Lame, Lighthearted, and Lacking","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Formulaic fright film that has such a sweet TV look and feel that there are very few scares and a lot of silly sitcom humor. The next movie mortician or coroner that shows up with face full of food should die from clichéd caused heart failure. For that matter there seems to be a lot of emphasis here on plump people and their fixation for food and it has nothing to do with the story. It does present the arach-attack quite seriously but the webbing surrounding the rest of the film is so lame, lighthearted and stereotypical that if you listen closely you might hear a laugh-track.Kids and non concerning adults who like their serving lite might find some entertainment value here, but just don't expect anything remotely resembling a real Horror or Sci-Fi movie. "}{"Title":"Far too silly to be scary","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Almost all spiders are completely harmless to humans, says the token scientist.  (Or words to that effect.)  Elitist egghead - what would he know?  Indeed what WOULD he know, for it turns out that he is just as witless as everyone else when it comes to the crunch.Here's the story the most dangerous spider on Earth lives isolated from the rest of the natural world in a small chasm in an African jungle.  It finds its way to North America where it manages to produce thousands of equally dangerous offspring with the first spider of the opposite sex it lays eyes on.  I'm surprised it even made the attempt.  Sex between spiders, even ones of the same species, is about as easy to negotiate as a peace treaty between Israel and the PLO, and between two long-isolated species is no more likely to result in offspring than a man's liaison with a macaque monkey.I don't want to give the impression that this was the ONLY biological faux pas; but put it and all the rest of them aside.  It's Jaws, but on land and with superspiders.  The superspiders have very unlikely properties, to be sure, but let's accept them as they are - can we then get on with the task of enjoying the movie?Not really.  The superspiders don't even have CONSISTENT unlikely properties.  At the start of the movie each spider has a limitless supply of venom and will bite people if so much as nudged - indeed, if you are in the same room as one of them, you might as well throw in the towel immediately. But later on the hero is in a house crawling with thousands of the beasts and he dodges them rather effortlessly.  It's the same kind of Hollywood quirk that makes single-shot revolvers fatal and machine guns harmless. Well, it saves the hero's skin - at the cost of our by then tepid interest, and our ability to take any of it seriously.  And then John Goodman comes on to play the cartoon exterminator.  We couldn't have taken THAT seriously in any case.Of course, implausibility alone won't make a film uninvolving. Flavourless characters, utilitarian dialogue and bland direction also help.I can't see anyone being even vaguely worried about the spiders in this movie unless they have a pathological fear to begin with, in which case ANY footage of spiders will be frightening.  May I recommend a nature documentary? "},{"Title":"Tense.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arachnophobia is quite a tense movie, but not all that scary. Brian Pullman did a great job of pretending to be scared little boy. Good movie but has areas in this movie where it is dull and boring. If the producers had made a sequel that would have been a terrible idea. "},{"Title":"Realism Colors This Creature Feature","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spielberg either hits or misses, there are few who fall through the cracks of the mediocre. This one was the exception, at least as far as box office response is concerned. It didn't bomb, but it failed to generate the deserving revenue.Jeff Daniels had promise as a leading man, at the time this was filmed. That promise has since been broken with movies like Dumb and Dumber, 101 Dalmatians, and My Favorite Martian, but he still has what it takes in the Squid and the Whale, Gods and Generals, and Good Night and Good Luck. But then he goes and does something ridiculous like RV. Ah well. I digress.When Arachnophobia was filmed, Daniels was a competent and talented leading actor. His performance is completely believable and actually lacks that feeling of being mis-cast as do his comedic roles. I do have to say that I prefer him as a serious actor to his comedic attempts.This film, however, has been constructed in a less grand scale than Shatner's 1977 Kingdom of the Spiders. As a result, Arachnophobia is far more realistic than the overdone KotS. The antagonists exhibit realism, are not three stories tall, and the acting quality better reflects the talents of the actors involved.All in all? This is pretty atmospheric and generates some great taut suspense. It's definitely a creature feature worth watching.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable, lacks any real suspense, intensity or comedy; probably won't scare anyone who doesn't suffer from the title phobia","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a very shoddily made horror/comedy film about toxic spiders. The film is so predictable and boring, that I doubt that anyone would be surprised or shocked by anything that takes place in the film. The attempts at horror fall flat; I found myself often laughing at what I guess was supposed to be scary. The ending was so ridiculous that it was anticlimactic. The films theme immediately reminded me of Eight Legged Freaks, but I can definitely say that this has nothing at all to offer compared to that film. Every single attempt at comedy failed, but that was overshadowed by the fact that the production values actually made it look like this had the budget of a TV-movie. In fact, had it not been for the few big names on the cast list, I could have sworn that it was a made-for-TV movie. Maybe it should have been; at least that would have given it an excuse for being so lame. I doubt that anyone who doesn't have arachnophobia themselves will find any part of this film scary. The acting is decent. The humor is pathetic. The film sustains a slow, boring pace throughout the film, but somehow, I never really felt like turning it off, which is the only reason that I rate it a 5. A decent way to kill two hours, if you're either in the mood for laughing at a poorly made excuse for a horror movie, or you want to be scared, and you have arachnophobia(in which case, the film probably will scare you, at least to some extent). I wonder if one can get Arachnophobia-phobia? I recommend it to people who belong in one of the two aforementioned groups. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Grade-Z big budget stuff","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What is the difference between this movie and woofers in the tradition of The Giant Spider Invasion ? MONEY ! It seems that if somebody made a 50 millions $ remake of Robot Monster, everybody would find it great. Here, after a very beautiful and imaginative prologue, we're in for Disney cute-clean fodder, young-couple-settles-in-a-new-home-but-some-monsters-lurks trifle where the cliffhangers (first death, second death, false scare) seems be straight out of a scriptwriter's manuel (scriptwriting for doofs ?) And it is almost as scary as a rerun of Little house in the prairie. Fortunately, John Goodman was in it, in another one of his gigantic performance. This guy could play any role and still be fascinating (well. except Superman, maybe.)  "},{"Title":"I would love to beat Ross Jennings with a broom handle!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      O.K. so this film has some good special effects and has few good shocks. But how can anyone enjoy a movie where the guy who is supposed to be the hero (Ross Jennings as played by Jeff Daniels) is such a smarmy, revolting creep? If the characters of Ross Jennings and his revolting family are some screenwriters idea of likeable characters, I don't wanna know what they would consider unlikeable. My biggest disappointment was that they the Jennings family didn't get wiped out. It also doesn't help by the fact Jeff Daniels idea of showing emotion is by exaggerated mugging. This was the first time I ever felt like walking out on movie.   Sorry, for my money I'll watch TARANTULA (1955) or THE NAKED JUNGLE (1954) next time I wanna see a killer bug movie.  "},{"Title":"They love to crawl on you, and kill you )","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wow, this is really a creepy, crawly flick! The special effects were kept minimal in the movie but I'd say that the fear factor still scores above 90%.Every one of the actors were believable, especially the highlight being the first character we see on screen, Jerry Manley the photographer essayed by Mark Taylor. He was so convincing especially his reaction when the spider bites him...Jeff Daniels as the new physician in town was equally funny & intense. Also, John Goodman as the eccentric bugs exterminator was entertaining to watch.What I really admire about the movie is, how with minimal effects, it could catch our attention & nerves! It's masterful direction & super suspense. However I found the final confrontation between Jeff Daniels & the general spider so Hollywood-ish. Lol! I was expecting a more realistic encounter -)Verdict The best scary spider flick I've seen yet. And I've only seen two, hehe.... "},{"Title":"Gremlins with spiders","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Feel like laughing and being scared a little ? Arachnophobia with its $31 million budget has a lot to offer and it's not a surprise that it was well received by the critics back in 1990. Indeed it's one of the finest example of comedy horror films involving dangerous animals. Of course nature is wild but cult films like Jaws played with our fear of the unknown so the story of deadly spiders rampaging a town in the country was definitely refreshing. Prepare your best popcorn and ice scream because the time has come to convince you to watch the film at the theater near by, or on TV considering 21 years have passed since its release.First of all it's important to understand that the story shouldn't be taken seriously. Indeed at the beginning my mistake was to try to compare it to other films and even focus on minor mistakes instead of enjoying the exotic adventure that was unveiling before my eyes. But quickly I realized that the production was nothing but a series of jokes and hilarious after effects to mock the ultimate predator, humans. And the palette of characters thrown in the mix is delightful. From the pesky old doctor you instantly want to struggle to the cop of idiot village it's Scream without the babes. A little too stereotyped or annoying at times but hopefully these personas are balanced with ones full of light. The friendly old lady next door ? Checked. The loving and complementary wife ? Checked. The arrogant but brilliant Professor ? Checked. However the two most important elements in this enumeration would be Doctor Ross Jennings (Jeff Daniels) and Delbert McClintock (John Goodman). Daniels is great as the new town doctor who seems to crawl under problems. As for Goodman his first appearance as the exterminator is just cult and all his scenes are barrels of crazy monkeys, mixed with a few spiders of course. Moreover his role is essential because he brings the necessary comic relief during scary sequences. To sum things up let's just say that he's the kind of guy you call when you have a blob stuck in your toilet or some ghost haunting your fridge !As for the story it can be compared to Gremlins. The spiders are definitely not funny but the situations they're involved in are so diverse and over the top at times that you can't help chuckling. They're fast, they're small and more important&#x85; disgusting ! Hairy, webby and cocoony they should definitely creep you out. Taking their shower or playing soccer these arachnid soldiers seem capable of anything ! And the best part is that the audio and visual effects are top notch. I wouldn't trade these animatronics for CG ! These puppets look so real that the engineers behind them can be damn proud of their work. Moreover their filming is quite creative. From ground cameras to first person views the scenes keep dynamiting our excitement until the epic ending. And don't worry even if its main goal is to entertain its audience there's a morality and you might even find the protagonist journey inspiring ! Now that I think about it I also can't help thinking about cult franchises like Alien. Indeed Arachnophobia deal with similar topics after all and the slight twist it adds to the recipe is nothing revolutionary but definitely interesting. My only complain would be about the relative predictability of the story and I also wish its ending had been a little more wicked.To sum things up in the direction department Frank Marshall did a masterful job. I'm also not surprised that Steven Spielberg served as executive producer. Last but not least Trevor Jones soundtrack can only be praised because without it the film wouldn't be as dynamic. It marvelously rhythms the action and make you feel like if the spiders were dancing instead of sneaking under your seat to bite your big foot.Note  This review was first posted on Kritikenstein, my weblog. "},{"Title":"This movie was really creepy when I first watched it.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie had scared me when I had seen all of those spiders in the house. I have been afraid of spiders ever since I was little but when I had seen the main character(I forgot his/her name) be so scared of those spiders and brutally kill them(espesically the last scene)that is when I started killing spiders in my house. This film did creep me out when the queen/king spider was shown(I kill sometimes big spiders/small ones)I nearly jumped out of my seat! But I have watched this film a few more times and got over my big fear of spiders in just a few weeks. Like when I was young(4-5 yrs.)when I would see a spider I would get my mom to get rid of it for me because that is how scared I was(a writing spider was in my room once so my mom got a jar and trapped the spider in it when I was young) when I had gotten older. I would suggest that anyone that is scared of spiders to not watch this especially if they have small children. But ever since I got over my fear I had watch other spider films but this one will always be my favorite one of all time! "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be.","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this film thinking it was going to be one of those standard crappy 80's movies. Only two recognizable names, Jeff Daniels, who had done mostly TV movies to that point in his career and John Goodman, in a supporting role. Jeff Daniels played the role perfectly, making us feel for this intelligent, capable, unappreciated yet maturely resilient doctor who's given up a life in the city only to have all plans for his new life ruined pretty much immediately on his arrival. Oh yeah, and he is also deathly afraid of spiders. Don't get me wrong, it still had all the aspects of a crappy 80's flick, but in this case it worked. Not once did I laugh when I wasn't supposed to, and the skillful interjections of comedy worked perfectly to balance the effect of the constant potential threat of a killer spider in any given scene. For his part in that comedy, John Goodman was his usual hilarious self playing the town's lone extermination engineer.This one gets a 7, which seems a bit low considering but I cannot bring myself to give it an 8. Maybe a 7.4 But that's just my two scents. ;) "}{"Title":"Omg spiders!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It would be easy to dismiss Arachnophobia as another lame creature feature but it's actually a pretty good one thanks to its special effects, which gets the spiders looking real enough to give an arachnophobe the willies. And the corpses that are desiccated by the spiders are cool and gross too.I like the background story about the spiders but the setup for the main character - the doctor - is kinda wearisome. No one ever believes the big city doctor who's just moved into a small town. Zzz. This isn't a scary movie but still it works, since the director knew to how to play up the tension. The spiders mostly don't jump out and kill someone but slowly creep up upon them and you're all Omgomgomg. Well that's a bit of an exaggeration; it's not that tense a movie. Fun though. "},{"Title":"Creepy amusement comes with eight legs","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You know the old joke about shark attacks. If you wanna avoid one, don't leave Kansas city. Likewise if you wanna avoid a venomous spider bite, don't leave any city. Dr. Ross Jennings and his family have moved out of San Fransciso to the rural town of (well I forget the name, but it doesn't matter) Meanwhile, a killer south American spider has found its way from the jungle to this town through the coffin of one of its residents, a photographer who died of a bite. Once the spider makes itself comfortable in its new home, it starts to lay eggs, a lot of eggs. Next thing you know there are lots of little spiders on the loose. As the body count starts to rise, the good Dr. rallies a somewhat mixed matched handful of the towns citizens to investigate and solve the problem.The shooting stage of production must've required a lot of patience. How many takes d'you think would be needed until the crew gets a shot of a spider crawling into frame, and then into a bowl of popcorn? The tiny thing could just as easily have decided to scurry across the table, or toward the camera, or even back out of frame. It must be noted that almost all the spiders in the film are real. There are a couple of puppeteered shots and maybe a few with animation, but this is the real deal. Perhaps that is what makes Arachnophobia so creepy, it feels real. by contrast, the film Eight-Legged Freaks made ten years later, was not remotely creepy. The spiders are computer generated, over-sized and they do very unnatural things like Kangaroo hop. but I digress.Horror fans will get a big kick out of Arachnophobia. even if it is the mere visceral pleasure of watching spiders enter peoples homes through the funniest of places (and then killing people) you'll find this a successfully amusing creeper. "},{"Title":"Creepy!","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was younger i did not fear spiders in the least, when they were in my house i picked them up and put them outside by hand. Seeing this movie as a kid turned me into, if not an arachnophobe, then at least a person that, if reminded of spiders, will look around on the floor and walls to check for crawlies if the bedroom window has been left open all day. Films like Aliens, Poltergeist and Nightmare on Elmstreet never really scared me as i child, but this movie gave me the #&¤)&# creeps.The effects are at a minimum, which is good, as the big spider does look a little suspect at times. The acting is actually pretty good and helps make this scary movie better than many of its contemporaries. All in all, i say watch it! But if you feel the same about spiders as that lady that mortally fears cucumbers, you might get a heart attack!I give it a 7/10 for the creeps it gives you. Great movie!!! "},{"Title":"a light-hearted, fast-moving creature feature blended with some pleasantly amusing moments","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is very little that can be done with a movie about giant spiders. Pretty much all you can do is make a standard creature feature out of the premise. And there's only so much expectations that the filmmakers can expect from the audience. Nobody takes a movie about killer spiders seriously, so it was a smart idea of producer Steven Spielberg and director Frank Marshall to make it part science-fiction and part comedy. As a blend of these two formulas, Arachnophobia produces enough laughs and standard monster movie close-calls to generate a marginal level of approval from this amateur film critic.The movie stars Jeff Daniels as an aspiring doctor moving into a countryside coincidentally at the same time that a vicious Venezuelan spider whose bite can kill a human in seconds is accidentally imported into the area via the coffin of its latest victim. Before long, the big spider reproduces to make a small army of deadly arachnids, who then begin to wreck havoc on the town. And guess what Jeff Daniels has? You guessed it. The namesake of the title. Arachnophobia &#x96; the fear of spiders!Yeah, nothing more than what you would expect. Arachnophobia is nothing more than a creature feature. It's not extravagantly scary (or scary at all), nor will it make you roll on the floor with laughter, but it carries its thrills and jokes well enough to keep you entertained throughout the entirety of its one hundred and three-minute running time. The characters are not brilliant, they too are standard, but well-played by the cast. Jeff Daniels does a good job at playing the standard creature feature leading man. There's also an interesting late-career appearance by the great veteran actor Henry Jones as a rivaling doctor. But the character who does steal the show is a beefy, but productive exterminator played by John Goodman.In short, Arachnophobia is nothing spectacular, but it was not meant to be or expected to be. It's a light-hearted effective blend of comedy and creature feature thrills with a good cast, a taut running time, and a lot of fun moments. Thus, a solid recommendation from me. "},{"Title":"The first step on the road away from real arachnophobia, for me...","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had just turned 14 when this movie came out, and thanks to the influence of my best friend, I saw it in the theater. As a serious and dedicated arachnophobe, it was a big step to see this film in the theater. However, the sheer silliness of it, added to the fact that I was able to stay in the theater and continue eating my popcorn after that scene was a big step in recovering from my phobia.I used to be paralyzed with fear every time I saw even the tiniest spider. But after this movie, I realized that the spiders in my house really weren't so bad. Later, when I spent six weeks straight camping out in the forest, I had to come to peace with the presence of spiders. Later, I decided I was tired of being controlled by fear, and I started learning as much as I could about spiders. Eventually, I could look at a picture of a spider without my heart going POP! Later, I could touch a picture of a spider. The more I learned, the more I lost my fear. These days, not only am I no longer afraid of them, I'm utterly fascinated by spiders! I credit this film with starting me down that path.Right now, I'm watching the movie again for the first time in at least ten years. Now I'm laughing through the whole thing, mostly laughing at the inaccuracies of the film.If you're an arachnophobe and okay with living in fear of spiders, stay away from this film. However, if you're ready to take that first step toward conquering your own phobia, I can't recommend this film enough as a great place to start! Bear in mind, it has no relation to the reality of arachnid biology, and there's no way you're going to find Huntsman spiders, let alone extremely venemous ones, in the mountains of California! "},{"Title":"Entertaining But Lacking","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia has the horror elements, the scary build up scenes, the irritatingly mistreated hero who is redeemed. Many clichés but never overly overdone. Yet David Bowies seems to be underplayed. The climax is both fascinatingly possible but nevertheless overly implausible. John Goodman is both funny and oddly out of genre in this horror movie - which is probably why he is also one of the highpoints of the movie. The movie begins with a strong sense of the exotic and dangerous. The emotional buttons are pressed throughout this movie. It offers up the flavor of the actual possibilities of how we come close to death, more so than many horror movies. A solid, but nonetheless, no breakout horror movie. "},{"Title":"Just barely within the tolerance level for real arachnophobics","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia is one of the most common phobias, and one of the strongest among those subject to it. I tend to be one of those and so have never much enjoyed horror films featuring giant or menacing spiders. Although I was uncomfortable during Arachnophobia, it was tolerable. This and Eight Legged Freaks are my two favorite spider films.Arachnophobia benefits from an excellent script, great casting, uniformly good performances, and the injection of enough comic relief to calm anyone from getting too uncomfortable. Jeff Daniels is as reliable as ever, but it's John Goodman's gung-ho exterminator character that balances what would otherwise be a really uncomfortable movie. This isn't to say that it's light entertainment, as was Eight Legged Freaks. It's not, it's a real horror film. But it will only make you squirm, not run for the theater exit. "},{"Title":"Phobia Inducing!!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Dr. Jennings arrives in small American town Canaima with his family in tow. After the initial local hostility - mainly arising from the other town doctor not willing to retire - people begin to die. Jennings is subject to further hostility when the town suspect medical malpractice, but this is far from the truth. The town has become infested with a strain of deadly Venezuelan spiders. Eeek! This film is actually very nicely done and more fun than it is scary - unless you suffer from arachnophobia then it's simply terrifying. When the film isn't creeping around making you jump it plays enjoyably as a light hearted look at small town politics with an ensemble of colourful characters. Spielberg, who was executive producer, has a noticeable influence on proceedings as the narrative structure shares many similarities with Jaws.I would mention two things that do bother me. Firstly, though no ones fault, the special effects have dated fairly badly but the effects are sparse and hardly dominate the film and (now) add some comedy. Secondly, Julian Sands' performance as Doctor Atherton, the insect specialist, is depressingly awful; he is almost unable to deliver a single line. But he doesn't appear in too much of the running time so this can slide.Overall, great fun with a few shocks along the way - will make you check under the bed (and the wall behind) before you go to sleep at night. It's also a bit of a classic! A "},{"Title":"Wanna blow-up a bullfrog?&#133;Arachnophobia","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While never reaching any further than its aspirations to be a guilty pleasure, Arachnophobia definitely does its job well and successfully. Here we have a tale of a spider infestation in a small town, where a single bite causes almost instantaneous death. It is up to the town's new doctor to make everyone see that there is a problem that needs fixing. Like most small towns, the people don't necessarily embrace change and they don't want the doctor to sanction autopsies to find out the true cause of the numerous deaths occurring around them. He is finally allowed to do so and, along with the help of a couple spider specialists and an eccentric exterminator, attempts to find the spider queen and nest to destroy them and save the community.What could have fallen into the usual animal horror film, never quite goes too far into absurdity or camp. The performances, for the most part, all stay true to their occupation and each interact with each other realistically. Yes, there is a lot of humor sprinkled throughout, but it never gets cringe-worthy or laughable due to poor delivery/taste instead of genuine pleasure. Even the creature effects are well done. The spiders are realistic and possibly mostly real anyways. How they were captured on screen crawling along predetermined paths like a shower curtain rod, I don't know, but the filmmakers got the footage they needed. The web work was gorgeous to behold and the gruesome moments, decomposed bodies for instance, as real as they were disgusting.There isn't much to stand above any other film of its kind besides a sense of staying close to reality, but the acting talent helps vault it to a level of entertainment that is surprisingly high. Jeff Daniels is our doctor, whose nervous tick and fear of spiders is utilized often, but his professionalism in medicine and sarcastic remarks round out the character to be believable. His wife, played by Harley Jane Kozak, is fantastic in her delivery of lines and a big factor in the laughs. It is a shame she was relegated to television afterwards, because her role here and in Parenthood proved she could have done more. The true standout in the film, though, is John Goodman. With a little bit of Bill Murray, a la Caddyshack, Goodman is our exterminator with a speech impediment and a gift for talking incessantly. His holier than though attitude, when it comes to his job, leads to some priceless moments and when he has the acid toxins strapped to his back, he is fantastic.So, when there is little on TV and you have a couple hours to kill, you can do a lot worse than this gem from the early 90's. It isn't trying to win any awards, but instead entertains its audience with some comedy and attempts at scares, which may or may not stand up to the time that has passed since its release. "},{"Title":"It works on a psychological level.","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out in theaters and didn't find it very scary at all. Thus, I became a bit bored and didn't pay that much attention to it. I remembered it being more of a comedy and John Goodman had a great scene where he comes out with his full exterminator gear on.Being younger at the time, I liked the dark, atmospheric, creepy features with some blood and gore, e.g. Evil Dead and Evil Dead II, Alien and Aliens, The Thing, etc. All right, I'll admit it. If the movie had a lot blood and gore and was still a good movie, the better! Flash forward seventeen years and I'm a Dad now with two young kids. My younger daughter is six and I found out she's afraid of spiders. Not deathly afraid of them, but just a little. Of course, I read about what movies they can watch and see if it is acceptable for them.I remembered this movie and thought I preview it to see if it was acceptable. Unfortunately, my mind was somewhere else and didn't look carefully enough to see it was PG-13 until I received it from Netflix. Boy, I really didn't remember much about the movie! I ruled it out on the rating alone, but thought I preview it anyway.This time, I was looking at it from the view of someone who is a bit afraid of spiders. If one looks at from that point of view, then this movie is much more enjoyable. Part of it is being grown up, but sometimes you watch the same movie and it has a different affect on you.This movie works a lot better if one can associate psychologically with Dr. Ross Jennings (Jeff Daniels) who has arachnophobia. The movie is a lot more fun if you watch it from that aspect instead of expecting a type of horror movie which I mentioned above. There are some chills and thrills in store if you can keep that in mind. It has a mix of horror, sci-fi, and comedy, so you have to keep that as well in mind. This movie isn't so much atmospheric, but set up to draw you in psychologically. One has to pay some attention to the dialog to understand how it does that and to experience ARACHNOPHOBIA for yourself.Eeek! Thus, I raised my rating from before to a generous 7 stars and dub it a good, if not great, popcorn movie. Besides, Steven Spielberg of Jaws and Jurassic Park fame is associated with it; Even if it's basically just in name only as Exec Producer. "}{"Title":"Fun spider-horror movie...","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 7/16/2007 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Frank Marshall) Fun spider-horror movie. I can't believe I used those 4 words together in the same phrase, but this truly wraps up what this movie is like. An insect biologist(I think), played by Julian Sands, discovers a new breed of spider in South America which kills a photographer and the spider hitches a ride in his coffin back to his hometown and wreaks havoc there. The guy that discovers the existence first ( a medical doctor played by Jeff Daniels), is afraid of spiders(aka. Arachnaphobia) because of an early childhood incident but quickly has to get over it as he is right in the middle of a spider epidemic. Daniel's plays his character with just enough dry wit to pull off the role and Sands is competent as the original discoverer. He becomes involved with Daniel's character and the town after a few deaths appear to be from spider bites. John Goodman plays an exterminator and provides the comic relief. This movie is very well done as far as mixing the horror aspect(making the spiders a real menace), some comedy, and not grossing us out so we'll turn away from the screen and miss the important parts of the story and characters. It does turn a bit Rambo-like near the end as Daniel's character seems to forget that he has Arachnophobia(which isn't explored very well incidentally) but overall the movie is a worthwhile and unusually entertaining venture which doesn't end with the usual expectation of a sequel(which I'm glad for). The ending is funny and very unique, but I won't give it away, just watch this movie and enjoy it...even if you don't like spiders ( I don't, but enjoyed the movie). "},{"Title":"woooow!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is great. it never lets up. i was on edge from the opening scene. jeff daniels does a great performance as doctor michael jennings, a highly arachnophobic dr. who freezes at just the sight of a spider. i especially liked the final showdown in the cellar between him and the two huuge spiders(momma and poppa) it was awesome!! "},{"Title":"Your skin will crawl!","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you hate spiders this creepy-crawly film will have you cringing in your seat. That said, it is still great fun, even for arachnophobes. It's well filmed, amusing and scary. A good tale, well told. Jeff Daniels and Julian Sands are excellent as usual and John Goodman is the most bizarre pest exterminator you will ever meet. Lots of cameos by character actors keep the interest going throughout and basically there's not a dull moment.  "},{"Title":"Eight legs, two fangs and an attitude. This is one of the creepiest and scariest movies I have seen in a while.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We are all guilty at one time or another, of &#145;jumping up' and being scared at the movies. Well in Frank Marshall's &#145;Arachnophobia', that goes doubly for me! This film has a deeply disturbing story to tell and tell it, it does. &#145;Arachnophobia' brings back the memories of the film series &#145;Jaws', which scared me. There are many people in this world that are totally freaked out by these &#145;eight&#150;legged-freaks'. I am not one of them. Or so I thought&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;Everyone is afraid of something&#133;for Dr. Ross Jennings, his phobia is down right embarrassing. But when he moves his family to a small town, the one thing that bugs him the most is now threatening the townspeople at an alarming rate. For this unlikely hero, overcoming a childhood fear of spiders might just save them all, but it may already be too late!Arachnophobia is one unique film. Having Steven Spielberg as an executive producer, you could feel his touch to the film, as it had his stamp of authority placed on it. Helping Spielberg was Kathleen Kennedy (as producer and executive producer). This team brought us the brilliant &#145;E.T.' and Indiana Jones'. Directing &#145;Arachnophobia' was Frank Marshall. This film was his directorial debut, a pretty good achievement, considering the story that he ended up telling. I also like the feel and creepy edge to the movie that Marshall created, almost unbearable at certain moments.Arachnophobia was written for the screen by Don Jakoby and Wesley Strick. They took inspiration from the story by Jakoby and Al Williams. Its story has many fine elements incorporated, such as the hero of the movie, who has a big case of &#145;arachnophobia'. Also the kind of spiders that we see causing all the havoc, while not good for spiders' image in general, are very incredible kinds of creatures to create for a film. I was genuinely moved by what sort image the movie posed by these creatures, and it all had to start from writers pens.  The stars of the movie for the most part are the &#145;eight-legged' variety. The humans that they torment include Dr Ross Jennings (Jeff Daniels), who keeps up that uneasy kind of tension throughout. Daniel's role was very good, especially in the conclusion, which has him in a big climatic confrontation with these killers. Molly Jennings (Harley Jane Kozak) is the wife of the doc that has no fears of spiders. She thinks that are &#145;amazing' creatures. Her opinion would soon change. The town folk enlist the help of some &#145;spider experts' to cure the town's problems. Dr. Sam Metcalf (Henry Jones) is a man that loves spiders. What happens to this man has to be one of the scariest moments of the film. His assistant is Henry Beechworth (Peter Jason), a young man that has no phobias towards these creatures at all. Some of the town's folk are simply frustrating. They include Dr. James Atherton (Julian Sands), who has no time for Jennings medical opinion. There is also Sheriff Parsons (Stuart Pankin), who to me, looks smug and has no intentions of trying to help uphold the law. These two men create more harm, then they stop. However, we do meet some good and strange characters in Arachnophobia. An old lady Margaret Hollins (Mary Carver) is very good to the new doctor, when other town folk are not. The strangest character has to Delbert McClintock (John Goodman), a bug exterminator, who likes a character straight out of Ghostbusters. His unusual approach to the arachnid problem is not only funny, but very entertaining as well. Goodman was born for this role.There are many memorable moments in &#145;Arachnophobia'. All of the spider incidents are filmed and captured in a way makes them hard to forget. I especially love the final confrontation between Jennings and the two huge spiders, the king and queen, as it makes for a truly gripping kind of experience. In fact the way that we see the spider problem expand at the Jennings house, is truly unbelievable. I also like the build-up to the spider problem as you know quickly what the movie is trying to show.The score for the movie is another element that only helps create more tension. The composer for &#145;Arachnophobia' was Trevor Jones, who does a remarkable job in having the right sound for the right moment of the film. Without the score the movie would have not been as affective. I must make mention of the great use of the many spiders for the film. The huge reproductive types of spiders are truly menacing. I am still wondering if they are real or mechanically driven. Whatever they are, the film does a great job with them. Also, the smaller spiders are given such a great presence in the film by Marshall that I believe he makes them seem bigger then they are actually are. This means they are more frightening too.  My sister said that &#145;Arachnophobia' is a horror movie, &#145;that is actually believable' and I would have to agree. I know I would not like to have to happen to my home-town, what happened in &#145;Canaima'. This film reminds a lot about other films, like Gremlins (funny), Ghostbusters (comedy) Jaws (scary) and Aliens (totally scary). All of the elements from those films are recreated perfectly by &#145;Arachnophobia'. Spiders are not only scary but are perfect creatures that can make a web, a thing of pure perfection. I believe we as humans need to learn more about these fascinating creatures, instead stomping on and killing them. However, after watching this film it will/would be a hard thing not to do. I must admit, I feel rather paranoid after such an experience as the one I had in &#145;Arachnophobia'. If you are afraid of spiders, I suggest you keep well away from a good movie such as this!CMRS gives &#145;Arachnophobia' 4 (Very Good Film)  "},{"Title":"Gotta love a planet with spiders","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can you hate spiders? They're useful, like bats (they eat the real enemies- the skinny ones with wings and a dirty agenda... I'm talking mosquitos! flies!). And they're fun to play with. Hey, Eddie Murphy has to agree (Daddy Day Care reference). So when they decided to make a horror-thriller about them, I had to see it. Many people have said many good things in the case of many movies, in which in turns out, they can't be trusted. How can you be sure it's true? Well, trust these words- Arachnophobia is one hell of a rollercoaster ride. It doesn't matter who you are or how much you think you can handle, this movie will scare you. You will jump and cover your eyes. And you will feel them on you. You'll even want to shut off the television. If you like being terrified... if you like being shocked... or if you're a true horror fan, you have to see Arachnophobia!9/10 or 3.5/4 "},{"Title":"Scary, funny,great what more can you ask for....","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" when i first watched this movie, i was so scared that i couldn't sleep. and still this movie scares me the same way, except i can sleep this time. it was well made, Great acting by Mr. Daniels at the end of the movie, well, he had great acting all the way through, but the end was so Believable "},{"Title":"Great film but can't be compared to Eight Legged Freaks","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was a great horror for the time. If you are afraid of spiders you may be able to handle this but not Eight Legged Freaks.This film has a lot of fake scares and jumps, this is what I liked about this film. The story is a young photographer from a town called Canaima goes to Venezuela to photograph spiders. He gets bit by what looked like a bird eating spider or a huntsman spider. Anyway his coffin is sent back to Canaima and the spider got into before it left Venezuela. An arachnophobic Ross Jennings moves to Canaima the day the coffin arrives and it gets out. It goes to Jennings barn and breeds with a house spider. The result? A lot of people getting killed by house spiders! Jennings has to overcome his fear if he is to survive!The best performance is by John Goodman who acts as a pest exterminator.It was the best spider horror until Eight Legged Freaks came along. The spiders were bigger, it had more jumps and scares oh it also had Kari Wuhrer.Good film and you should rent it out. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Scary if you are 5 or under. I was scared when I watched it and I was 4 or 5. I don't have a fear of spiders but it still scared me. I recently had the opportunity of seeing it again and thought it was pretty good. One thing I don't get is that the people in the house did not know that their basement was ground zero for the new breed of spiders. I think I would realize that. John Goodman is cool as the exterminator guy. "},{"Title":"Effectively Creepy; Spine-tingling.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although special effects are excellent and opening jungle scenes are effectively creepy, I found the remainder of the work to veer towards the shallow with regard to dialogue and plot outline.  But on the whole, a spine- tingling work, especially for arachnophobes. "},{"Title":"This is a neat movie.","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arachnophobia is a neat little movie.  It's more fun than scary; unless you're scared of spiders.  The whole family can sit down together and watch this film.  It's full of surprises and lots of laughs too.  It's a nice movie for the kids to spend an Saturday afternoon to watch or Saturday night. "}{"Title":"To My Own Self be True","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay.  It's spiders, spiders, and more spiders.  There are the obligatory scenes establishing various characters, trying to generate sympathy for the different victims.  Yes, it's boring getting through most of it.  Yes, that is Mimi from The Drew Carey Show playing the coroner's wife.  But I must be honest and true to my own self, popular opinion be damned.This movie featured plenty of jump-out-of-the-bushes scares to satisfy me.  Sure, it's manipulative and sometimes even unimaginative, but they WORKED for me.  Perhaps it's because I'm naive, perhaps I'm just above a turnip on an IQ scale.  I don't care.  I am not afraid of spiders, and I got a couple of genuine frights from this flick.  Sure, I can analyze it and find fault with its tedious plot exposition and several annoying plotholes.  But I had too much of a good time waiting for the next scare.Of course, I also liked The Blair Witch Project.  What do I know, right? "},{"Title":"It'll Make your Skin Crawl","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was frigtening, funny and had fast-paced action scenes.  Jeff Daniels makes a perfect Arachnophobe and John Goodman adds comic relief as an insecticide toting Exterminator.  Great cast, great special effects, and a really good movie.  "},{"Title":"the best PG-13 horror film yet!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I consider this the best PG-13 horror film yet! It has some humor but it is quite creepy cause I have a fear of bugs also. So I can relate, kind of to some of the characters in this film. Its about a new kind of spider that comes in a coffen back to the US & gets to stay in a Doctor's barn. It then finds a regular house spider & well they mate(have sex-spider style, lol) & soon, thousands are born & wreac havoc in this quite little town. Its a must see on a Friday night, with the lights off, U will b more alert after u see this movie, if u r someone who has a fear of spiders, like me. its highly recommended! "},{"Title":" Pleasant, entertaining spoof horror","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was surprised to see the low rating that viewers had given this movie; on the other hand the movie itself was not what I had expected. All the hype about it making you afraid to turn down the bed seemed entirely misplaced (but perhaps I'm just not very bothered by spiders). I found it an agreeable piece of escapism. Well acted (especially by Jeff Daniels, and by John Goodman, whom I usually find intolerable). The tension was well-handled but it was always tongue-in-cheek. The minor characters were a joy. "},{"Title":"Scary or hilarious, take your pick","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   This is a great movie if you can get your head around how to go about watching it; it could clearly (judging by the comments here) be quite scary if spiders aren't your thing, it has a moody build-up and some nice thrills-and-spills at the climax, but if you're not that scared by the little crawlies and can enjoy a film without questioning its scientific premises too much this is a great one to giggle at, very much like a Joe Dante horror pastiche full of the normal staples (a bit light on the standard naughty teenagers getting their comeuppances though). Worth watching just for John Goodman's brilliant work as the mock-heroic exterminator, the man's a legend.  "},{"Title":"Scariest Movie EVER!!!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Forget Scream, The Blair Witch Project, even The Shining, this is by far the scariest movie ever made.When this movie came out in 1990, I told  my friends that I'd rather lick my own feet, than see this movie, due to my fear of spiders.  They wouldn't give up, and I never gave in....until my girlfriend (who is now my wife) tricked me into seeing it.I have to say, I didn't sleep for about a week after watching it.  I just kept itching all night long.   It also didn't help that the day after I saw this terrifying movie, a spider that wouldn't die decided to take a shower with me.Anyway, if you are scared of spiders, you will love this movie...in a scary sort of way, (although I will never watch it again.)   It did it's job at scaring me, so I'll give it three out of four. "},{"Title":"John Goodman should have had a larger role.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good movie, provided you like squirming.  Jeff Daniels is good, sincere, etc. etc. as always, and the spiders are genuinely creepy and suspenseful. It's a little formulaic in the sense that all the typical monster-movie roles (the distrusting local doctor, etc.) are present, but that's okay, because sometimes, you just want a monster movie!  John Goodman almost steals the show in his brief appearance as a really, really dedicated exterminator, but his role was too short.  Nonetheless, I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, just don't take it seriously!!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hate spiders, they're horrible!!! So for some bizarre reason I decided to watch this moving a couple of months ago. Now the plotline is very simple an african spider(I think its African!?) gets to the U.S and mates with a house spider. Big flaw there! The offspring is a deadly form of house spiders with a venomous bite that can kill any human it gets its fangs on. So the hero takes it upon himself to take out the nest living in his cellar, and save mankind. At the end this movie the plot just goes down the toilet (like it wasn't there already!), for the hero goes one on one with the queen and then the general. Which brings me to the biggest flaw of the whole movie; at the beginning the queen was a little house spider, yet at the end she turned into a huge tarantula type spider. Hows that possible? Anyways this movie does give you the creeps, which was its ultimate goal. You might as well watch it, just keep the raid with you!!! "},{"Title":"Check Your Shower Everyday!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie made me check my shower for 8 weeks! If you don't like spiders... Well don't watch the movie! "},{"Title":"you'll be checking your bedsheets for the next week","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this has to be the scariest movie I have ever seen. I advise people that don't like spiders not to watch it because it is extremely distressing. There are lots of scenes with hundreds of live spiders and spiders attacking people. after you watch it you'll be very cautious for the next few days.  "}{"Title":"Watch some real spiders for a change rather than that imbecile Tobey Maguire dressed up like a fake spider.","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The best and only spider movie for men. This film is the FINAL WORD ON SPIDERS.Frank Marshall did a terrific job! The spider photography is really creepy, so if you're very scared of them, I suggest you press the fast forward on your remote.Plot A never yet encountered Venezuelan spider bites photographer Jerry Manley (played by Mark L. Taylor)during an expedition to the Venezuelan rain forest. The Jerry immediately dies from the spider venom. His body is packed in a makeshift wooden coffin. The spider which has gone unnoticed creeps into the coffin, which travels back to the U.S. to Jerry's hometown of Canaima.Ross Jennings (played by Jeff Daniels) is a family physician, who has moved to the small town of Canaima from San Francisco, and faces a lack of patients due to elderly rival Sam Metcalf (Henry Jones), who was supposed to retire and shift his patients to Ross.The Venezuelan spider mates with a domestic house spider and makes a nest in Jennings's barn, producing hundreds of infertile, but deadly, offspring which can kill a fully grown man with a single bite.So now these smaller spiders move out of barn and are ready to attack anything that gets in their way....Notable actors Jeff Daniels (Dumb And Dumber, Timescape, Speed) gives a superb performance as usual. Julian Sands (The Loss of Sexual Innocence, Warlock, A Room with a View) gives an average impression as the entomologist Dr. James Atherton. As does John Goodman (Sea of Love, Barton Fink, The Big Lebowski) who plays the pest exterminator Delbert McClintock. I don't know why he was chosen when you could have had Dwight Schultz or Brad Douriff for the role of Delbert and The Role Of James Atherton could have gone to Sean Connery, Roger Moore of Michael Caine. Yet again proof of poor casting in Hollywood.Its Jeff Daniels that keeps the movie going and he is given very little support form the rest of the cast. If the quality of the acting had been raised or with a veteran cast, this would have been an even better film.Special effects are excellent. No complaints in that department.Why not go and buy the film? Its the best film that features spiders attacking people. And an excellent viewing on you home cinema! Thanks for reading.Email me Vivekmaru45@yahoo.com for more movie suggestions. "},{"Title":"Very creepy, if you hate spiders","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I personally enjoyed Arachnophobia. It was a good movie, and even though that is really all it was for me, it accomplished what it was set out to do, which was entertain. I have to go ahead and say that I just plain out hate spiders. They are one of my fears, and since that is so, I could not help but cringe at a few parts in this movie, and jump a little, whether I was really scared at any point through the movie or not.If I myself did not have an arachnophobia, I would have probably given Arachnophobia (ironic) a lower rating, because even though it manages to creep out viewers who do, which raises the intensity of the session as always, it is a movie that takes it sweet time on the story line and is spaced out along the kills, with maybe one scene I can remember of really high interest. Viewers who do not have arachnophobia will probably think it is nothing special, unless they are personally into movies that take their time, and even though this movie does that, it does it well. What there is to say about the movie is that a lot of the occurrences are very unbelievable, even though the main concept itself is highly believable, and a lot of the material is just way too far out there, but it is enjoyable, and it really does not get that boring, but the movie does get uninteresting to a certain extent, and some of the characters were faceless, except John Goodman's character, who was really my favorite character. All in all, it was still a good movie, and I recommend you view it whenever you have the chance if you think you could get into it. It is very basic and dull, but like I said, if you can get into that, or can not stand spiders, you will get a nice slice of entertainment that even though is not a masterpiece, is worth the view. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. Vote 8.0 "},{"Title":"Crawly, Creepy, Hair-Raising Bug Flick.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You might need to conquer your fears of bugs, if you have one, before you can watch this film. Here, a large tarantula spider hitches a ride to a California town in a car after a scientists exhibition in South America. It makes out with another spider and colonizes. Soon, the entire town is invaded by little, furry spiders with a killer instinct.Watching all those arachnids really send chills up your spine and makes the hair on your skin stand. I remembered that after I watched the movie that I had to be extremely mindful when I turn a dark corner, take a shower, pour cereal in a bowl or switch off a lamp. I had to be mindful when I sleep as well, making sure a spider is not crawling up the bed covers. Frank Marshall did a great job directing. All the actors were great, and it was fun watching each of their individual methods of dealing with the eight-legged fiends. The one that stole the show is the General, the largest tarantula, which would freak out just about anybody if it was seen crawling a few inches towards you. The close-up shots of its face were pretty hideous and would etch in your mind for a while long after the movie. Trainer Steven R. Kutcher did the daunting and difficult task of training all the spiders and John Goodman gave a hilarious performance as the exterminator.Though I am not a big fan of spiders, I have a great time watching this film.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Delivering the Goods On Time","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thanks to Alfred Hitchcock's THE BIRDS we can now enjoy other incursions -- some good, some vomit-inducing -- into the eco-horror picture. ARACHNOPHOBIA is no different, but it's in the vein of Hitchcock's picture in that it takes it time to introduce Mayberry (here named Canaima) into our visual consciousness, establish its characters, make us aware that Jeff Daniels' doctor is deeply afraid of spiders, give glimpses of an exploration gone bad in the Venezuelean jungle and that this will bring more than just a casualty, and slowly but surely, pull out the little disturbing images that grow more ominous. With the addition that these little creatures are even deadlier than birds a single bite, and you're gone. And that, in a nutshell, is ARACHNOPHOBIA a rollicking ride of scary fun that may be a little too squeamish for some once a whole slew of spiders suddenly pour onto the foreground (and in a couple of scenes, literally jump at their intended victims). One of its best scenes is not even close to its climax but in a shower scene that recalls the classic PSYCHO-Janet Leigh scene, and the appearance of John Goodman as a soft-speaking exterminator. "},{"Title":"Incy Wincy Spider...","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know if I was meant to laugh at what was going on but I couldn't help it. Evil Tarantula spliced with Garden Spider means a killer than can bite and leave you in a seizure in seconds. The plot is pretty easy to follow and the cheap thrills obtained by those creepy crawlies sneaking about the place where no one can see them is great. Jeff Daniels puts in a rather blunt performance as the new doctor in town who turns up just as few unusual deaths occur, at first they blame him and then they get wind of the killer arachnids, it is quite chilling and the atmosphere isn't bad. But this film doesn't live long in the memory and doesn't give you nightmares, but I guess that if you really are an arachnophobe you won't appreciate this averagely decent film at all. "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Surely everyone has seen this movie. One for spider lovers the world over this is an impressive fusion of genres which, unlike many other movies which use the same tactic, pays off. Funny, tense, like Gremlins but scarier, especially if you're afraid of the hairy little dudes, the story of a small town under attack by killer spiders is one which has never been explored better. Naturally the saviour is a man who has been terrified by spiders since childhood, and Bridges is perfect for the role, as both a father and reluctant hunter. Goodman's brief cameo is many people's highlight, and the others are all good in tiny roles. The doctor who refuses to believe the story, Bridges' wife etc all help to add to the small town double intrusion theme. Bridges' family, like the spiders, are outsiders. Perhaps comparable to The Birds, in that the newcomer seems to herald the outbreak, although in this, we know the spider is brought via the corpse of a reporter. The spider effects are impressive, and the scene with the &#145;spider' on Bridges' bedroom wall at night is a classic.  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Web Pattern","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first time I first seen it when I was just a young girl at the age of 12 or 13.  I may be afraid of spiders, but I have to get over that fear.  In this movie, it was kind of very strange, but I think Doctor James Atherton should've messed with the south american male's web in the barn, otherwise he could've lived a little bit longer.  I don't think the professor was an idiot, he didn't know the venezuelan male was in the barn.  It was kind of funny when Ross Jennings was being a little jumpy when the cricket jumped on the paper.  Ha ha ha!  I do believe the exterminator was funny, saying like That's right.  I'm bad.  That was funny, I wonder if Julian Sands was afraid of spiders and rats.  When the spiders were making their webs, it was very beautiful when they did.  It kind of looks like yarn to crochet.  It was incredible too, I just love this movie as much as the other films I like with Julian Sands was in it.  This movie has my vote and the other 2 movies I had given my comments.  Jeff Daniels did play this movie really well as much as Julian Sands was.  The spider kind of looks like a three eyed creature from an experiment.  James Atherton should be blamed for not looking into Manley's coffin before it was shipped out to the mortuary. That's all I have to say to this.Crystal Weideman "},{"Title":"A Great and Funny Thriller","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Dr. Ross Jennings (Jeff Daniels) moves with his family from Los Angeles to a small town seeking for a peaceful place to raise his son and his daughter. He has a trauma with spiders since he was two years old. However, the place is infested of a mortal species of spider from Venezuela, brought in a coffin of a local photographer killed in the South American jungle by one of this species. Dr. Ross, together with a specialist in spiders, Doctor James Atherton (Julian Sands), and the exterminator Delbert McClintock (John Goodman) try to find the nest to end with the menace. This movie is a great and funny thriller. Good actors and actresses, very well directed, having a good screenplay and a great soundtrack, is a magnificent entertainment. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) `Aracnofobia' (`Arachnophobia')  "},{"Title":"Parents tend to overreact","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was 10 years old. It was on late in the evening, and my parents wouldn't let me stay up. I had to videotape it and watch it the next day. They saw it however, and the next morning when I was really looking forward to seeing it, they refused to let. They said it was far too scary, and that they hardly slept all night. Eventually I convinced them to let me watch it together with them. That was the first time I realized how weak my parents were. They practically hid behind their chairs, while I watched it calmly!!!Anyway, although the movie wasn't scary for me, it was for many others. A great horror movie, which can be seen over and over again. "}{"Title":"Boring horror film has a few moments, but not enough to save it.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A new species of spider comes to a small town from South America and breeds an army of spiders that reak havok on the small town.  Uninteresting horror film is to dull for adults and to gross for little kids.  The last half hour and John Goodman as the exterminator are the only redeemable things about this flick, but still don't make the movie worth seeing.  * 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Horror and black comedy a la Hitchcock","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ARACHNOPHOBIA remains one of the best horror movies I have ever seen.  Not only does it make for truly scary film-making, thanks to the solid direction of longtime Spielberg right-hand man Frank Marshall, but it also delivers good doses of black comedy--something that has sorely been missing from most horror movies of the last two decades.The film revolves around the small town of Canaima, California suddenly being overrun by arachnids of a particularly dangerous variety.  The spiders originate in Venezuela and are exported accidentally to California in the coffin of a photographer who is fatally bitten by one of the spiders down there.  The Venezuelan spider has managed to mate with the local garden spiders of Canaima to produce an incredibly lethal offspring.  All of Canaima's hopes rest on the new town doctor (Jeff Daniels), who, as it turns out, has the worst case of arachnophobia known to Man.Without resorting to overt grossness, Marshall gets some really good shocks and scares, and plenty of suspense, something he clearly learned from Spielberg and Hitchcock (the film closely resembles JAWS and THE BIRDS in its approach).  Marshall also pays a very direct and witty homage to the Master by having a whole horde of spiders nearly frighten a teenage girl to death while in the shower--a clear homage to the famed shower scene of PSYCHO.Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, and the inimitable John Goodman as the well-meaning Rambo-type exterminator help to make ARACHNOPHOBIA a masterpiece of fright, the likes of which had not been seen much in the 80s and which were rarely seen in the 90s. "},{"Title":"Who's your daddy?","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spiders are just plain scary. Scary, ugly, and filthy creations, and why they have been put on this earth for as long a time as they have been, is anyones guess. In any case, Arachnophobia is a movie about these loathsome animals. The premise is on a father, or rather two fathers, the first one, being a smart doctor named Ross Jennings, played out well by an admirable Jeff Daniels, who has moved his nice family to a small town from the shaky city of San Fransisco. Unfortunately, or conveniently, a big mother of a spider from South America has arrived as well, and made do with a normal house spider from the Jennings' new home, and now he has a family too. As troubles begin to occur for the fresh Ross, the big, slimy and venomous bi+ch of an arachnid, has eased in with his new mate, as he creates a second queen, then the real trouble starts. One by one, the nicest people are dropping like flies, hhmmm, flies, a normal dinner for spiders... Anyhow, Ross has reason to believe there is more than just cardiac arrest at blame for this, and an investigation by he, along with the town sheriff, and a colleague set out to end the madness. A savory element is introduced when John Goodman is Delbert McClintock, a humorous bug exterminator. There is a dual storyline, of both fathers. The struggle to survive, and to keep their families safe. But there is only room for one daddy in this town, so one has to take a lift out of there! While trying not to jump around in fear as I watched this one for the first time, I was uneasy for days. Scary stuff, but Spielberg knows how to deliver. "},{"Title":"So horrible it's funny","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can I say? It's another failed attempt at horror into mainstream film. The premise of this film is laughable, and only people who are afraid of spiders and likely subsequently don't know enough about them (which is down right stupid since they're beneficial) probably find this film scary. Now, I personally have no problem with spiders, except for when I see one on me without knowing about it. It's a natural gut reaction. But seeing one crawl around the house, especially one big enough to feast on some of the nastier insects that we have to deal with in the house on rare occasions (namely cockroaches), I leave it alone. Haven't you ever heard it's bad luck to kill a spider? Anyway, this film is so horrible at being a scary film that it should have a sequel that is released as a comedy. I can't believe Jeff Daniels, a very talented actor, would sign on for a film like this. Well, in any event, all good actors have their closet films that they'd rather not talk about. Michael Caine in Jaws 4, Robin Williams in License to Wed, Flubber and RV among a few others, Dennis Hopper in Meet the Deedles (ok, so I like that film just a little since I was a kid when that came out and I found it funny)...the list goes on. But I can see where the idea of spiders coming after people came from with the Sydney funnel-web spider. It is a very dangerous spider to humans and pretty much anything, and, if you come to damn close to it, it'll come after you. But, in general, spiders would much rather just sit in their webs or pursue prey than come after people. As a matter of fact, they're probably more afraid of us than we are of them. We see all sorts of silly stuff in this film, from cooky one-liners from Jeff Daniels, to spiders actually living socially and working as a unit. Why not make a film about giant ants or termites or wasps arthropods (a term stemming from the word arthropoda, which is the phylum to which insects and arachnids belong) that actually live socially and work together as a nest. But I am insulted when AMC or some channel features this among other scary films around Halloween, trying to pass this sham off as a scary movie. It's pathetic. I'd give it a negative five out of ten if I could, but the lowest I can go is one. "},{"Title":"Spiders that don't attack Will Shatner","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arachnaphobia is your standard scary movie. It has large spiders, lots of spider related death, an evil doctor who gets his in due time, and more spiders. It has a few scars but that's not what makes this movie worth seeing. What does make this movie worth seeing is John Goodman's performance as Delbert McClintok the world's coolest Orkin man. John Goodman rules in this movie. "},{"Title":"Little Miss Muffet would be embarrassed by this","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, this wasn't the WORST movie I've ever seen. No, Hollywood has been able to make worse movies (e.g. They Saved Hitler's Brain), but this one tries hard. Yes, I can safely say that it is in fact a trying movie.It's trying to find a reasonable plot. It's trying to keep you awake despite the horrible acting. It's trying to make you believe that spiders could terrorize a town - well, maybe they just didn't have enough cans of Raid?Please tell me that they didn't make a sequel!  "},{"Title":"Horrific, yes, but not in the way it was intended.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An atmospheric opening sequence set in remote jungles sets this film off to a good start, but unfortunately the opening sequence is the only thing in this film worth seeing, as from then on it's all about as chilling as a Mickey Mouse adventure containing cartoon arachnids.  The characters and situations are unoriginal and comedic and the whole thing has the feel of a Saturday morning sitcom rather than a horror film.For a start, the plot is just complete gibberish.  A creature the size of the biggest tarantulas in the world mating with a tiny house spider?  It's like expecting us to believe that a domestic tabby could somehow mate with a Siberian tiger!  And the spiders are just rubbery Z-movie monsters.  Can you believe that something as big and heavy as a giant tarantula can leap through the air and dangle on strands of web?  Even a scientist's pet tarantula seems to have somehow built a cobweb.  How clueless do the makers of this film think people are?  All through the movie spiders are stamped on, scalded, mutilated and killed in various other gratuitous and brutal ways.If you're scared of spiders and don't know the first thing about them then I suppose it helps, but personally I found this film to be a collective representation of all the ignorance and irrational fear and hatred that surrounds large exotic arachnids.  In fact this film made me feel like being physically sick. "},{"Title":"its great!!","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i thought this movie was excellent i thought the cast was great it was very easy to follow in fact i was born a year after the movie was made so i didn't have a chance to watch it until like 1999 but it was still a great movie.i thought jeff daniels was the best in this thought in fact I'm going to go visit the place that it was filmed I've seen this movie about 10 times now and it gets better every time i never really get bored of it i think every body should buy this movie you won't regret it or at least rent it if your looking for an action thriller this is the movie for you.my summary i really really enjoyed this movie so much you have no clue first time i watched it i fell in love with it "},{"Title":"Very unrealilistic but entertaining none the less","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is probably the most famous movie about spiders and seeing how so many people have an irrational fear of spiders this movie was actually considers scary to some. Maybe it would be if everything in this movie was so unrealilistic. The acting was done well though and if you don't think about reality this movie is pretty enjoyable.This movie is about a doctor and his family who move to a small town. While in this town the doctor starts observing deaths from what people think are spider bites. He does not believe it at first until his whole town is ridden with these ultra poisonus spiders.This movie was not bad I just wish it was not so fake. The spiders they make are non exsistent and seem to be about 10 times more venomous then a rattle snake. "},{"Title":"Good, but plays it too safe","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is so much beauty in nature. Who doesn't like to look at beautiful flowers or watch a deer drink from a stream? Of course, most things have a dark side. There are those who say you shouldn't mess with nature, or you'll pay a price. This is shown in classic films like 'The Birds' and 'Jaws.' This project from longtime collaborators Frank Marshall and Steven Spielberg was a modern take on this concept. It was a hit at the time and it's not hard to see why. The bad news is that it doesn't go far enough, but the good news is that it's still worth the price of admission.Pros Nice work by the cast. Great, sometimes eerie score. A strong feature debut for Frank Marshall. Some quite good effects. Provides some chuckles. Moves along at a steady pace. A few effective shocks. Tension-filled finale.Cons Sometimes predictable. A bit repetitive. Mostly tame thrills. Some cardboard characters.Final thoughts The early 90s gave us some pretty amazing films. 'Jurassic Park,' 'Terminator 2 Judgment Day,' 'Interview With the Vampire,' just to mention a few. They all featured state of the art effects and great stories. 'Arachnophobia' sounds great on paper, but the final product is not all it could've been. They should've gone for the jugular, but they pulled back. Still, it's a really fun movie that can still make one's skin crawl.My rating 3.5/5 "}{"Title":"Creepy and Funny!","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Frank Marshall's 1990 sleeper hit 'Arachnophobia' is amongst the best comedy-horror films of it's time. Even if your not an arachnopohbic, you would begin to be one after watching this Spider-Terror flick.'Arachnophobia' is a about a deadly spider who invades a small town and creates a legend of it's own. The screenplay has it's HERO, as a Spider-Whoss, which adds to it's booty quite a bit. The characters are so interestingly penned, that you don't get bored in those odd 110 minutes.Frank Marshall's direction captures each step of an individual spider with ease. Mikael Salomon's Cinematography compliments well. Acting wise, it's a Jeff Daniels show all the way. He plays his part with wonderful ease. John Goodman scores in a brief role. Harley Jane Kozak is competent. Others lend good support.On the whole, A Definet Check-Out For A Cinema-Lover. Strongly Recommended, Such Weird Stuff Doesn't Come Often! "},{"Title":"It will make you paranoid...","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this film awhile back, actually about two years ago. Too this day, it still gives me the creeps. You would never expect a film like this to really stick with you because of what it is about but make no mistake that it will. I vividly have a few memories of this film that will never leave me such as a spider jumping on a persons face while they're taking a shower or a spider crawling up a persons leg as they sleep or the spider that waits inside of an elderly mans slipper and bites him as he slides his barefoot into it. While it is not an outright frightening film, it will definitely keep you paranoid at night as you sleep. A very good, very suspenseful film that you will love. "},{"Title":"Fear of Spiders","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spider-squeamish doctor Jeff Daniels (as Ross Jennings) moves from the city to the country, with wife Harley Jane Kozak (as Molly) and their two cute kids. Unfortunately for Mr. Daniels, a thirsty prehistoric spider has also moved into town, from South America. Visiting an old barn results in the friendly neighborhood spider breeding with local creepy crawlers - soon, there are deadly spiders everywhere, prowling for human victims.With the spiders rapidly breeding - and people dropping like flies - Mr. Daniels calls foremost authority spider-doctor Julian Sands (as James Atherton) in, to help untangle the tightening web.More fun and suspenseful than frightening, Frank Marshall's Arachnophobia is from the Steven Spielberg production school; so, it shows more quality than you might expect in a film of this type. Familiar character and television faces always make supporting casts shine; and, obviously, you're starting on top with grossly spitting exterminator John Goodman (as Delbert McClintock) and distinguished Henry Jones (as Samuel Metcalf).****** Arachnophobia (7/18/90) Frank Marshall ~ Jeff Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, Julian Sands, John Goodman "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spielbergian flick that'll make your skin crawl. Not for those who get the creeps from the appearance of spiders, they are shot in practically every way imaginable by director Frank Marshall and his cunning cinematographer Mikael Salomon(..and I just LOVE the aerial camera-work shot from above)..they utilize lots of methods capturing the creeping crawlies and the victims they draw near. With a game cast who provide spirited performances, and this willingness to give the audience the heebie jeebies, ARACHNOPHOBIA is such a thrilling experience. It's really an old fashioned B-movie, with a polished and sophisticated look, well produced(..the funding alone for Venezuala must've cost a fortune), with the opening in the jungle, fabulous and really spooky because of the dreaded idea of coming in contact with hidden spiders yet discovered by man, really establishing the kind of dangerous spider our heroes would be up against.Daniels is perfectly cast as a city doctor, Ross Jennings, moving his family away from San Francisco hoping for a more peaceful existence in rural America. What he doesn't expect is a massive Tarantula(..which traveled from Venezuala inside the wooden casket of a local photographer bitten by the spider, killing him)creating a breed of offspring with a domestic spider. The offspring set off to intrude upon unknowing locals around the area of Jennings' home, biting unfortunates who have no idea that spiders are among them. Jennings will enlist the aid of spider specialists, James Atherton(Julian Sands)and his partner Chris Collins(Brian McNamara)to help solve the problems plaguing the town, leaving citizens dead under his watch including the former physician, Sam Metcalf(..notable character actor Henry Jones)and a lovable neighbor, Margaret Hollins(Mary Carver), who welcomed him to the neighborhood without bias towards his being an outsider. The beautiful irony of Jennings having arachnophobia provides quite an entertaining template for the character having to face his fears in the climax as he will have no other choice but to battle the spider responsible for the terror striking the area. Harley Jane Kozak really has good chemistry with Daniels, portraying his wife, Molly, who attempts to rescue him from his fear of spiders. John Goodman steals his scenes as an exterminator, a know-it-all who is often mistaken in regards to the locations of spiders and his knowledge about them..Goodman's girth often engulfs the screen. Stuart Pankin has the role as Sheriff, Lloyd Parsons, who makes it quite known that he doesn't like outsiders intruding upon his town as if they own the place. Mark L Taylor has the role of Jerry Manley, the photographer who gets bitten by the Tarantula, his casket of which the spider hitches a ride. A very accomplished film for a first-time director, it's quite obvious that Spielberg had an influence during the production of ARACHNOPHOBIA, his own signatures(..such as the suburban, successful family whose picturesque life is disrupted by something sinister)are recognizable. Sure to get under the skin, the shower scene where a spider crawls down a girls body, and the spider swarm at the end as they besiege Jennings home. Also, I think another success for the filmmakers was making the giant cob webs as eerie as the deadly spiders that made them. "},{"Title":"Bad example of spider portrayal &#150; but still a very good movie!","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen this film twice already and its spiders still shock me! The film is well-paced and always prepares the viewer for more and still more shocking pictures, thus it never disappointed me. As I am more able to write about bad pictures (which this one definitely is NOT) I want to write about... well, the portrayal of the spiders. I hope it catches the interest of a few people out there!As a biologist by training, I did not like how the scientists were portrayed. First and foremost, unlike to the beginning of the movie you cannot say if a butterfly species is unknown or not &#150; until you've sifted through dozens of books, hoping that it is still unknown to science. Personally, I know of a beetle biologist who uses Russian literature in order to get the full picture of the group he does research on, and identification and classification of any insect inevitably involves a lot of literature research.Then, it is nearly impossible that two different species of spiders mate. First, many spiders have elaborate mating behaviors which are different across the species. If the other spider does not behave as it is expected by the first one, it will get killed (and eaten) pretty fast. Secondly, the sexual organs of the spiders are often not compatible across the species boundaries.What also struck me is the caste system of the Brazilian movie spiders If the little spiders cannot reproduce, they are doomed to deliver food to their king or at least they must defend him. Hmm, the latter one is not so improbable. But as they are on the top of the food pyramid, as told by the biologist, are those small eight-footers able to carry their prey to the king? I suppose there still are bodybuilding spiders out there, if this theory is correct. Otherwise, they wouldn't be able to catch human-sized prey.Well, I am glad that this movie is much better than its title does suggest &#150; Arachnophobia remembered me of certain B movies. And I am certain that Steven Spielberg gave the director one or two tips on how to make this film that good! "},{"Title":"this movie upped the ante... I thought I was afraid of spiders, but this movie made me deathly afraid of spiders","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Every time I see, or attempt to see this movie, omg Im looking literally up into the corners, behind every nook and cranny. Im surprised that the part where that huge tarantula crawling on the photographers leg isn't included in one of the scariest movie moments of all time, because the first time I saw that scene, I was terrified and couldn't watch the rest of the scene. If anyone has a fear of spiders, do not watch this movie. It gave me the creeps big time and have had nightmares about big huge spiders since. Even taking a shower I am looking around. This is one brilliant movie that plays on the fears some people out there have of spiders. Jeff Daniels is a great actor and plays the role brilliantly. It also has a sense of humor throughout the movie, giving it an equal balance. An underrated horror movie. "},{"Title":"I Hate Spiders! But Not This Movie","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie, in all intentions, was one of the best spider horror movies ever. If I remember correctly it was categorized as a thrillomedy. Despite it having a funny feel to it and having it being one upped by Eight Legged Freaks, this movie had some pretty creepy moments because I still don't like spiders. It started John Goodman and Jeff Daniels. This movie was awesome and I still watch it today. It had a b-movie plot, with an a movie budget, it had some very funny moments and some pretty creepy moments and of course there were some down right cheesy parts to it, but I can't stress how much of a thrill and experience this movie is for any horror fan or comedy guru.I want to first literate that this movie was supposed to be taken seriously as a horror but it gained even more fame and recognition as a thrill ride into a soft cushion. The spider effects, including giants spiders and webbed coated skeletons are cheesy, I know that, but give in mind there intention was to, I hope, make it have a b-movie feel to it. Despite that, you should look beyond that and notice how creepy they can make a felt spider or a puppet spider seem so creepy and intense (i.e. the shower scene and end scenes when the spiders crawl all over the house). However, if the spiders give you the creeps, this movie successfully makes a death seem funny, no matter how terrible it is. Coming from Frank Marshall who was a new director back then but later produced many favorable horror movies.I can't talk about this movie without talking about the humor and how well it is played into this film. There were so many hilarious things about this movie that I can't cram it into this one review. I would first off like to say that John Goodman is the funniest person in that whole show, and despite his low on-screen time, he steals the show. His monotone character fits with his performance and the way that he reacts to certain little things in the movie really makes me laugh. For an example, when he notices that the wood is rotting from the basement ceiling up, he asks if he can rip it out. Then happily says, You need better wood, not bad wood. Delbert is the funniest person there. Funny parts such as a blatant satire and parody on the shower scenes from Psycho when the spider comes out of the showerhead, which was funny! I'll go as far to say that the theme of the movie was hysterically put in just the right moments to lighten up the moment.Jeff Daniels, who is a very well known and well-respected actor, gets a chance to move away from a demanding drama role and away from the Farrelly Brothers and has some fun. In some way, he pokes fun at all of his dramatic rolls and acts a bit over the top at some of the best moments and surprisingly does a great job playing a guy who has arachnophobia, who now has to battle spiders. There were other great acting performances by Julian Sands, Stuart Pankin and Brian McNamara.All in all, this movie was a fantastic thrill ride that takes you to arachnophobia hell and back to hysterical bliss. The scares and the laughs are in abundance and both share an equal balance. The acting was perfect for a movie of this caliber and the special effects were a great tribute to b-movies of the 80s and 70s. I would highly recommend this movie to horror fans who like to take it light and not get scared as much, however, given the fact it is spiders, a lot of people share the condition that this movie is named. But, if you are truly a hard-core horror fan, than this movie is a must. If you have arachnophobia, I would not recommend this movie solely because you might inadvertently enhance your fear of spiders. I know it has for me. "},{"Title":"What Has Eight Legs and Enough Poison to Kill An Entire Town? I Don't Know, But When You See it Coming, Run For Your Lives!!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Deep in the jungles of South America, there a being of unimaginable terror and an unthinkable desire for death and destruction. This creature stands about 9 inches tall. It is a rare and dangerous breed of spider; Dr. James Atherton ventured down into the South American jungles with his Peruvian guides, and a bumbling photographer, Jerry Manley. Dr. Atherton was in search of new animal species, particularly small ones with 6 or 8 legs. He shoots poison up a tree and down fall hundreds of butterflies, as well as a few large dead spiders. But not all of them were dead. Atherton wanted to take two live ones back. But while nobody was looking, the ringleader, or general, killer spider crawled into Manley's backpack. Back at camp, Atherton studied his finds while a feverish Manley took a snooze. That's when the spider crawled from the backpack, and into Manley's cot. He suddenly felt a sharp pain on his leg. He looked and saw the spider. But it was too late for Manley. Atherton and his guides nail him up in a coffin and head for home. But, an unexpected guest had sneaked into the coffin.Manley's body is delivered to the morgue in his hometown of Canaima, California. While the coroners examined the body, the giant spider crawled out of the coffin and out the doggy door where a bird picked it up and flew off to a farmhouse where the Jennings family were moving in. The bird collapsed dead, and the spider crawled into the barn; the family consisted of Ross, the soon-to-be town practitioner, his wife Molly, and their kids Tommy and Shelly. Ross was glad to leave San Fransisco and get out to the country with no worries at all. Well except for one Ross had a real fear of spiders. Arachnophobia, as it were; Things looked down for Ross when the old town practitioner, Dr. Sam Metcalf, decided not to retire. Fortunately Ross did find one patient, Margaret Hollins, who was completely healthy; Molly notices a giant spider web in the barn and when she showed it to Ross, it sparked those old fears. Unfortunately what they did not see was an enormous egg sac beside the web. The giant spider had mated. And worse yet, the egg sac was hatching. Soon the town would be overrun by hundreds of smaller versions of those spiders. The first to fall victim was poor Margaret Hollins. The second was Todd Miller. Sadly nobody saw the spider crawl into his football helmet before he put it on. Causes of death was a mystery to Dr. Metcalf, who assumed Margaret had a heart attack. Ross disagreed. Metcalf began spreading rumors about him. But, that night, Dr. Metcalf suffered a deadly spider bite too.Delbert McClintock, the best (and only) exterminator in town came to check the Jennings cellar for termites but the cause of the problem was merely bad wood. Delbert next went to check out a spider report at the Beechwood place. When Delbert discovered the spider, he literally crushed its spirits; With Dr. Metcalf gone, Ross was the town doctor. Metcalf's wife claimed she saw a spider shortly before her husband passed, so Ross concluded that's also what killed Margaret and Todd. Ross called Dr. Atherton for help. He sent his assistant, Chris Collins, to Canaima to help Ross. They discover, in Margaret's house, a dead spider (the one that bit her) and a live one, which they catch. According to a map of Canaima, all the spider attacks happened in places surrounding Ross's house. They had to get back there in a hurry! Dr. Atherton arrived in town and when he heard about the giant spider web in the Jennings' barn, he went to investigate. Unfortunately he didn't see that giant killer spider leaping at him; Ross and Collins arrive at the house and before they could get Molly and the children out, the house became overrun with spiders. They arrived in masses. They were everywhere! Collins, Molly and the children manage to escape out the bathroom window but before Ross could join them, he found himself surrounded. He managed to fall right through the floor into his new wine cellar, which he discovered was now the nest for the king and queen spiders and worse yet, a new egg sac was preparing to hatch! Ross had to act quickly or the town was doomed. Thanks to a sparking power box, he was able to fry the queen spider. Unfortunately he still had the general to worry about. And it came at him in a fury! Using an old lighter and an aerosol can, he attempted to burn it. Meanwhile, upstairs the spiders continued to overrun the house. Delbert to the rescue. With a very strong poison this time. He melted every spider he saw; Back in the cellar, the giant spider managed to corner Ross, but that's when he pulled out his trusty lighter and aerosol can, ignited the spider, launched it into the air, grabbed his nail gun, fired, the nail plunged through the spider sending it careening into the egg sac, igniting it. The spider terror of Canaima was over at last. After that, Ross, Molly and the kids move back to San Fransisco to their old lives.Arachnophobia. Now this is a scary movie. Whether you're afraid of spiders or not. Me, I am afraid of spiders. Like Ross; Jeff Daniels was good, as always. John Goodman provided great comic relief as did Stuart Pankin. Frank Marshall did an excellent job of directing. This film will make you jump, and it will make you check around your house for spiders. They should do a sequel, except this time make it about scorpions. Scorpions are members of the arachnid family too. Anyway, if you're afraid of spiders or not, this is a great film. It's loaded with humor, thrills and spills. From 1990, Arachnophobia. I recommend it! "},{"Title":"Shudder!!!!","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A great comedy/thriller that for anybody (like myself) with the title phobia will have them hiding behind the sofa especially the climactic battle! John Goodman is hilarious as the Exterminator (I'm bad!).. Julian Sands excellent as the lead insect and spider expert..and Jeff Daniels great as the new doctor in town...But the star of the show has to be the disgustingly eight legged star in all its hairy and screamingly crawly glory. I couldn't sleep properly after this movie but that hasn't stopped me watching it again and again until I could view it without crying like a little girl!!...I'll beat my fear of spiders one day!! 8/10!!!! A fantastic little film. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies ever made","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the scariest movies ever made. The most deadly spider in the world in Venezuala kills a guy in his sleep in the jungles in a tent while his men are on an expedition. The spider makes its way to a small town in California. The spider is like three inches long and aggressive. It ends up in the barn of a family that moved in, a doctor named Ross, played by Jeff Daniels who hates spiders, and his wife and two kids. The spider weaves a giant web, and the spiders rapidly breed and produce offsprings. The Spiders get into a young man's football helmet and kill him while he's on field, one of the doctors elderly patients gets killed by one that falls from the lamp in her house. People in town blame Ross on the death for treating several patients like an amateur. A couple at the end get killed from eating popcorn that one of the spiders was in. Near the end Ross seems to overcome his phobia for the most part, and spiders come out all over. The climax has Ross, falling and crashing under his house and having a thrilling confrontation with the mother spider, that seems invincible. Once afraid to go near a house spider, now he must face his nightmare and save humanity. "}{"Title":"The film is more effective if you're scared of spiders. If you're not, it's still good but not quite such a nail-biting experience.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   If ever a film was made with a specific target audience in mind, Arachnophobia is it. Arachnophobia will absolutely terrify anyone with the remotest fear of spiders. What, though, about all those people not scared to hysterics by arachnids? Well, fortunately, debut director Frank Marshall has fashioned an entertaining thriller which has enough moments of suspense and skillful touches of humour to satisfy other viewers too. In a terrific prologue, jungle scientists venture in the deep reaches of the Amazon in search of new species of bugs. Unwittingly, they catch an absolutely lethal breed of spider which ends up being taken back to camp. Here it bites a man, killing him, and then happens to take shelter in his coffin - which is promptly nailed down and flown off to the USA! The spider ultimately ends up in a small American town, where it breeds with another spider. Pretty soon, the whole town is over-run by deadly arachnids, and new local doctor Jeff Daniels (who moved to the countryside to avoid danger!?!) figures out what's going on. Bug exterminator John Goodman and tight-lipped scientist Julian Sands are drafted in to deal with the infestation before it's too late, but the corpses are mounting up and the spider population seems to be multiplying by the hour! Killer insect films have been around for half a century, but Arachnophobia manages to remain fresh and exciting thanks to its good performances and self-referential script. The story is pretty unlikely, but the careful pacing goes quite a long way in disguising the deficiencies. Some of the spider fatalities are brilliantly staged (the one that crawls into the old guy's slippers is just great), and the final confrontation between Daniels and the mother-spider in a dark cellar is palm-sweatingly taut. Folks who are scared of spiders will undoubtedly get a more nerve-jangling experience out of this than those who aren't. That said, there's enough going on here to satisfy all comers. "},{"Title":"The reason the film succeeds is because of its tongue-in-cheek nature and excellent performance by Jeff Daniels.","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hollywood used to like making movies about big bugs. During the 50s and 60s (and yes, even the 70s) there was an abundance of very bad B-movies about mutated insects. It would always be about some sort of hideous species getting in contact with radioactive waste in a rural middle-American environment. I remember seeing one where the bugs happened to be alien ants that took over an entire middle-America town. The queen ant transformed all of the people into slaves, who then went out and did her biddings.Stuff like that is so bad it's good, and Frank Marshall's Arachnophobia has a fun time making fun of these movies, yet it implements its own giant (or miniscule, depending upon how you view it) twist The spiders are small instead of large. This could have been a pretty dumb idea but it only comes across as more frightening and realistic. Arachnophobia never tries to become the next JAWS but it has a fun time ridiculing some of the old B-movie clichés. Yet because of improper advertising and marketing, many audiences were led to believe that Arachnophobia was a strict horror film. I pity the poor souls who wandered into the screening rooms expecting to experience a white-knuckle thriller. Only people suffering from arachnophobia will find this scary -- but anyone who likes a good piece of entertainment will cherish it.The movie stars Jeff Daniels as an average, mild-mannered guy who moves out of the big city with his family, retreating to a rural middle-America suburb, where he finds himself at the wrath of tiny, poisonous spiders. The arachnids were carried across the ocean from Venezuela after a researcher investigating their species died from a bite. Now the critters are everywhere, and they're small, ruthless and deadly. So with the help of a comical exterminator (John Goodman) and a few local yokels, Daniels tries to rid the town of the creatures before the beasts overrun all of America.It's nothing that hasn't been done before, but thanks to Marshall's somewhat tongue-in-cheek direction and the fairly witty and self-aware script, Arachnophobia comes across as anything but dumb -- it actually appears to be rather smart, the Scream of insect horror movies, with characters who are aware of their situations and face them with a sense of wit.Another reason the film succeeds far past the others of its genre is because of the lead performance by Jeff Daniels (Harry from Dumb and Dumber), who is one of the best character actors in showbiz. He can play anything, ranging from utter goofballs to mild-mannered everymen to brave war heroes. Here he chooses the middle role and it helps make the film a bit better than it could have been.I also appreciated John Goodman's supporting role turn as the exterminator, a sort of opposite of Arnold's Terminator. He stomps around soaking the little creatures with toxins and gets pleasure out of doing it -- he's the rare sort of obnoxious and likable crossbreed, and Marshall knows this, purposely introducing him as a subtle hero.Admittedly, Arachnophobia is nothing special, but it's likable and often rather funny, which is a mix you don't often come by in this genre.4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"ARACHNOPHOBIA (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Are you afraid of spiders? I assume yes as for totally ununderstandable reasons these insects are the ultimate method to let someone scare so this movie will give you the creeps... Well in all honesty, the concept has been repeated over and over...once it were piranhas, once it were bees, even birds by Hitchcock and now spiders but Arachnophobia rises above the standard because it's not only funny (Johnny Goodman plays a superb role here) and the acting is fine as well. Everyone can live without this movie, that's for sure but I have seen lots worser than that and in the category of disastermovies it scores fine. And as far as I know there hasn't been a sequel as well... "},{"Title":"Terror comes in small doses&#133;","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'It's not the size that matters&#133;it's what you do with it' is an often heard expression. True, it is generally used in a complete other context but you also could use it to describe the film Arachnophobia. No freaking huge mutated animals or rotten zombies attacking you this time! The hairy, slow-moving creatures that frighten so many people are the enemy here itsy bitsy SPIDERS!! And these miniature killers are a lot more effective than most physically impressive horror icons. ***small spoilers*** Scientists discover a new species of deadly spiders in the Venezuelan Rain Forest and once specimen accidentally hitches a ride in a coffin towards a charming American town. There, it reproduces itself with an ordinary house-spider and their offspring inherited daddy's deadly sting! Healthy inhabitants of the town start to drop dead all of a sudden and the newly arrived doctor (Jeff Daniels) gets blamed for it. ***end spoilers*** Arachnophobia depends on one major advantage&#133;The film doesn't really need gruesome make-up effects or high-speed action sequences. The ugliness and crawling of the vicious spiders provide this film with all the necessary scares and horror it needs. It's enough to show a couple of spiders while they're lurking for new victims and you've got yourself a movie. First-time director Frank Marshall (who previously was a regular Steven Spielberg producer) uses the scary-effect spiders have on people very good. In order not to make his film too horror-like (after all, it has Spielberg's name attached to it) Marshall puts in a lot of black comedy in the form of John Goodman as the goofy extinguisher and a married couple who do nothing but eat and watch 'Wheel of Fortune'. Jeff Daniels does a pretty decent acting job as the town's doctor. Daniels has a very neutral face, so he can make himself believable in films like this as well as in 'Dumb and Dumber' for example. Harley Jane Kozak is very charming as his wife and Julian Sands looks as creepy as ever in his role. Surely recommend! You can either look at it as a nice change in horror tales or you could use it to get over your own fear of spiders, maybe. "},{"Title":"Be afraid! And Amused!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everytime this movie is on TV I have to watch it. i never get tired of it. It's both really funny and really quite disturbing. Jeff Daniels is great as the scared-to-death hero and the rest of the cast provide more than adequate support. In particular the guy who plays the football coach, Julian Sands as an annoying but entertaining spider expert and John Candy as some comic relief.I don't know about you, but it makes me itch whenever I watch it. I can't bare the thought of spiders at all. The massive one didn't bother me so much, it's those little ones that move quickly that put the frighteners on me! That scene where it descends from the light shade and kills the old lady?! Man, after seeing that I take extra care when swicthing my  bedside light off.It's very well made and has some genuine shocks. A solid movie that deserves to be seen by many.I a word, this movie rocks! "},{"Title":"For Arachnophobes","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall, this is a well-made film that drags a bit for a half hour or more. If you're scared of spiders, this is probably frightening. But I'm not, so I almost wouldn't know what they're all scared off. Except the plots trots along, the scenes are pretty to look at, and the actors are up to the job. Throw in some great humor here and there and leave out excessive death, and it becomes a movie that even non-arachnophobes can enjoy. The end's contrived though, as most of these movies are.By the way, a bit of discrimination here. MINI-SPOILER The old folks get killed. The one guy who wasn't (besides the professor way in the prologue) brought it upon himself and was so plain dumb! But as usual, it's funny. "},{"Title":"Creepy Crawlie good fun!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ARACHNOPHOBIA (1990) **1/2 Jeff Daniels, Harley Jane Kozak, John Goodman, Julian Sands, Stuart Pankin, Brian McNamara.  Thrill-omedy perfectly describes this horror-comedy about a young doctor and his family newly arriving to a new town to practice medicine only to find his phobia nightmares come to life deadly venomous spiders wiping out the populace. Some chills and laughs with the concluding moments of Daniels combating Big Bob a giant tarantula in his cellar. Neat-o! (Point of interest first film released by Hollywood Pictures) "},{"Title":"An above average killer bugs thriller","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The killer spiders may be the stars of this film but its best scenes go to John Goodman who pretty much steals the show with his costarring part as a tough guy exterminator. Jeff Daniels is the top billed star but his performance is comparably shallow even when compared to his many eight legged costars. Still, the film's fair amount of suspense and insect special effects prevent it from becoming routine.  "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My parents didn't let me watch this movie when I was a kid (8 or 9) because it was, in their opinion, too scary for me to handle. Typical. One night, when they went to the cinema exceptionally late, a time before the Sky network found out our local cable operator had been illegally broadcasting their program (aaaaah, good old times), I got a chance to watch this movie. The experience was great. Me, alone in the house at a very late hour, not to mention I have a severe case of arachnophobia. Even at present time I am deeply annoyed at having a spider in my room and articles such as, for instance one  that read that a man came to a doctor complaining about a strange sensation in his ear. The doctor looked at the ear, and with utter amazement admitted to the patient that a female spider had climbed into his ear and made a nest for the larvae. NOT A BIG HELP!!!!! This movie however was total therapy. It is not as scary as Kingdom of the spiders, but is entertaining and witty. The effects in the final confrontation between Jeff Daniels and the spider are a tad overexaggerated (c'mon, did the spider really have to scream?) Still, a movie that should appeal to everybody.   8/10  "},{"Title":"Very Very Good!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!* My uncle taped this off Showtime and I watched it. I thought it was horrible, pointless, and stupid. I found in a box of movies the other day, and I watched it...Twice! My uncle, much like Ross Jennings, (Daniels) is very afraid of spiders. A named Dr. Atherton goes to South America, and is looking for spiders. He discovers a new speicies. A not-so manly man called Manely, (Get it?) is bitten by the spider, and dies within fifteen seconds. His body is shipped back to America, where a South American spider hitches a ride. There, it mates with a house spider. It then spins a huge web in the barn of the Jenning's new house. Ross must overcome his fear of spiders, and save the town from overflowing with a deadly army of spiders. I strongly suggest you get this movie. 9/10 stars.  "}{"Title":"scary spoof","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This wasn't too bad a movie, as killer spiders interbreed with other spiders and wreck havoc on a small town. Jeff Daniels gives a good performance as an arachnophobic doctor, and John Goodman is terrific as an exterminator. It is guaranteed to make you arachnophobic!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Bad Wood...Need Good Wood","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What if an ancient/prehistoric spider living in a geographical hole was accidentally brought into the United States to a small town in California via a casket trimmed with one deliquified body?  Wouldn't the town be in danger if this said spider somehow miraculously bred with an ordinary house spider and started sending legions of spiders all over town to kill everyone?  The answers to these questions are the very essence of Arachnophobia.  This film is a mixture of thrills and comedy.  The plot is somewhat(okay, very) unbelievable.  But you won't really care as the movie progresses because it has some genuine scares for you nicely folded with wonderfully comic siutuations, dialogue, and nutty characters.  The cast is quite good if not a bit one-dimensional.  Jeff Daniels plays the city doctor who comes to town only to share sleeping quarters with his childhood fear.  The supporting cast is what really lights up this film though with some real gems by Roy Brocksmith as an undertaker always eating(Kathy Kinney of Drew Carey fame plays his wife), Stuart Pankin as an idiot lawman, Julian Sands as an obsessive scientist, Henry Jones as a n absent-minded, crusty doctor, and John Goodman as an exterminator.  Goodman is brilliant in his Cliff Clavin type-role as the idiotic pest control man.  The film is a great way to spend a little time.  It is funny, suspenseful, and very exciting. "},{"Title":"very scary stuff","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I found this movie really scary when it first came out, and 10 years later i still rate it as the scariest movie i've seen. The fact that spiders are real world creatures makes the situations in the film more believable and scary. I'm not totally creeped out by spiders but enough to be scared by this film. There's plenty of moments to make you jump, and squirm. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"The Graphics","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My views about this movie It was a good movie and the graphics were great and the movie had a lot of great actors like Jeff Daniels, Julian Sands, and John Goodman and the movie was put together so well (like a 2,000 piece puzzle!) I don't think I want to encounter a spider that large in any country because I am like Jeff Daniels was in the movie deathly scared of spiders. I would recommend this movie to my friends because my friends like gory movies. Seeing a spider like that one makes me look all over my house and I make sure that he is not hiding out in my place. The movie had a couple of funny parts and a very funny police guard who almost had a heart attack when he found a dead spider in the box of Rice Chex cereal. And when the examiner asked what could've killed the spider and Daniels replied The shock of seeing Lloyd? That part was so funny I had to back the tape up 3 times and each time I heard that, I laughed so hard that my stomach started hurting. So I recommend this movie to anybody who enjoys a good scare and a good laugh. I give this movie an A+. So go to your favorite video store and rent the spider movie Arachnophobia "},{"Title":"Displaying a horrible phobia.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Aracnophobia demonstrates that big budget means good results. This is a Hollywood production for a B-movie idea. This movie truly displays the horrors of the aracnophobia that many people suffer from. Making a Horror movie was a clever choice to display such phobia. The f/x are impressive; to the point that I kept scratching my shoulders and back thinking a spider would be walking on me.The acting is also very good so does the great direction. Aracnophobia is a visually stunning movie with great f/x. My beef with it is the poor plot development. Just think about this movie as an excuse for showing great spider f/x. That's it. "},{"Title":"Horror B-movie made entertaining by its typical 'Spielberg' elements.","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Even though Spielberg himself didn't directed this movie, his style and humor is notable throughout the entire movie. It's pretty obvious that Frank Marshall's his role model as a director is his good friend Steven Spielberg. There are several typical 'Spielberg' elements present in the movie; some of the dialog, the highly entertaining and somewhat eccentric characters and the humor are the best examples of this.Let's face it people, this movie is pretty dumb and has a very weak story. It has B-movie written all over it. Yet the movie is made with lots of profession, as well as in front as behind the camera. Frank Marshall, Steven Spielberg, Kathleen Kennedy, Michael Kahn, Mikael Salomon, all are involved in this movie. This are persons who know how to make an entertaining movie, I mean all of them worked together before on Raiders of the Lost Ark which perhaps is THE most entertaining movie of all time.The movie also has some high class actors. Jeff Daniels, Julian Sands and John Goodman definitely are not the worst actors of all time. The rest of the cast features some highly entertaining and eccentric different kind of characters, which help to make this movie an highly entertaining one.The movie is probably more fun and entertaining than it's scary. Still the movie provides some good and terrifying moments. Be honest, who didn't checked the shower, or his popcorn or cornflakes extra carefully after watching this movie? The ending however ruins quite a bit. It's extremely weak, silly and unbelievable, that whole Dr. Jennings versus the spider queen and 'general' thing. A bit of a disappointing finale for a further more just fun and mainly entertaining horror movie with B-movie symptoms.This movie will make everyone at least a tiny bit arachnophobic for a short period of time.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A web would indicate arachnoid presence. Enjoyable & entertaining family horror.","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia starts in Venezuela, South America where Dr. James Atherton (Julian Sands) is leading an expedition deep into an unexplored area of jungle where they soon discover a previously unknown breed of spider. One such spider hitches a ride back to their camp in a rucksack belonging to the ill Jerry Manley (Mark L. Taylor) whom it bites & kills. Atherton believes Manley died of natural causes & orders Manley's body crated up & sent back to his home town of 'Canaima' for burial, however the deadly spider is also sealed in the crate. Dr. Ross Jennings (Jeff Daniels) his wife Molly (Harley Jane Kozak) & their two young children Tommy (Garette Ratliff Henson) & Shelley (Marlene Katz) have decided to leave the manic existence of living in San Francisco behind & move to the seemingly idyllic town of Canaima in California where Ross plans to take over the local practise when Dr. Sam Metcalf (Henry Jones) retires. Manley's body arrives at Canaima's mortuary where local mortician Irv Kendall (Roy Brocksmith) opens the crate & unknown to him releases the deadly spider which soon ends up in Jennings new barn where it mates with an ordinary house spider & produces a new strain of killer spider (in reality the filmmakers apparently used Avondale Spiders which are a harmless species from New Zealand), one bite & your dead within minutes. First to be bitten is Jennings neighbour Margaret Hollins (Mary Carver), Jennings wants an autopsy but Metcalf & Sheriff Lloyd Parsons (Stuart Pankin) refuse to sanction it. Soon after a college football player named Miller (Nathanial Spitzley) dies in mysterious circumstances & when Metcalf himself fall victim to the killer spiders Jennings has to convince the sceptical townspeople that the spiders are a very real threat that must be stopped. Jennings calls in outside help & must stop the spiders from wiping out Canaima for starters & spreading further, they would quickly become impossible to stop as they moved from town to town killing everything in their path...Co-executive produced & directed by Frank Marshall I liked Arachnophobia for what it is & anyone with arachnophobia in reality should consider carefully if they want to watch this as it might creep you out, a lot. The script by Don Jakoby & Wesley Strick is very family orientated with no real violence & a generally light tone throughout. At times I found it a little predictable & too family friendly with everything turning out the way you would expect. I also found Arachnophobia a bit slow at times & somewhat repetitive, the spiders don't really do all that much much except bite three or four people who die of heart attacks. Even though it starts out as a mystery to Jennings & the townspeople of Canaima it doesn't to us the viewer, which basically means we know what's happening & have to sit through Jennings & co. finding out. Arachnophobia is quite limited in scale being set in a small town so I never felt any real tension as the spiders didn't really pose a great threat to that many people. The characters are likable if a bit clichéd & while it does slow down at times it kept me entertained throughout & was never boring or uneventful. There is no blood or gore apart from a withered up corpse so don't worry about that, the special effects vary with a few puppet shots looking very stiff & unconvincing. The 'general' spider at the end appears to change size between shots as well, could have been better. Marshall does OK in the director's chair & made a good looking very polished film, but with an estimated budget of $31,000,000 according to the IMDb that's the least I would expect. The cool looking opening shots of Venezuela are impressive, the rest of Arachnophobia less so & he doesn't inject much pace or excitement into any of the set-piece scenes. The acting is alright although Daniels as the hero is a little bland, John Goodman as Delbert McClintock the 'Bugs-B-Gone' exterminator is pretty funny even if he isn't given much to do. While Arachnophobia certainly isn't the best film ever made it certain isn't the worst either & provides good, undemanding & fun entertainment for 100 odd minutes. It probably turns up on TV all the time so if you can catch it for free then I recommend it, as for spending hard earned money on it I'm not so sure unless it's going cheap. Still definitely worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"what a title.....","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  why couldnt they name it something easy to remember?? well, that doesnt matter though. this movie is really funny. kind of classy, and no cgi treaks!! jeff deniel's performance was good, seems like this actor was in quite many movies that i really liked.another suprisement in this flick is john goodman as a bug killer, lol.he is so funny in this movie. probably his best performance ever in my opinion. ahahah.........-_-....................one thing that bothers is when deniel uses his nail gun on the ceiling down in the storage, the nail barely misses his wife's foot.i have no idea why that scene was so offensive to me....anyway, this movie was a nice killing-time movie "},{"Title":"OMG, OMG, OMG. Who likes dogs now????? (5 question marks for bigger effect)","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well another masterpiece from the maverick that is U P Freely. When I first saw this film I thought - Yeah, not bad could be better. However the second time I watched it I realised the true meaning for it in today's ever contrasting society. The juxtaposition of humour and drama bode poorly to give the audience a whole disappointment for the film. Since I've only seen the film once I can't make a rate it therefore I would qualify it for a rating of 2 out 10. Although this may be true, the colloquial use of dialogue and constant contamination of Jeff Daniels a.k.a The Elephant Man brings in a truly masterful work of art that can be depicted as a film worthy of the rating 10 out of 10. It is in my true feeling that it deserves an Oscar or rather a Razzie award for the worst sounding film ever. Despite the abysmal acting there were areas of real talent and promise, which should be mentioned. Sound amongst other things were upon the most achieving I have had the ability to hear. For this it deserves some award to accommodate the appreciative writings of credits. The plot is relatively simple combining few words with crazy brilliantly adapted lyrics of music. Yes, and that is another part I must comment on the music it was appalling. So at best I would give this film 10 out of 10 and at worst 1 out of 10 so really it should be give 7 out of 10 hence forth I would agitatedly recommend this film. In conclusion it is my belief to award this film 4 out of 10 and consequently I wouldn't recommend it.P.S. I think it is out on DVD so get it. I would also like to mention that if your afraid of grizzly bears then don't watch it - they will attack as you can see from this film. The title suggests it is about reptiles but obviously not. "},{"Title":"Only one really scary scene.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Jeff Daniels is in his bed .He THINKS he has seen a spider on the wall.It looked like one of these gentle animals but it was not one.This scene is by far the best of the whole movie because it depicts a credible situation many of us have probably known one day.Scary indeed.The rest does not follow suit,adding special effects galore and one of the worst comic reliefs the history of cinema has ever seen.Also handicapped by presence of children.If you're looking for a subtle eerie movie,you've got to move on ;and if you're looking for a full bore horror movie,think that the incredible shrinking man ,in the fifties,did one thousand times better with one thousandth of Arachnophobia budget. "}{"Title":"AAAAAAAAAAARGH!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not exactly arachnophobic.  But, I'm afraid to say, when asked what the scariest film I've ever seen is, this is the answer.  Sure, I was more freaked out by, say, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre.  But this one had me crawling up the walls when I was a teenager.  The scenes where the spiders begin their wholesale invasion of the house...there's the TV set...the plughole...the keyhole...it's really the stuff of nightmares.  And how often does Jeff Daniels get to be a hero? "},{"Title":"My favorite spider movie.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite movies with killer normal size bugs in it.  This one is about killer spiders, which kill simply by biting you and injecting you with their deadly venom.  It starts with this trip in a rainforest or something.  These guys led by Julian Sands, are studying spiders.  One of the members is killed by one of the spiders found and it hitches a ride in his casket that takes him to a small town.  It mates with a local spider and pretty soon there are quite a few of them.  Jeff Daniels is rather good as the new town doctor with a fear of spiders and so is the rest of the cast as well.  This one is part comedy and also part horror/thriller as well.  When it was first advertised on TV some of the spots made it look like a comedy and others a horror, I went to the theater to see it and really enjoyed it for both.  Goodman is also in this one...he plays an exterminator who is a bit extreme.  All in all a good movie to give most people the jitters.  Not me though, I just don't rattle easily. "},{"Title":"Don't bother unless you're a horror buff","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are a horror buff, you can amuse yourself counting the 'references'  - or should  that be 'thefts'? Yes, it's Jaws on land. It's also that B movie with Michael Caine  (Bees! Millions of bees! And they're heading this way!). Julian Sands plays the English  insect expert this time, using a weird camp accent never heard outside of Hollywood  movies. Spot the shot of the spider entering thru the grille into Daniels' cellar --  remember show the Incredible Shrinking Man escaped out of that same grille after a  heroic fight with an arachnoid? Examining corpses for mysterious bite marks is routine  when there's a vampire on the loose. The horror is lurking in your ownbackyard/cellar/barn/greenhouse - watch out for those alien Bodysnatchers. Iexpected Julian Sands to re-emerge from the shadows as a fanged spider king at  least. If you want a funny movie about invading insects from South America, watch  Meet the Applegates. And yes, Goodman was terrible. xxxx "},{"Title":"creepy","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the most creepy movie I've ever seen. I HATE spiders. But this movie was good. Just the thought of little spiders killing people just creeps me out. Everything about this movie is good. Even the spiders. I recommend this movie to anyone who hates spiders but likes a good creepy movie. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For a sci-fi comedy, this isn't all funny, and the big stars don't really try to make it. Basically it is all about an invasion of normal sized tarantula spiders who have somehow got to America, and soon enough it becomes a nightmare as they can kill humans. Jeff Daniels as Dr. Ross Jennings is a doctor who investigated deaths of patients before he found about this threat, and he is the main reason for the film's title, so this spider attack won't do him any favours. You probably get the idea, it is all a struggle for survival, and a need to kill both the chief spider and the nest. Also starring Harley Jane Kozak as Molly Jennings and an almost funny John Goodman as exterminator Delbert McClintock. Good! "}]