[{"Title":"Good standard dumb action movie!!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is a middle of the road but enjoyable action comedy. John Badham a veteran of the action genre handles proceedings with flair and paces the movie well. The film hardly lulls despite a someone choppy ending set in a zoo. The film is routine but gets by with the likable leads, Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn. Gibson was making a name for himself as an action man by this time having already done 3 Mad Max films and 2 Lethal Weapon movies. Gibson's everyman likability and at the same time tough guy physique worked well in these movies, despite wasting his acting ability, with the exception of a great role in Lethal Weapon. At the same time as Gibson evading death by the pursuing dirty lawmen, David Carradine and Bill Duke, Goldie Hawn seems to be in her very own light-hearted Goldie movie about the posh bird who learns there is more to life than money and essentially she is still acting from her previous movie, Overboard. Despite this Hawn is likable and has good chemistry with Gibson. The trademark showing of her ass is once again here and Hawn parades her derrière in her movies even more than Jean-Claude Van Damme. The film also features the gorgeous and future queen of soft core, erotic, B-movies Joan Severance.The film has some good action scenes and plenty of on screen carnage and thanks to Badhams brisk direction it engages. The story maybe wafer thin but the film moves by so quickly it is difficult not to enjoy. The chemistry between the two leads more than make up for the clichéd by the numbers performances of the bad guys Carradine and Duke. Carradine is so far from his great performance in Kill Bill 2 that you have to wonder why it takes so much inspiration to coax a performance from the man whose wooden demeanour has led to him being a B-movie staple for nearly 20 years.Overall this is enjoyable stuff and typical of the sort of harmless and moronic fun action movies of the 80's. *** "},{"Title":"fun romantic comedy-chase thriller","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Beats me why so many people want to trash this action-packed screwball romantic comedy-chase thriller. Instead of comparing it to other Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn films, I compare it to basically similar type films, such as What's Up Doc?, Smokey and the Bandit, High Road to China, The Big Steal(perhaps the granddaddy of this type of film) and, more recently, some of the Jackie Chan films. The stunts have gotten much wilder and more numerous in recent decades, including in this film. I love both Goldie Hawn and Mel Gibson as actors, and to have them together in this type of film is just great.Gibson gets things started with a scary practical joke on his coworker. Goldie, a divorced lawyer, happens to drive into the gas station where Gibson is working and thinks she recognizes her almost husband of 15 years ago. He seemingly convinces her she is mistaken, being embarrassed about the circumstances of his sudden disappearance. Goldie returns in the evening to spy on him from across the street. Apparently, she intended to follow his car home, but instead witnesses a confrontation with 2 men intent on killing him. The assailants accidentally kill his coworker. Gibson manages to burst out of the garage in a car, but it is soon wrecked. He sees Goldie and pleads that she let him in her car, acknowledging that he is who she thinks he is. As the station explodes in a fireball, they drive off in a hail of bullets, with a murder charge soon to be filed against them. They're off to the races! Sound promising? "},{"Title":"This movie is really good.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Don't pay attention to negative reviews.  This movie is really good and I'm sure everyone will enjoy it as much as I did.  Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn are a wonderful couple and their performance is excellent.  Don't wait any longer ... rent it right now! "},{"Title":"bad day at the zoo for Mel and Goldie","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The star power of Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn help this 1990 action film, which is about a witness protection program refugee who reconnects by accident with his old girlfriend. The two then run to avoid the people after him. And run and run and run.There are so many chase scenes in this movie, I lost count, but they lead to a very effective finale in the zoo. I enjoyed this movie because of its two stars. I thought they had great chemistry and repartee.The movie is short on plot and character development, you know, things that one would occasionally enjoy seeing in a film, and long on action, charm, Mel's rear, Goldie's figure, and fashion. On this basis, I found it enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Average Action/Comedy","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rick has been given a new identity by the FBI for helping convict a drug dealing FBI agent. Fifteen years later his former fiancé recognizes him. Rick's FBI 'minder' has been replaced by a corrupt agent who helps the drug dealing FBI agent and his accomplice locate him. There are many subsequent chase scenes as Rick and girlfriend revisit his former haunts.Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn star in this exciting action comedy. Strangely this got allot of negative reviews, but just ignore them. This is an average action/comedy. It should be fun for everyone in the family. "},{"Title":"Lethal Weapon on a Wire","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This feature was a bold attempt to capture the magic of the first two Lethal Weapons, only this time with Goldie Hawn rather than Danny Glover. While it does fail to attain the same chemistry, it carries a different chemistry all its own.Mel Gibson portrays Rick Jarmin, whose character plays about 8 different personalities, which effectively demonstrate his incredible depth and range as an actor. Goldie Hawn is her usual, adorable, professional self. Goldie is a rare breed, indeed, as she is quite the professional while maintaining that girlish quality that the masses do hold dear.The plot is simple, but the sub-plots are more than enough to entertain. Rick Jarmin has turned state's evidence against ex-DEA agents-turned-drug-dealers. Since, he's been in the federal witness protection program. But when he is spied and cornered by an ex-girlfriend (Goldie Hawn), he realizes he must relocate once more. Upon discovering his agent has retired, and the new one is a treacherous worm, he must go on the run, find his address book, and locate his old agent for help, all the while he's being chased and hunted by current DEA and FBI agents and the two men against whom he's testified.It was a lot of fun watching Gibson's personalities change as his character went from one life to the next looking for help, and making his way towards his address book.The action sequences were quite good, the comedic presence was well timed and expertly delivered, and the movie runs to a satisfying conclusion.While it is far from Oscar-worthy, it is really quite entertaining.It rates a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Nice, entertaining","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I don't think this movie is as bad as some comments say, it is not a hit, but it is just the kind of movie I like very much and that IMHO are not being made anymore. It's a classical 90's easy-going action/comedy that won't disappoint anybody, who is not looking for a complicated plot and surprising end )I really enjoyed watching this movie, especially thanks to a beautiful couple made by Mel Gibson and Golide Hawn. It's just one of those movies you can watch over and over again and it sill keeps you entertained (well, the final scene seems a little boring to me...).If you are looking for a nice action/comedy, check this one out, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I Dug It!, It's A Lot Of Fun With Lots Of Laughs And Awesome Performances!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I dug it!, it's a lot of fun, with lots of laughs and awesome performances!. Most of the critics panned this film, however i had a lot of fun with it, plus Mel Gibson is always a huge bonus in any film he's in!. It has plenty of action, and all the characters were great, plus Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn had great chemistry together!. However i wish they wouldn't have wasted David Carradine, he is a brilliant actor in my opinion and deserved more screen time. I was expecting this to be nothing but average, however what i got was a very solid and quite enjoyable little Acton/Comedy with fun performances all around. The plot is kind of silly, and Goldie did get on my nerves a couple times, however almost all of Gibson's wisecracks are hilarious, and the finale was really cool, plus some of the stunts were great!. Overall i dug this a lot and i highly recommend it!. The Direction is very good. John Badham does a very good job here, with great camera work, good angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is awesome!. Mel Gibson is AMAZING as always, and is hilarious here, he is extremely likable, kicks that ass, had awesome chemistry with Goldie Hawnn, and is really one of his most underrated films, and he does what does best, and i always love that! (Gibson Rules!). Goldie Hawn is excellent here for the most part, however she did get on my nerves a couple times, still for the most part she was likable and pretty funny!. David Carradine is AMAZING as always, and is very good as the main villain, he does not have that much screen time and was kind of wasted in my opinion, he still rocks though! (Carradine rules!). Bill Duke does his usual thing as the henchman and does it well. Stephen Tobolowsky is good as the weasel. Joan Severance is okay here and nothing more. Overall i highly recommend this!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A great Man's Movie","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie but my wife hates it!This one combined great actors, comedy, action, bad guys, good guys, women, strong women, lions, tigers, (no bears), drama, explosions, gunfire, helicopters, deception, impossible situations and narrow escapes.Now I ask you. What else are you looking for? Education and information? The ballet it is not, although there is some action high on buildings. If you are male or like male type movies, you can't go wrong!Goldie is delicious as always, Mel Gibson is, well, Mel Gibson!This movie is a action thriller comedy that moves from start to finish! "},{"Title":"Great laugh","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie highly entertaining! It made me laugh alot.  Goldie Hawn is great in the movie and her and Mel Gibson make a great couple.The stunts are pretty good, and Goldie's costumes are stunning! You should definitely see this movie!  "}{"Title":"It was entertaining and funny!","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OK, so this may not be the best movie, in fact, its not really good in a sense of writing and such, but it is fun and enjoyable. Goldie Hawn and Mel Gibson don't really have the best chemistry, but there not really suppose to throughout most of the movie. Both do good in their characters, and the acting from everyone who played in it was not bad. The movie does have a few cheesy moments, and of course the movie is far from being believable, but its fine. Besides the humor, what saves this movie is the action. Good action, not particularly original or suspenseful, but its fun and highly entertaining, which is what you should want in an action/comedy.Overall the movie is for people interested in the actors, or those who want an action comedy.I rate it a 7/10 PG-13-Action Violence, Some Sexual Content/Nudity, and Language (this isn't a kids movie either). "},{"Title":"Non-stop action comedy","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  If you like Goldie Hawn ( fellas ) or Mel Gibson ( girls ) this is one not to miss. It's non stop action from start to finish and eminently suitable for a younger audience than its certificate would indicate. To see poor Mel having to switch characters each time he meets some one else is entertaining , especially when he has to appear to be gay. How so many bullets manage to miss them both is of course down to the director, after all he could hardly kill them off !! A hilarious film, played for the most part, strictly for laughs, I wish the widescreen version was available on video. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson rocks","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie rocks--so what that it's implausible, it's fun to watch!  Just watch the car chase scene towards the beginning--it's more fun than most of the recent ones, (esp. when the little yellow trolley comes out instead of the train) albeit less realistic.  I wish Goldie Hawn's character was smarter though, and more independent.  But Mel Gibson rocks. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough mix of action & comedy.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Bird on a Wire starts as successful lawyer Marianne Graves (Goldie Hawn) stops off at a gas station in Detroit & recognises the hired help as Rick Jarmin (Mel Gibson) her old boyfriend who she thought was dead. Rick denies it & she leaves, since Rick has been living in hiding for the past fifteen years under the FBI witness relocation program he wants to move on before Marianne comes back. He talks with corrupt FBI agent Joe Weyburn (Stephen Tobolowsky) who passes his information onto the bad guy who Rick's testimony put behind bars, Eugene Sorensen (David Carradine) & his drug lord boss Albert Diggs (Bill Duke) before wiping his file altogether. Diggs & Sorensen head over to Detroit to kill Rick at the same time Marianne decides to go back & speak with him, Diggs & Sorensen fail to kill Rick & Marianne helps him escape. Everyone from the police to the FBI to Diggs & Sorensen are after them as Rick & Marianne go on the run...Directed by John Badham I thought Bird on a Wire was a fun little action adventure with a nice sense of humour that I rather liked. The script by David Seltzer, Louis Venosta & Eric Lerner plays like a mismatched cop flick along the lines of Gibson's earlier Lethal Weapon (1987) with Rick & Marianne paired as arguing ex-lovers caught up in an action adventure. This is where the film, in my opinion, works very well as I think Gibson & Hawn both have good on screen chemistry & are fun to watch as they trade insults. There are some amusing one-liners, the action scenes are pretty good with some decent vehicular mayhem & fight scenes. The bad guy's aren't great as they don't get much to do & aren't evil enough for my liking, in fact they disappear from the middle third almost entirely. At less than two hours Bird on a Wire never outstays it's welcome, it moves along at a nice pace although the farm scene might have cut down or removed entirely as it serves no real purpose & generally speaking I aways have fun whenever I've seen it.Director Badham does alright, there are some neat action scenes including a cool car chase, a motorbike chase & scene in which a helicopter chases a plane! There's some nice explosions & fights too although you may feel, like me, it was cut down to get a lower rating as some of the dubbing isn't great & it's all but bloodless. I have to say Goldie Hawn really does look rather good in this, I wouldn't be surprised to learn that a body double was used on occasion but she looks pretty sexy in this.Technically the film is well made with high production values although how did Rick & Marianne get from that beam on top of the hotel to the window they let themselves in through? The acting is pretty good & as I said Gibson & Hawn are both very likable in this, Carradine & Duke are wasted in minor bad guy roles & despite near top-billing on the credits Joan Severance gets about 5 minutes screen time.Bird on a Wire is a likable, fun, light hearted, not to violent & entertaining action adventure that I personally liked. All things considered I think you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Goldie gives a great performance","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Goldie Hawn gives a performance which more than makes up for some of the short comings of this cliched comedy. Hawn is laugh out loud funny in this film as the spoiled lawyer for which she was perfectly cast, and it is one of the funniest roles I have seen her in. The scene where she is driving around using Mel Gibsons foot as the gas pedal is hilarious, and again when she is being chased by chimps, I found myself in hysterics. Surprising, considering I'm not usually a fan of this kind of comedy.Sometimes the laughs are few and far between, and this is pretty much your average run of the mill film where someone is on the run to prove their innocence, despite this there is something endearing about it. There is no doubt Goldie is that endearing quality, backed up by Gibson, who to his credit gives a good performance, and a script which is relatively original. If your fan of Ms Hawn, or if your just looking for a laugh without much thought then I would recommend this film. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This nineties bird really flies","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you love adventure movies, this is one of the best I've seen. While around the same time as Air America, in 1990, here might of been one for Gibson lovers, that would take second place, if choosing to go and see it. I have to be honest, I really enjoyed this movie. It has a great story background, constant action, but also humour as well, as if on Goldie Hawn's part. At times, it seems she's overacting, and it could just be her character doing it. Mel and her make a great duo. Long haired Gibson, as Rick, who worked for Air America, had discovered he'd be used in some illegal smuggling, has gone under a new identity. Some bad arses, still after him (Carradine and Duke). He used to be the fun of the party in Hawn's life, while being a husband too. Presumed to be dead by Hawn, her absolution is thrown back into doubt, while recognizing Gibson at a gas station. Later that same night, the desperate, pain in the butt, Gibson, and I'm two terming it there, is forced to team up with Hawn and another adventure like olden days, begins. You so much wanna be part of their adventure. Here's one of those smaller mainstream movies, that really surprises you like they did in the nineties. And when the climax scene is set spectacularly in a zoo, with lions running loose whatever, (what a choice) it just another reason. Think of the original climactic setting in Kill Bill 1. This movie is just fun all the way, with funny circumstances, of course taking place during the action. It's what so good about this, it's not just action, but it's comedy, on a even keel I like. Too, we also feel Mel's bullet in the bum. He plays his irresponsible character here well. Carradine as the chief bad guy, also impresses. The only thing that really sucks here, is it strung together title. It's just out of whack, unfitting, no title appeal, as if unthinkingly slapped on, at the last moment. "},{"Title":"Good Time-Pass!","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" 'Bird on a Wire' is Good Time-Pass. Its Fast-Paced, Crisply Written & Nicely Acted. It surely can be watched once.'Bird on a Wire' Synopsis A FBI informant has kept his new identity secret for 15 years, now an old flame has recognized him and the bad guys are back for revenge.'Bird on a Wire' begins & ends well. It packs in enough entertainment in those 100 odd minutes. Louis Venosta & David Seltzer's Screenplay is Crispy & Fast-Paced. John Badham's Direction is passable. Cinematography & Editing are fair. Action-Sequences are well-done.Performance-Wise Mel Gibson & Goldie Hawn are in superb form. Its truly a pleasure to watch 2 legendary performers deliver such cheerful & memorable performances. David Carradine is excellent as the bad-guy. Others fill the bill.On the whole, 'Bird on a Wire' is Time-Pass. "},{"Title":"What's with the hate? this is good fun entertainment.","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yeah OK well the cover-art is horrible but the movie itself is actually quite pleasant and entertaining to watch. Sure it's no Lethal Weapon but it sure is a good action comedy that entertains well.The movie doesn't really have much story and even the little story elements that are present in the movie are far from interesting. It's weak and simple but yet the movie is made interesting and carried by Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn, who have a surprising good chemistry and the many action sequences present in the movie, that are not the best you've ever seen but entertaining nevertheless.The movie serves its purpose well. The comedy elements in the movie work out well enough to make this an entertaining movie to watch. The characters aren't the best ever and are all quite formulaic but it's sort of fitting for a movie like this.Mel Gibson does a good job in this movie. Basically he in this movie plays a bit of the same way as he plays his Riggs character in the Lethal Weapon movies. No wonder, Gibson made this movie just after Lethal Weapon 2 and he clearly was in the mood for more. The result of that can be seen in this movie. He provides the movie certainly with a certain extra and gives the movie some extra fun. On top of that he and Goldie Hawn work pretty well as a screen duo, which does provide the movie with some of its best moments. Goldie Hawn herself is also surprising good in this movie and she shows that she can handle the genre. The villains are definitely a disappointing aspect about this movie. I mean when the main villains are being played by David Carradine and Bill Duke you would expect something more of it. The villains play a very little part in the movie and in it they get very little interesting to do. A waste of two fine actors. Some goes for the rest of the supporting cast.The movie is from 1990 but it still has an '80's feeling over it. Meaning lots of formulaic car chases, shootouts, haircuts and two main, 'buddy team', characters. Plus some horrible '80's music. I mostly hate Hans Zimmer score from the early '90's. They sound like '80's left overs.The movie is nothing too spectacular but it does has some great moments. Also the finale does not disappoint. The movie is professionally directed by John Badham, who never really made great movies but more movies that served their purpose always well.Nothing too great but the movie deserves a better reputation, since this is some great entertaining fun, to watch.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"An action movie for the whole family!","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I've watched Bird on a Wire ever since my age was a one-digit number.  The plot focuses on a man in the witness protection program (Mel Gibson) who is being pursued by the criminal that he put away (David Carradine).  He teams up with an old flame (Goldie Hawn) and the two go on an action-filled road trip, ending in a climactic battle in a zoo.This has got to be one of the funniest, coolest, and most exciting action movies I've ever seen.  I recommend it to anyone who knows that EVERY SINGLE action movie doesn't have to have perfect plot or perfect acting.Great action, 7/10. "},{"Title":"FUN!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Mel Gibson & Goldie Hawn are magic on screen, the movie had some funny scenes in it, but also it slowed down in the middle which got itself a 6/10. Worth seeing on a rainy day. "}{"Title":"This bird is wired!","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is an all out and out comedy and the pairing of Gibson and Goldie Hawn works wonders. This is what saves this fairly predictable film. The dialogues are corny but then with such a pairing, it works fine. The climatic scene ruins the film and could have well been edited.Superstars Mel Gibson and the lovable Goldie Hawn star in this enjoyable, action-comedy. Mel and Goldie have great chemistry together and portray their characters convincingly. The plot is somewhat convoluted but the general story is that Rick (Gibson) is hiding under the FBI witness re-location program but he gets nervous when an old flame, Marianne (Hawn) recognizes him. Before he can assume a new identity, the man he put in jail (David Carradine) is released and comes to pay his respects. Rick and Marianne find themselves reunited when they are thrown into a cross country, action packed adventure, avoiding gangsters, police and an amorous veterinarian, played by Joan Severance. All in all, good story line with action, laughs and a bit of romance. However, the flick did entertain (maybe a notch up from slapstick) and was good entertainment, just not that great.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I Love Mel Gibson & Goldie Hawn in Bird on a Wire","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I love Bird on a Wire. It's smart, it's fun and exciting, it's free, and it's a beautiful thrilling adventure. I love the Bird on a Wire song. Bird on a Wire is not an action oriented action movie, it's more a romance, and I love it for it's love story. It's like straight out of the pages of your favorite romantic novel with a pair of super sexy stars all happening in this raw and intense bang-bang action world!The way that Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn are on the lamb in Bird on a Wire, are always on the run and constantly in danger, it's like a sexy fantasy getaway to get lost in, a major turn on. Goldie Hawn is a major turn on, my God. She's the sexiest! Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn are the absolute hottest in Bird on a Wire, and these two hot stars determine the show, believe me! They share their one of a kind flirtatious attraction for the viewing so that the two come off as incredibly irresistible. Goldie Hawn flashes her butt so much in Bird on a Wire, I think I might want to see it again. Mel Gibson manages his way into his undies enough times, too, so don't worry, lady viewers, there's plenty of sexy to go round!Bird on a Wire is one real and one sexy romance that's all dressed up as a deadly crime drama, and that's kind of why it can sometimes be misinterpreted. Bird on a Wire is a beautiful love story. It's best to enjoy this movie for the steamy romance relationship between the two main stars, Goldie Hawn and Mel Gibson. I know I did. I love you Goldie Hawn, and Mel Gibson. You're beautiful!'Like a bird on the wire, like a drunk in a midnight choir, I have tried in my way to be free.' "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if undemanding light thriller","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The title of this film does not have any direct reference to the action, but was borrowed from a Leonard Cohen song. (Cohen's title was actually Bird on the Wire, not a Wire). Some have seen a parallel between Cohen's opening lines, Like a bird on the wire, like a drunk in a midnight choir, I have tried in my way to be free and the antics of Mel Gibson's character, but I suspect that the real reason for the title was that the film-makers felt it was too good to waste on a mere song. Borrowing song-titles for films was popular at one time; another example is Pretty Woman, which also came out in 1990.The film is one of a number that are ostensibly set in America but which were actually shot, presumably for financial reasons, in Canada. No doubt some Americans were baffled as to why Detroit looks so much like Vancouver and why an American shopping mall was displaying all those Canadian provincial flags.Marianne Graves is a lawyer from Detroit, Michigan, whose life is turned upside down when her former fiancé Rick Jarmin suddenly reappears in her life after a fifteen- year absence. It turns out that Rick was responsible for giving evidence which helped to convict a corrupt FBI agent named Eugene Sorenson and has spent the last fifteen years living under a false identity as part of the witness protection program. Rick and Marianne are forced to go on the run, trying desperately to stay one step ahead of the vindictive Sorenson, who has now been released from prison, and his accomplices.A film on this subject could have been made as a serious, Hitchcock-style, suspense movie, but in 1990 there was evidently still a feeling in Hollywood that Goldie Hawn didn't do serious, and Bird on a Wire was made as a light-hearted comedy thriller. Its plot has some similarity to another Hawn vehicle, Seems Like Old Times from ten years earlier, which deals with a woman whose life is turned upside-down by the reappearance of her ex-husband, on the run from the law. The film is, in fact, a pretty standard Goldie Hawn film and Marianne a standard Hawn character; although she is supposed to be a tough, high-flying lawyer Goldie simply plays her as the latest in her long line of lovable dizzy blondes, a line stretching back more than twenty years to Cactus Flower and There's a Girl in My Soup.Goldie's previous film had been Overboard, in which she was rather cast against type as an initially cold, haughty and unsympathetic character, but which proved to be one of her major successes. In Bird on a Wire she was reverting to type, but in her next two films, the thriller Deceived and the drama Criss Cross, Hollywood finally accepted that Goldie could do serious.Mel Gibson is today, both as an actor and a director, mainly associated with serious films, but in the early nineties there was a lighter side to him, and Bird on a Wire is an example of this aspect of his work, if not the best. (That was probably Maverick). Gibson makes a likable hero, and combines together well with Hawn, while director John Badham comes up with some exciting action scenes. The film as a whole is an enjoyable if undemanding light thriller. 6/10 "},{"Title":"SOME ENTERTAINMENT...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ...on a cloudy Sunday afternoon. If you are looking for something else, don't watch it.On the other hand, if you are looking for some laughs, some actions scenes (on the edge of the impossible, a.k.a. James Bond scenes) and some romance, you got it. Sadly, in a small amount.You could say, that if there wasn't Mel (with his jokes) and Goldie (with hers legs), the movie probably sucked. Thanks to them, this movie still deserves an o.k. grade.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Cut the Wire","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" You know which 1990 movie doesn't hold up? This one. The last time I saw this was in theatres, in 1990, so 25 years ago. I saw everything and anything back then, and like most kids, I just loved all films. I hadn't yet seen the 1,000s of movies I'd eventually see that would formulate my opinions on both crap and what makes real movies special. And still, my memory of this was It was just all right.Granted, it was just 1990, but it was sooo 90s. So many situations that could never happen, nor could ever work in a remake these days. But, because of that, it does allow some fun action scenes of pure fantasy and that's what I liked about 90s action flicks.The plot is actually interesting &#x96; Witness Protection Dude is recognized and wants a relocation, but all Hades erupts when both the bad guys and his old flame are mixed together to escape. As stated above, none of the following could possibly happen. Such as bank robberies, police beating/fleeing and property damage, but liberties were granted in 90s action/comedies.Mercifully, Gibson and Hawn had somewhat chemistry together and Gibson, hot during his Lethal Weapon series, had his usual (early 90s) shtick and charisma working for him. But, overall, it was too long, including an extended zoo-finale that was just&#x85;eh, to recommend. Unless, of course, you solely grew up on the unrealistic 90s action/comedy/romances and can let a lot go that I could not with this viewing. So, I agree with my younger, quarter-of-a-century self. It was just all right. At least, we got to see Gibson's hairy ass. That's always a plus in my book. "},{"Title":"Since when did you start wearing underpants?","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rick Jarmin is in the witness protection programme. When an old flame of his recognises him at his gas station work place, he is naturally concerned for his safety, and well he should be because the men he informed on, Albert Diggs and Eugene Sorenson, are hot on his tail. This sets up a sequence of events that lead to Rick and his former lover, Marianne Graves going on the run, with hilarious results.Tho released in 1990, Bird On A Wire positively oozes an 80s feel, from Mel Gibson's (Jarmin) hair to the way director John Badham films his action sequences, it feels 80s and really it probably should have been kept back there. For although this is not a bad film by any stretch of the imagination, in fact Gibson and Goldie Hawn (Graves) are a delightful duo, it just feels repetitive and never really gets to anywhere you wasn't expecting. That is mainly because the 80s (and early 90s) were full of these type of thrillers relying on guffaw set pieces to bring home the bacon, chances are that if you watched another five of these genre films from the same time frame you will be getting deja vu.Some laughs to be had here for sure, and there is nothing wrong with the bad guy portrayals on show, courtesy of Bill Duke and David Carradine, it's just now tired and showing its unimaginative age. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Canned energy, charisma, and comedy...","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Anemic comedy-action flick has sensible businesswoman Goldie Hawn getting mixed up with crazy ex-lover Mel Gibson, an informant who's been living under an assumed identity for years but now is back in danger. Lots of broad stunts staged for laughs cannot compensate for third-rate screenplay that doesn't even allow the star leads to come up with anything fresh. Both Hawn and Gibson are on their own (and, worse, are seemingly caught in a battle over who's got the better buns). Artificial in all respects, the movie has sloppy editing and dubbing, disappointing production and direction. Filmmaker John Badham attempts to keep the pace popping, but he doesn't do much for his actors, failing to reel in Hawn's wacky persona and giving Gibson's bare backside its first close-up. Too bad the picture just isn't funny. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Walking the High Tightrope.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" FBI witness protection program refugee Mel Gibson is recognized one day by his former fiancé (Goldie Hawn) and all hell breaks loose as evil drug dealers and syndicates start to chase the duo. Basically reminiscent of those corny late-1970s rumps that Goldie Hawn and Chevy Chase had, Bird on a Wire does not do much to set itself apart from those earlier productions. Gibson is hilarious and Hawn is adequate and they definitely have some chemistry on the screen, but the screenplay is old hat and the direction is mediocre at best. Sometimes funny picture that has that old Road-Runner and Wile E. Coyote feel to it going. If you miss it though, do not beat yourself up. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Doesn't leave much of an impression","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I saw this film a long time ago. It didn't make much impression on me. Upon viewing it again, almost nothing about it was familiar, so that confirms my opinion. There's really not much here. Pretty conventional chase movie. Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn more or less played Martin Riggs and Judy Benjamin respectively, albeit a little bit lower key. Ms. Hawn was certainly beautiful and that is the best part of the film. Good production values, okay photography, unobtrusive direction. Apparently filmed in Canada to save money. You have to wonder what happened between the climax and the final scene, as there should maybe have been significant legal issues for the characters. Can't really recommend this one, other than to see Hawn and Gibson do their thing. "},{"Title":"The cockroach. From hell......","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rick has been given a new identity by the FBI for helping convict a drug dealing FBI agent. Fifteen years later his former fiancé recognises him. Rick's FBI 'minder' has been replaced by a corrupt agent who helps the drug dealing FBI agent and his accomplice locate him....So when this film was first released, I saw this at cinemas and thought it was the best thing since sliced bread. Then again I was thirteen, and it was the first timed been to the cinema sans parents.Watching it 23 years on (wow), its still a lot of fun to watch, but its basically a vehicle for Martin Riggs' funnier side, and to have a chase scene every fifteen minutes or so.As you would expect from a nineties Badham movie, it looks good, but very TV movie- esque, especially during the climatic battle in the zoo.And seeing it now as a thirty five year old super geek of film, Goldie Hawn is virtually unbearable in this. If she isn't screaming, she's maundering, if she isn't maundering, she's crying, and that's her character in the whole film, truly hateful.Gibson is good, but this was the time when he was just playing the same character in every movie, funny, lovable, but a bit risky.So it's basically the same as every other chase movie made, action sequence, big stunt, time for talk and comedy, and carry on until the big finale.But thanks to good old nostalgia, I still like it.Plus it's the best film ever made about Mel Gicbson and Goldie Hawn not ageing in fifteen years... "}{"Title":"Be afraid , be very afraid! They don't come much worse than this.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  An appalling case of mis-casting on the part of Mel Gibson ( sporting an atrocious wig) and endless gratuitous shots of Ms Hawns rear end. Horrific soundtrack that sounds like a left over from the early eighties. Add in a wafer thin plot and what you get is a colossal waste of time and money. Avoid at all costs... "},{"Title":"Seems like another routine action thriller","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Some movies followed the same routine over and over again. Sometimes it worked. Sometimes it doesn't. And Bird on a Wire doesn't worked. With a cast that has two of the most attractive movie stars leading, it just didn't worked entirely for me. Bird on a Wire stars Mel Gibson as a retired FBI informant who is working as a car mechanic, staying away from all of the operations that he had to be part of in the past. One night, a lawyer, played by Goldie Hawn, enters Gibson's gas station and recognizes him after 15 years. Hawn learns that Gibson is hiding from the bad guys that were chasing and they eventually show up to kill him. Pretty ironic that you meet your old flame and your old enemies at the wrong place at the wrong time. When Gibson and Hawn go on the run after the bad guys pinpointed their position after founding where Gibson has been hiding out in Hawn's apartment, the movie turns into a chase, with Hawn and Gibson being chased through the streets of Detroit and even in the air with a crop-duster. Now, that is a cliché in movies that doesn't work. It seems to me that Bird on a Wire burrowed other elements from other movies. Basically, the movie that I thought of while watching Bird on a Wire was Romancing the Stone because at the end of this movie, the final confrontation takes place in a zoo, full of wild animals. That kind of setting brings out the adventure in the movie beside the crop-duster scene. As for the performances in the movie, Mel Gibson can be better in the Lethal Weapon movies and in the Mad Max movies because when he does star in the Lethal Weapon movies, he brings out a sense of style with his character. Here, there is no style at all. Goldie Hawn, I thought, was not appealing as Gibson's lover. She sort of goes into a Private Benjamin character. Another thing I couldn't understand is why did they have to show endless, gratuitous shots of Goldie Hawn's butt? I mean, what's the point of that? Their chemistry together don't work. I can tell this because this couple bicker and banter throughout this movie. That get aggravating for awhile. Bird on a Wire isn't exciting, isn't funny and surely, isn't that all thrilling. ★★ 2 stars. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Amusing Chase Thriller.","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There's nothing much that's really new in this film but it is diverting at times, if only because there is so much going on -- and at such a tempo.Goldie Hawn is fluffy, feminine, and sexy. She wears her blond hair in a kind of lustrous mop with a lengthy cascade down her back. And, as usual, her slightly asymmetrical lips lend her a goofy appearance.Mel Gibson isn't bad either. In fact, his best scenes involve his being scared half to death. He shakes and stutters magnificently. But what is this thing with his butt? Alright, alright, the ladies seem to love it but do the rest of us have to suffer through Mel's exposure? Fifteen years ago, the rascally young Gibson character testified against some high-level drug dealers and was whisked off into a witness protection program, forcing him to leave Hawn at the altar. The gangsters are now out of the slams and they and their gang of goons are looking for Gibson. They've also framed him for a murder they committed, so the FBI is in on the case too.Gibson has had a dozen jobs over the years and is now working as a humble auto mechanic in Detroit. That's where he is when Hawn pulls into the station for some gas. She recognizes him. The thugs have been watching her too, and they attack the gas station, causing the first of several formulaic slow-motion exploding fireballs.The rest of the movie is one long interstate chase after another, with pauses at some of the places where Gibson has held previous jobs -- a farm, a hair dressing salon, a zoo -- that sort of thing.There are one or two of the expectable auto chases (one through a narrow alley in Detroit's Chinatown), a helicopter chasing after a crop-duster's airplane, two motorcycles, and a foot chase through an improbable natural history display full of man-eating tigers, alligators, lions, and piranhas.Neither Gibson nor Hawn shoot anybody. It's not that kind of movie. The bad guys are -- let me think -- killed in crashes of their own making, eaten by fish and lions, or electrocuted. Everyone runs around, shouting and shooting, or, in Goldie Hawn's case, screaming. It ends happily.The pace is headlong and reckless. The characters are exactly what you'd expect. There is an upskirt shot of Goldie Hawn's barenekkid behind, which is one of the nicer moments. The most memorable of these shots appears just before the couple climb in through the 14th-story window of a convention where a buffet is available. They stop for a moment to hurriedly munch some shrimp and trade wisecracks before scurrying off.I found it all pretty unimaginative or -- well, that's the wrong word. Rather, it's as if the writers had said, Let's do a variation on a typical chase thriller, and let's try to make it different. How about if the final confrontation takes place in a zoo in Wisconsin? That's imaginative, isn't it? Does anybody know any jokes we can stick in?They missed the scene where a bullet shatters the giant glass aquarium and the fish and octopii flood out onto the miscreants. "},{"Title":"Like the dura cell battery, it just keeps going and going and going.....","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Deemed a comeback for Goldie Hawns career slump, many believe the success of 'Bird On A Wire' was contributed to Mel Gibsons high popularity at that time. (But even now, he's stil pretty cool).The really odd thing about 'Bird' is that it provides virtually one action scene after another but I left with the feeling of to much and not enough.Moreover, Hawn and Gibson lack total chemisty and look bored during the one love scene. (talk about faking an orgasm)If you really want to see Goldies comeback rent the much funnier and better structured 'First Wives Club.'  "},{"Title":"birdsh$t on a wire...","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I was into this movie when it came out in 1990-- perhaps because I was still glowing from Lethal Weapon 2 thinking this was almost a follow-up. Parts of it are laughable, but this is another one of those movies that just can't seem to make up their mind on what kind of genre they are (these kind of films come out every 10 years--i.e. We're No Angels, Nurse Betty), therefore, the film just isn't as enjoyable, seeming contrived as if it were written by a committee.This was on cable last week when I was flipping through the channels when I watched about five minutes. I turned it off more or so because of how fricken ANNOYING Goldie Hawn was! I'm glad she's in hiding/hibernation now, because she puts up the same, annoying shtick in every movie! Her daughter isn't even that annoying. But suffice to say, this was a pretty entertaining but extremely implausible and lame-o, forgettable movie. You can see Mel Gibson got a great check from this since he was a pretty bankable action star in his prime in those days.If I write any more about this, my teeth will start hurting...See it on cable so you can turn the channel at any moment. It'll make the movie a whole lot better! 3/10 "},{"Title":"Almost as much chemistry as Richard Dreyfuss & Rosie O'Donnell in Stakeout 2","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It must have taken Goldie Hawn about half an hour to learn to loathe Mel Gibson because I have never seen her so bereft of chemistry with her co-star.  Gibson for his part seems to think he's making a sequel to the Year of Living Dangerously instead of a spoof.  The result is neither comedy nor action film.  And, the only drama is deciding how much longer to let the tape run before finally giving up.   Bird On a Wire is scantily written, poorly cast, unimaginatively filmed with poorly choreographed action sequences.  Any movie that totally wastes the talents of Goldie Hawn and bores its audience this badly deserves infamy.  Golden Turkey Voters This one needs your stamp of disapproval! "},{"Title":"Disappointingly unfunny and rather mediocre buddy comedy...","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  There's a reason that Bird on a Wire is one of those forgotten films from the 80s. It's forgotten because it's not very good at all.John Badham is a very unpredictable director. He can turn out great films (Saturday Night Fever, The Hard Way) and very bad ones (Another Stakeout). The reason, I think, is because there is a very fine line between bad action films and good ones--if you try to explain the reasons that Speed works versus something such as Hard Rain (written by the same writer), it's hard to do. They both feature generally decent acting, generally original--and wholly unbelievable--ideas, and some good action scenes. So why is Speed so great and why is Hard Rain so bad?Some of Badham's films teeter on the brink of badness. With a few more action pieces and less funny moments of interaction between the two leads, The Hard Way could have suffered the fate of, say, Another Stakeout. But it turned out to be a genuinely funny and moving comedy with two likable stars doing the best they could to make the film a winner.Bird on a Wire has two likable leads but little else. The plot is all routine, and totally irrelevant. It's just a way to get Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn to run across America together and crack some bad jokes. It's a reason to see Goldie in a thong (again) and Mel's hairy butt (again). It's a reason to see them make out and to see some big explosions. It's a reason to see Mel Gibson do his gay barber impersonation and to see Goldie roll her eyes a lot at him. It's also a fine reason to see one of the only action showdowns set inside an artificial jungle at a zoo housing an assortment of wildlife creatures. Who thought this stuff up? Who in their right mind ever thought it would actually work?Does Bird on a Wire sound interesting to you?Well, it is, to a certain degree. It's generally a decent movie--something worth watching if nothing good is on TV some late Friday night. But this is not a good rental, and it's not even something I'd want to watch again--and I'm a pretty big Mel Gibson fan (Lethal Weapon all the way!).Mel is the relocated witness who testified against some drug lords (Bill Duke and John Carradine) who have just gotten out of prison and are now targeting him with the help of a corrupt FBI agent (Stephen Tobolowski, who played the pesky Ned in Groundhog Day, filmed three years later).Rick (Gibson) is going under the alias of a Louisiana redneck when his old girlfriend (Hawn) sees him working at a gas station and blows his cover. When she comes back later to check up on him, she foils the baddies' plans to kill Rick--and the two old love birds escape into the night, with Rick's real identity having been erased from the FBI records (is it as easy as just clicking a button? I hope not.).Essentially we get a lot of running and screaming and yelling and cheap wisecracks throughout the film, with an ending that stretches on too long before it just grows tiresome. It's like the climactic finale of The Third Man that takes place beneath the grimy sewers Vienna--except that Reed knew when to end that picture's climax, and Badham lets it go on too long.This movie could have been an exceptional road-buddy movie, but it's rather a disappointing blend of action and weak comedy that tries to take two of Hollywood's hottest leading stars (at the time) and place them together in some pointless situations. (Gibson is still one of the highest-paid stars in Hollywood--what happened to Hawn?)I would only recommend something like Bird on a Wire if you happen to come across it late on night on television and you have nothing better to do with your time, or if you're a particularly big fan of either of the leading stars. Otherwise, just go watch Lethal Weapon or Just Like Old Times again--they're much better, and hey, they're actually funny.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Mel gasps and Goldie squeals.","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's very noisy.  Mel is constantly out of breath because he's being shot at and has to run or climb or fall.  Goldie squeals and shrieks because she has done something stupid, or sees something nasty about to happen.  There are chases galore....on foot, by car, on a motorbike, in a plane, in a pickup. Bullets by the million fly through the air, but only a few hit Mel, making him grimace. Funny?? Don't make me laugh!  If you're over 12 years old, this is not the film for you.   "},{"Title":"Thoroughly silly","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Rick Jarmin is an easy going and goofy minded Detroit car mechanic. However a chance encounter with a woman named Marianne in his shop one night leads her to claim that she knows him. And she does - they are former lovers and Rick left her when he went under witness protection. Then they realize that someone wants Rick dead and Marianne as well. Cross country chase mayhem ensues.If two words describes this film, and two words can in fact describe this film, they are thoroughly silly. Featuring a by the numbers plot with some shallow intrigue and a lead actress who just won't stop screaming. Every action scene she screams and screams while our manly hero guides them to safety from whoever is pursuing them. By the end of the film you may very well think that every covert agency in the world wants them dead.On the plus side, the action scenes are quite lively and inventive and prove to be the film's saving grace in terms of entertainment value. Though the final sequence lasts almost unbearably long and tries to outrun itself long before it's over. The rest of the film is a mediocre attempt at screwball comedy. --- 5/10Rated PG-13 for violence "},{"Title":"Not as funny as it should've been","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A weak action comedy that should've scored. Maybe it was Goldie Hawn inappropriately costarring with Mel Gibson that ultimately sunk it. Gibson portrays a former mob criminal who gets booted out from his position with the Witness Protection Program so he and his former girlfriend (Hawn) find themselves being pursued by his old employers. It could've been another Lethal Weapon like film but it didn't end up that way. "}{"Title":"Absurd until I was Tired. Gibson, Hawn, embarrass themselves in Idiotic 'Bird'","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When Mel Gibson first blazed onto the American screen as Mad Max in the memorable Australian import 'The Road Warrior', well everyone including me thought we were seeing the gleaming debut of a special actor. But after watching Gibson stumble through the ludicrous 'Bird on a Wire' We ask ourselves what in the world has happened to his once promising career. Equally as bad is the limited Goldie Hawn who does nothing much but let out, what is supposed to pass for a comedic scream in almost every scene. The forgettable story centers around Rick ( Gibson ) or Billy Ray or whatever stupid handle they address him by throughout the ridiculous plot. He is in the the witness relocation plan you see after ratting out some dirty drug friends fifteen years earlier. It seems they wanted him to agree to go along with a murder, this is how they establish that Gibson is really a good guy, and he refuses by turning states evidence against one of the main bad guys. Sorenson, portrayed lifelessly by the wood faced David Carridine. Billy Ray seems to be hiding out pretty well. Working an odd job as a mechanic in Detroit. Until his old girlfriend Marianne (Hawn ) recognizes him while he is pumping gas into her car. Various references are made to the couples drug crazed romp through the latter part of the 1960s. And it turns out when the feds faked Gibson's death, Marianne was left jilted at the alter. And she is still royally P.O.d, especially after Billy Ray initially denies that he is Rick in the first place. Well, you guessed it, soon the criminals led by Carridine, show up looking for revenge and the couple hits the road looking for deliverance. Gibson tries on a variety of different accents for different situations, including American, Southern, and even homosexual. But the only one he gets right is the unintentional Australian which keeps bleeding through. Hawn trots out that same ditsy dumb blonde routine she's employed in a double figured number of films. It may work when you're twenty five and cute. But it's just plain obnoxious when you're over forty and beginning to look haggard. Gibson seems to by trying to make a comic spin off of his 'Lethal Weapon' character only without the suicidal tendencies. His tight jeans and long hairdo selling his true artistry out more with each passing frame The chemistry between the two is nonexistent, And Gibson lacks an essential element for comedy. He isn't funny. The film tries to borrow its premise from clever road films like 'Midnight Run' but lacks any of the wit or excitement. It's hard to believe that director John Badham is the same man which presided over the wonderful 'Saturday Night Fever' and other hits. The film dredges on towards its meaningless, predicable and far gone conclusion. I for one was glad to see it end. This film is disappointing at kindest. Especially since we know how good Gibson can be. If there's anything else on besides this movie, watch that instead. Sub par, 4 out of a possible 10 T.H. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Bird On A Wire'","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This was cute and funny the first time I saw it, but annoying on the second look. A big part of that was my pet peeve of hearing God's name used an exclamation all the time and Goldie Hawn was absolutely brutal in that regard. Every time she was in trouble, which was often, it was Oh, God!, Oh, God!, Oh, God!Puh-leeze, stop with the bimbo blasphemy. I am so sick of people doing this, especially women who are the worst abusers and especially dumb blondes. Anyway, the profanity in addition to the above-mentioned, made this film deserve an R rating, not PG-13. How many movies have we seen where that is the case? Parents, beware of films labeled PG-13.If none of this stuff bothers you in the least and you like a fun comedy-adventure then I heartily recommend the movie. You'll get a lot of laughs and entertainment out of this. Hawn and Mel Gibson are always in some kind of trouble and they are a likable couple to watch. This movie personifies both actors Mel, the handsome macho guy with the sense of humor and Goldie the cutie who is smarter than she looks.... and not as innocent, either. She really likes to show off her butt in this film. It's nice, but the fanny jokes are overdone here.The bad guys in the movie? The DEA, who else? That's Hollywood's most hated group, I think, even more than the military. Anyone who might takes drugs away from them is a definite enemy of movie producers, directors and actors!In this weak-plotted film, our two buddies are chased all over the country and we viewers just go along for the bumpy and crazy ride. "},{"Title":"A pretty ordinary movie","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember that this movie hit the cinemas when I was about 17 so it is about ten years old. I never saw it though I remember that a couple of so called friends got me to lend me money to see it though I ended up not going with them. This is why this movie sticks in my mind. It wasn't really something that I wanted to see and now that I have watched it, I don't really think that it is really that much of a movie. When it was in the cinemas, the Greater Union cinema on Hindley Street was in two buildings, one on each side of the street. One must think that this movie isn't all that good because I am talking about the layout of Adelaide at the time that it was in the cinemas. The movie was average, it is just this is what the movie brings back to me.Goldie Hawn is an interesting actor, interesting that I don't actually think that she really suits many of the roles that she is cast it. Hawn is simply just too innocent. She seems to be a lot like my friend Mellissa, she is sweet looking and not really suitable for a woman who has been through divorces and bad husbands. If only she could act and even look more cynical and disillusioned she might suit the roles that she is cast in (okay I am talking about Foul Play and this movie). The role is not all that bad because the character is supposed to be sweet and innocent, dragged into the action that is beyond her, but her background just doesn't reflect the character. I would have had Hawn's character still sweet and innocent, and still mourning for the lover that she lost so long ago. Maybe she could be married but a divorce is just too messy and too emotionally destructive to create a sweet and innocent character.Bird on a Wire, that title just didn't really make much sense to me. That is probably why I thought the movie was simply average. Sure there were stunts, machine guns, explosions, but the title simply did not capture the essence of the movie. It was also a chase movie, where a couple are chased across America by evil government officials, which is reasonably clichéd. I think to make a good movie now we need to fall into the area in which our music is drifting we need to turn away from the happy fantasy to the hopeless, empty, and bleak existence that life is. Homer Simpson says to the Smashing Pumpkins, I thank you for your bleak music for you have stopped my children dreaming of a future I simply cannot provide. Our music is tearing down the fantasy world that we have put up before us, and I feel that this is where our movies need to go.Well, I have talked about this, and we must remember the time of the movie. Bird on a Wire was late eighties and the bleak world view was only just forming. Nirvana had appeared in the early nineties, about two to three years after this. Metallica had released And Justice For All, and Iron Maiden were singing Ballards while Guns and Roses were hard rock. This was a time that the world was beginning to collapse but the dream that was the eighties was still flowing. I was employed as an electronic technician and things were nice. It was a time when movies of hope and innocence existed, yet they still do, though I must see Armageddon to really see how movies of hope exist, while movies like City of Angels seem to suggest having to give something up to love.I still haven't talked about what Bird on a Wire entails, but I guess it is not really all that important. Simply it is a chase movie. A young man, Rick, flew over to Mexico to buy some cheap drugs but was caught by corrupt DEA officials who forced him to smuggle drugs back into the States only to get caught at a private airstrip. He testified and was put on witness protection but the DEA officer was recently released and is now after him. At the same time his ex-girlfriend, the one he left standing at the altar, sees him in Detroit and this thrusts them together. It is interesting but rather plain. I had more fun sorting out my photos. "},{"Title":"One Word description of this movie","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ANNOYING..the acting was Annoying...the script was annoying...the premise Annoying...Goldie Hawn's screeching Annoying she literally played the same character since Private Benjamin when watching this i literally thought she can only play this character and like eating a bologna sandwich twenty days straight three times a day ANNOYING..mel was annoying seems Mel and Goldie did it for the money no chemistry...ANNOYING was the fact that Joan Severance a real hottie was only in for a cameo and yet i was forced to look at a rapidly aging Goldie tired old posterior and legs and Mel's pimply ass...ANNOYING ANNOYING "},{"Title":"stupid acting","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I really don't feel like writing reviews especially when a movie is somewhere under average. But the unbelievably stupid acting really made me do that. I never really liked Goldie Hawn but in this movie I simply found her disgusting. Those screams, her being so foolish; I can't believe she can play this kind of garbage role.Maybe is the role, maybe is the actress, I simply found this movie disgusting. OK for Mel Gibson for an early dumb role; he is nearly funny from time to time but at least he doesn't become ridiculous.I wrote all these because never in my life have I felt such a disgust towards the female character.I advise you not to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Here we go again","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Not only is this a been there before comedy, it definitely gives one the feeling of 'de-ja-vu' (does that sound familiar to you?). Mel Gibson's character seems very derivative of his psycho-cop 'Martin Riggs' in the Lethal Weapon series, while several action sequences in the movie conjure up memories of earlier, better films such as Running Scared and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.For all the work that went into the storyline (three writers David Seltzer, Eric Lerner and Louis Venosta all contributed) it is not at all interesting. The only thing that helps the movie out is the comedy, which works fairly well from time to time. Rather disappointing from director John Badham.Sunday, August 30, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"An implausible stinker","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Incredibly bad.  The talented Goldie Hawn is cast as a bimbo-idiot who just happens to stumble across her long-missing lover Mel who is pumping gas while trying to hide.An incredibly convoluted impossible-to-believe plot and situations.  Poor Goldie does nothing but shriek at every opportunity and show her legs and rear gratuitously.  Both Mel and Goldie look appropriately ashamed of being in this.Difficult to believe - impossible to watch.  Doesn't anyone read the scripts before deciding to waste money on a production this bad?Miss it then miss it again.   "},{"Title":"20 million dollars worth of guano","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Summer crowd-pleasers rarely aspire to anything more than big box office returns, but this feather-brained comedy adventure is appallingly unfunny even by its own bubblegum standards. It's less a film than a two hour package of ads for, among other products Coca Cola, Evian mineral water, Pennzoil, the Four Seasons hotel chain, the almighty MasterCard and, of course, Mel Gibson's bare bottom, a source of awestruck admiration in at least two scenes and also the subject of one hairy close-up. It could have been worse when the film isn't glorifying his butt it's praising another, presumably well endowed, feature of his anatomy. Never mind the sad excuse for a story; salespersons Gibson and Hawn are merely paid to meander through a series of routine chases, witless dialogue exchanges, and predictable romantic interludes, unburdened by any semblance of character, and with no chemistry between them in any case. The film is condescending (if not downright insulting) to Orientals, homosexuals, wild animals, women, the homeless, and of course anyone gullible enough to waste money seeing it. "},{"Title":"Stupid, unfunny and homophobic","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Lousy movie about a guy (Mel Gibson) who has had a secret identity for years. But his cover has been blown and now the bad guys are after him. He's on the run and somehow drags Goldie Hawn along with him. Also he had many various identities and has to visit each one.Hawn herself has bad-mouthed this movie. Halfway through she realized the film was hopeless but she's too much of a professional to just abandon a movie. Also this movie contains one of the most homophobic scenes I've ever seen in a movie. One of Gibson's former identities was a hairdresser. Naturally he was gay and all the other hairdressers are gay. They all speak with lisps and are so queeny it's embarrassing to watch. This was all filmed to make the audience laugh. We now know Gibson is a serious homphobe but we didn't back then. Also, did anyone realize that, since he was playing gay, he had sex with these guys? A straight friend of mine caught that. Oh well, anything for a laugh.That aside the movie just isn't funny or well-done. Hawn is good but Gibson is just so-so. This COULD have been an OK action comedy but the lousy script and truly offensive homophobia brings it down. This also was attacked LOUDLY by gay groups (who Hawn agreed with) and bombed at the box office. Just horrible. I wish I could go lower than a 1. "},{"Title":"Bird Turd","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Thumbing through the reviews for John Badham's Bird on a Wire helped remind me of the particulars of why I hated this stupid, stupid movie in general. I remember going on a date to see BOAW, my girlfriend liking it, and me cringing a grin at the end.The things you'll do to get some.If brainless fluff (Goldie Hawn), ass jokes, and Mel Gibson acting sissified are your benchmarks for fine entertainment, I would strongly suggest you see this thing. Also, if it will help the evening along (if you get my drift).But, if anything with Badham's name on it raises your suspicions about the quality of a movie (and it should, because John Badham's picture is beside the entry Hack Directors in the big dictionary of film making), please avoid it. "}]