[{"Title":"Average action comedy with  an exceptional pair   Washington and Hoskins","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The tale concerns about Mooney , a bigoted police officer (Bob Hoskins) from Los Angeles who has problems with his captain(Roger E. Mosley). Mooney pursues a debonair ,elegant though mobster black lawyer(Denzel Washington) named Stone whose slogan is live fully while you may reckon not the cost . When Stone is dating his ex-fiancée (Chloe Webb) is seen by Mooney . Soon afterwards Stone is shot and deceased , meanwhile Mooney suddenly suffers a stroke . When he wakes , the Stone's heart has been transplanted and his ghost is now his constant companion , hoping the cop will help to avenge his killing .The picture is a fantastic action/comedy in which there are suspense , humor, an enjoyable romance, bemusing fantasy and results to be quite entertaining . However , the screenplay is sometimes ridiculous, drags in some places and full of unlikely situations . The protagonist duo is good , as nice acting by Bob Hoskins in a comic role such as in ¨ Roger Rabbit (Robert Zemeckis)¨ , nevertheless he usually plays dramatic characters (¨ Neal Jordan's Monalisa¨) , Denzel Washington is fine but his specialty turns out to be the strong and tough roles . The production film is in charge of ¨New Line Cinema (Robert Shaye)¨ ,nowadays an important producing company with enormous success . The motion picture is regularly directed by James D. Parriott. The flick will appeal to Denzel Washington fans and fantastic comedy lovers. Rating  Acceptable, passable and amusing. "},{"Title":"Lost Between Comedy and Crime","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Los Angeles, the call girls Crystal Gerrity (Chloe Webb) and Peisha (Eva LaRue) are partying with the prominent Senator Marquand (Frank R. Roach) that has an overdose. Crystal keeps the film with the photos she had taken and together with Peisha, she meets the lawyer Napoleon Stone (Denzel Washington) that is her boyfriend. Meanwhile the racist and bigoted cop Jack Moony (Bob Hoskins) sees Stone in his car with Crystal, who was his girlfriend, and chases him despite the protest of his partner Harry Zara (Ray Baker) that wants to be promoted to detective. However Jack has a heart attack but is saved by the heart of Stone, who had a car accident. Out of the blue, Jack sees the ghost of Stone that tells him that he was murdered. Jack is forced to team-up with Stone to investigate who killed him. But no one else can see Stone but him. Heart Condition is a strange film that is lost between comedy with heavy hand and crime. The plot is funny is some moments and violent in others. There are holes in the story, like for example, how Jack would explain the large amount that he had spent. In addition, this character is non-likable. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Uma Estranha Condição (A Strange Condition) "},{"Title":"Rather good, although might have been even better with this idea","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll start out by saying that the rather funny basic idea behind Heart condition is certainly excellent. Chubby and short Caucasian bum cop gets the heart of a black lawyer ha hates and has to deal with his ghost. Unfortunately the idea is too good because I admit the film might have been even better. Of course it provides lots of funny moments and the two actors Hoskins and Washington are spectacular but the script could have been even wilder. I recommend Heart condition to everyone who wants couple of decent laughs or people who just have an urge to check out what Denzel Washington was doing eleven years before his Oscar awarded role in Training day. "},{"Title":"Boop-Boop-Boo-Beeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeep...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An easy way to tick off Hoskins or Washington when you meet them may be your mentioning of this movie to them.  I saw it at it's Los Angeles premiere and it contained ONE funny scene, which consisted of Hoskins trying to wrest a cheeseburger from spirit Washington.  The movie was unfunny, racially offensive(I didn't appreciate the endowment comment that Washington made) and dramatically untrue in spots(if a mother just lost her son, would she be discussing her child's sexual habits with ANYONE, especially a stranger?).It would have been a completely forgettable experience had it not been for Hoskins and Washington.  They do not elevate this movie, for no one really could, but it sticks in the mind as a film that makes you wonder why these talented actors decided to do it in the first place.People are comparing this to Ghost and that is indeed not without merit, however, for more enjoyable movies with ghosts, I would suggest The Ghost Goes West with Robert Donat and Eugene Pallette or for a more romantic turn, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir. "},{"Title":"Top-hole light entertainment","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very nice film and a well made one at that.Though I doubt that the story stretched any of the actors' abilities, it did not have to. The story is light hearted and has something for everybody. It is one of my favourites. Mr Washington shows a talent for comedic roles.I do have a soft spot for ghost stories and this does not disappoint.*Spoiler Alert* It does contain a strange Easter egg though. At about 1h 24.5m into the film, when Crystal and her baby are being forced/pushed back onto the sofa; Rega, rega can be heard. This is Hebrew for wait, wait or wait a moment depending on context. "},{"Title":"The pump action comedy - ?????","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pump action comedy says the front of the video case. Yes, I get it, pump action as in shotguns (which the video case shows on the back cover) and heart beats - however anyone thinking it is going to be a comedy...i.e that they might laugh much, is going to be very disappointed. Oh hold on, perhaps it's a black comedy, so we are not supposed to laugh?....hmmm....the back of the video case says hilarious storyFrankly, I wonder if this film really needed to be made. ;and if it had been decided that it was integral to the plot that the two male leads of the racial and physical types depicted, then the producers might have been better off with people more used to making comedies, like Eddie Murphy and Danny De Vito.The only scene that was at all well done was near the start when Jack Mooney's superior officer was chewing out for using the N-word. I've seen a similar scene in another film with Nick Nolte I think and it was done better there. The plot had several glaring continuity errors, some of which are already on this site. But here are some more all of which occur in the same 5 minute segment. When Jack Mooney nearly rejects Denzil Washinton's heart, Denzil is on the bed and suggests that they could play video games together. But surely not, as he would not be able to handle the controls, as earlier on in the film, Denzil revealed that he was unable to shut a door, as he could only touch Jack Mooney. Then when Jack Mooney discharges himself from hospital, he gets into a police car. Where on earth did the keys for that suddenly materialise from? And when the receptionist at the hospital makes a phone call, ALL the heart monitors she is supposed to be watching are either switched off or are flat lining. Early on in the film Jack Mooney is swigging from a bottle, which he has apparently just bought hence the bag it is in, but one swig later the bottle is 3/4 empty. The 5 kilogram cat seemingly has what appears to be a lethal dose of whisk bourbon as well, but apparently without any ill effect.The plot, even once we accept the premise of a ghost coming back, is frankly unbelievable. Early on in the film we learn that Napoleon Stone, Denzil Washington's lawyer character has been killed just in case his hooker clients him told him anything - yet the hookers themselves are kept alive, seemingly with attempts only being made to kill them many months later, towards the end of the film. As for the final scene, the gunfight has to be one of the most unbelievable ever seen. It is somewhat unbelievable that the bad guys didn't seem to have a look out watching for his arrival and gun him down from the front windows as he walked towards the building. However Jack manages to enter the building without any opposition. He then decides that the ideal strategy is to use the wizard's Eye strategy send the ghost on ahead to scout the place out. A good idea surely. The ghost does this and reports a bad guy with a big gun waiting in the next room. So without further ado, avoids him and heads up the stairs....without getting the ghost to check the upstairs areas first. No matter, as none of the bad guys seem to be waiting for that possibility. By contrast, later on when a bad guy is coming cautiously up the stairs, Jack blows him away in an instant.Later on in the same gunfight, Jack is trying to escape with his girl, who is severely drugged and thus unable to walk unassisted. This causes problems as Jack Mooney is barely able to stand himself. The ghost is unable to help her, but it does not seem to occur to either him or Jack, that the solution is for Jack to lean on the ghost and thus for the ghost to take the weight in that way. This solution had already been used when Jack discharged himself from the hospital and was leaning on the ghost.Anyway despite Jack Mooney still suffering from his heart condition, being severely wounded in the chest during the early stages of the gunfight, and barely able to stand he is revealed as a supreme gunfighter and marksman. It seems that even the tear gas canister that he threw himself and then ran straight into the area of effect of, didn't have any adverse affect his stamina, eyesight or lightening quick reflexes as he killed all 5 of the baddies with just 5 shots including shots as he dived to the floor, span round to kill the guy behind him and fired one handed.Denzil Washington was right to fire his agent after this turkey. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Obviously, this is not a Neil Simon movie, but the actors do a good job with the script given.  It was funny and an interesting twist to the subject matter (after all, making death and a heart attack funny is a big order). No, this is not Ghost but then Ghost was a drama not comedy.  Overall, a good movie and worth seeing! "},{"Title":"This was a great movie!","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very cute... one of my all time favorites. Anyone who finds this racially offensive misses the point.(It is really an ironic take on bigotry.) Just a fun and entertaining, light comedy. Both actors serve it well. Not Shakespeare of course, but engaging. As I said, one of my favs! Since I must write more to satisfy the requirements of this comment, let me also say that Bob Hoskins and Denzel Washington both shine in this satire on narrow thinking and the fact that skin color has nothing to do with love nor competency. Two thumbs up! Though I've said every thing I feel is relevant without giving away the plot I must continue to type or I will not be able to post my comment, so type away I must. This is a ridiculous requirement, but rules are rules. Some of us are are very succinct in our thinking and comments and therefore can express in a little, a lot. Hope you get a chance to check out this flick. I don't think you will regret it.;) "},{"Title":"An ok cop comedy","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not many shootouts no car chases but a few funny bits ok doesn't sound like the best film ever but its not that bad. Bob Hoskins plays detective Jack Mooney one night he has a heart attack and has to have a heart transplant sadly for him the heart of his worst enemy is the only one available. "},{"Title":"Not funny and not exciting","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Moony (Bob Hoskins) is a racist loudmouth white cop. He is still in love with his ex Crystal Gerrity (Chloe Webb) who is now a working girl. Napoleon Stone (Denzel Washington) is a lawyer with questionable clients who gets gunned down. Jack Moony suffers a heart attack, and finds that he's given Napoleon's heart. Now Napoleon's ghost haunts him and together they solve his murder which Crystal is the key to.Writer/director James D. Parriott doesn't have the writing skills for a comedy. Denzel is good as a slick lawyer, but his urban shtick sounds silly. He and Hoskins have great acting skills, but they aren't funny together. I get the sense that Denzel is suppose to be Eddie Murphy. Obviously Denzel is no Eddie Murphy. As an action thriller, there isn't enough action and it's not very thrilling. I would recommend this only for die-hard fans of either Denzel Washington or Bob Hoskins. "}{"Title":"It's like the Ghost - but Bob is not Demi","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ghost was a huge success. In the same year James Parriot's Heart Condititon made us feel deja vu. His film is boring, brutal and too serious for a comedy actor like Bob Hoskins (who really made us nervous with his personal Mona Lisa-style by the end of the movie). Denzel Washington seems to be boring too. Parriot ain't got gift for filmmaking.  "},{"Title":"Heart Condition is far better than Ghost","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As Heart Condition was made at roughly the same time as Ghost, it was not a copy.  It  (Heart Condition) isn't a love story (as Ghost is), which let it's comedic portrayal  overshadow Ghost, in my opinion.GREAT movie! "},{"Title":"A Disappointment","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are a fan of either Bob Hoskins or Denzil Washington you may wish to see this for the sake of completeness - otherwise don't bother. "}]