[{"Title":"King of the Genre","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"53 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Do you like Christopher Walken movies? The good, the deep psychological studies, the creepy pseudo-underworld /misfit characters that have unfortunately typecast one of America's greatest and multi-talented contemporary actors?Do you like Abel Ferrara movies?  The down in the muck, inner-city examinations of the seedier motivations and lifestyles-the side of life many of us would like to ignore, but are intrigued by nonetheless?Low budget and a lot of conjones are trademarks of Ferrara's films (Fear City, The Addiction, The Funeral) and this is no exception, but the term stylish is defined here..You see, you hear, you FEEL the environment-the nasty low morality hustlers of the five burroughs&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.Much congrats to Alex Tovoularis' production design.King of New York may not be as famous as Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant in the world of the cinema-geek, but maybe it should be.Joe Delia's haunting soundtrack is a perfect compliment to Bojan Bazelli's moody visuals-Walken's confrontation scene of the old-style Mafiosos is as classic as it is intense.Man, do I love this movie.  "},{"Title":"The Cinema of Abel Ferrara King of New York.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York (1990) was Abel Ferrara's return to the his favorite style of film making (the urban street drama). Over the past fifteen years, this movie has achieved a cult status that one would have never imagined. During it's initial release on video, this film was a word-of-mouth hit. I remembered watching this in high school. Although the movie was never a major box office hit, film found an audience when it was released on tape. But the movie's popularity grew even more when rappers made numerous of references to it in music and song.Christopher Walken stars as a crime lord who has done a stint in prison. Upon his release he begins to rebuild his fledging empire through violence and strong arming. Whilst he rotted in prison, his rivals became strong as they gobbled up his business. With time on his side, Frank launches a plan that'll make him KING OF NEW YORK. Can Frank do it by himself? How will the local authorities re-act to his new found activities? Will his soldiers remain loyal? What will his rivals do? To find out you'll just have to watch it!!I found this movie to be very good. Abel Ferrara has found his niche audience and he should cater to it. He has a style that a director like Martin Scorese once had.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"To Frank he made it!","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" From now on nothing goes down unless I'm involved. No blackjack, no dope deals, no nothing. A nickel bag gets sold in the park I want in! And so it goes. Walken gives the performance of his career as Frank White, The King of New York. Walken is both captivating and convincing as the drug lord with a conscience and the ice cold killer who will stop at nothing to redeem himself. Released from prison, he is now reformed and ready to once again ascend to the very top of the drug pyramid with the help of his very loyal black street crew. Hit after hit of top mob bosses in the city brings him closer to his goal of building a new hospital but unfortunately draws the attention of a demented police squad determined to put Frank outta business...permanently. To just call these cops dirty would be a disservice to dirty cops. They are also crazy and not afraid to implement their own brand of justice. The cops are p***ed off that Frank is taking over and they can't do anything about it. So the detectives plan to take Frank out themselves. They are headed by a detective who cannot control them yet wants to see Frank go so badly that he doesn't have the heart to stop them. This leads to a showdown between Frank's dangerous black Mafia and the corrupt coppers. Frank responds to their attempts to foil him by putting out contracts on the police. I heard that when this was shown at the Sundance Film Festival critics expected to see something nice and cheery about New York based on the title alone. When they saw this movie they were shocked and never invited director Abel Ferrara back. This tells me two things that (1)this is very funny and I wish I had been there to see their reactions myself and (2)most critics have absolutely NO IDEA what cinema is all about and the same goes for viewers who expect all movies to have redeeming social values, teach a moral lesson, and give them that warm fuzzy feeling inside. King of New York had a great supporting cast, skillful direction, and a solid script. And watch for Frank Gio as mob boss Arty Clay he was awesome! It is a gangster classic that never waivers in its intentions and I will be highly anticipating the long awaited prequel to this film. "},{"Title":"Quite a mess","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara tries but unfortunately fails to create competition to a genre which is dominated by 'Scarface'. King of New York had the potential to be something great but in the end it only manages to frustrate you.The whole plot in itself is amazingly simple. I mean, where's the originality? A guy called Frank White (Cristopher Walken) gets out of prison, kills everybody just like that (I guess it's that easy, huh) and then he rules New York. Then some cops get angry with Frank because he's a criminal (that's the most deepest part in this movie, cops are supposed to be complex individuals...) and they decide to kill him. Then there's some shooting and more shooting and finally everybody's dead.A plot could actually be that simple if there was something extra in it - something interesting to spice things up - a great character, interesting details or ultimately anything to separate this film from the masses. Unfortunately King of New York doesn't have anything to offer in that area. They have obviously tried to deepen Walken's character but they fail miserably. In fact that's the case with all the other characters too. Walken's supposed to be this guy who cares about the poor but this is shown in what, two scenes? Same thing with the police, when they all get killed I don't feel anything because I haven't related to them. Furthermore the dialog is mediocre at best and you can't really call it original.The biggest problem of this movie is that it's not coherent at all. The scenes are in many occasions completely unattached to each other and the whole movie ends up being like a mess. The atmosphere in the film is good - Ferrara is able to depict the brutality and the overall mood well but otherwise the directing is just average. For example the opening scene is way too long. I'd understand it if the movie was an epic or a masterpiece but now it just seems completely irrelevant and tiring to spend at least five minutes following a guy who gets out of prison without dialog. Same thing with the final scene - it drags too long. I guess if you enjoyed the movie the final scene could work but for me after a messy 1,5 hours it just works as an icing in the cake what comes to frustration.I guess the main point I'm trying to say is that this movie had potential but it never delivered. The characters are paper thin thanks to awful cutting and the plot is just oversimplified. In the end this movie offers you nothing but frustration and gore. "},{"Title":"Style Over Substance","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a strange movie. The IMDb trivia notes for the movie state that the director and writer spent five years working on the script, yet the story is disjointed and doesn't have a strong plot. The story basically follows the life of drug kingpin Frank White (Christopher Walken) after he is released from prison and re-enters the criminal world to reclaim his drug empire. However, there's not much character development and many of the characters are one dimensional. And the movie could be called over-stylized.Yet, somehow it all works and this movie, while not a classic, could be considered a cult classic for its great cinematography, superb acting performances, tense action sequences, its cinematic risk taking and its outright coolness. For a movie shot in the late 80's (released in 1990) its ahead of its time.Christopher Walken gives a great performance as Frank White. Many viewers who may only know Walken from his more recent appearances as the weird but cool guy will be surprised by the multifaceted performance he gives here. The late Victor Argo's performance as White's nemesis on the police force, Roy Bishop, should also be noted. Argo gives a note perfect, yet nuanced portrayal, of a weary, seen it all cop who is determined to get his man.Wesley Snipes and Laurence Fishburne were still early in their film careers while appearing in this movie, but you can clearly see the qualities that would make them stars. Both bring depth and realism to their otherwise stock characters. David Caruso also does a great job with his character. One of the shortcomings of the movie is that there's no strong female lead... Frank White has a relationship with one of his attorney's, Jennifer (Janet Julian), but the script leaves out a lot of details (e.g., why they are together in the first place). In fact, all the women in this movie look like models which only adds to the stylized unreality the movie creates.Finally, I have to mention the oldschool rap soundtrack which fits the proceedings to a t.If you are a fan of crime/action movies, King of New York comes recommended, but fair warning, its not your typical gangsta flick. "},{"Title":"Walken Is The King","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"39 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  	The ruthless underbelly of the New York criminal world is examined somewhat graphically in `King of New York,' directed by Abel Ferrara, and starring Christopher Walken.  Upon release from prison, New York crime boss Frank White (Walken), determines to become a major player in the city's underworld and wastes no time in putting the wheels of his plan in motion.  Among the major obstacles he encounters are King Tito (Ernest Abuba) and Larry Wong (Joey Chin), both kingpins of their respective organizations, veteran detective Roy Bishop (Victor Argo), and Dennis Gilley (David Caruso), a young, hot-headed Irish cop who seemingly single-handedly wants to take back the city from the riffraff who control it and seem somehow impervious to prosecution.  None of which matters to White, who is adamant in his quest to become the King of New York. 	Though hard-hitting and excessively violent, Ferrara's film lacks the grittiness of say, Scorsese's `Mean Streets,' or `Taxi Driver,' but nevertheless makes an impact, due mainly to the unfettered violence, as well as the subtle, understated menace Walken brings to the role of Frank White.  There's an edginess that permeates the film and the characters who bring it all to life, with the exception of White, who-- as played by Walken-- is the picture of restraint, the eye in the center of the storm.  And it's that cold, soulless, almost haunted look of his that makes him so disconcerting.  It's the contrast between his calm demeanor (which threatens to explode at any moment) and the overt violence with which he is surrounded, that gives him that sense of power, and it's also one of the strengths of the film.  There is definitely something unsettling about Walken's presence in a role like this (and indeed with many of the characters he's portrayed in his many films); he has a natural ability and the looks-- which he uses so well to his advantage-- to convey the very essence of evil in all it's myriad forms.  If they is any doubt, check him out in `Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead,' and `Sleepy Hollow,' just to mention a couple.  He has the tools to make you believe his characters, and with adroit skill he uses them all, as he does here with his creation of White; and his performance is one of the highlights of the movie.   	Walken doesn't have the floor to himself in that regard, however, as Laurence Fishburne (billed here as `Larry') gives a memorable, high-powered performance as well, as Jump, White's main man who provides the muscle for his organization.  Fishburne pulls out all the stops and laces Jump with high voltage energy that never runs out, while taking a page from the John Woo Book by brandishing pistols in both hands at once, which serves to enhance his lethal potential.  And his over-the-top, in-your-face attitude is the perfect antithesis to Walken's calm, and is in it's own way just as disturbing in the aloof disregard of-- and lack of respect for-- life.  I guarantee this is one pair of hoodlums you will not soon forget. 	The supporting cast includes Wesley Snipes (Thomas), Janet Julian (Jennifer), Giancarlo Esposito (Lance), Paul Calderon (Joey) and Steve Buscemi (Test Tube).  Ferrara's film is fast paced and relentless, and he adds a nice touch to the ending that contrasts well with all that precedes it, and yet `King of New York,' even with the outstanding performances of Walken and Fishburne, never quite captures that elusive something that would've taken it above and beyond the average crime action/drama.  It does have it's moments, however, and the aforementioned performances alone are worth the price of admission.  Just don't come to this one expecting anything extraordinary; it's a good movie, but the Oscars will have to wait for another day.  I rate this one 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Monster","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara created a monster here and Christopher Walken grabbed it by the neck and made it one of the best gangster movies ever made. A truly faultless performance by Walken. The scene where his crew first see him after his release from prison is superb, he may try to act as one of the boys but his unnerving manner is there for all to see.Considering this film was released in 1989, the cinematography is highly impressive. The shots of Walken as he looks cold-eyed into the night are tremendous, as are many of the New York shots. This movie has a very dark feel and edge to it and I thought the score complemented this superbly.Larry Fishburne also does an excellent job as a drug-fuelled punk and the drug deal scene is one of the films many highlights. What impressed me most about this film is that not one scene is wasted. It is short, sharp, action packed and to the point and it is one of those rare gems that actually has a fantastic ending.Well done Ferrara, this movie is one of the greats. "},{"Title":"Characters are a bit one-note, but Ferrara's direction is intriguing and Walken is great as usual","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara as a director has his ups and downs. In his entire career, the only masterpiece he made was Bad Lieutenant. However, the rest of his films are always interesting if never completely successful. King of New York is a very offbeat crime film and will not appeal to those seeking another Goodfellas. However, the film eventually won me over because of its dreamlike atmosphere. This is one of the more surreal mob films I've seen. Most of the characters are a bit one-note, but Ferrara's direction is intriguing and Walken is great as usual. The film is slowly paced which, along with the bizarreness, makes it very inaccessible.Walken turns in his most Walken performance. I'll leave that up to you as being a good thing or not, but personally I love the man. He is strange as all hell and unnerving at moments but is memorable all the same. I'm not sure if the humor was intentional, but there's something hilarious about watching Walken dancing to Schooly D surrounded by marijuana smoke. The supporting cast is one of the most bizarre ever assembled and is truly once in a lifetime. Laurence Fishburne's character is a blaxploitation throwback stereotype but easily steals the show. Victor Argo, David Caruso, Wesley Snipes, Janet Julian, and Paul Calderon are all good in their roles. King of New York is definitely not for everyone, but those interested in more offbeat and dreamlike films will enjoy it. Its more of an art film than an action film. (7/10) "},{"Title":"This Is One Mean Story","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"34 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now here's a film with a mean edge....very mean....almost too mean. If I didn't like Christopher Walken (and who doesn't?) I wouldn't have watched this low- life trash. But Walken makes the trash fashionable somehow. Plus, I always like looking at great nighttime shots of New York City.A nice job of restoration was done on this latest two-disc DVD. The film finally looks good. This is stylishly filmed, too.Story-wise, as mentioned, it's very rough, lots of f-words, and a simple story of a crime boss who is released from jail and is trying to reclaim his hold on the city's mob scene.It's an interesting cast. Besides Walken is a trio of actors who wound up becoming stars David Caruso (a TV star), Lawrence Fishburne and Wesley Snipes. All of them are nasty, too. Sometimes they make Walken look good in comparison. Unfortunately, two of those guys are cops and filmmakers love to make the cops into unlikable bad guys. They certainly are here.So, if you're feeling ornery and want to take out some hostility without hurting anyone or anything, just flip this disc in your DVD and it should be what the doctor ordered. If you can relate to any of these people in this movie, call a minister, priest, rabbi or psychiatrist. You need help. "},{"Title":"Ferrara & Walken Make a Great Team","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  King of New York(1990) is an excellent movie that is Abel Ferrara's most stylish film.  As years go by, King of New York is a film that will be more respected and seen as an example of Ferrara's best work.  It was the second best gangster film in 1990 next to Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas.  The direction is surpurb and the characters are filled with colorful traits.King of New York(1990) is a modern reworking of the Robin Hood legend.  Its basically about a former drug lord who wants to use drug money to help poor and unfortunate people.  Christopher Walken gives one of his five top best performances in the role of Frank.  The feature is a neo noir because there are no people except for a couple that are likable.The violence in this film is very brutal and done with plenty of flair.  Frank's plans do not work out as everyone is out to get him(espically the police).  Frank is a person who's alive on the outside but dead on the inside.  King of New York has been compared to Scarface(1983) but I believe that this movie is closer in spirit to Ringo Lam's City on Fire(1987) and the two Chow Yun Fat/Andy Lau films of Rich & Famous(1986) and Tragic Hero(1987).Laurence Fishburne gives a very good performance as Frank's loyal right hand man.  In fact, all of the action sequences involving him makes the actor the Hollywood B-movie eqevulent of Chow Yun Fat with his two gun act.  Steve Buscemi has a bit part as a rival drug dealer.  I only wished that the idea of putting a contract on the police was expanded on with a few scenes of many police officers being assassinated by Frank's men.One scene that is terrific is the scene where the police dressed up as drug dealers who raid and try to terminate Frank and his gang.  Another excellent scene is the funeral sequence.  The ending is unusually low key for a mafia flick.  I would like to see a director's cut of this film released on video because I feel that something's missing from the R-rated version. "}{"Title":"A crime kingpin re-enters the underworld upon his release from prison!","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film for many will be too much and by that I mean in every way possible; the amount of grim and grime in Abel Ferrara's portrayal of New York City at the turn of the '90's, the perpetual display of crime and gang activity, the almost impenetrable bad language, the shocking violence and the in-your-face portrayal of hard life and sudden death from the perspectives of both criminals and cops. Saying that, this is one of the first and few greats from writer and director Abel Ferrara, notorious creator of schlock-horror trash 'Driller Killer' and I love it for all the reasons that people tend to hate it.The inimitable and irreplaceable Christopher Walken plays Frank White, whose Lieutenants - led by intimidating and possibly demented Jimmy Jump played by Laurence Fishburne - have been guarding his territory, awaiting his return from prison. But when he gets out and goes back home to see that the streets have become every man's nightmare and every crackhead's dream, he decides that through rebuilding his empire, he will clean up the streets and give back to the community what the gangs have taken.What results of this new resolution is the start of an unprecedented bloodbath in White's attempt to rid the streets of these crack dealing gangs and this catches the attention of Roy Bishop - White's nemesis, a jaded New York cop - who proceeds to chase the kingpin with the help of his toughest men Gilley and Flanigan, played with integrity and even a clever hint of villainy by David Caruso and Wesley Snipes.Ferrara's distinctive independent style of filmmaking truly comes to fruition in this one, as it did with 'Bad Lieutenant', giving the audience a glimpse of everyday life on the grimmest streets of New York, while allowing his characters to run wild. There seems to be no clear line in the sand designating who is supposed to be the villain here as both Frank White and Roy Bishop seem to be corrupted characters with little redeeming features, the same not exactly applying to their supporting characters.White is a man with no qualms in spilling blood for what he sees as the greater good because he targets only the lowest of the low throughout the film until the cops' war with him becomes personal. Bishop's war with him is nothing but personal however and the only thing that suggests he isn't the true villain of the film is the fact that he's a cop. Fishburne's character, Jimmy Jump, is a devil with no need for disguise, a loyal animal that never questions the man he works for because the only kick he needs is to kill who he sees as the bad guys, even though he is possibly the most intimidating face in 'King...' And Gilley and Flanigan, as straight and clean-cut as they seem throughout the film, are in fact corrupted. Corrupted by hate, by the need for revenge and through the grudges that they bear.If anything, Ferrara's crime thriller is a film study applying an old philosophy to modern social politics. That philosophy being, he who fights monsters should see to it that he too does not become a monster in doing so... The film relies on the talents of its actors as physical and emotional forces of nature, as their performances run along on little comprehensible dialogue in relation to the plot but this is strengthened by a simplistic plot with easily picked out references to classic crime thrillers and although we see where the film is headed from the start, personally found myself excited and in awe of how it got there and honestly didn't see the end coming. It goes far beyond where others dare to go and still keeps it real.In the end I find myself thinking, this is the kind of film 'The Untouchables' and 'Carlito's Way' didn't have the balls to be! "},{"Title":"Hybrid Gangsta/Mafia Film with Some Terrific Acting","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In many of Ferrara's best films, including The King of New York, good and evil are not simply blurred distinctions, they are inseparable. Though this characteristic is more apparent and more powerfully examined in Bad Lieutenant than 'King', there are characters on both sides of the central conflict in this film who are equally disturbing and despicable. The word anti-hero was made for the main characters in this film.Leading in one of his better roles since Deer Hunter, is Christopher Walken. The support cast is something of an all-star list of genre films - Fishburne, Caruso, Snipes, Giancarlo Esposito, Buscemi... And all of the acting is excellent.Walken plays a sociopathic organized crime kingpin who has just been released from jail and wants to improve his public image while taking over all of the profitable crime in New York. So, he starts offing the competition and donating to impoverished hospitals, etc. Some have compared Frank White to Robin Hood, but since I find it difficult to think of the English Folk hero as a psychotic with no moral compass whatsoever, I disagree.Worth seeing for Walken and Fishburne's performances alone, King of New York has, over the years developed something of a cult following. Considering the cast and the directorial talent, this is no surprise. Ferrara makes an entertaining film which, though it doesn't offer a great deal of new material, offers some unique characterizations and avoid devolving into straight action.Highly recommended for fans of Walken, Fishburne, Caruso and Ferrara. Recommended for crime drama and gangsta film fans. Weakly recommended for Snipes fans. "},{"Title":"Simply not believable","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I disliked this film immensly because of its low credibility. There is no way anyone can get away with what Frank White does (there are witnesses, tens of them, there is evidence that would make FBI go bananas and catch White within the week) and even if he gets away with it there is no way the police would get away with what they did. Everyone should have simply been caught by the feds and put away.The massacres in the movie would also have been CNN stuff for weeks - overshadowing the Gulf War (if the movie is indeed set in 1990).I also find White´s death disturbing. If indeed he gets away with everything so easily and can outsmart other criminal masterminds so easily, why would a fat stupid cop be able to kill him? It seemed that Frank just had to die and the writer couldn´t find another way to get rid of him for his climactic ending.The movie is somewhat saved by Walken and Fishbourne. I liked Fishbourne's character immensly. He was extremely savage and evil, but he was undyingly loyal to his boss, something which is rare in these movies. Loyalty is a force which is not often used in this kind of movies.I rated this movie 5 out of 10 for the good actors and the very good shootout scenes. "},{"Title":"Finally. A Cult classic worth your time.","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The King of New York should be boring, it moves slowly and deliberately for much of the film, the look of the film is quite washed out with drab backgrounds and much of the background music is quiet and orchestral.But the movie also has some great action sequences, and some of the more visceral and impacting acts of violence committed to film. This is quite unlike 90% of action films made in the last 2 decades, and it's better than almost all of them.Frank White is released from prison, by Christopher Walken, who is white - even for a white guy.In fact in this movie I am convinced that Walken glows in certain scenes he is so pasty, they actually could have used him for lighting.So back to Frank White, now a free man Frank decides to get straight back into it in every respect. In the initial scenes the various Its include his limo, the crime business - and various women including his lawyer.Frank obviously has a way with people, he is disarmingly honest (where possible) and direct, and he is very loyal to his gang. And they reciprocate. Frank also moves in different circles, as well as the lower socioeconomic area that he resides in, and does business with, he also spends time with the cities' elite, pressing the flesh and trying to broker deals of a different nature.There is the initial montage that goes along with reestablishing turf, various rival dealers and kingpins are dealt with, the violence in these scenes is quite immediate and realistic, no amazing stunt leaps or protracted death rolls here, you are shot and you fall down, there are no dramatic final carefully scripted words. (These scenes reminded me a lot of Beat Takeshi and his films, especially Brother, which coincidentally enough had a non-black guy running a crime gang staffed mostly by black guys.) Frank also turns an attempted mugging into an impromptu recruitment drive. This sounds odd, but is even odder when you factor in that he was interrupted mid titty-squeeze on the subway!The difference between Frank and say Nino Brown or Tony Montana, is that Frank actually seems determined to help the very same group of people that is selling to, one of his pet projects is personally funding a hospital in a poorer area using 16M of his own money.When he tries to co-opt a rival gang leader into assisting he is met with scorn and derision. Here we learn another thing about Frank, if you knock back a deal, he'll get what he wants anyway, just through other more violent means.As Frank and his crew expand and become more successful, he attracts the attention of two groups, rival gangs wary of losing turf and customers, and the cops. We already know how Frank and co deal with rival gangs, let's talk about the cops.The cops are both a strength and a weakness in this film. In the early sections we meet them all, Roy (Victor Argo) is the time-weathered Boss, determined to nab Frank but rendered almost powerless by the system. Tommy (Wesley Snipes) and Dennis (David Caruso) are the younger hotheads that are willing to do anything to keep the streets clean, there is also a fourth newly-wed cop who anyone (who has seen an action movie at least) knows is only there to be killed.The cops have a minor victory when they manage to find a real living witness to a crime committed by Frank's henchman, most notably Jimmy Jump (Larry Fishburne, more on him later). In a show of loyalty Frank plumps up the sizable bail to free his men, and this is where things change.The cops, realizing that the normal legit channels just don't work, decide to go to a slightly more shady Plan B, from here on in everything moves along towards the inevitable conclusion. Only in a film like this we can never be sure who will actually triumph, after all the criminal is loyal, honest and wants to maintain a valuable hospital servicing the inner city with his own money, and the cops are willing to use illegal means to get what they want.There is an exceptional car chase, a shoot out and some well written and impeccably timed one-liners in the concluding sequences, though this isn't your standard action/crime film. Key characters on both sides are killed, often abruptly and violently, and loyalties are tested.The film ends in a slow languid scene that is in obvious contrast to the hectic action that preceded it, and the scene is quite fitting for a crime film in which there are no real winners.The King of New York is deservedly seen as a cult classic, and while many so called cult classic are of the sh*t films that people saw when they were high so they talk them up variety this one is truly worth your time.Now, as alluded to earlier, even though he was given scant mention in the above write up Larry Fishburne as Jimmy Jump must go down as one of the coolest MFs to ever appear in a film. Larry plays him as animated, chirpy yet also skittish. He is a cold-blooded assassin that also runs around like a 7 year old full of green cordial, and in one of the shootouts near the close of the film he moves effortlessly through the scenery, even while pumping rounds into other bad guys (and unfortunately some cops).Final Rating &#x96; 8.5 / 10. Deserves to be more well known, but for now check out The King of New York. At least you'll get to know how good it is. (Thank me later.) If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Ferrara's finest work","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Crime lord Frank White (Christopher Walken) is released from prison, and on his long drive back to New York City, witnesses the filth his city has descended into since his incarceration. His old friend Jimmy Jump (Laurence Fishburne) has just wiped out a Colombian drug operation and welcomes Frank back with a suitcase full of money and cocaine. Eager to win his city back, and also help fund the saving of an inner city hospital through his drug operation, he sets the wheels to his crowning in motion. But cops Roy Bishop (Victor Argo), Gilley (David Caruso) and Flanigan (Wesley Snipes) are on his case, but after struggling to bring Frank in under regulations, resort to more illegal methods of getting him off the streets.King of New York was booed upon its initial screenings, with mass walk- outs and cult director Abel Ferrara being bombarded with uncomfortable questions. Audiences were apparently appalled by the films seemingly glamorous depiction of man who was essentially a homicidal maniac, encouraging violence and sleaze wherever he went. The film is certainly guilty of that, but the character of Frank is a little different to the likes of Tony Montana or Henry Hill. He seems to style himself as a champion of the lower-classes, using his influence and vast wealth to push a councilman to put forth the money to save a hospital in a poverty-stricken area, and then fund it himself when that fails. He and his girlfriend Jennifer (Janet Julian) are robbed on the subway by inner-city youths. Frank shown them his gun, and they back off, but Frank throws them a wad of money and tells them there is work for them if they want it. A crime-lord he may be, but is he any worse than the fat politicians that soak up the city's money, or the bent cops that are on his back?In Walken's hands, White is a charismatic, unconventional crime boss, and is in turns charming, strange, and deranged. It's a fabulous performance, but for me it was Laurence (here still credited as Larry) Fishburne that steals the show, as the swaggering, loud-mouthed gun-man Jimmy (yo, where the chicken at? he says after killing a cop), a man of such ridiculous posturing that he almost becomes a cartoon character. And this is one of the main reasons I loved this film. It is, at times, so outlandishly over-the-top that it should betray its gritty roots, but its so steeped in atmosphere and that key element, grime, that it becomes a fantasy-laden, insane ride amongst a decaying city and one its most colourful characters.For anyone who has seen the work of Abel Ferrara, especially two of his most popular films, The Driller Killer (1979) and Bad Lieutenant (1992), will know what they are in for. His New York is not the one you see in the earlier works of Woody Allen, but one of whacked-out prostitutes, cocaine-sniffing criminals, inner-city poverty, and angry, sweaty, middle-aged detectives. We do glimpse the glitzier side of the city in King of New York, as Frank often mingles with the politicians and power- players, but it is a world of black suits and orange lighting, and a world that shares the same depravity and sleaze as the lower-classes. It's a grim thing to see through Abel Ferrara's gaze, but boy is it brimming with atmosphere. This will always play second or third fiddle to the likes of Scarface (1983), but King of New York is the film the former could never be, and in its own depressing way, is a much better film. Undoubtedly Ferrara's finest, and most 'polished' work.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Loved this movie. Greatets movie I've seen in a long time. Nothing better than NY gangster movies.","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Loved this movie. Greatets movie I've seen in a long time. Nothing better than NY gangster movies. King of NY was the perfect film to give me the NYC feeling I've been missing since moving from New York in 1999. It definitely gave me the streetwear and street realness i love. From the bronx to brooklyn, queens and back to manhattan was all i dreamed of for the last couple of years. Wow cant believe it took me home. Thanks IMDb for the suggestion. Also anybody reading this be sure to check out a bronx tale which of course is another classic New York Movie. The entire style in the movie down to the fashion and jackets and street slang is something NY will forever be famous for. Culture is born and grown there. "},{"Title":"King of New York (1990)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I really dug the whole early 90's ness of this entire movie. We had some amazing actors such as Larry Fishburne and Wesley Snipes, giving their all in some memorable side roles. King of New York tells the tale of Frank White, a crimelord that easily buys popularity with the community. He simply flashes some cash around and the cops become the bad guys. Soon, out of sheer desperation, the cops reduce themselves to the level of thugs. They use intimidation and violence. The film shows that such tactics are only a short term solution to a much bigger problem. As all great crime epics should, it shows the allure of crime and the devastating downfalls. Walken is astonishing in his role and Argo simply bursts alive opposite him. The latter shows the real pain and suffering that must be endured to maintain strict morals. It's sad how far Walken pushes him. "},{"Title":"King of New York ... Prince of a City's Darkness ...","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York is a gritty depiction of New York's underworld crime. It doesn't have the romantic or Shakespearian feel of The Godfather, nor the entertaining flamboyance of Scorsese's Goodfellas, yet it has a little something that redeems all of these absences a stroke of genius in the casting of its leading role. Indeed, Abel Ferrara's cult-classic features Christopher Walken in one of his most defining roles as a drug lord named Frank White, a peculiar name as White happens to be the leader of a black gang lead by Jump Fishburne, when he was still billed as Larry.Abel Ferrara's movies are never gratuitous exercises in style; there is always a soul expressing an emotional or existential pain in his films. However, in King of New York, the soul we meet is in total peace with itself. According to Frank, there is absolutely no contradiction between his ambition to be the Mayor of New York and his criminal background. Frank White believes in what he does with a remarkable strength and never apologizes for what he does, as he says I never killed anyone who didn't deserve it. Only Walken could have embodied this paradox without leaving its audience questioning it. I believed in Frank because he believed in himself. He wanted to raise money to fund the building of a hospital, so be it, his lawyer happens to be one of his mistresses, he's leading a gang of black leaders, maybe I would have questioned that if it was another actor, but there is something in Walken's eyes that inspires my total obedience.Somewhere in the middle of the film, a Chinese triad boss is watching Nosferatu in a movie theater, and I never believe in coincidences when it comes to intelligent movies &#x96;and this is one of them-. This subtle hint confirmed the first feeling I had about Frank White, he has an extraordinary vampire-like quality conveyed by the icy eyes and somewhat ghostly look of Walken. In my review of The Funeral, I mentioned how Walken 'had always an extraordinary combination of mental instability and charismatic aura in his eyes, the kind of man you don't know if it's safe to approach or to avoid him, in both cases, you respect and fear him'. I guess this applies even better to King of New York. Walken is Walken at his best but his look is so ghostly in King of New York that I can't even take the name as a coincidence, he's indeed extremely pale as if he was himself an incarnation of a soul that died in jail and waited to resurrect in its territory.Frank White is rarely seen by day, and even then, he never leaves his car, equipped with black tainted windows, his car seems to highlight his presence, his absence, his direction whether he goes to the Plaza Hotel or when he tries to to escape from the police, a group of three officers from the Narcotics Police Squad played by Victor Argo, David Caruso and Wesley Snipes. But the car is also his privileged place, his throne, like the coffin for the vampire; it's not even a coincidence that White dies in a car, in the only place where he could both act and meditate on his actions. And I have the feeling that the hypnotizing effect of Walken's eyes and his 'Robin Hood' quality contribute to build his sympathy. Torn between the harsh reality of New York's criminal underworld and his own vision, he became part-human part-animal, predator and prey, and like both, believes in territoriality and doesn't let anyone undermine his path, not a Mafia boss who frontally disrespects him, not a Chinese gang leader who refuses a deal. You don't say 'no' to Frank White.The sympathy we feel provokes the opposite feeling toward the cops who act as violently as the criminals and are portrayed in an unusually unsympathetic way. No good cop/bad cop, they're all bad and maybe with the exception of Argo, they seem eager to catch Frank White as soon as he gets off the jail, with a fierce obsession. And their insistence is hinted when Caruso comments on the gap between the criminals' successes and their own lives. There seems to be a lot of frustration as if their actions were guided by jealousy more than a true desire to fight crime, as if the ugliness of the underworld affected their spirit. And never had crime looked indeed so ugly, when I look at the way gangster lifestyle is portrayed, I can't find any redeeming character in the film because there is precisely no room for any redemption. King of New York is only the chronicle of New York's darkest side with Frank White as the Prince of Darkness, Walken, with this unique charisma.And it's interesting that as we never question the motivations of White, we don't question either the seemingly absence of plot in the film, we're just invited to follow the rise and the demise of a man who had a dream while many aspects of the stories, many questions are left without answers. What happened to the gang that was told to come to the Plaza? What was the secret relationship between the two cops? And some of the names could get easily mixed up... In a way, the film betrays many golden rules of screen writing, that everything should lead somewhere or have a point. In King of New York, Ferrara cares less about conventions but insists on showing New York's criminal life with a gripping and documentary-like realism that confines to anti-romanticism, signing an artistic unconventional masterpiece.At the end, we don't want to become gangsters, but we're not sure we would love to be cops either. Or maybe we would love to be like Frank White, a character so unreal that we can think of him as a guilty fantasy, forgivable because obviously inaccessible &#x85; "},{"Title":"Walken's performance outstanding!!!!!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i am not a fan of gangsta/mob films, and probably would never have sat through this movie, if not for Christopher Walken... His portrayal of Frank White was certainly brilliant... although this character was definitely a villain, you could almost cheer him on... committing murder, selling drugs and prostitutes... but to raise money to keep a hospital for the underprivileged from closing, as well as cleaning up what he felt were the scum of the underworld... i can agree with other comments i've read calling Frank a Modern Day Robin Hood. As for the excessive violence... well, be serious... are rival mobsters and cops going to settle things over a cup of tea and game of chess?  i think not...  "},{"Title":"Chistropher Walken excels in this nicely gritty crime thriller","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ruthless college-educated crime kingpin Frank White (a splendidly twitchy and intense portrayal by the always fantastic Christopher Walken) gets sprung from prison and decides to monopolize the New York City drug trade by bumping off his even nastier rivals. A trio of police detectives -- weary veteran Ray Bishop (a marvelously craggy Victor Argo), smartaleck Dennis Gilley (a fine David Caruso) and hot-tempered Thomas Flanigan (a terrifically explosive Wesley Snipes) -- vow to bust Frank. Gilley and Flannigan resort to drastic illegal measures when proper legal methods of nabbing Frank prove fruitless. Director Abel Ferrara directs this harsh and gritty crime drama with a tremendous amount of glossy style and rip-snorting vigor, expertly maintaining a hard, steely and starkly amoral tone while keeping a hypnotically slow, yet steady pace and staging the occasional startling outbursts of bloody and brutal violence with ferocious aplomb (a sudden raid on Frank's swanky penthouse is especially potent and stirring). Nicholas St. John's cynical and nihilistic script chillingly blurs the distinction between cops and criminals while presenting a nightmarish vision of the dangerous Big Apple underworld. Walken offers a fascinatingly complex characterization of the deadly, yet charismatic Frank Although he's a tough customer with no qualms about wasting his fellow no-count hoodlums (I never killed anyone who didn't deserve it, Frank blithely explains to Bishop), Frank also has a sense of civic responsibility (he gives millions of dollars to save a local community general hospital from closing). Popping up in outstanding supporting roles are Larry Fishburne as Frank's maniacal top lieutenant Jimmy Jump, Giancarlo Esposito as one of Frank's flunkies, Janet Julien as Frank's lovely lawyer girlfriend Jennifer, Joey Chin as cocky drug dealer Larry, and Steve Buscemi as drug chemist Test Tube. A lengthy car chase and shoot out during a heavy rain storm rates as the definite rousing action highlight. Bojan Bazelli's beautifully slick, sparkling cinematography, Joe Delia's elegant, exciting score and the strikingly haunting ending are all likewise on the money excellent as well. A strong and satisfying winner. "}{"Title":"Hail To The King","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** After a slew of Godfather-like movies made during the 1970's and 80's in the last decade of the Twentieth century the motion picture industry released a gangster classic King of New York. A crime movie that was a throwback to the great gangster films of the 1930's like Little Caesar in 1930 Public Enemy in 1931 and Scarfacein 1932 and the movie stunned and blew away everyone who saw it.King of New York made it's debut in late September 1990 without much fanfare in the film world and then was quickly overshadowed by the far more advertised and popular gangster movie Martin Scorese' Goodfellas that was released about the same time. Since its initial release King of New York has increased in popularity with every viewing by a new generation of movie goers who have re-discovered it over the last fourteen years since. Its now considered to be just as good, if not better, as Goodfellas or any other gangster movie made over the last thirty or so years. Frank White, Christopher Walken, is released from prison and the first thing on his agenda is to re-claim his gangster empire that fell into disrepair since his absence. Getting the remnants of his old gang together the word on the street is that things aren't going to be the same as New York City braces itself for a major gang-war. Frank first takes on the Colombian drug gang thats dealing drugs for Mafia King-Pin Artie Clay, Frank Gio. Frank plans to trick the Colombians into a drug deal with the intent of wiping them out and taking both their drugs and money. Getting them all together and off-guard the Frank White Mob does them in and puts them out of business for good. Frank then goes with some of his men to see Artie Clay at his headquarters to talk about the future of drug distribution in New York with him as a major player now that the Colombians are no longer in his employment. Clay shocked that Frank would have the nerve to show up unannounced and uninvited at his headquarters and mad at what he did to his Colombian drug-pushers became even more outraged when Frank said that he wanted a piece of every drug transaction that the Clay mob did on the street down to a nickel bag. With Artie throwing a stream of insults at him and just when Clay is about to throw Frank and his men out of the place or even worse Frank Suddenly turns and pulls a gun out of his jacket and to the sock of both Frank's men and the Clay mob present there blasts Artie Clay away. As Frank leaves the Clay headquarters he tells the now leaderless and stunned Clay mob that if their tired of getting ripped off by low-lives like Clay their always welcomed to come work for him.With the Clay gang and their Colombian allies now out of the way the large and powerful New York Chinese Mafia goes into action to make a grab at their shattered drug empire. Frank goes after the Chinese Mob and finishes them off with the same Modus Operandi that has been so successful for him since his release from prison in his quest to become Top Dog in the New York underworld Knock off the gang leaders and with that accomplished have the leaderless rank and file gang members join up with him. Frank achieves all of this with a ruthless brutality that shocks even the most hardened cops and gangsters who never encountered anything like it in all their years on the mean streets of New York City.The police in an effort to put Frank away for good get to his trusted friend Joey Dalesio, Paul Calderon, to set Frank up for the kill. Intead the cops and Joey's plan backfires with a number of policemen getting killed and Joey taken alive and brought to Frank to explain his back-stabbing actions. Telling Frank that what he did wasn't personal but with the cops paying him so much money he forgot for a moment who his real friends were. With that Frank had a terrified Joey shot and buried together with the money that the police paid him. Later in the movie in what had became all to common to those watching of the ruthlessness that Frank exhibited all through the film Frank guns down the cop who hatched the scheme to kill him at the very funeral of one of the policemen who was killed trying to carry it out. In the end it was that very same brazenness that was so successful for Frank in his rise to power that turned out to be his downfall. One of the best gangster movies ever made with Christopher Walken's performance on par with with anything that Edward G. Robinson, James Cagney or Humphrey Bogart ever did in their long careers portraying gangsters in the movies. Walken's ice cold stare and lighting quick temper that exploded, like a cobra, without warning in many of the scenes in the movie was as hypnotic as it was terrifying. The movies suspenseful final sequence with Frank wounded in a cab stuck and surrounded by the police in a Time Square traffic jam was the perfect ending for a perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Is it a gangster flick?","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After watching King Of New York again recently, I noticed that huge emphasis on the 'gothic' and the idea of the 'vampire', (must have been blind not to notice it the first time).  This is emphasised especially in Christopher Walken's character.  Everything from the way that he is shot in a bluish haze to his 'vampiric' female accomplices. It raises the question, 'is this really a gangster film?'.  It follows the 'rise and fall' style of the genre, but it is the subtle aspects of the film that make it edge towards gothic horror.  Noteworthy is Ferrara's use of Expressionist-style camera work, and Walken's dream like state - the 'walking dead' gangster who has risen one final time to take revenge on those who have wronged him.  Overall a stylish and ambitious film from an extremely unique director. "},{"Title":"Abel isn't able to match Scarface and the like.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just because you're from New York doesn't mean you have a grasp of how the mob there really works. The proof of that is Abel Ferrara and his fantasy crime drama.The movie is generally entertaining, but too full of typical movie silliness i.e. lack of realism. Walken comes out of jail and he bumps off a major Italian mob boss - just like that. Apparently, Abel hasn't considered the possibility that maybe - just maybe - a top mafia dog might have some sort of bodyguards around him, making it quite difficult to whack him. Cops like Caruso get VERY emotionally touched by the plight of dead criminals that Walken helped exterminate. Why does Caruso have such a soft spot for dead psychopaths? Where were this Caruso and his buddy Snipes BEFORE Walken was released from jail? Was everything hunky-dory back then in NY? Absurd.Then we have the extremely unrealistic scene in which Walken bumps off a cop at a cop funeral! Even better, Walken does this himself (and he escapes without difficulties, in spite of there being 100 cop cars around). It seems Ferrara thinks that mob bosses do all the dirty work themselves, while their highly paid thugs sniff in cocaine and sleep with whores 24/7. The movie also provides us with TWO examples of cops chasing dangerous criminals and appealing to their sense of chivalry to have mano-a-mano duels Snipes with Fishburne, and then later the old cop with Walken. The old cop previously even has a discussion with Walken about crime in society, in which the latter makes his case for why he is not such a bad guy after all! Not credible at all.This brings me to the movie's fundamental flaw Walken's mob-boss-with-the-heart-of-gold. Quite clearly, Walken's character has the profile of a typical psychopath - and yet he cares about funding a hospital. There is no explanation given for this, except the implication that he wants to do something for the city of New York. That is just plain silly. And I suppose Walken using the subway regularly shows that he is a man of the people or something. Malarkey.More problems. Snipes is good as a cop, but I'd rather have seen Fishburne in that role and Snipes as Walken's right-hand man. Fish-born comes off as a snickering clown, almost a parody. I'm sure that Snipes would have come off laughable as well due to the script, but at least he'd be more credible as a gangster than Fishy.The reason I nitpick is that this isn't some standard action film with no pretensions, but is a crime drama, and I expect a certain dose of realism in any drama, whether it be about the mafia or African elephants.I also didn't understand why so much time was wasted on dull MTV-like scenes of gangsters dancing to a lousy rap soundtrack. How is this relevant to the story and how does it build up suspense? "},{"Title":"Timeless crime piece. Walken rocks it.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara's King Of New York shows a man drawn in by the seedy corridors of grime and filth, entranced by the opportunistic lives of people on the edge of reason and caged in a nasty fight for survival in a city that doesn't forgive or hand out second chances without a heavy cost. I'm talking about both the director, and the knockout lead character he guides through a morose, introspective journey of self destruction. Ferrara has always had a fascination with bottom feeding despair, inlaid with a silver lining of gutter accomplishments and wanton, frenzied attempts by his characters to carve a path for themselves, often when it's already too late for them. Christopher Walken plays Frank White, a once legendary, recently paroled criminal kingpin looking to set up shop again in the mean streets, acting as an urban Robin Hood, redistributing wealth as he sees fit and ruthlessly slaughtering his competition with the flair that only Walken can infuse into a performance. He gives a stinger of a performance, a career highlight of quiet, evil resolve, devilish glee and pondering moodiness, never the protagonist, never the antagonist, always a determined, violent man at odds with his surroundings and incapable of anything but crime. Whether ruthlessly intimidating a rival wise guy, whipping out a gun at two black punks on the subway or generally just generating an undercurrent of unease, Walken is a spectral force to be reckoned with and makes the film his own. Pretty soon some straight arrow cops zero in on him and his organization, including a dogged Victor Argo and a gung ho, reckless David Caruso. Frank throws everything he has at them, marshaled by his second in command Jimmy Jump (a fantastically sleazy Laurence Fishburne, early on in his career before he got all high and mighty). An immanent showdown looms, as it must in any decent crime thriller, but Ferrera ducks expectations with a finale that brings the energy inward for something less explosive and more contemplative, making the dark, sad poetry of it impact the viewer all the more. Rumour has it much of this film was improvised, and one can sense the organic flow of energy in the scenes, the pulse of events and character interactions taking on a startling realism that never feels forced or sensationalistic. Paul Hipp, Wesley Snipes, Janet Julian, Giancarlo Esposito, Paul Calderon, Theresa Randle, Frank Adonis, Vanessa Angel, Roger Smith and Steve Buscemi provide colourful support. One of the essential crime films, a milestone Walken performance, and a surprisingly melancholy vibe that shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"this is a violent but solid little sleeper; gangster film highlighted by Walkens and Fishburnes performances.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York, while not a classic, is a gritty, drug-lord gangster flick in the same vein as films like 'New Jack City' and 'American Gangster'. If you like this type of movie then King of New York is definitely worth a look. Frank White (Christopher Walken) has just been released from prison and wants to get back together with his gang, take over the New York drug trade, and become a modern robin hood. This little known film somehow flew under the radar when released in 1990 but is just as entertaining as the movies I listed above.New York detective Dennis Gilley (David Caruso) is sick and tired of seeing drug lords like Frank run amuck in his city and is ready to cross any line&#x85;indeed to do whatever it takes, including murder, to take Frank down. Dennis' captain Roy Bishop (the late Victor Argo) wants Frank busted too, but he wants to do it by the book and tries to control his subordinates to no avail.One prolonged climactic sequence of this movie is virtually worth the price of admission; when Dennis and his group disguise themselves and infiltrate Frank's hideout while they are partying one night. The place erupts in a frenzy of gunfire as we try to distinguish just who is who and eventually the scene spills outside and evolves into a high speed car chase and shoot out as the cops chase Frank and his number two man Jimmy Jump (Laurence Fishburne) through the streets of New York. This protracted scene lasts about 15 minutes and is dynamite&#x85;.you may find yourself rewinding to watch it again! There is no conventional movie ending here, in fact it is a rather bleak and downcast wrap-up, but then this is no typical Hollywood film. The acting however is top notch, with Walken delivering as usual, Caruso bringing a surprising amount of intensity to his role, and the then-unknown Wesley Snipes effective as Caruso's partner. The standout to me though is Fishburne, who gives an over the top performance as the psychotic, volatile Jimmy Jump. It's worth watching for this performance alone. That is&#x85;.if you like an action packed, violent gangster film&#x85;and if not, you're probably not still reading this anyway, so enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Well Made and Criminally Overlooked","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Walken stars in this great, if a little uneven, crime film by controversial director Abel Ferrara (Driller Killer, Bad Lieutenant).It tells the story of Frank White, a crime lord who, after being released from prison, makes a violent campaign to reclaim his empire in order to use his ill-gotten gain for charitable means in this modern twist on the Robin Hood mythos. At the same time a core group of New York cops are all over him and his gang, determined to go to war, whatever the cost, to bring him down which leads to a violent climax.In a break from the usual cops and robber movie the line between crook and cop are a little blurry here. Sure Walken's character is a crook who kills people and then goes to parties laden with cocaine and sex, but he kills other scum bags and tries to use his new found freedom to do good things for charity. He's a character who is using his empire as a means to do what he feels is the right thing and raise a poor community up from its poor roots.The cops on the other hand believe that a crook, will forever be a crook. As David Caruso's (CSI Miami joke here) character aptly puts, that the more people he kills the more it reflects badly on the cops whilst no matter what they do to stop Frank, he always gets away scot-free. I can definitely see the positives and negatives from both sides as they can be both as bad and both as justifiable in their actions. Really well thought out stuff when you think about it, and this was a film made 12 years before the Wire (which I've still got to finish watching).Though while I do say it's uneven I still hold to that. Some bits feel a little rushed in pacing and even the lawyer girlfriend to Frank White seems to vanish into thin air during the third act of the film.But despite being a low budget film, it is still a pretty good looking film with an impressive cast (including Lawrence Fishburn, Wesley Snipes and David Caruso) who play their parts really well. I did have a few niggling problems, mostly with the sound though that could attribute to the copy of the film I had. But the climax of this film is where it's really at as everything that has been building up to this comes to an exciting head.It's such a shame that this film has been so over looked, I mean I only really found out about it through Christopher Walken's film list. It deserves a lot more credit. "},{"Title":"Ferrara and Walken serve up a good one","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A top gangster called Frank White is released from prison and decides he wants to make a positive social contribution to his New York neighbourhood in the form of a public hospital. He requests help in this enterprise from his fellow gang lords, who refuse to co-operate, leading to a mob war.This gangster film was helmed by maverick director Abel Ferrara who specialises in gritty urban stories set in New York. This is one of his most accessible in many ways &#x96; it isn't quite as grim as the likes of The Driller Killer or Bad Lieutenant &#x96; but it's still a pretty typical bit of work. This one is all about moral ambiguity. Frank White eliminates his rivals because he doesn't like the ethics of their business practices, yet he still sells drugs on the streets to make money but he wants to use this cash to save a ghetto hospital. It's a film full of shades of grey. No one is good and no one is bad, everyone is in between. The criminals have a conscience, yet continue to commit crimes, while the police hunt these law breakers yet act like just another gang of thugs in doing so.The film is immeasurably helped by excellent acting from Christopher Walken in the central role. It's hardly surprising, seeing as Walken is a fantastic actor who always brings something interesting and compelling to dark roles such as this. There are a lot of great support players too, with good solid turns in particular from Laurence Fishburne and David Caruso. While the hip-hop soundtrack is very effective and adds to the sense of time and place. It's overall a very good crime movie. "},{"Title":"Superb visceral entertainment.","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Working with his frequent collaborator, screenwriter Nicholas St. John, NYC based independent filmmaker Abel Ferrara uses the city as the backdrop for a memorably seedy and garishly lit story of cops and hoods, focusing on a veteran crime lord named Frank White (Christopher Walken).Frank's been out of the game for a long time due to a prison stretch, and now he's developed some sense of morality. Assisted by a mostly black crew, he sets about brutally eliminating his rivals, intending to spend the money he makes on improving his neighbourhood. Naturally, there's a team of detectives (among them, characters played by David Caruso, Wesley Snipes, and Victor Argo) out to get him.Ferrara, as could be expected, has a great sense of style, nicely capturing the look of his locations. The score by Joe Delia complements the visuals created by a team including cinematographer Bojan Bazelli. Granted, the movie is very grim and gritty stuff, and it may be too violent for some tastes, but it's gripping as hell and the characters are all compulsively watchable.Walken is understated in the lead role, and surrounded by good actors. In fact, there's a lot of familiar faces in the cast. In addition to those mentioned, Laurence Fishburne (displaying a magnetic presence as a drug abusing thug), Janet Julian, Giancarlo Esposito, Paul Calderon, Steve Buscemi, Theresa Randle, Roger Guenveur Smith, Frank Adonis, Vanessa Angel, Robert LaSardo, James Lorinz, and Harold Perrineau all turn up as well, making this fun to watch.One especially great sequence takes place in the rain during the aftermath of an assault on Whites' compound. The movie begins well and keeps moving fast (it's 104 minutes long, but it doesn't feel like it) with one entertaining scene after another, and in the end it packs a pretty hard punch.Highly recommended to fans of crime fiction.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unusual, moody, one of a kind Gangster movie.","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frank White (Oscar-WinnerChristopher Walken) recently came out of Prison for doing some time on drug charges. Since Frank is a drug cartel, he's hoping to chance his ways by doing some good in New York City by doing illegal crimes. He is hoping to take back his drug territories in the city by killing the Colombian-Italian-Chinese rivals. Which Frank wants to start good by saving a hospital in the poorest areas in the city. But Frank finds himself in trouble, when three dedicated New York police detectives (Victor Argo, David Caruso and Wesley Snipes) will stop at nothing to put Frank back to prison, even by breaking their own rules.Directed by Abel Farrara (Body Snatchers 1994, The Blackout, China Girl) made an intriguing crime drama with some dark touches of humour and religion. Walken is terrific in the lead and director Farrara keeps the story moving with a strong supporting cast including Laurence Fishburne as White's second man Jimmy Jump in a scene stealing performance. This is a stylish, moody film with vintage rap music in it.The Two-Disc Set of KIng of New York is a Special Edition DVD. Disc One has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DIsc One has an running commentary track by the director (Which the director didn't want to the commentary track until he was payed $5,000 to do it), the second commentary track by the producer Mark Kane-Editor Anthong Redman-Composer Joe Delia and Associate Producer Randy Sabusawa is more entertaining than the director's track. Disc one also has an insightful documentary about Farrara's career on film-making and the original theatrical trailer. Disc two is the Full Screen version of the movie with a documentary on rapper Schoolly D, TV Spots and a music video. King of New York has become a cult classic for nearly two decades. It's the kind of movie that gets better with each viewing. Steve Buscemi appears briefly as one of Frank's gang member and watch for a young Harold Parrineau as one of Frank's gang member. It's well photographed film by Bojan Bazelli (Dangerous Beauty, Hairspary 2007, Pumpkinhead), there's a standout action shootout sequence and the feature is often tongue in cheek. Don't miss this great, underrated flick. Written by Nicolas St. John, who's written some of the director's best works. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Stylish and smouldering.","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frank White, a drug lord of New York, is released from prison and plans to make a more positive mark on the city. But after reuniting with his loyal and violence hungry gang, he finds the odds are very much stacked up against him. Not only has New York changed for the worse, being run by incompetent pretenders to his crown, but the police force are also after his head, dead or alive!First time viewers to this picture should not go into it expecting some Scarface type gangster movie, I made that mistake almost 17 years ago and came out the cinema totally cheesed off! Revisiting the film now has opened up a whole new ream of delights that when put together have created a simmering, and brutal piece of work. What director Abel Ferrara has managed to do here is portray a fable of how a leopard never changes its spots, even tho it wants too. Frank White here a victim of his own past doings, with his reputation on the wane and the authorities with long and unforgiving memories.What hits the most (outside of some brilliant acting) is Abel Ferrara's bleak yet gorgeous vision of a sin city Big Apple, the characters are all one step away from a death, that we the audience, hope comes swift and nasty, all cloaked in this plink plink lighted vision of the underworld. Ferrara choosing to pace his picture to give us a sense of pervading doom, it's quite a knack and means the viewers have to hang on in there to get to the wonderful, and dare I say it, bleakly appropriate conclusion.Christopher Walken is Frank White and gives one of his best career performances, all scary eyes and dialogue spurting precision, he pours out grit and emotion to garner sympathy where he perhaps really shouldn't be getting it. Larry Fishburne, David Caruso, Victor Argo, Wesley Snipes, Janet Julian and Steve Buscemi fill out the cast list, with Fishburne and his manic Jimmy Jump character practically walking off with the movie. So all in all it's a visual delight and a story that is very good on the ears, with the violence perfectly harsh to flesh out the grim nature of this pot boiling crime picture.Those in need of a pick me up should steer well clear 8/10. "}{"Title":"a good movie for Ferrara, and a minor triumph for Walken","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of Comedy is one of those nifty movies to check out after midnight. Not that it isn't a crafty little batch of harsh, cheerfully exploitive crime movie-making any time of day, but there's something of an extra kick (much as with True Romance) to see Christopher Walken go to town after hours. He's got that very appealing insane tact to his performances in this type, and here we've got one of the prototypical truly Walken turns. He's abrasive when he needs to be (as in the opening summary line), casual and cool as well, and he relishes being a villain while not ever really being as over the top as some of his other counterparts. Not that Laurence Fishburne doesn't put some good scene-chewing chops on the line here; he's also a vicious criminal, but one who's even more reckless from the streets, and goes even more into the madness of his urban sprawl as things come to a head (see how he laughs maniacally in that crucial scene after the car chase, facing off against Wesley Snipes's cop). Now, as a really in-depth, message-worthy crime film, King of New York is a bit sluggish. It keeps to its 'these scum should be taken off the streets' with a pretty low-key way, as it's more into showing the dark perks of this life as it is in the side of police-work.It is, however, very good at capturing that devilish pleasure inherent in the sneakiest of film-noirs, where a real social point seemed to be being made, but really was made as an excuse for actors to have a good time with a meaty script. And Abel Ferrara's direction allows for the actors to do whatever works with the material (and, of course, sometimes doesn't too). One scene that still sticks with me, in how its shot and in its 'loose' quality, is when the gang members and gang-bangers (so to speak) are dancing to the rap music, with the tint on the film in a different hue than usual (perfect for aforementioned after-hours viewing). And as for Walken, even if he doesn't have the unforgettable landmark here like in Pulp Fiction or Deer Hunter, it's a palatable, veritable note of interest in a career playing greater or lesser variations on this 'getting it big' gangster character. If for nothing else, see the movie for him. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York (1990)*** (out of 4) Drug lord Frank White (Christopher Walken) is being released from prison and he immediately heads back to the street to pick up where he left off. Before he even gets into his car he's ordered that two rival drug dealers be taken care of. Back at his lavished hotel we get to meet Franks posse, which is mostly young black men who he picked up off the streets to work for him. Just looking at the place there's no question Frank is loaded with money but he's certainly not ready for retirement.For some reason while in prison Frank got rehabilitated but that doesn't mean he can't kill or butcher those he wants. Instead, he sees his rival gangs as the bad people and he views himself as some sort of Robin Hood. Frank plans to start killing off all his rivals so that he can make all the money and help save a hospital, which is about to be closed down. However, the police (Victor Argo, David Caruso, Wesley Snipes) don't care about his wannabe good guy image and want to put on end to him. The court systems hold Frank's rights higher than the cops so they decide to handle things in a new way.Director Abel Ferrara is one of the strangest acts in the business and I'm sure that has a lot to do with his cult appeal. I've seen the majority of his films and I must say that while I think he does a brilliant job at showing off style, he also lacks any sort of creditability when it comes to telling a story. Ferrara drives off controversy and to me, it's always seemed that he is more interested in starting trouble than actually delivering a good film. King of New York is a typical gangster film but the controversy surrounding the film, which includes originally getting an X-rating, is what makes it so unique and in the end highly entertaining.The first hour of the film is pretty much standard gangster talk as the king gets out of prison and heads back to his old turf to take things over. For some reason the screenplay gives us the idea of Frank being some sort of Robin Hood, yet the screenplay never really explains this and it pretty much doesn't take a big point in the film. This here is rather silly and the scenes dealing with the charity are pretty much out of place and should have been left out all together. This first hour also lacks any clear story because we certainly don't get to know Frank nor do we get to know the cops who are trying to take him down. We see the good guys playing the bad guys and the bad guys killing other bad guys. Nothing too original here.However, the second half of the film is where the drama comes into play making this film pretty much unforgettable. The director goes to great length showing off the violence on display here and the atmosphere created here is rather sickening and downright shocking in some scenes. There's a brilliant scene where a cop is on the ground wounded and his partner must try to save his life. I won't give anything away but the dialogue spoken by the cop goes to show how much love these men have in their jobs. This is preceded by an incredibly violent shootout as a drug deal gets broken up. Once again Ferrara crosses the line in the violence and it comes rather hard to view the film because the director has painted such an ugly, depressing and vicious picture of the surroundings.The second half of this movie is without a doubt the best moments on Ferrara's career and that's saying quite a lot considering the trouble he's gotten himself into over the years. The drama is very intense and for once we actually see what these guys are made of. The director uses a blueish tint throughout these scenes, which just adds a bit of dread to the entire thing and the final payoff is very fitting without there being any heroic tributes or flashy messages. I know many Ferrara fans say the non-fans simply don't understand the man but I think it's the director who just wants to show off ugliness and spit in the viewers face. In this film, that spit certainly leaves a mark and Ferrara walks away with something rather stunning.Christopher Walken, God bless him, is without a doubt one of the better character actors out there. He's mostly known for playing a psycho but who cares? Walken delivers a very good, silent performance here. He isn't given much to say throughout the film but in every scene we know exactly what's he's thinking thanks to those wonderful eyes as well as his body movement, which tells more than fifty lines of dialogue could. The supporting cast is also very good and includes Laurence Fishburn, Wesley Snipes and David Caruso. Victor Argo pretty much steals every scene he's in bringing an ugly side to the cops.King of New York could have been one of the greatest gangster films ever made but the screenplay pretty much does nothing throughout the film and there are way too many questions that go unanswered. Ferrara's main greatness is his style and the ugly atmosphere he creates and for the most part that carries the film along. There's no question that the film does what it sets out to do and that's shock people and outrage some. However, I really wish the director had gotten a better screenplay to mix in with the style because while I feel this film is very good, I can't help but be a bit disappointed that it isn't better. "},{"Title":"Walken is the King","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies for a number of reasons,, the first obviously is Christopher Walken, This movie has a number of great actors in it, Walken, Larry Fisbourne, Victor Argo, David Caruso, Wesley Snipes, and STeve Buscemi. The cinematography was great here also, the shots of the George Washington Bridge in N>Y>C. are timeless, also the shot of the prison gate closing ever so slowly when Frank's limo exits the prison was great. The plot in this movie was excellent i thought, you have a drug-lord that just get's out of prison and comes back to wipe out the competition, but what makes this movie different is that Frank , wants to give some of his profits back to the community, in particular a community hospital. The cops in this movie start out like regular cops, there good, trying to put away a drug-lord, there's even an Irish Wedding in here, later on since they can't seem to put away Frank, they try to get ugly and kill him. There's some great comedic lines in this on such as my favorite. where waken says  I never killed anybody that... umm.... didn't deserve it. This movie is gritty , urban, mostly shot at night, has interesting characters, and if you're a Christopher Walken fan this one is a must have to you're collection. "},{"Title":"Nihilism","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well this definitely gave Scarface a run for its money. The other movie that this reminded me of was New Jack City which was terrible and the only difference was that this was good. I still like Scarface better because I mean come on it's Al Pacino but other than that this was a pretty close race. The first hour flew by as it raced by using tough guy lines and wild shoot-em-ups...awesome! Christopher Walken was just amazing as the over the top fiery drug kingpin. He portrayed such a great tough guy that it was incredible to watch. I wish he more opportunities like this but unfortunately it may be kind of late as he's getting up there in age. All the supporting cast did a great job too. The only negativity I can convey about this film is that right after the first half for exactly 20 minutes it just got really weird and dumb in all the parts straight through this section but then went back to normal right after luckily. There were scenes in the ending that had some holes in them but looking past that with a soft eye it's still very enjoyable and had one of the best bumper car chase sequences out there!Final QuotientMovies No doubt!DVD Purchase Hold on let me think...yes I think I'm going to.Rental Do so immediately!! "},{"Title":"a fantastic movie","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  hey nowI watch this movie over and over again, and i think i put my finger on it, finally, its a throwback to movies such diverse as public enemy, the films of john woo, and even a little bit of walter hills movie's from the warriors to johnny handsome era.  A was in my opinion a predecessor to the films of beat takeshi kitano, luc besson, gangster number 1 and boondock saints.First of what a cast, Chris Walken is so chilling of a lead, giving a performance that if he would have died after the making of this movie, he would be remembered like James Dean is remembered.  Larry Fishburne makes his mark as a action star to equal to one jean reno or chow yun fat, even doing a double fisting gun salute to the latter.  Victor Argo, Wesley Snipes and David Caruso put in very good perfomances in this flick.  Troma fans should also note that a certain toxic avenger's girlfriend, phoebe legere (from part 2 and 3) makes a small bare assed appearence in this movie.I think that this movie is so watchable mostly because of the nicky st. john script and abel ferrara's brilliant pacing, and the action scenes are a combination of sergio leone and sam peckinpah, with the build up to the gun fights leone like, and the shoot outs peckinpah like.It is a wonderful movie, that shows an action movie can be art movie at the same time.thank you for taking the time to read this  "},{"Title":"Drug Kingpin with a soul?","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT The movie was worth watching just to see David Caruso's head blown off with Christopher Walken saying hey you. Not to mention at a funeral. How poetic. The internal battle in Christopher Walken's character, between his side to do right versus wrong are in constant battle. He constantly does the wrong thing for the right reasons. An anti-hero.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Gangster Films/Crime Drama Ever Made And An Underrated Classic With an Excellent Performance From Christopher Walken.","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King Of New York is one of the best Gangster Films and Crime Dramas ever made that's filled with stylish direction,Great performances from Christopher Walken and the whole cast,well-written screenplay and great Action. This film is an Underrated Classic and has a Cult following that is well-deserved.King Of New York tells the story of a gangster and drug lord named Frank White(Christopher Walken)who has just been released from prison and reunites with his former crew to wipe out his rivals and take back control of the drug game. While Frank is doing that,a group of New York cops want to take down Frank by any means necessary and try to stop Frank's rein as the King Of New York.King Of New York while a Great film and Cult Classic now,suffered from bad timing and unfortunately came out right around the same time as another Great New York set Gangster film Martin Scorsese's classic GoodFellas so KONY was basically ignored and overlooked by audiences as a result,but thankfully KONY was rediscovered through home video and was immortalized by the late great Hip-Hop icon The Notorious B.I.G who called himself The Black Frank White. One of the reasons I love KONY is the way it shows New York City a few years before the Big Apple was cleaned-up by Mayor Rudy Guiliani,the film shows New York as this dark and gritty place where drugs and crime have affected New York City,giving the film a sense of danger and gloomy atmosphere and a world where gangsters rule the streets.The screenplay by Nicholas St. John is well-written and memorable,giving the character great,realistic dialog,speaking in the tone and toughness of the streets. I also love the moral ambiguity of Frank White and the rest of the characters. Frank White is one of the best characters I've ever seen in a gangster film and in my opinion should be alongside Michael Coleone and Tony Montana as a gangster icon. Frank White is a character where one of the rare times in a gangster film you can relate to the main character because even though Frank is out of prison and back with his old crew,you feel that Frank is isolated and alone and lost too much time when he was in prison. And with Frank you may not always like his actions or the things he always or sometimes does but you like the character because one minute he's dealing with his rivals and drugs,while at the same time wanting to keep a hospital open. There's good and bad in Frank White and that is one of the things that makes Frank White a great character and so iconic. There's also a moral ambiguity with the other characters as well such as Frank's crew and the cops. Where in most Crime Dramas it's easy to figure out who's the good guys and the bad guys,it's not that easy with this film because you don't know who to root for and you don't who to root against. It would be easy to label Frank's crew the Bad Guys because they're dealing drugs and killing people and label cops as the Good Guys because the cops represent the law,but there is big a gray area that is in the film because you will love Frank's crew because of the things they do or hate the cops because of what they do or vice versa. That's one of the things I love about KONY is that nothing is what it seems and there is no easy answer. The Action and violence in the film is dark,gritty and violent and not for the faint of heart and it truly fits and matches the dark tone of the film showing viewers how the gangster lifestyle and drug dealing can be violent and horrible and the film doesn't glamorize the violence. The ending of this film is excellent and unlike most gangster film,this movie doesn't end with a bang,but in a sad,quiet way and one of the reasons KONY is a classic.The whole cast in the film is excellent. Christopher Walken gives one of his best and most iconic performances as Frank White,with Walken bringing an intensity,cool and calm demeanor to the role. Excellent performance by Walken. Laurence Fishburne gives a great,stand-out performance as Jimmy Jump,Frank's gun blazing right hand man. Fishburne is funny in the film and has great lines. David Caruso and Wesley Snipes are wonderful as Dennis and Tommy,two cops who want to nail Frank. Victor Argo is great as Roy,Dennis and Tommy's partner. Paul Calderon(Joey Dalesio),Janet Julian(Jennifer),Giancarlo Esposito(Lance),Steve Buscemi(Test Tube),Theresa Randle(Raye),Carrie Nygren(Melanie),Leonard L. Thomas(Blood),Roger Guenveur Smith(Tanner),Joey Chin(Larry Wong)and Frank Gio(Arty Clay) give good performances as well.The direction by Abel Ferrara is excellent,stylish and visually stunning,giving the film a great dark and gritty tone,while using different colors and always moving the camera. Great direction from Ferrara.The score by Joe Delia is wonderful,sad,energetic and melodic and adds to film's dark tone. Great score. The film also has great Hip-Hop tracks by Schooly-D like Am I Black Enough For You and Saturday Night. Great tracks.In final word,if you love Abel Ferrara,Christopher Walken,Gangster Films,Crime Dramas or films in general I suggest you see King Of New York,a true Gangster classic that will stay with you after watching it and a film that will stand the test of time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Smack Up the Down Town","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Badass and playful Christopher Walken (as Frank White) gets out of New York City's Sing Sing prison, and does his bloody best to assume control of the drug trade. He says, A nickel bag gets sold in the park, I want in! Cops like David Caruso (as Dennis Gilley) and Wesley Snipes (as Thomas Flanigan) give Mr. Walken and right-hand man Larry Fishburne (as Jimmy Jump) trouble, and fellow crime lords do their worst to stop him. But Mr. Walken, sporting stiff hair and a steely glare, isn't about to give up. It's directed and photographed with more style than substance, by Abel Ferrara and Bojan Bazelli. The music, by Joe Delia, is a highlight. ***** King of New York (7/18/90) Abel Ferrara ~ Christopher Walken, David Caruso, Laurence Fishburne, Wesley Snipes "},{"Title":"Bravo performance by Christopher Walken!!!","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some would argue whether Christopher Walken's role as Frank White in King of New York is his defining moment in filmdom. After all, he did light up the screen in classics such as The Deer Hunter and The Dogs of War, with apologies to his performances in The Dead Zone and At Close Range to name a few. The biggest problem with King of New York is that most people have probably never heard of it. It starred a plethora of up and coming actors as well as seasoned veterans of the industry. Supporting roles by Wesley Snipes, Larry Fishbourne, Steve Buscemi, David Caruso, and Victor Argo amongst others validate that fact. This 1990 sleeper did not garner the attention that it so rightfully deserved mainly because another gangster film produced simultaneously was marketed on a whole different level and starred arguably the biggest name in cinema. Goodfellas, which starred the iconic Robert Deniro, rightfully stole the show and remains a staple in the ever so popular gangster genre. However, in King of New York, Christopher Walken is mesmerizing as a crime-lord who, just released from prison, wants to reclaim his turf and clean up the neighborhood, so to speak. He sets out to accomplish this goal without conviction. Neither rival crime-lord, nor the local authority, will stand in his way. Although his modus operandi is highly unorthodox, his cool but perilous demeanor make King of New York a must see for patrons of the genre. "},{"Title":"Walken is class, but where's his monologue?","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara is a director who's never been known for subtlety or substance in truth, and King Of New York, is a career defining example of his style. Alongside Bad Lieutenant, this ranks as one of cult cinema's most shocking, and schlockiest of crime thrillers. Ferrara doesn't do half measures when depicting primarily violence but also sex and drugs. King Of New York is in fact, while quite vulgar (enjoyably so, like Roy Chubby Brown) a fascinatingly pessimistic and bleak look at New York, often glitzed and glammed on the big screen. The film creates an unpleasant atmosphere, and makes New York looks about as appealing a tourist destination, as a rare steak looks to a vegetarian. The film is uber-low budget, and at times looks like it could be any bottom shelf straight to video crap-fest, but it's shot in such a way to make it visually striking. However it doesn't try to please the eye, more repulse it.The film follows around Frank White (Christopher Walken), just released from prison. He sets out to wipe out all competition in the drugs business, and become the King of New York. Standing in his way are rival gangs and the police, but White is a man without fear. The plot is pretty thin, and as is typical with Ferrara, there's little substance or depth (aside from his fascinating pictorial of the big apple). The film however succeeds thanks primarily to its cast. Larry Fishburne is excellent as is David Caruso. Wesley Snipes appears in a supporting role, and does well, reminding us that before he started doing DTV action junk with titles like The Marksman, and The Detonator (superbly thought out titles!), he was actually a good actor). In the central role, and a role that could easily lack sympathy or likability of any kind, Christopher Walken excels. Walken is always watchable. He's an actor who can put his stamp on a role of any size, in any kind of film, and steal the movie (Pulp Fiction-True Romance-Catch Me If You Can- Deer Hunter). Here Walken makes the movie. In all fairness, Ferrara isn't one of the best directors, and the script isn't one of the most brilliantly written, but the movie has in its arsenal, Walken on top form. Without him, this is nothing more than mediocre. The only downside to Walken's role is that he doesn't get one of his trademark monologue moments that appear in virtually all his film (the best still being the watch in the ass monologue in Pulp Fiction).Also in the films favour is the excessively violent action. The action scenes really pack a punch. Ferrara, inspired somewhat by John Woo, makes his shootouts highly volatile, usually resulting in gallons of blood spurting out as someone gets ripped to shreds by gunfire. The look of the film, as mentioned earlier, screams cheapness, but that's not to say the cinematography isn't good. There's a great atmosphere created by the DP. Sometime the film really catches the eye with it's dirty, dank, noir look. Everything is so over the top, and with such glee, it makes the film that bit more enjoyable. And while Ferrara is heavy handed he manages to have a moment of (I thought) brilliance at the end of the film. White is sat in contemplation, looking out a cab window at New York around him. It's a final picture capturing the dirty side, the unlovable side of New York. **** "}{"Title":"Brilliant and Atmospheric.","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this film god knows how many times and never get sick of it. The performances by all of the actors are fantastic but Christopher Walken and Larry Fishburn are second to none. I cant understand why this film only got 6.7 on the IMDb, but maybe its just me. I have loved this film since I was ten years old. I remember going into all the shops and asking to buy it then I found out it was deleted. About a year later one of my mates said it was out on DVD. I don't think anybody has seen me move so fast. This is the first movie I have voted for on the IMDb and although I would not give it a 10 i would give it a 9.7. The fact that across the board it only got a 6.7 forced me to start voting for films because this in my view is not a correct reflection. The way the film is directed is near perfect. The cast and characters make the film also. The music even from the starting Ambient style classical music that is played at the start when Frank get s out of jail and is in the limo through to the Hip Hop from Schooly D could never be any more suited to any film. Thanks Abel Ferrara and Chris Walken for making this near perfect masterpiece. This film ranks in my top ten movies. "},{"Title":"rooting for the bad guy","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  This is one of those movies where I rooted for the bad guys - Christopher Walken as big-time kingpin Frank White, I loved how up-front he was in this movie as the movie went on it seemed as if he was becoming more ruthless and invincible in his own mind.  Laurence Fishburne as Jimmy Jump, one of his most unforgettable if you ask me.  The loudmouth livewire of the bunch stands out in his own way in this film though it was the charisma of Christopher Walken as Frankie...got me thinkin' about a certain song that referred to this Come and see me at the plaza hotel I might give you a job... 10/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece from Ferrara.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's King of New York is a chronicle of the downfall of New York drug kingpin Frank White, played superbly by Christopher Walken, who, after years of illegal activity, decides to expiate his sins by building a hospital in an inner-city neigbourhood. His attempts to give something back to the community encounter hostile resistance from every side - his Chinese drug partner (Joey Chin), the local Mafia, and an overzealous tough cop (David Caruso)ready to do anything to bring White down. Frank's futile efforts trigger an ethically-motivated gangster war that ends in a bloody showdown among the city's criminal factions. Christopher Walken gives a stand - out, tour de force performance in the lead (that garnered him another Academy Award nomination) as a ruthless killer with a twisted sense of morality, and Laurence Fisburne is impressive as White's henchman Jimmy Jump who contributes to the film's frenetic energy. Like all of Ferrara's work, King of New York is not an easy movie to watch. It's violent and disturbing, with a high body count. But the film is highly rewarding and ultimately engaging, as it shows Abel Ferrara's further exploration of characters who seek salvation against the backdrop of a drug-infested and violent New York City underground. The film goes further than regular gangster films as it internally explores characters and their sense of loyalty and respect for the powerful White. It also has a racial undertone as it shows Frank White's respect for his fellow black gangmembers and his recognition of equality, and extermination of the racist Italian Mafia . The film has great metaphoric meaning, preaching that the world should be joined together as a whole in whatever path, whether it's illegal or legal.The film is intelligible and an extemely interesting character study of the salvage of redemption and regret of past sins.(I also advise you to check out Ferrara's 1992 follow-up, Bad Lieutenant, featuring an Academy-Award nominated performance from Harvey Keitel. This film takes the director's bloody yet introspective examination of sin and redemption one step further.)           "},{"Title":"King of New York","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  King of New York is one of the greatest films I have ever seen. It is an erie yet electric look at crime in corruption in the greatest city in the world. Christopher Walken delivers an exceptional performance as crime kingpin Frank White. In my opinion, this is one of Larry Fishburnes best part yet. He plays Jimmy Jump, the crazy hardened rught hand gunman for White. He is utterly crazy and untamed in his role, and plays his character well. See this movie, it is superb. "},{"Title":"Simply the most under-rated film of all time","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It amazes this arm-chair critic that so few people rate this film as being great. It has four of the best actors of this generation playing intense, almost perfectly written roles. Anyone that loves a good mob flick, enjoys a good-versus-bad story, or likes to root for the bad guys would surely rate this as a top-ten movie. Walken and Fishburne play misguided, modern-day Robin Hoods against Caruso and Snipes playing frustrated cops. Both sides hate the system they are in the bad guys want to continue gang activities but help the neighborhood; the good guys want to stop the gang but find normal procedures to be fruitless. Which side wins? Actually, it is the viewer that wins. Said viewer will probably be wishing for a sequel, or prequel, even as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Excellent....","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film on a recommendation, and was not sorry.The cinematography in this film was perfect, from dark, dirty streets to claustraphobic alleyways, a city hunched in from the rain and the cold. This genius extends to many of the characters in the peice - frequently the pallor of Frank's skin togeather with his expressions make him look almost dead. And yet this is someone with a mission, who wants to improve the quality of life for all whilst managing a drugs empire. Someone who is completely unafraid of dying but hurt by the fact that his Fishburne's character did'nt visit him in jail. Who'd wanna see you in a cage, Man? ................of course He's someone who will do whatever it takes to get what he wants, but believes that Cops should have integrity. This the way you do things?Basically, he's believable - a man of many parts.The script is wonderful, with the exception of Frank's Park Avenue Attourney who, despite repeated viewings, cannot be seen to act in a manner even to ensure a walk-on in a sitcom.The gunfights were excellent, the script was good and the end was perfect.Dan  "},{"Title":"Dark and violent","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film sweeps over you like a drug induced fog. Dark is not the word. Oozing style this film works on both a thoughtful and brutal level. If you can cope with the numbing violence, including agonizing death scenes, you'll feel you've ridden a ghost ride that scraped hell's surface, but came up dressed in Armani. Walken's performance is his best - is that really his hair?? Of course it is. "},{"Title":"KING OF NEW YORK (Abel Ferrara, 1990) **","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This Italian-funded production (courtesy of Italian media tycoon and future Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi!) is yet another vicious gangland melodrama from Abel Ferrara this is actually a slight step up from FEAR CITY (1984; see above) but, for all the film's patent slickness, it is gradually done in by annoying characters, mannered performances and ponderous direction. Christopher Walken has a (self-indulgent) field day as Frank White, a gangster-cum-humanitarian who, when he is not hanging out with his black cohorts and partying up a storm with his molls, is killing off his adversaries in nasty streetfights or rubbing shoulders with elite society at gala dinners. Nothing exactly new then but, to the usual ingredients, Ferrara adds a deafening soundtrack, sleaze, vigilante police officers, sleaze, Asian film-buff/dope-dealers and more sleaze. Having said that, the occasional effectively handled sequence (David Caruso's brutal killing during a fellow police officer's funeral service, the train confrontation between White and his ageing cop nemesis, White's own slightly ambiguous come-uppance, etc.) - shines through regardless. For what it's worth, the film features three early appearances by future stars/notable character actors-to-be Laurence Fishburne (playing Frank White's right-hand man, an especially irritating characterization as a swaggering thug with a maniacal laugh who just begs to be shot but who, unfortunately for this viewer, does not get his just desserts until fairly late in the game!), Wesley Snipes (as one of the afore-mentioned vigilante cops) and a blink-and-you'll-miss-him Steve Buscemi as a dope tester. "},{"Title":"One of Abel Ferrara's finest achievements. Christopher Walken is hypnotic in this dreamlike crime saga.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferrara is never afraid to experiment and push the boundaries. Apart from a brief period in the mid-late 1980s where he seemed to lose his way somewhat, he has made one of the most interesting (and sometimes frustrating) body of work of any living American director. I can't say I think all his movies have been completely successful, but they are NEVER boring, and when he's on top of his form he is simply one of the most exciting directors around. His very best movie in my opinion is probably a draw between 'Bad Lieutenant' and this one, 'King Of New York'. They are very different movies in many respects. Both feature New York as a backdrop, both films center on crime, and both feature amazing performances from their lead actors (Harvey Keitel in 'Bad Lieutenant', Christopher Walken here). But Keitel gives a very emotionally open performance where he really bears his soul. Walken is more stylized and a little less real, but there's still more depth to his character than originally appears on first viewing, and he is compelling what ever way you look at it.  The feel of each movie is also very different. 'King Of New York' has a dreamlike atmosphere that makes one sometimes question the reality of what is on screen. I think the viewer who just treats this as a straightforward crime movie is missing the big picture, and may feel a little short changed.  It's difficult to put into words, but I think multiple viewings reveal that this is far from just a conventional rise and fall Mob movie like 'Scarface' or 'Goodfellas'. There is a scene in it with a clip from 'Nosferatu', and I don't think this was chosen lightly. In some ways you could almost read this is a horror movie as much as a crime story. 'King Of New York' has a modern urban Gothic feel, something Ferrara would explore in his strange vampire movie 'The Addiction' (which features an unforgettable cameo from Walken). Anyway, Walken is hypnotic on screen and dominates every scene he is in. You literally can't take your eyes off him! The movie is absolutely essential viewing for any fan of this amazing actor. The supporting cast is almost second to none. Some Ferrara has used before, some not, but you'll rarely see a more impressive collection of character actors than here - Larry Fishburne ('The Matrix'), Victor Argo ('Taxi Driver'), Paul Calderon ('Pulp Fiction'), Wesley Snipes ('Blade'), David Caruso ('Kiss Of Death'), Giancarlo Esposito ('Do The Right Thing'), Steve Buscemi ('Reservoir Dogs'), and Frank Adonis ('Goodfellas'), just to name some of the better known faces. I highly recommend this movie for fans of Ferrara, Walken, and gangster films. It's a unique movie, very haunting and odd, with a mixture of beauty and violence rarely seen in American movies. "},{"Title":"King of Wishful Thinking!","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is hands down the WORST film I've ever seen! Talk about lacking any redeeming qualities! Gotta love the stereotypical street thug with a heart theme -- gosh that's original. I love the fact that this film is so deliciously bad - so many films have dialogue but no character development, have good characters but no plot, etc. This film does EVERYTHING wrong - and it plays the same cheesy music throughout! With Walken, Lawrence Fishburne (credited as Larry) and Steve Buscemi, you'd think this would be watchable. It is actually so bad, I laughed until we turned it off. Walken is given the most ridiculous character -- he has flock of seagulls hair and acts like a lunatic. He's a great ensemble actor, but I don't think he works very well as a leading man. I wish I could say something more positive about this film, but it is absolutely dreadful.  "}{"Title":"Drugs are bad, m'kay?","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The Warriors meets Reservoir Dogs meets an MC Hammer video. Stylistically the it's about 5 years too late. The movie is looking very dated. By 1990, shoulder pads, mullets and Nagel paintings were way out of style. Lots of over the top violence in a very empty wastelandish NYC. Why would anyone want to be King of NY anyway? Imagine the bureaucratic nightmares. Perhaps Walken's character finally came to his senses. Walken does his now famous signature dancing. (See Fatboy Slim video). The characters are very cliché, but Walken is typical Walken. Scaaaaary psycho. The good guys are overly zealous for no reason as are the bad guys. Except the bad guys zeal can be blamed on too much drug use. And everyone was too glamorous,especially the women. Notice I have'nt mentioned the plot? I couldn't find one. The point? Drugs are bad, M'kay. "},{"Title":"Entertainingly over the top.","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Legend has it that Abel Ferrera's girlfriend broke up with him at the premier of this gangster flick. Ya gotta love a movie director who manages to offend his own squeeze... That said, there is a lot wrong with this picture - the bust-happy obsessed cops are one dimensional goons; the black crooks are a little too street sassy to be believed (especially Fishburne); and the plotting tends toward the generic. There are few plot twists, and few unexpected happenings. Ultimately, though, the flashy visuals trump the flaws and the look of the picture triumphs over its more forgettable elements. Ferrera creates a glossy, almost movie star world for the Frank White character to inhabit, while giving us an appropriately grimy and rundown urban landscape just below his gleaming Plaza Hotel penthouse. The women are hot, the confrontations boil over into sudden violence with no warning and the chases and shoot-outs demonstrate careful and competent staging. Worth a look for late 80s / early 90s gangster flick fans. "},{"Title":"The King of Gangster Flicks","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I give the title King of Gangster Flicks for many reasons.... no spoilers.First off, find the DVD release of this film, on VHS the quality of picture was rather poor (very dark). this stands right next to Scarface as it's ugly yankee twin brother .. Cocaine is visible in actor's noses, most of the characters in the movie are overly vulgar and hostile , with a rather unattractive cast. it's a straight cold blooded gangster film that makes many others pale in comparison.Fishburne's character is best described as a nightmarish cartoon, Caruso is a vigilant maniac with a witty sense of humor... Walken delivers as usual "},{"Title":"Stick around...I got Frankenstein coming up next.","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is most likely Director Ferrara's most accessible Movie. Most of his Films are so quirky, offbeat, and personal with an Art-House/Grindhouse dichotomy that doesn't set to well with casual Movie goers. This one, and perhaps Bad Lieutenant (1992), are Crime Thrillers that call in the masses and give them enough style and grit to garner reluctant approval.But not everyone was entertained. Initially this was a dismissed and protested Movie called trashy, indulgent, and reprehensible. That's what made it the Cult Movie it is today. The over abundance of style and uncompromising, lurid appeal that has a staying power and is unforgettable.There is a metaphorically alluring Character in Frank White (is that name Black Enough For Ya) who is a pale-faced, monstrous, Vampyric Robin Hood as charming as the Devil himself. Like Jesus, he hangs with the dregs, in the bad part of town, but can be found at the Plaza Hotel planning his take down of the worst of the worst. Rival Gangs and crooked, selfish Politicians (Money Changers).This is a Great Neo-Noir that exudes an atmosphere of dark blueness. There is virtually no sunlight in this story of Under Worldliness and it has a nightmarish template of Violence, Decadence, and some Dark Philosophy delivered from a likable chilling Gangster. "},{"Title":"king of new york is a brilliant,brutal, funny and shocking gangster movie","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" king of new york has got to be one of the most underrated movies iv'e ever seen, cristopher walken is on fire as frank white a new york kingpin just released from prsion, as he takes back his drug dealing empire. the rest of the cast are great too including Laurence fishburne,Wesley snipes and an early role from steve buscemi. the movie is very violent and has a dark tone, it's completely different than something like goodfellas but king of new york is a more street gangster movie. abel ferrara is a good directer and this has to be his masterpiece, and frank white has got to be one of the greatest roles in gangster cinema. i actually prefer the movie to scarface but i don't think it's a better movie. king of new york is a must see movie "},{"Title":"Killing and dancing your way to the top.","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What comes to mind when I think of this; a dark, punishing urban crime picture with the magnificent Christopher Walken disposing of leading Columbian, Italian and Chinese drug-lords and amongst that finding time to get his jig on while being surrounded by a sensational ensemble cast (Larry Fishburne, Wesley Snipes, Victor Argo, David Caruso, Giancarlo Espsito and a minor appearance by Steve Buscemi). Walken is great as Frank White and while it might be a more restricted performance it delves a little more into the psyche of a character that wants, and thinks his doing an important favour to society. He's taking action. It might be dirty work, but his heart is in the right place and all things eventually come to an end. However moments of placidity and thoughtfulness, are broken by random jumps of (decisive and jolting) energy that makes Walken such a captivating performer.Fishburne is a real treat, as he ups the ante and brings out the firecrackers as one of Walken's henchman. Caruso, Snipes and Argo bring the right sort of frustration, grit and intensity as the group of cops who'll do anything to bring down Frank White. Caruso surprisingly gave a tour de force turn. The ladies who are under White's seductive pull; Janet Julian and Theresa Randle are desirably good.Director Abel Ferrera peering style and high octane pacing paints shifts in moody lighting, beaming action filled with gut-busting violence and cooking up a grimy New York atmosphere. There's an off-kilter sense to it. The nightlife was truly brooding and filled with inspired imagery (like the haunting ending) as the sweeping camera-work and hypnotic score took shape and placement. Nicholas St. John's dramatic screenplay kicks up the tough dialogues and seedy underbelly amongst the high-flying big-wigs in an almost Gothic dream-like quality, but still feels a little brought up short. "},{"Title":"good but  uneven gangster movie","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The good The story is a familiar gangstr story with a small twist. A gangster gets out of prison and wants to take over the city...but he wants to become a philanthropist at the same time and fix the slums and help the poor people in some way. This corrupted man is outraged by the corruption of the government that denies poor people basic needs. He and his henchmen proceed to take over the city.Th acting of Christopher Walken and Larry Fishburn are captivating. They both deliver top-notch performances and they are what make this movie, without their characters and performances, this movie is nothing.The mood of the city that is created with all of the dark blueish shots is done skillfully. The shot with Christopher Walken looking out of the window with the reflection of the NY skyline in the reflection is classic image.The Bad. There are a lot of things that don't' make sense in this, are inconsistent with reality, or are nearly impossible. Without giving away much I will say, the King of New York is frequently riding the train? This is a man worth millions of dollars, and he rides the train quite often. Totally unrealistic. Notorious mobsters worth Millions of dollars do not ride the train, period.But you should see this movie anyway, the performances of Walken and Fishburn are enough to watch this movie, and they keep it entertaining until the end. The characters portrayed are great characters, and are superbly acted, that alone makes it a must see. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now this is my kinda movie. An intelligent & edgy movie with a great storyline. From the start, this movie will grab hold of you, and take you for a relentless ride through the underworld of New York. Incredibly realistic, since any brutal action performed by the characters always leads to consequences.If you like Bad Ass movies, then this is your film. The only thing I didn't like about it was the ending. I'm not going to reveal what happens, since that could ruin it for people. And I'm not going to complain much, because what doesn't work for me could be a great ending for others.If I had to compare King of NY to another movie, it would probably be Scarface. Although I'd say Scarface is better, both movies are in the same league. And even being 80% of what Scarface was, is still a nice accomplishment. "},{"Title":"My favorite Walken movie","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What I loved most about this movie, was it seemed that deep down, Frank White was conflicted as to whether he truly wanted to take on the Robin Hood persona. All through the film I was thinking to myself, Is he really going to stick to his guns & help these people out?  When he would visit hospitals, the movie left me wondering if the staff truly knew where the money was coming from, & if so, did it bother them, or were they looking for help from anyone, given the financial straits that the hospitals were in? I love how the movie never answered that question. My favorite scene was when Frank killed Artie. The first bullet did the job, but Frank had to prove a point. Frank walked back because he had one bullet left. David Caruso annoys me, so I enjoy seeing his character get frustrated each time I watch this movie. I think King of New York is Walken's best performance. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has it all killings,drugs,swearing,did I mention killing ? Frank White (Christopher Walken) just got released from prison, and comes back to New York. When he arrives another guy runs the area. This is not what he wanted to see, so he goes back in business for himself. He recruits who he needs and kills everyone who gets in his way. Wesley Snipes and his punk partner David Caruso are out to stop him and his goons from taking back the city. It's got everything a good action movie needs, and really doesn't stop all the way through. If your into a good crime movie this is it !And one more thing... whoever wrote the quote under the Goofs section, should clean his eyeballs, They state this... Frank is dancing with the blonde chick in the white blouse, then they go outside on the balcony, then she's wearing a black jacket which Walken didn't give her Well if he would watch closer Walken picks up the jacket off the chair just before they go out! All in all this is a very violent movie. So I do recommend it! "}{"Title":"Different.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's King of New York is a dark, dedcadent symphony of violence and mayhem. It stands in stark contrast to other gangster films, and due to Ferrara's gritty style, it feels different. One thing about the movie is the near absence of music, save for a few Schoolly D rap tunes and sparse, eerie keyboard music. This haunting music through the film gives it a poetic and tragic edge. The performances are top notch all around, espically Chirstopher Walken and Larry Fishburne. The gun battles are brutal, at times resembling a war movie, rather than a typical gangster shoot 'em up. For it's stylish direction, brilliant performances and intriguing story line, King of New York is my favorite gangster movie of all time.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable performances from this gangster movie","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite gangster films, even though it may not be the best technically in comparison to the likes of GoodFellas and The GodFather. The performances from the likes of Walken, Fishburne, Buscemi, and Snipes all showcase how well these people can act especially when given such an excellent script. Fishburne's performance is just as impressive as Walken's in playing his character 'Jump' and he brings a real sense of reality to the screen. Walken's performance as Frank White is obviously great, he's cool and steady in his role. The director succeeds with the pace of the film, never letting the viewer from getting bored, just as well as the performances of the script. Even the soundtrack helps the film to a great extent with the old school rap conveying the feeling of the urban lifestyle of 80's New York. I recalled another comment saying there is too much bad language, but you have to acknowledge the movie in the context of the gangster hierarchy, the street gangsters depicted are obviously not the same as those from say the GodFather. I'd advise anyone who has yet to see this movie to 'buy' it now, preferably on DVD. You'll be looking at one of the hidden classics of the 80's, you owe it to yourself. 9/10. "},{"Title":"discussing the movie, the actors and director.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Another film in the classic Ferrara style. If you are not into his work you will probably not like this movie. Not because it is not a good film but because it has nothing to do with the rest of Hollywood productions. To be more precise, this must be the exact opposite of a typical John Woo film. The film is slow, with some great camera games (notice Walken's stare right into the camera when he's having the shower in the beginning of the movie), and some twisted scenes which I will not mention as I hate spoilers. Notice the names include actors like Fishburn, Snipes and Buscemi. Although they do play their parts to the most of their potential their roles are just too small. The entire movie focuses on the life of Frank White, masterly played by Christopher Walken. This movie is indeed a classic. Specially in the hands of Abel Ferrara, this movie is meant to be remembered. "},{"Title":"a fairly good film, but for unexpected reasons","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Christopher Walken is one of the coolest actors. Watching him play a crime boss is seeing Walken at his best. That's what I've learned from such movies as True Romance and Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead. Well, for some reason it doesn't work this time. To be honest, the only reason why I wanted to see this movie was because it has Walken in his ideal role. It doesn't work because Walken is given very minimal dialogue. We see him act brutally, but we need to hear him speak. The movie comes nowhere near the drug movie that set the standards, Pacino's Scarface, however, it is a lot like New Jack City. Both movies focus on action more than they do on the actual business of the sales. The action here is good. There are also some excellent perfomances by Lawrence Fishbourne and David Caruso. Without them, this movie would be nothing, but they are good enough to make it a worthy film. New Jack City was better, but this movie was alright. As far as the director, Abel Ferrara goes, this is no Bad Lieutenant. "},{"Title":"Walken's honest amorality","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The most curious thing about this film for me was how Walken's character (utterly superbly played- noone could have done it better) actually is a strange kind of anti-hero due to his searing honesty regarding the world he lives in. Utterly amoral, dedicated and remorseless, he is the only character in the movie who is truly honest to himself and what he's become, with the interesting exception of the old cop who gets him in the end.He has no pretensions about what he needs to do to get ahead and no embarrasment about what he's done. In that sense I think his character is a precursor of what we see in society today, where people are utterly unwilling to live by any code except me first.Walken's performance chills the blood and there's good support from Larry Fishburne. However the cops are like rejects from a Tom Clancy movie and some of the other supporting characters are just drones. The storyline also goes along a few rabbit tracks. Walken's political and philanthropic overtures are never properly handled and just kind of get dropped, bullet-ridden, into the gutter (like most of the cast).However, the movie is extremely stylish. It's just a pity my brain went numb with the sound of gunfire and the sight of blood about 2/3 of the way through. Ferrara could take some lessons from Michael Mann (Heat) in how to really use violence in a dramatic context. 8/10 for artistic content, 4/10 for the rest. "},{"Title":"My motivation is what?","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm going to give Ferrara the benefit of the doubt and assume he deliberately wiped all trace of motivation, backstory and character depth out of this movie. If he were totally incompetent he would have at least made a feeble stab at it instead of ignoring the idea altogether. That said this is a mildly entertaining movie if you like gruesome mob flicks, which I personally do. A couple of scenes are worthy of the rewind button. Fishburne is worth watching, though Steve Buscemi and Giancarlo Esposito don't really do much except stand around in the background. A question though - since the cops were about as deep as puddles, why waste so much time with them instead of having another shootout. Ditto for the slutty attorney. And is it just me, or does no one mention the whole hospital motivation thing for the last third of the movie? "},{"Title":"Fishburne, Walken incredible","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Absolutely a brilliant performance by Laurence Fishburne, and Walken is his usual solid, creepy self as well.  Caruso and Snipes play relatively 2D cops, but it works well and is vital with walken and fishburne on the screen... riveting! "},{"Title":"Soundtrack","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the movie. Dark and gritty with the constant 'scent' of doom. Frank White's brutal reality mixed with his apparent philanthropic drive blend to create a tension that permeates the entire film. The best of Fishburn's early performances. ...for the bullet-holes...I have performed an exhaustive search to locate the soundtrack for King of New York. In particular the song by Schooly-D entitled Am I Black Enuf for Ya?  "},{"Title":"Gentleman Junkie","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The early 1990s saw a huge resurgence in gangster movies (Goodfellas, Godfather 3, New Jack City, Boys in the Hood, Mobsters, Dick Tracy, Juice, Clockers, Dead Presidents, Menance to Society, Miller's Crossing etc etc). One of the earliest was Abel Ferrara's King of New York.The plot? Christopher Walken plays Frank White, a drug lord who's recently been released from jail. Walken navigates the film like Noferatu in Armani, his time in prison filling his skull with delusions of grandeur; he wants New York. Not all of it. Just some.White then sets about reorganising his gangsters. He arranges a series of meetings with rival Colombian gang lords and has his lieutenants, led by Jimmy Jump (Lawrence Fisburne), execute them all. As White reclaims lost turf, and expands into new territory, he filters more and more money into local projects (eg &#x96; a Harlem hospital). With these scenes Ferrara intends to overlap blood money and social benediction, but the theme is quickly dropped.Indeed, most of the films ideas are brought up and then quickly ignored. Frank repeatedly tells street thugs to meet him at an opulent hotel, but never does. He trades ominous barbs with local gangsters, but these feuds go nowhere. Much of the film instead watches as a trio of cops, played by Victor Argo, David Caruso and Wesley Snipes, attempt to take Frank down. Realizing that legal methods aren't sucessful enough, they thus resort to violent, extralegal measures. The film then traces two very broad movements, the cops becoming increasingly barbaric, whilst Frank, who exists in a kind of metropolitan purgatory, one foot in grimy dens, the other in luxurious hotels and up-market benefit gigs, attempts to go legitimate.Throughout the film, Ferrara approaches conventional scenes from odd angles. He stretches clichés to elaborate lengths and though his film possesses all the genre's typical plot beats, they're laid out in unconventional proportions, shootouts drawn to comically long lengths and moments of drama which would be fleshed out in another picture, treated wordlessly or quickly skirted over. This has the bizarre effect of making the film both interestingly idiosyncratic and totally uninteresting. What is Frank's goal? How did Frank become a drug lord? How does a white boy become leader of African American street gangs? Ferrara doesn't care. It's all about mood.Unfortunately this mood reeks of a very specific early 1990s aesthetic lots of abandoned warehouses, blue light, blue filters, plastic sunglasses, pounding hip-hop, shoulder pads, mullets, Vivaldi orchestrals, Schoolly D, MTV vogue, MC Hammer shenanigans, gold chains, early 90s gun-play, fade-tops, Joo Woo style outlandishness, over-ripe imagery, dual pistol wielding, bombastic car chases, full moons, coke snorting, Bling Bling etc etc. The whole thing looks like a Patrick Nagel painting. Bizarrely, Ferrara says James Cameron's The Terminator was King's chief influence and inspiration. He set out to recreate Cameron's neon and moonlit Los Angeles in downtown New York. Style was primary, plot secondary.But while the likes of Don Corleone and Henry Hill frolic in fine suits and stylish finery, Ferrara's hoodlums look like a joke. Such an aesthetic plagues all the early 90s gangster movies filmed in the year they're set. Unlike something like Scarface (1983), which knows its costumes and decor are totally ridiculous, these films tend to present themselves without irony, and without the mediation or distance of time. One can rationalise their ridiculousness away &#x96; the near past is a distant country, the distant past a familiar comfort etc etc &#x96; but the fact is, early 90s fashion was pure crap. Early 90s hip-hop or black fashion, was even worse; a kind of vulgar appropriation of everything from corporate sports brands to tribal wear. This cross cultural mishmash was a celebration of individual expression, but also a means by which those whom society deemed worthless conveyed, via materialism, a signal of worth. Hop-hop fashion then celebrated values of opulence and pea-cocking, until it began to recognise its own anxieties in the mid 1990s. Its statements of bravado then became increasingly toned down, its style went up-market and the poor were slowly priced out of ghetto fashion. Later, to be black and successful suddenly meant to dress like classy white guys. Of course Frank has no time for these expressions or anxieties. He's the only well dressed person in the film, moving like a suited Velociraptor as he coolly plots conquest.King ends with several protracted, bloody shootouts. Frank begins the film in the back of a stretched limo, but dies in the back of a taxi cab. I didn't want to make money that way, he says in his epitaph. And I never killed anybody who didn't deserve it. In the end, Frank White just wanted to be white. Legit. Establishment.Upon release, King was bashed for its sleaze and foul language. Ferrara would vocally defend the film, before all but disowning it years later for its irresponsibleness, before welcoming it back with mixed feelings. The film's noirish, nighttime aesthetic is stiff compared to Ferrara's later works (R'Xmas, Last Day on Earth, New Rose Hotel, Go Go Tales etc) and its law/order, wealth/slums juxtapositions are unsophisticated next to Ferrara's best pictures. Elsewhere King indulges in Ferrara's three loves sleaze, religion and silent cinema. He paints Frank White as a vampire risen from the dead tombs of incarceration (the rat sequence from Murnau's Nosferatu's is seen playing on a cinema screen), ready to spread his disease. But Frank also has a Jesus complex, hoping to deliver a great, apocalyptic purge; to clean up the city with his new religion. Elsewhere the film oscillates between beautiful, spare, elegant imagery, totally cheesy moments, and crypto-Catholic imagery (blood sacrifices, bent Catholicism, rebirths, deaths etc) 6/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Stylistically brilliant but dramatically muddled gangster rise-and-fall tale","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" At the time I first saw this, on original release, I had little or no patience for hip hop - the culture or the music - and I really didn't get the gangster genre. I'm not sure if I felt that the film glorified gangsterism, or if it was that it was mostly full of repellent characters...can't really say what, all told, turned me off so much, but my memory of it was very harsh.Christopher Walken plays Frank White, the ironically-named gangster who is seen leaving prison in the opening shots of the film and heading back into New York City to regain control of his mostly black gang of drug dealers. One of his rivals gets rubbed out spectacularly in a phone booth, signaling that an era of (apparently) relative peace has ended as the charming, somewhat nutty, and very afro-centric Frank makes his return.I haven't quite figured out what Ferrara and writer Nicholas St. John were aiming at by having Frank surround himself with African-Americans, being insulted at various points for being a ni--er lover, adopting certain stereotypically black forms of behavior. It's interesting - for all his faults, Frank's not a racist, and in fact the film seems almost colorblind, apart from the other gang leaders who Frank intimidates and occasionally murders to show his power. Up against Frank and his two most trusted lieutenants Jimmy Jump (Larry Fishburne) and Joey Delasio (Paul Calderon) are Detective Roy Bishop (Victor Argo) and his two top men Thomas Flanigan (Wesley Snipes) and Dennis Gilley (David Caruso), and the film is at pains to portray the cops as almost as thuggish as - if a bit less lethal than - Frank and his goons. We also find out fairly quickly that Frank means to take a fair part of his drug money and leave it to a badly needed hospital in his neighborhood.So there's an attempt here at showing a multifaceted, complex man who happens to be a murderous drug lord, but also has his human side. Except it doesn't - quite - work. There's no real sense of who Frank is, why he wants to build this hospital, where he comes from; it just seems like a personal quirk, and personal quirks that end up costing millions of dollars and lots of lives really need some explaining. None of the other characters register as anything beyond archetypes either (Caruso as the hot-headed Irish cop, Snipes as the cool cat partner, etc). Finally the film feels mostly like an excuse for its several excellent violent set pieces - a shootout at a big drug deal in a warehouse, an exciting street chase by car and then on foot in the rain, Frank's final confrontation with Roy - and some solid proto-gangsta styling from Schooly D.The photography (by Bojan Bazelli) is absolutely stunning - this is one of the best looking nighttime-in-New York films I've seen, the actions sequences are exciting, and the performances mostly solid with Walken be compelling if a bit too enigmatic to make us really feel anything much about him. Perhaps that's the point? It doesn't seem like enough to me. But on the whole, the film works as a good stylish genre exercise with an interesting racial feeling. It's just something about nothing, ultimately.Well I'm glad I re-saw this. Though I wouldn't call it great or anything, it certainly left me with a different feeling than it did 18 or 19 years ago. "}{"Title":"That kiss was male bonding, it wasn't gay.","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie has a tendency to polarize people; whereas I would say the majority of viewers (like myself) love this movie and it's excessive braggadocio and violence, there is not an insignificant amount of folks who feel this is nothing more than a typically dated Abel Ferrara ego-stroking piece that hides it's half-assed script behind a barrage of fancy stylistics. The cast is all-star; Christopher Walken plays his typical ice-cold self drug king pin Frank White, Wesley Snipes plays a strong silent type tormented straight edge cop, David Caruso plays the emotional cop who takes the law into his own hands, Laurence Fishburn in a particularly memorable over the top performance, and Steve Buscemi thrown into a couple scenes for good measure. Basically the actors, not the script make this movie great. Long story short, Frank White and his African-American gang attempt to take over NYC's drug trade by systematically killing off rival gangs (Columbians, Italians, Chinese, etc). The job is made harder when a few cops realize that working within the law is futile and they essentially start a little early-90's-LAPD-style hit squad, and there is the obligatory side-story of Frank White attempting to atone for his crimes by doing good for the community. Nothing groundbreaking obviously, but this movie is more about style. The AC/DC crowd probably hate this film as it has massive and prominent amounts of early Hip Hop and a fare share of other criminal black music/culture throughout. The cinematography is very Eyes-Wide-Shut-esquire in it's exaggerated use of cool blues and warm golds. The gunfights are super bloody and the squibs are really loaded up with fluid here in the Verhoeven tradition. Typical of Ferrara's lush style there is a lot of great female nudity on screen the whole time, very nice. And just in general the film has tons of urban gusto, a very NYC-cash-rules-everything-around-me feel. ...And finally...I can't write a review of King Of New York without mentioning the infamous DVD audio commentary track. Everybody who has heard that knows exactly what i'm talking about; Abel Ferrara drops more F-bombs in that 100 minutes than is in the actual film, not to mention his insightful and amusing observations for us home-viewers, such as look at this guy putting his f-cking hand-...this is a Columbian, this is my man, he's got his finger right up her f-cking ass, and getting payed. "},{"Title":"Edgy Crime Drama, Gripping & Entertaining...","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A little known gangster movie with a huge subcore of fans, King of NY is a watchable film that blends street smarts w/entertaining dialog. Its better than the comparable New Jack City, with a much more edgier and stylistic story about its characters. Though it is a dated film it still manages to hold on to it's sense of realism which is the underlying theme that director Abel Ferrara intended it to be. Its title character makes it all work. Frank White (Christopher Walken) is a reformed kingpin, just released from prison. He tries to repair his city's loose ends, but by his reputation, is misunderstood by his rivals and peers in the underworld. The police also question his motives, which puts White in the middle of a double edged sword. The movie's ending is unexpected...Without revealing too much, its a movie worth watching, and worth a second watch for that matter. I give it a solid 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Walken Unleashed!","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrera and Christopher Walken unite to give us this violent and sordid story of a repenting drug lord bent on putting a leash on the industry and create a children's hospital to wash his sins away. of course, to say that his past catches up with him and that people give him a hard time is putting things mildly.This is not Scarface, nor is it the Godfather. there is no transformation for title character Frank White from innocent to ruthless drug lord to repenting sinner to tragic victim of his own deeds. Instead, we are given something more original from the start, a just released from jail White dreams of the brighter future and of being the city's benefactor, and has to fight grudging cops and angry rivals every step of the way to get there. At times though, this new guise cracks open and reveals parts of the old psychotic and evil White. It is a beautiful story of how a man who was invincible while he was evil suddenly falls because he decided to grow a conscience.The mood is dark and dirty and the players all inhabit their characters with anger (sometimes repressed, other times, the beastly sort) and energy. But in the end Ferrera is wise enough to only make it the perfect setting for one foreground element that dominates the film and truly makes it soar Christopher Walken's performance! Who else could better portray such a character? from the calmer moments of relaxation to the colder moments of anger or outright fury, Walken is perfect in the role his eyes, his voice, his entire physiognomy and craft seem tailor made for this part. He is nonetheless assisted by the very effective Lawrence Fishburn, whose animal energy is a perfect antithesis to Walken's cool White.This film may not top any official charts, but it remains a milestone in the crime film genre. well deserving of its' selected but loyal following. "},{"Title":"Crime war smackdown","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm struggling about whether King of... is merely a watchable movie about New York drug traffic wars or something more than that. At the moment I think it is mostly a good vehicle for Christopher Walken to show yet again why he plays the best crime boss of the modern era, as well as some earlier work by Laurence Fishbourne and Wesley Snipes.The movie looks and feels older than it really is. This is my first look at a Ferrara movie, so I'm guessing he deliberately gave everything a cheap feel. It could just be shot with cheap film. Criminals and even cops die by the truckload, and Snipes/Fishbourne collectively engage in one the noisiest in-your-face death scenes that predates the knife fight in Saving Private Ryan, with weirded-out Caruso putting in his two cents. For all the bloodletting, there's not huge amounts of gore. The shock value is in the sudden lethal gunfire from a totally ruthless bunch.This is the 2-disc Special Edition DVD, and I offer it as proof that the studios are whipping out so-so re-releases, adding a few extras that hardly anyone will watch, and giving DVD collectors severe feelings of inadequacy for not owning the latest 'anamorphic' remaster. Luckily, I don't care enough about this movie to have an older version. The main thing that takes up both discs is the movie, in widescreen and pan & scan, but I guess they felt too guilty to stuff it all on a two-sided disc. It looks about as good as it probably can, considering it wasn't' shot with beauty in mind, and the 5.1 soundtrack operates on all thrusters. the DVDs are 6/10 for being less than they appear. "},{"Title":"One of the best gangster movies of all time","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Frank White is the modern times Tony Montana. He tries to play god by judging who has the right to live and die in the game of drug traffiking. With the police, and rival gangs all trying to take him out this is much like social darwinism in the streets of New York. I enjoyed how much Christopher Walken resembled a humble, respected, gang leader and how Larry Fishburne resemble his right hand man who would do anything to please Frank White. This was one of the best movies i have ever seen, and ranks up there with Goodfellas, and Scarface. "},{"Title":"A magnificent cast in an enthralling story","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Woman What can we expect from the reformed Frank White? Frank I wanna be Mayor. Woman (laughs) Frank She thinks I'm kidding.Just one of many scenes in the movie which really could not have worked with any other actor.  Christopher Walken is brilliant in this movie, and the entire cast is just, well, perfect.  Larry Fishburne, David Caruso, and Wesley Snipes all turn in great performances, as well, helped along by a marvelous script.   "},{"Title":"Guns, guts, but no God","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A most enjoyable trip through the psycho wasteland of big drug operators and the cops who try to bust them. Walken was great as the totally crazed king-pin and I loved Fishburne's Jimmy Jump; what a murderous sociopath. If you like plenty of spent ammo and gallons of blood splatter you'll go for this one in a big way. "},{"Title":"Dark, Stylish and Entertaining Thriller","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"    Knig of New York is in my opinion a brilliant gangster movie which over the years has been forgotten and overshadowed by other gangster flicks. When I rented this movie I didn't expect to much considering i'm not exactly a huge Abel Ferrara supporter. But what drove me to rent it was a magazine which listed Frank White(Christopher Walken) as one of the nuttiest psychos of alltime.  Not expecting much I was pleasantly surprised to how good this movie actually was. The plot isn't particularly complicated starts off with Frank White being released from prison. Then with the help of his crazy henchmen Jump(Laurence Fishburne) starts taking over the city by eliminating all the other drug lords, pimps and gangsters in his way. We later find out this is all to fund for a hospital to help underpriviliged kids in the ghetto.  What holds this movie together is the brilliant performance by Christopher Walken in the lead role. The whole movie he doesn't show not one emotion and that's what makes Frank so creepy. He has the exact same facial expression killing a gangster as when he is showering. Laurence  Fishburne  stands out of a stellar cast as Jump. He crazy but sane and has a great sense of humor this makes the audience cheer for him. Also  good performances are turned in by Wesley Snipes, David Caruso and Victor Argo as cops trying to hunt Frank down.Overall an excellent movie definitely worth watching. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The ultimate mafia movie","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's depressing tale of a vengeful and unscrupulous mob leader who wants to take over the Big Apple - characterized incredibly intense by Christopher Walken - is probably the most realistic cinematic attempt at modern mafiadom. Christopher Walken's performance surely belongs to the most breathtaking acting ever displayed on celluloid. But not only Walken is excellent the cast's ensemble (including e.g. Lawrence Fishburne, Victor Argo, Steve Buscemi and Wesley Snipes) gives a riveting performance. Without exaggerating, I would say that King of New York is the ultimate mafia movie. Yet it's so much more; but watch this instant classic yourself not to be missed. "},{"Title":"an unrecognized film","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferarra's masterpiece King of New York is so stylish, so violent, and so raw, that critics fail to see it's genious.  The film includes an all star cast including Christopher Walken, Laurenece Fishburne, Steve Buscemi, David Caruso, Wesly Snipes, among others.  This is also, in my opinion, the most violent film I've seen in awhile.  Its violence is equalled to Martin Scorcese's Goodfellas, but even harder to watch.  There seems to be no good guys in the film, besides Victor Argo's character.  Even Joe Deila's music kept my interest.This is also a film about Betrayal, Greed, and Revenge.The film has a suprisingly glossy production, which is does alot for the film.  But it is very very hard to watch.  You must have a strong stomach for this, and you must be either an Abel Ferarra fan, or a gangster film buff.  This isn't for everyone, because the film is often very sleazy, and trashy.  But hey.. I think it's great.  Oh did I mention that I felt that this was a mirror to Brian Depalma's Scarface? "}{"Title":"Please justify your rating.","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I gave this movie a very generous 5 out of 10. If it wasn't for Walken being my favorite actor of all time, I would have given it what it really deserved....1. Poorly written, poorly directed, and poorly edited. There is no defending any of those 3 aspects of this picture. The writing is choppy and vague, there is no direction to the movie, and what is up with the unnecessary length of both the opening and closing scenes? And here is another question. How in the hell can you screw up any movie with this cast? I could probably write a movie about Christopher Walken going on a killing spree in which he only kills women, children, and the elderly, surround him with that supporting cast and everyone would call me a genius. But not this movie. This hunk of crap managed to take an all-star cast and make them look like a bunch of high school drama club members. Congratulations! "},{"Title":"Better Than Scarface. By Miles.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  King Of New York. 1989. Starring; Christopher Walken, David Caruso, Laurence Fishburne, Wesley Snipes. Rating; Four and a half stars out of five. To quote Christina Aguillera, Gonna Get Dirty. That's clearly Abel Ferrara's mindset whenever he directs a film, and the sleaze-master's taste buds are clearly whacked up to full potential with this nasty, sadistic, gloriously perverted take on street life. Roxy music never saw it like this, i can assure you. Frank White (Walken), has just got out of jail. With glint in eye, gun in hand, fake smile slapped on, White's going to claw back everything he lost. The cops, however, will go to absurd lengths to prevent this, even if it means placing Snipes and Caruso in some pretty freakin' severe harms way. So far, however, Fishburne's crazed drug dealer-helped, in a brief, by Steve Buscemi-has gunned down any opposition. can the future CSI Miami controller stop that bloke who danced in Fat Boy Slim's Weapon Of Choice video? Or will nasty guys win, like Tony Montana, except with long-term prospects that don't involve gratuitously extended death scenes involving saying Chello to their leetle frens'? Admittedly, King's plot is formulaic, yet to simply leave it at that is ignoring Ferrara's trained gutter-eye. You thought Seven had gloominess at an apex...You were wrong, punk. One wonders just how many shades of black are utilised herein; pastel colours are most definitely off the menu. Walls chip away, revealing rotten underbellys, rain slicks the putrid streets. Screw Hell's Kitchen this is Hell's Bathroom, Garage and Kinky Bedroom. Think The Crow, times fifty, plus a helping of slickly vile violence in terms of viewing pleasure. Miserablists will adore this, as will anybody who enjoys cackling at Forbidden Imagery. Across the board, performances are excellent, especially Fishburne, proving that he can do crazy, alongside stoically brave. One killing especially should leave you slack jawed, popcorn spilling, mumbling...But movies can't do this to me! Should it's influence prove a tad too much to handle, should your hand edge towards that freshly loaded Uzi, simply memorize Walken's indelible quote; I never killed anybody...who didn't deserve it Class triple-A stuff.  "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece from Ferrara.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Abel Ferrara's King of New York is a chronicle of the downfall of New York drug kingpin Frank White, played superbly by Christopher Walken, who, after years of illegal activity, decides to expiate his sins by building a hospital in an inner-city neigbourhood. His attempts to give something back to the community encounter hostile resistance from every side - his Chinese drug partner (Joey Chin), the local Mafia, and an overzealous tough cop (David Caruso)ready to do anything to bring White down. Frank's futile efforts trigger an ethically-motivated gangster war that ends in a bloody showdown among the city's criminal factions. Christopher Walken gives a stand - out, tour de force performance in the lead (that garnered him another Academy Award nomination) as a ruthless killer with a twisted sense of morality, and Laurence Fisburne is impressive as White's henchman Jimmy Jump who contributes to the film's frenetic energy. Like all of Ferrara's work, King of New York is not an easy movie to watch. It's violent and disturbing, with a high body count. But the film is highly rewarding and ultimately engaging, as it shows Abel Ferrara's further exploration of characters who seek salvation against the backdrop of a drug-infested and violent New York City underground. The film goes further than regular gangster films as it internally explores characters and their sense of loyalty and respect for the powerful White. It also has a racial undertone as it shows Frank White's respect for his fellow black gangmembers and his recognition of equality, and extermination of the racist Italian Mafia . The film has great metaphoric meaning, preaching that the world should be joined together as a whole in whatever path, whether it's illegal or legal.The film is intelligible and an extemely interesting character study of the salvage of redemption and regret of past sins. This makes this film a bold, introspective film supported by the central, great performance from Walken.(I also advise you to check out Ferrara's 1992 follow-up, Bad Lieutenant, featuring an Academy-Award nominated performance from Harvey Keitel. This film takes the director's bloody yet introspective examination of sin and redemption one step further.)  "},{"Title":"Lazy, sloppy writing sinks great line-up of actors in this trite mob vs. cop flick.","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Super mob kingpin Walken is released from long prison term and teams up with his old crowd with no plans whatsoever to go straight... Not-bad production and a line-up of good, charismatic actors in an urban mob vs. cop flick! Yay, what more could we want? Well, how about a decent script? Lazy, sloppy writing means strange pacing and almost zero character development - not to mention the female parts - and when it finally manages to dig in a bit, as with Walken, we have 5 minutes left of the movie! Overall mostly trite, formulaic and repetitively repugnant (shoot-outs, drug orgies, shoot-outs, drug orgies...) with an almost ridiculous finale. Too bad!4 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"weak film despite great cast","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's too bad that this film had such a great cast, because it is essentially went to waste, victim to a bad story. Abel Ferrara's King of New York doesn't even make proper use of the great Christopher Walken. He has some strange lines, shoots a few people, but all in all he doesn't really act in the film.It's too bad because I wanted to like it. Abel Ferrara is not a bad director by any measure, but this particular film has aged badly. It's not the low-budget either. It's the story. Several people claim that King of New York is superior to Scarface which was brilliantly over-the-top. I disagree wholeheartedly. King of New York is uneven. It doesn't match the epic quality of Scarface or other gangster movies (like The Godfather saga for example). And it doesn't make up for it with character like Carlito's Way or Donnie Brasco. We never really get any insight into Walken's character, nor any of the cops'. And it's unoriginal.It tells the usual story of a gangster released from prison who reverts back to his old crime-laden life. In this particular case, it's about Walken's character exterminating other gangs, stealing their money and giving it to poor neighborhoods, or rather, one really sad-looking hospital full of very sick little children.Robin Hood, right? Except twice as bloody, without a quarter of the style. The film does try to touch on one issue; namely, why is it that a man who murders the bad and steals from the bad to give to the good, still remains on the bad side of the law? In fact, and not verbatim, Walken asks this question of one of the cops after him. The cop doesn't really respond, but I don't blame him. What is there to say? Yeah, the world is unjust, murder is illegal, and nobody really gives a damn about what motivates gang wars. The cops just pick up the corpses. Something tells me that this response wouldn't exactly satisfy Walken's character, but perhaps he already knows the answer and is trying to get the cop to realize the irony of the situation.It's a little ironic, but so what? I never really got to know Walken's character, nor the cop's really, so the conflict between them seemed staged, false and uninteresting. Such is the rest of the movie - several well-directed scenes strewn together, many, if not most of them, rip-offs of other, better-made gangster scenes.Still, I don't hate this movie. I think it was beautifully shot, very well-lit and the chase scene near the end was good. Nonetheless, as far as the gangster genre is concerned, this film doesn't quite achieve the greatness that others in the category do. Good gangster movies are more than stories of guys murdering other guys. They're about how their lifestyles affect them and those around them. And in King of New York I just didn't care. "},{"Title":"Ferrara and St. John take on the gangsters.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Almost a modern day Robin Hood with Frank White attempting to keep a Bronx hospital open by taking control of the drug trafficking and deleting those who get in his way. Stand out performances from all in this sometimes over the top violent movie.  "},{"Title":"Aims high, hits low","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The King of New York tells of a crime boss (Walken) who leaves prison and implements his plan for a better NYC through a unique method of fund raising Kill all the top tier drug pushers, take their smack, and sell it on the streets. What ensues in a bunch of firefights with huge body counts, some T&A running around, some cops running around, everyone cursing and shooting at everyone else, and somewhere in and amongst all that perhaps even a plot. A stylish crime flick with good technicals, art, and casting, King... falls on its face as a character study, is sorely lacks in story, and pushes the reality envelop beyond all reason. For crime film buffs only. (C+) "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This great masterpiece was made BEFORE Martin Scorcese´s Good Fellas came out and BEFORE anyone ever heard the name Quentin Tarantino, so it is not only one of the best gangster movies of the 90s, it belongs to the best of all times!!! Christopher Walken is great as ever (Where is he today?!?), and it is also interesting to see up coming actor giants like Wesley Snipes or Steve Buscemi in early roles. The atmosphere is stylish, designed in a cool video clip style, very fitting to Frank White´s dissoluted life between the yuppie scene and drug dealers, sex parties and welfare. The only lack in this film is the role that Laurence Fishburne plays, because he brings his character way to near to the borders of camp in my opinion. Nevertheless a powerful and fascinating film!!! "},{"Title":"Royal Command Performance by Walken","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  KING OF NEW YORK (1989) *** Christopher Walken, David Caruso, Larry Fishburne, Victor Argo, Wesley Snipes, Giancarlo Esposito, Paul Calderone, Theresa Randle, Steve Buscemi.  Walken is excellent as recently released from prison druglord Frank White who declares war on all wannabe kingpins in Manhattan with aggressive, violent tactics and persistent police task force led by Argo to bring him down.  Excellently helmed by Abel Ferrara with some stellar work by future stars.  Memorable ending sequence. "},{"Title":"The Sausage King","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder why Larry wouldn't share his root beer with Chris in the beginning.I have to admit that root beer is pretty good, but that's no reason not to share. I guess he drank it all coming up to the room. But why did he drink it all? Was he really that thirsty or did he just want Chris to have none? It's not like it was the middle of summer or anything. I don't know why he should have been that thirsty. Maybe he just ate a bunch of pretzels. Or ham. Ham always makes me really thirsty for some reason. Larry, you should really stay hydrated. It's wrong not to share your root beer with your friends right when they get out of jail. I wonder what kind of root beer that was? If it was A&W, well OK then... but if it was that Barks crap, forget it.  "}{"Title":"Kingpin","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The basic dilemma facing the police in this country is the fact, that the law seems to protect those that are breaking it. Dennis Gilley, one of the New York detectives is a man that thinks this is wrong and then decides to take care of the great problems a newly released Frank White is creating for the city.Abel Ferrara is a director that doesn't mind taking chances, or tackling thorny issues, as he has proved with his films. Mr. Ferrara seems to bring the best in the actors working for him. Christopher Walken is an example, so it's Harvey Keitel, who has given extraordinary readings about the characters they portray on the screen in movies with Abel Ferrara at the helm.King of New York is a violent film. Mr. Ferrara is making a comment on the element that was causing so much problems in New York prior to the arrival of Rudolph Giuliani, who decided to tackle the criminal activity to the point of eliminating most of the violence in the streets of the city.The film presents an intense man that is released from prison. Frank White continues his criminal activities where he left them off. Frank and his gang are reunited and we watch as this man pushes his way around some of the people that controlled the drug traffic in the city. These people are ruthless and don't care who they kill in their pursuit of earning illicit money by becoming the most important distributors of drugs.Christopher Walken is at the center of the film. As Frank White, he gives a tremendous performance and totally dominates the movie. Frank White is indeed one of the most ruthless characters in memory. Laurence Fishburne is also seen at his most menacing as one of Frank's most cruel lieutenants. David Caruso, who doesn't seem to get much work in the movies, makes an interesting police detective, one that believes in taking matters into his own hand, causing an all out war with the criminals he is chasing. Victor Argo, plays the man in charge of the police and made a big contribution to the film. The supporting cast does well following Mr. Ferrara's orders.King of New York is a valid study of what this city looked like not too long ago. Abel Ferrara succeeds in making this an exciting time at the movies, for no one is going to be bored following its action. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a wonderful movie in my opinion and I think it's highly underrated but then again many cult movies aren't mainstream like king of New York or the warriors but there's always a fan base out there for almost anything think of this film as a hybrid of boys. In the hood and scarface with some other movie influences my favorite scene is when walken reunites with his crew after getting out in the hotel room and he does a dance that's fun to watch hell I've done it with my friends as a kind of secret handshake thing and I wonder if the makers of csi Miami saw this because of David Caruso again playing a cop this time a drug enforcement officer and he's been playing cops sense first blood I think but I love this movie strong strong recommend "},{"Title":"not a typical mobster flick but dark and slow moving","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara, the director is known for his pitch black flicks. Fear City (1984), Ms 45 (1981), The Driller Killer (1979), who doesn't know this depressive flicks. Here Abel takes the mobster genre to the dark of New York. Although that it never becomes rough or messy there's a bit of blood here and there, but it's really the story that makes you watch King Of New York and not only that, the performances are sublime especially Christopher Walker as the king Frank White who just came out of prison and wants to take New York back in his hands. But the cops look close but can't really take him back to prison so one cop Dennis Gilly (Davis Caruso) takes the rights in his hands and hunts down Frank. But things doesn't work out as it should be. Just look how many well known names are in this flick. And they all do an excellent job. The flick itself doesn't look like a nineties flick because it's rather a slow builder. You can easily qualify this amongst the top ten list of best crime films.Not that many people knew of its existence so you better move to catch yourself a copy, also available on Blu Ray. Gore 1/5 Nudity 0,5/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Another Gangster Movie","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I was at University I was a fan of Abel Ferrara's movies. I would make the best effort to catch any movie of his when it came on the television. A few I rented from the local video store. Ferrara began his career with ultra low budget flicks like 'the driller killer' and 'ms 45'. The movies were humorous as well as being serious. In the 90s the quality of his projects improves with 'the bad lieutenant' and 'body snatchers. His movies have always been character driven as depicting the mental state of mind going in to the negative stage. He genre has always differed, so he has demonstrated that he has versatility. His movies mostly are shot in New York, just like Martin Scorsesee.This is a gangster movie. I have always been a fan of this genre and I have seen many. The plus point of this movie is that it's short, but the linear pattern of the movie somewhat feels disjointed. One scene moves to another without a certain flow. However this film does not have the ability to contend with the likes of 'scarface' and 'goodfellas. It is not a classic either, but that does not mean that one would not enjoy it. Abel has clearly demonstrated that he can make gangster movies. Though I did not have much high opinion in regards to 'the funeral'. It was dull and slow paced.*************************SPOILERS AHEAD************************** The plot centres around a crime boss that is played fantastically by Christopher Walken, who is released out of jail after doing time. He decides that he wants to start afresh and distribute his wealth and profits to the poor and needy by investing to build a hospital. He aims to accomplish this by killing his rival enemies and being the dominant in the city. However this does not prove easy as a group of cops are hellbent on taking him down. Walken's gang is eradicated after Caruso (the cop) plan an undercover operation. However Walken attempts to fight back.**********************END OF SPOILERS******************* Wesley Snipe's 'New jack city' was far more superior than this movie. It was everything that this movie was lacking. It contained everything within that king of new york did not have. It has a short paper thin plot but Walken's performance substitutes for that. After this he got many bad guy roles. There's plenty of violence for the viewer to enjoy thus the movie would be incomplete without it. The movie would have been more better if the plot was more enhanced and involved the cops more in to the story. The focus on them was lacking. The movie does have its fair share of flaws which tends to take away the true realism. For example 'does a gang boss really have to kill people himself ?', and 'why does know one get shot even at close range during the car chase on the bridge ?'. The highlight of the movie was the confrontation scene between Walken and the detective in the apartment near the end. Walken's facial expressions and emotional acting just made me feel for him.28/8 "},{"Title":"Shocking, Stylish, Merciless New York Gangster Drug Baron Minor Classic","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frank White is a big-time New York gangster, newly released after a spell in Sing Sing. With the aid of his hoods, he at once sets about reclaiming his turf as a cocaine kingpin.This is a terrific, hedonistic, make-no-apologies, full-on American crime-thriller featuring a truly mesmerising performance from Walken, full of cold-hearted detachment, fleeting half-smiles, balletic moves and quizzical intensity. The rest of the cast are equally potent, with no-holds-barred turns from Fishburne, Caruso and Snipes, and a great bit by dependable supporting actor Argo in possibly his best role as the lonely, world-weary cop and only likable character in the movie. It's probably Ferrara and his writing partner Nicholas St John's keynote film (though I prefer Body Snatchers), and maybe his most well-known, epitomising his dark vision of New York, contrasting Frank's cruelty and exploitation of the Bronx junkies he makes his money from with the Fifth Avenue polite society of fine china and Harvard graduates he rubs shoulders with to grease his social and political aspirations. Typically it upset a lot of folks, who see it as glamorising crime, fuelling racism and who knows what else, but all it really does is say here's the way things are people and let's not kid ourselves otherwise, huh ? Frank is a monster who sees himself as a businessman, but judging him on moral grounds (like Caruso does) is a waste of time - he simply responds to market forces. The slick style, moody lighting and flashy action make it more fun and more accessible than much of Ferrara's work, but there are still plenty of introspective moments, with Walken's hawkish eyes smouldering the screen. There's a good ominous score by Joe Delia, with evocative use of hip-hop on the soundtrack (notably Schoolly D's Am I Black Enough For You) and the movie was a big influence on New York rappers, such as Notorious B.I.G. Perhaps not the cheeriest of flicks, but if you're looking for a mix of macho action and social comment, this is the film for you. Check it out, for no other reason than to see one of the very best American actors at the top of his game. "},{"Title":"Walken's show","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Entertaining and completely overblown gangster flick with a powerhouse central performance by Christopher Walken. Actually all the performances are good, they just pale compared to Walken's freaky frightening intensity. At times it seems to be put together with a somewhat sloppy hand (stuff like jumping the eye line or wobbly camera work), at other times it seems like it may just be because of practical/budgetary reasons. Generally it's rather nicely put together though, with a few really blistering set pieces, especially an extended indoor shootout set to house music and shot through a blue haze, is impressive and gripping, and when it continues out on the rainy streets, in cars, it doesn't loose a beat. The writing is uneven, often nuanced and intelligent, equally often over the top, on the nose and rather silly, still, the actors make it work for the most part. Ferrara isn't subtle, and he's not afraid to use some cheap tricks (utterly pointless nudity and violence), but taken in the right spirit, not too seriously, it's certainly never boring, even when it's going over the top.Did I mention that Walken is excellent? "},{"Title":"A messy composition","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frank White is a ruthless, almost psychopathic gangster who is just released from prison. Gradually, he establishes himself as King of New York, by, quite simply, wiping out all of his enemies, black as well as white, on both sides of the law. Abel Ferrara's crime drama features Larry Fishburne as leader of a black gang, and David Caruso and Wesley Snipes are cops willing to risk all to bring down White.As far as the acting goes, this is not a bad flick. Christopher Walken was made to play White (cf. his cameo in True Romance), and he delivers it brilliantly with his typical combination of zany quirkiness and deadpan expressions. Fishburne also holds his own with his magnetising and funny performance. These gentlemen add some extent of emotional depth to the film, however to little avail. The rest of the characters are mostly flat characters. This fact, in combination with unsurprising and illogical plot twists, result in a frustrating experience. Indeed, the hard-nosed cops make strange decisions, and the 'rules' of organised crime, if you have watched mafia films or 'The Sopranos', seem to be totally neglected. Therefore, considering the cast and the outset, I weep for the movie that could have been. "},{"Title":"What a Thrill!","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York is a stellar dark portrait. Stylishly shot, it makes NYC look so ugly and yet so addictive. It is far more than 'another mobster flick', with Christopher Walken giving the best performance I have seen from him yet, as he plays one of these exhausted shells persevere through and succumb to what feels like the actual underworld, reeling from shootout to shootout, breathing in the bullet-riddled air as they silently wish for respite in the shadows, a way out from this self-incarceration.Alas, the only way out is death, and a single night feels like forever. Old school hip-hop bounces into their ears to drown out the shrill cries of subway cars, an ominous musical score, the prevalent crescendos of gunfire and the haunting laughter from Laurence Fishbourne that makes the Joker and black guy from RoboCop appear sane by comparison. The rappers ramble in sweet smooth rhythm, a contrast to the turbulent nightmare that plagues these degenerates, a constant loop fueled by bitter hatred, constant tension, reign-fall and chaos.King of New York is a raw, ava-rich, violent, exhilarating tragedy that can dance with the best of 'em. I would dance with it all night long and enjoy the slew of topless black beauties that are bound by wickedness. I only wish that Janet Julian would have dwelt among them. What a thrill! "},{"Title":"Visceral Extremity and Existential Confusion","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King of New York is another lurid exploitation film attempting to be high art by Abel Ferrara with his brooding atmospheric sense of shadows and neon, making most film noir look like shades of grey. It works at crossed purposes with itself. First it tries to establish a murky slum atmosphere and clear-cut social issues. There is an enmity between Wesley Snipes' overzealous cop/family man and Laurence Fishburne's street thug that bears a sense of tension involving racial identity and the tragic pitfalls of the black community, also seen in Fishburne's scene in the chicken joint, and the portrayal through hard-knock cops and affluent gang bosses of injustice on the social ladder between honest public servants and phony philanthropists. Yet at the same time, the true aim is simply to go way over the top in an endeavor to have every character be swaggeringly cool and find every excuse to blow someone away, show some tits and have a car chase.I won't knock it for being effective at times even when it does get ridiculously excessive, such as when the completely out-of-place car chase culminates in a bloody, melodramatic stand-off showdown underneath a bridge in a Kurosawa-inspired storm. There's also Walken himself, who is always engaging even when totally hamming it up which he does here more than ever, yet who nevertheless becomes less and less the focal point as a character and more of an axis around which excessively operatic events of violence and crime revolve. These events concern a plethora of other characters including three embittered cops, Laurence Fishburne as Walken's bombastically trigger-happy right-hand man and some rather colorful drug lords. No female characters, unless you count the cops' wives who just sit, watch and cry, never say anything and you know are always around as soon as you see a shot of a baby or life at home. Or if you count the also predominantly wordless bimbos purely present literally just to do clerical work and perform sexual favors for the super-duper-cool gangsters. Woman equals receptacle here more than most crime films, and that's saying a lot. And I've seen more than enough crime films.Oh and the collective laughing in this movie. I'd forgotten that movies for adults can be that mawkish and overdone, be full of scenes where a group of people all laugh together at the right times, even when it doesn't make sense for some of them to, where friends clasp hands when one is telling a story, where everyone is dancing to hip hop naked and doing drugs. It's only when Walken shows up in these scenarios (yes, he dances to hip hop two fine moments) are they intrinsically interesting or superficially engaging. There should be a role in every movie for Walken. There practically is. But even though every scene he's in supplies his outlandishly audacious crime boss character with something interesting to do, however overly demonstratively, the movie is not sure what it wants to do with this character except use him as a catalyst for great action violence and scenes of masculine bluster and lead to the same descent as every other movie gang boss protagonist.I won't say I'm not unwrapping any more presents from Ferrara. I think he's clearly got potential, but he doesn't seem to know the difference between portraying subject matter and exploiting it. He doesn't follow through the way other filmmakers do with the same sense of style and romanticism. It's got a lot going for it, except a center of focus. It's never boring, but it's more an adolescent's version of a Scorsese gangster picture if anything. "},{"Title":"Good enough to warrant some attention, though one can say a miss is as good as a mile...,","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director Howard Hawks, immortal through his Chandler adaptation 'The Big Sleep', once said 'A good movie is three good scenes and no bad scenes'. This might seem like a silly way to investigate a movie's quality, but it's actually a nice measuring stick if you want to know if a movie deserves to cost you the runtime. 'King of New York' just passes that line.The problem with older style-over-substance movies poses itself here stylistic novelties are one day flies. Movies heavy with them have a short expiry date. You may recall those silly giant heads bobbing in the the frame during the early nineties. For example, in Scorsese's Cape Fear, Nolte's mug takes up half the frame a lot of the time. Who in their right mind would ever use that nowadays? The silly night club scenes in King of New York accompanied by the equally awful music suck. There's no denying it. They're a killjoy. A great deal of top notch eighties movies are marred by the soundtrack, King of New York can be considered a late eighties entry. I can turn a blind eye to the lack of a great script, as I've already stated 'King of New York' is a textbook example of a style-over-substance film. Some elements raise the movie's level substantially though. First of all, it's deeply satisfying to finally see Christopher Walken as the lead. I feel he's still one of the funniest non-comedic actors in film history. Only the unique Joe Pesci's tragicomic portrayals are of an equally high order. Walken really immerses himself in his king pin character, one that is tailor-fit for him. He constantly finds himself in murky waters and he's very compelling in a movie that isn't generous in giving him sharp dialog to work with.'King of New York' is easy on the eye. The night time scenes are pure shadows and velvet blue; the blue contrasting lovely with (paint)red blood spatters on the pavement in shootout scenes. The cartoonish color of the blood, unlike the disconcerting orange in Taxi Driver, dampens the shock effect. We're reminded that we're merely watching a movie, and a highly stylized one at that. I guess 1990's censors were harsher than today's, but I don't mind it either way. I don't seek out movies for gore nor do I avoid them because of it.The movie reaches a tension plateau during the exhilarating chase and shootout scenes, and the emotional plateau is reached in the subtly acted final scene. However, all these fine scene do not exonerate the movie. The plot is irrelevant, the dialog dull and the characters wooden. We are consoled by a great early Lawrence Fishburne and arguably Walken's career defining performance. Worth 103 minutes out of your day, but don't expect a masterpiece or you'll end up disappointed. "}{"Title":"An on-your-face Masterpiece!!!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Thumbs up for Italian/European director Abel Ferrarra; bravo to the wonderful and outstanding cast he selected! This film is definitely not just your typical shoot-em-up gangster movie; it also delivers a powerful message aimed at the social and economic issues existing not only in New York City but the rest of the USA. Christopher Walken is immaculate as Frank White, freshly released from prison, who becomes a philanthropist to supplement his other 'profession'. His loyal crew put hit after hit on all the major drug lords in New York City for a very dignified purpose utilize the profits to help the poor and unfortunate, beginning with the financing of a children's hospital for which the plastic bureaucratic Establishment gave the cold shoulder. Laurence Fishburne, Giancarlo Esposito and Steve Buscemi, among others, contribute magnificently-coordinated performances, as do the not-so-popular cops whose roles are played by Wesley Snipes, David Caruso and Victor Argo. Ferrarra's film is an impeccable critique of the inhumane and cold hearted American Capitalist establishment, which is primarily bent on greed and self-indulgence. That is why I root for Frank White and his crew ; let' s face it, Ferrarra tells it like it REALLY is and I enthusiastically applaud his efforts. Bravo, Paisano!! "},{"Title":"This film is about RACE.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" With only 64 comments on this movie...now 65 I guess, the point seems obvious that it is less than memorable.I like Ferrara though, and liked this movie as a young person when it came out, so I felt like adding my two cents.First of all, I'm surprised no one commented on the obvious racial subtext of this movie.Frank WHITE.All (or at least most) of his henchmen are BLACK.He fights off a YELLOW mobster and an Italian.I'm not sure what color Italians are, but needless to say, this movie is strangely about RACE. The performance art sequence near the beginning of the film provides further evidence in this direction a uniformed cop on stage whips a black man who eventually breaks free from his chains...Didn't anyone else notice this? As it is, though I'm sure there's a point here, I'm not sure Ferrara makes it. Again, I offer as evidence the mere 64 previous posts, not one of which mentions race as an issue in this film.Sure, Frank WHITE is a Robin-Hood-type character, but don't MOST white people imagine they are doing good, even when they are doing bad? (And in case you're wondering, yes, I'm a white boy.)I tried to watch this movie again recently, but the slick violence which seduced me as a young man failed to satisfy my older self, so I turned it off half-way through...Walken is brilliant as always, but still, a movie like this makes me wish that some connected screenwriter would pen a masterpiece where Walken gets to play a completely normal and average guy, like the everyday father of some teenage girl or something, who gives her fatherly advice while he's eating his cornflakes, or something like that, just to throw people... "},{"Title":"Brillant Gangster Film","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  King Of New York is one of the most brilliant gangster films ever made. Directed by the underrated Abel Ferra the film has a tight rap soundtrack and a chilling performance by Chrisopther Walker. David Caurso, Laurence Fisheburne and Wesley Snipes all give good supporting roles if you've never seen this film you should. "},{"Title":"Alone I stand....","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I seem to stand alone in thinking that this movie was pretty bad! (I have seen a couple of the director's other movies...) Walken was at his usual, so it wasnt him I had a problem with. The plot Gangster movies are fine. This one, lacked....Maybe the whole point is, the bad guys were supposed to be, 'anti-hero's'? as one put it? I never saw that! And Larry Fishburne was just annoying! (I know he was supposed to be!) So I suppose his, 'act' was great!  "},{"Title":"i love this film","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Christopher Walken is such an offbeat, one of a kind actor, he just shines in this role - it was made for him.  Quirky, eccentric and uncontrolled, Walken, fresh out of jail, leads fellow hoods in a determined effort to become head NYC crime boss.  Darkly set, moody and brooding, King of NY offers hard core violence depicted in a brash, in-your-face style, supplying thrills for some and turn offs for others.  However, the technical elements of this film earn it praise; the directing, acting, music - all are great.  Lawrence Fishburn puts in a red hot, gritty and realistic performance that reveals his amazing range.  Plus, David Caruso and Wesley Snipes, both putting in their own fantastic performances that glue the viewer to their seat, what more can you ask for?  This film is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Average gangster picture","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A New York drug lord Frank White (Christopher Walken) is being driven in his limousine back into the city following his release from prison. His crew are busy taking out a rival Columbian gang who have been encroaching on White's business while he's been away. Once he's back White wastes no time in taking out more of New York's crime lords and cements himself as the King of New York. Disgruntled that they are never able to get charges to stick, a few wild Police Officers decide that the only way to stop White and his gang is to take them out.Featuring an impressive cast which alongside Walken includes gangsters Laurence Fishburne, Steve Buscemi, Giancarlo Esposito and Theresa Randle with Cops Wesley Snipes, Victor Argo and David Caruso the film is a tale of good vs evil, but as you'd expect the lines between the two are blurred. Although not in the same league as the likes of Scarface, Carlito's Way or Serpico all of which share themes with this, it is a decent gangster picture.The story is fairly basic really. Gang boss gets released from prison; starts to rebuild his empire and the cops try to stop him. There is little new plot wise. The only little twist on the genre is the cop's tactic of halting the gangster's operation. I wasn't really invested in the story or many of the characters though there were some good performances. Much like the plot they were all characters you've seen before to some degree or another. There's the level headed, ice cold killer of a boss, the ostentatious black gangsters, the Irish cops, the Latino middle man, the Mafioso, the Chinese Triads and various scantily clad women. Unfortunately it's all been seen and done before.As I say though there are some terrific performances. Christopher Walken delivers a powerful and menacing performance as Frank White. He's calm and calculating but isn't afraid to deliver the killer blow. The character also has a side to him which makes the audience empathize with him and the way in which Walken creates this is brilliant. Another great performance is Laurence Fishburne as an arrogant and flashy gangster/killer. He is especially good in the chicken shop scene. Victor Argo is also great.The highlight of the film for me was the incredible soundtrack. I have somewhat of a puncheon for late 80s Hip-Hop and this film features some of the best that era had to offer with the likes of Party Posse and Schooly D lending songs. The traditional score which is interspersed with the Hip-Hop works well and sounds good. As well as the soundtrack there was also some pretty jazzy dancing, most notably from Walken. It reminded me of the video for Fatboy Slim's Weapon of Choice, a video I could watch over and over again.In addition as the slightly tired plot another problem with the film is the hair. I've never seen such bad hair in a film before. Half the cast sport mullets and Christopher Walken's is characteristically crazy. I did enjoy the two big shoot-outs. They were both action packed and the first must have had some influence on Grand Theft Auto as it looked just like the sort of shoot-out that game would present. In the end King of New York is an average gangster film but nothing more.www.attheback.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"not worth watching...","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" i wonder how a movie with such great actors can be screwed up that much...the plot/story is a mess...its full of clichés and trashy...mob bosses (Christopher Walken) running around on streets shooting Uzi's one-handed...Sylvester Stallone could have played that...too bad that such great actors as Christopher Walken, Steve Buscemi, Victor Argo and Larry Fishburne are wasted in such a plot...they don't act bad..but like Sisyphus there is no chance they could ever safe the movie.....u get the impression the producers order/the directors goal was forget about the story...i want lots of shooting dead people and fancy women...this movie is not worth watching...u could as well watch Rambo III if it wasn't for the actors...(who probably didn't read the script/screenplay before they signed their contracts.. "},{"Title":"Good but cliched despite Ferrara's gritty style","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Gang boss Frank White is released from prison and begins to reassert his grip on the crime world of New York.  However he is also trying to save money to help fund an hospital in a run down area of New York.  Meanwhile cops Gilley, Bishop and Flanigan are trying to put him away again and end his reign of violence and drugs.Ferrara's take on gangster life could have been really good.  I expected it to be the anti-Godfather, less galmorisation and more grit to show that it's not all fancy family loyalty etc.  At the start it feels like he's done it but gradually he focuses more on style and swearing and all that.  The proof that he has failed to not glamorise the life is the fact that quotes from the film have been used in hip-hop songs, with a whole scene being used for a Memphis Bleak interlude.However that aside it's a good film &#150; if a little too violent for my tastes and too much swearing.  The style and energy is infectious and you're easily sucked in.  This is helped by a great cast &#150; some good casting and some of it good luck that those involved are more famous now.  Walken is great as always but I felt his character had more to it and he was allowed to explain himself too often &#150; really he was exploiting black kids to do his dirty work for him.  Caruso is really good, it's the same sort of role he's played ever since but he's still very good at it.  Fishburne is OTT but also very enjoyable, Argo is always reliable and Snipes is a surprise inclusion.  The rest of the cast is filled with famous faces &#150; Esposito, Buscemi, Randle and a very young looking Harold Perrineau Jnr.The film is good as a gangster movie, however I expected more from Ferrara and the lack of depth or subtext was disappointing for me.  Overall though it's worth a watch if you like your films violent and gritty. "},{"Title":"No Sizzle and No Steak","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Not the worst film I've seen, but definitely far from the best.Chris Walken and Larry Fishburne both give great performances, but this really goes without saying. The plot of the movie is very thin, and there's very little glamour to keep your attention. It's hard to understand how Walken gets away with some of the things he does, and it's also hard to understand how Walken got into the position of power he's in, and whether he really has any power at all. The subplot with the cops seems to be more window dressing than anything. All the characters are so underdeveloped you have to wonder why you should care about anything that's going on.I gave this movie 5 gangbangers out of 10 -- it's worth watching, but only if you have stave off sleep long enough to catch the fine performances of Walken and Fishburne. "},{"Title":"Great cast crap sound","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Do we blame the director for the noise noise noise that pervades and ruins what would have been an alright film. The soundtrack is of a quality more akin to a third rate porn movie. The director is an idiot if he thinks this is quality sound recording. It does nothing for the atmosphere of the movie but rather detracts from what storyline there is.As for the storyline, it has no real direction, rambling along at too slow a pace to be interesting. A great pity as Walken as always is excellent. Frankly if he was not in it then this would have been a complete flop. Maybe someone will decide to do a proper re-make. I wait in hope.One final comment. Wesley Snipes playing a cop, proves even at this early stage in his career that he has no talent whatsoever and it never ceases to amaze me that he has been able to star in so many crap movies of his own. "}{"Title":"King of New York","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I may not have been aware of what the film would involve, but as long as I knew the leading star and it is listed in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, I wasn't going to forget about it. Basically Frank White (Christopher Walken) is the wealthy and powerful drug lord that has just been released after years serving his drug trafficking sentence in Sing Sing prison. He is quickly reunited with his gang, with leader Jimmy Jump (Laurence 'Larry' Fishburne), lover/legal annalist Jennifer (Janet Julian), and female body guards Raye (Bad Boys' Theresa Randle) and Melanie (Carrie Nygren) by his side. Frank having spent years to think actually wants to do good, he wants to eliminate his competitors who try to bring him down, and he steals their money and drugs to finance a new hospital for the needy in the South Bronx. Of course Frank's past is always coming back to haunt him, overzealous cops Roy Bishop (Victor Argo), Thomas Flanigan (Wesley Snipes) and Dennis Gilley (CSI Miami's David Caruso) are frustrated they haven't got evidence to bring him down for street killings. In the end, after many guns blazing and deaths, it comes to be that Frank can't see his plans become reality when he faces both being arrested and dying from a gun shot. Also starring Joey Chin as Larry Wong, Giancarlo Esposito as Lance, Paul Calderon as Joey Dalesio, Steve Buscemi as Test Tube and Lost's Harold Perrineau as Thug Leader. Walken is brilliant as the hip and cool head of the gang trying to change his ways, Fishburne gets a really good supporting role as his sidekick, and Snipes gets his moments as the determined cop trying to catch him in the act. The film is a modern interpretation of Robin Hood, involving gangsters, and with all the violence and gun play you could ask for, it is a brilliant crime thriller. Wesley Snipes was number 96, and Christopher Walken number 34 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Walken was number 14 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"Most Pro-Bad Guy Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the anti-hero movies show cops doing immoral things to take out the bad guys who are even worse.  This movie flips the formula around. The cops (especially Wesley Snipes who says little besides I'm gonna kill you) are evil characters with no redeemable  qualities.  Only David Caruso's character so much as justifies killing a criminal.  The only person who does anything 'good' in the entire move is Walken, the villain.King of New York is a very good gangster film.  After watching this on TV i thought it was full of holes.  However, after buying the video i realized that the TV version edited out many scenes that contained drug use and nudity.  Pretty standard rise and fall plot, but when taken individually, has some of the best gangster scenes on film. "},{"Title":"Gritty, if forgettable, crime film with an amazing Cristopher Walken","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Abel Ferrara's King of New York is a film that seems to rely a lot more on mood than plot, and I think it does that fairly well. By using sort of bleak, grainy cinematography, some of it achieves the same kind of gritty realism as Scorsese's Mean Streets, but some of it is just plain ugly. Ferrara's use of colours is interesting though &#x96; some of the scenes are drenched in blue and orange and are very cool to look at. The same can largely be said for the acting; the urban dialogue and the crazy performances at times seem true to life and real, but other scenes come across as (unintentionally) funny due to the extremely over the top acting by people like David Caruso and Laurence Fishburne. While Ferrara is clearly not taking himself too seriously here, I doubt that was what he was aiming for.The film's clear centerpiece is Cristopher Walken, whose intensity and charisma lifts this film above mediocrity. In spite of the fact that his character is often surrounded by beautiful women and violence, he is always the obvious center of attention and it is hard to take one's eyes off of him. The character, Frank White, is undeniably a gangster but he is more layered and morally ambiguous than most criminals in similar films. The idea that he is supposed to be a vampire, which I have heard from several people, seems somewhat far-fetched, but there are nevertheless several references to vampires that make the character all the more fascinating.In the end, King of New York is a film with a rather tame plot (or lack thereof) that survives thanks to its raw energy and atmosphere, but at the times where even the atmosphere is missing, we are left with one brilliant performance in a less brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Dark and Dated.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  King of New York is a dark , Humourless movie that instead of looking like it was made in 1990 looks like a film from the 70's. The lead role is superbly played by Christopher Walken who has massively under achieved over the last few years. His lead role as Mob Boss  overshadows other performances from Wesley Snipes and Laurance Fishburne ( known as Larry in the credits!)and is close to being his best performance i have seen. It is the story of a gangland boss who is released from prison and systimatically starts to wack his rivals. The police try to get him by fair means and foul and predictably things finish pear shaped. This isnt a bad film but it hardly sets the world alight and it does look very , very dated. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The King is dead.....","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" How do I sum up this film? Badly written, badly directed, badly acted? All three? Certainly badly written and directed. I've read in various reviews that the writer took 5 years to write this screenplay and as a result hardly any improv was used on set. My advice would be to  (a) Never hire this writer again (but it looks like he works exclusively for Abel Ferrara anyway) (b) Maybe concentrate a bit more on the writing the next time or (C) Spend less time writing and allow improv - it might improve things.The main issue here is there seems no motivation for any of the characters - Walken is a bad guy, Caruso & Snipes are good guys - but we need a little more than that. They are so one dimensional that cardboard cutouts would have sufficed instead of the actors. Fishburne is so over the top it is comical and Buschemi has hardly any screen time. There's no build up to any of the character's motivations and as a result when we see things on screen there is no emotional involvement with the audience. Bottom line is the audience doesn't care who gets shot, killed or whatever.There is potential in 'King of New York' but in the end it fizzles out to nothing. Literally. The plot itself is simplistic in the extreme and embarrassingly step-by-step. No originality. It goes like this Frank White (Walken) gets out of prison, takes dope, has parties, wants to dabble in a hospital project and kills all his enemies. The cops then call him King of New York. Then the cops get angry with Frank and decide to kill him themselves. Queue the shooting and more shooting and finally everybody's dead.The plot could have been written by a 5 year old - never mind take 5 years to write !!!! There is no hook here, no emotional depth, no involvement, no background - nothing. It does have Walken - and his almost obligatory dancing scene - but it just looks embarrassing instead of kooky.Poor effort - 3/10. "},{"Title":"A promising movie that succumbs to a deathblow of gratuitous violence","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Like Oliver Stone's Scarface(1983), this attempt to create empathy with a drug kingpin/killer is marred, for one thing, by director Ferrera's inability to corral his lust for wild-west levels of violent gun-battles that punctuate and, inevitably, puncture this hot-lead balloon of gaseous pretension. "},{"Title":"King of Wishful Thinking!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is hands down the WORST film I've ever seen! Talk about lacking any redeeming qualities! Gotta love the stereotypical street thug with a heart theme -- gosh that's original. I love the fact that this film is so deliciously bad - so many films have dialogue but no character development, have good characters but no plot, etc. This film does EVERYTHING wrong - and it plays the same cheesy music throughout! With Walken, Lawrence Fishburne (credited as Larry) and Steve Buscemi, you'd think this would be watchable. It is actually so bad, I laughed until we turned it off. Walken is given the most ridiculous character -- he has flock of seagulls hair and acts like a lunatic. He's a great ensemble actor, but I don't think he works very well as a leading man. I wish I could say something more positive about this film, but it is absolutely dreadful.  "},{"Title":"free, legal, HD streaming of this film available at StreamUniverse","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Watch free films, such as King of New York on streamuniverse.TV Find a direct link here http//streamuniverse.TV/crime/videos/king-of-new-yorkVideos are streamed in HD high quality and are legal to watch - and all for FREEKING OF NEW YORK Mob boss Frank White is released from jail and decides to take over New York but to use his power and influence to help the city's poor. An all star cast including Christopher Walken, Wesley Snipes, Lawrence Fishburne, Steve Buscemi and David Caruso star in one of the grittiest urban dramas of the last 20 years. "},{"Title":"had some really good scenes","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" had some really good death scenes, very stylish, but goes overboard along with some bad music. all acting was bad except for larry fishborn, he was okay. definitely not as good as scarface. there was a scene at the end i didn't like where the director wanted to do a club scene, the light was too shiny and wild, i hate the music too. those few death scenes saves the movie from being bad. had some really good death scenes, very stylish, but goes overboard along with some bad music. all acting was bad except for larry fishborn, he was okay. definitely not as good as scarface. there was a scene at the end i didn't like where the director wanted to do a club scene, the light was too shiny and wild, i hate the music too. those few death scenes saves the movie from being bad. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" King Of New York is independent film schlockmeister Abel Ferrara's so-called masterpiece. I guess, given his Paul Naschy level output, it is. But, in the real world, it's a campy film with self-conscious silly quote-ready posing masquing as acting. That said, the performance of Christopher Walken, as Frank White, is really the only reason to watch this Scarface-wannabe film. He brings a faux gravitas to the role of modern Robin Hood gangster Frank White that is, well, interesting. One can take all of the other over the top performances and toss them away. Larry (not Laurence) Fishburne, Wesley Snipes, David Caruso, and others, are not acting, but posturing. Only Walken seems to realize that, despite Ferrara's best attempts, the film is a parody- a comic opera, a comic strip.Of course, even taking the film as a parody, it's just not that good at parody, much less grittiness. Compare some of the scenes to classic moments in a couple of Martin Scorsese films. Look at the scene from Mean Streets (1973), where one character calls another character a mook, and the other character asks, 'What's a mook?' What makes that scene so great is that, on one level, the scene reveals the other character as a poseur, for mook is a common mob terms for a stolid ass who's only good for muscle, if that. On the parody level it shows both the wannabe gangsters at odds in a moment where in other gangster films, a simple knowing word connects the brotherhood, and unable to complete the ritual. As for grittiness, Scorsese's Goodfellas (also released in 1990) blows King Of New York away, even though it, too is stylized. There is no moment of pure savagery to rival the several explosions of Joe Pesci's character. An early scene where one of White's men is rebuffed at a local Mafia don's poker game ends up with White just walking in and blowing the don away, as his henchman cower in fear. Then watch Pesci's character blow away the young kid who works at the mobster club because he gets a little insolent. The Walken scene is funny, not scary, because it's telegraphed. Pesci's scene, however, is not.Yes, MTV stylization was in vogue two decades ago, and delusion can often be invaluable to camp, but the fact is that, aside from the most often quoted six or seven moments of high camp, this film is mostly dull, filled with bad acting, an even worse script, by Nicholas St. John, and its divorce from all reality, while probably a better choice than splitting the difference, still leaves a viewer yawning far too often per capita (bodycount, really). However, if one wants to posit Frank White as a modern Robin Hood, a mortal Nosferatu, a gringo Pablo Escobar, so be it. I'll even grant that the lack of 'realism' in the film is in a long line of gangster film hagiography of the lifestyle, going back to the scene in Public Enemy (1931) where Jimmy Cagney smashes a grapefruit into Mae Clark's face. But, all the pointing out of such does nothing to mitigate the film's many flaws. Still, let me end this ambiguous review by stating that King Of New York is a bad film, but a bad film that I&#x85;.liked. Sort of. A little. At times. Wink. Nod. "}]