[{"Title":"One of Alan Parker's most beautiful films","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Come See The Paradise is a forgotten gem of a film that takes place during one of the United States' darkest and most shameful times. At the onset of World War II, Japanese-Americans were put into internment camps This injustice lasted for several years. Alan Parker's fictional film takes place before, during and after this time. It tells the story of Jack McGurn (Dennis Quaid), an Irish-American labor organizer who falls in love with Lily Kawamura (Tamlyn Tomita), a young girl who lives with her large family in San Fransisco. Lily's father (Sab Shimono) does not agree with the romance, which forces Jack and Lily to elope in Seattle. Jack gets into some trouble with the law while picketing, and Lily, angry that Jack has not changed his ways since the birth of their daughter, Mini, takes the child back to her family's house. Soon after, Pearl Harbor is bombed, the Kawamuras are shuttled off to various camps (except Mr. Kawamura who is believed to be a traitor), and Jack is forced into the army.Like many films, Come See The Paradise is about the strength of love. The fact that it uses this period as a backdrop sets it apart from the rest. The chemistry between Quaid and Tomita is amazing. Just watch them together when they meet for the first time and they kiss. It's simply stunning. Quaid has rarely been this good, and Tomita is obviously relishing having a lead role. In most of her films she's listed as (somebody's) wife. Films like this and The Joy Luck Club prove that she is one of the most talented and under-used actresses.Some have complained that this film uses an American character to tell the story of a Japanese family. As if any non-Japanese audience members would not be able to understand, or relate to, the Japanese family. The Quaid character is called un-American because of his labor rights stance. The family is called un-American simply because they are of Japanese descent. Even though the children were born in the United States. So what exactly does it mean to be un-American?Side note this movie has not been released on DVD. I anxiously await that day. "},{"Title":"A Difficult Movie to *Feel*","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I wish that this film could have been better--and it could have, in many ways.  First of all the acting was quite good, particularly Tamlyn Tomita whose charm and beauty make for radiant scenes.  And the sets/cinematography allowed for a good deal of authenticity.However, the difficulty I have with the film concerns--as other reviewers have noted--a wandering and unfocused script.  Although Alan Parker allows for an accurate (for the most part) and revealing look at life in the internment camps, we rarely see anything from Jack's (Dennis Quaid) perspective.  What happened to him after he went AWOL?  How long were they apart?  Also, the difficulties that everyone had with the marriage between Lily and Jack are resolved without any discussion.  She simply comes home from Seattle and all is forgiven?  The cultural tensions and familial disputes were left behind in favor of a highly politicized second half.In order to fit in the family conflicts and internment episodes, the romance between Lily and Jack is hastened to the point of non-existence in the second half hour.  Therefore the audience had little reason to dread their eventual separation, and rejoice in their ultimate reunion.Finally, on an historical note, the Supreme Court case Korematsu vs. U.S. (1944) upheld the constitutionality of the internment camps.  The movie portrayed a victorious Supreme Court decision that allowed for all internees to return to freedom.  However, the US government did not officially recognize the unconstitutionality of Executive Order 9066 until 1988, with a Congressional apology and restitution.Overall, because of the highly-charged emotional potential of the subject matter, I had expected a film with a little more feeling.  And if a director/writer is going to make a political movie to illuminate a dark period of American history, he should at least get his facts straight. Salome  "},{"Title":"A Dark Time For America","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most powerful films that I have seen about the Japanese-American experience in the internment camps during WW2.The think that struck me from the very beginning was that these folk were just as American as any of us.They,too,were just trying to live the American Dream,until the policies of the US Government took their dreams away from them.History has a bad habit of repeating itself,and movies like this remind us that regardless of race,creed,or color,we're all  just Americans.This was a bad time for US domestic policy,and hopefully a shameful policy like this will never rear its ugly head again in our country. "},{"Title":"Don't simply accept the Face Page description-see for yourself","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The Front-Page review of this film gives the impression that it is not worth seeing because the plot is wandering and other unfair accusations. Instead, take a look at Roger Ebert's fine review under the External review portion of IMDb. I first purchased this film back in the days of the Laser Disc, and I know that my ancient by today's standards Pioneer player....and perhaps I'm in violation of copyright laws, but I am transferring all my laser discs to DVD, and I cannot possibly think of a finer film to witness the discriminatory laws that existed during the early days of WWII....even if the focus is on an Irish-American played by Dennis Quaid....and you must see the early scene in which he dances/sings to a Japanese song that he has memorized by his position as Projectionist in a Japanese-American theatre in San Francisco. And for those who might enjoy a Jarre/Barry type film score, this one is haunting and lovely. Ignore the reviewer and give this terrific film a chance, and I'll bet you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Great movie about Asian American culture!","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie. It was informational and had a beautiful storyline. I generally don't get my knowledge from movies because they are often very inaccurate but I know this one is based on facts as I have done some research about internment camps for a class paper. I know that the story between Jack and lily is entirely made up, but all the historical events aren't. Also, I feel that movie directors and studios should make more movies with Asian characters and about Asian in America because I find it very interesting. I am not Asian, not one little bit and I am getting tired of seeing always the same kind of people on movie screens. I know that the studios have come a long way but they need to make more movies like this one, and believe that there is an audience (not obviously Asian) interested in seeing them. If you have not seen this movie, get some popcorn, unplug the phone and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A precursor of The Siege, a WWII Romeo/Juliet w/ happier ending.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie has faults--don't they all.  Have found it very helpful in teaching a variety of concepts to sophomore and junior English students. The scenes showing Lily and her family forced out of their homes by Americans, marching to the train station in total silence except for their haunting, now-forbidden Japanese music are always received with great concentration and silence by my classes--a high tribute to Mr. Parker's ability to let a picture speak for itself. Come to the Paradise offers a refreshingly different viewpoint of a critical point in American history for those of us who prefer a little something to chew on besides popcorn at the movies.  "},{"Title":"Fine, but not perfect","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" During WWII, Japanese Americans are stripped of their property and sent to prison camps in California.  Also seemingly taken away is the family life of an American man and his Japanese soulmate.This is powerful material and COME SEE THE PARADISE does well as a first attempt.  Surely, sooner or later more talented directors will revisit this bit of history and hit a home run.Few movie fans know that STAR TREK's George Takei (Mr. Sulu) lived with his family in these California concentration camps during WWII.  Both his father and grandmother died in them.As ROOTS showed us the reality of slavery in America, as GERONIMO taught us that the taking of the West was an ugly affair devoid of justice, as the DEAR HUNTER told us that the troubles of Vietnam were deeper than reported on the evening news; COME SEE THE PARADISE gives us an imperfect glimps of some of our darkest mistakes of WWII.  "},{"Title":"Come See the Paradise an excellent film.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Come see the Paradise is an amazing film in essence this film does what Michael Moore and Fahrenheit 911 do remind us of an ugly of American history commited by several  abusive bureaucractic leaders imposing their form of corrupted civil governments and laws. The film takes place during WWII and like Snow Falling on Cedars (another great story about the anti-Japanse movement during this time) is about an American, who falls in love  with a Japanese women. The two fall in love regardless of their race backgrounds. The girls fathers does not like the White Man, but eventually the family accepts him as partof the family, and this LOVE IS TESTED during the war.Dennis Quaid stars as Jack McGurn a liberal Irish activist who is trying to believe form a union, now forming a Union back then was like being a Communist in this warp  view of America. It was pure nonsense and people like disgraced military men like MacArthur and other abusive military leaders wanted to quite down people who spoke out against governemnt corruption. This of course has been the case across history , even movie directors like the late great Elia Kaza have been targeted. Back to the movie Tamyln Tomita as the love interest, Lily Yuriko , is absolutely great portraying all the anguish of a women in love, but then feels pain and sorrow when she sees her own people being put in Concentration Camps by the Americans and are given no rights, no real jobs (except menial low paying ones) and no hope. (Spoilers)  During one dramatic and painful sequence that has to be seen the father is arrrested for no reason and taken into custody, he is then released and is then labeled as traitor leading  into a great depression which eventually hurts his spirits and he dies. Quaid deserves a great recommendation for his performance as one of a few Americans who sees whats going and realizes that this is wrong. At one point, like many men he  is forcibly drag into the war, and then goes AWOL to see his love and her Japanese family to provide support its very touching still the US carries it's vendetta with the Japanese  leading to Atom bomb being dropped on Hiroshima and the bombingof Pearl Harbor. If you don't cry watching this movie there is something wrong with you as Come See The Paradise by Alan Parker has great dramatic performance , a great score by Randy Edelman and a true life story that SHOULD NOT be forgotten. The movie is also told primarily through the narration of Lilythe main character does giving us a very intimate and realportrayal of the evennts unfolding onscreen. Truly an amazing movie, in fact see it with Fahrenheit 911 so you can see some historic, dramatic events that we as Americans should not forget and learn from.  "},{"Title":"Memorable Performances","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Well, I recently experienced Come See the Paradise with Dennis Quad. The movie tells the often overlooked and not widely known story of Japanese Americans before, during and after WWII. This film was incredible to say the least, the characters very well drawn up and telling a simple love story beautifully. The performances are memorable and one can feel the sense of conflict in these characters. At times I was actually nearly brought to tears, a rare thing for me (the only movies that have ever made me cry are Godzilla vs. Destroyah, I am Legend, Pokémon 2000 ,I was like seven, Rodan and Schindler's List). The encampment of Japanese-Americans is often overshadowed by Pearl Harbor and the Holocaust, but this film shows it how it really happened. The struggle of loyalty, patriotism and freedom all are called out in this movie quite nicely, the director just telling it how it is, you know? The story is sad one that finally lives up to its title, although I couldn't really enjoy it the first time around with my history teacher treating us like five year olds! I only wish it had a scene of the Atomic bomb being dropped on Nagasaki or Hiroshima. It would of helped audiences understand the atrocity of using such a weapon on defenseless civilians. "},{"Title":"not bad melodrama, good performances, decent substance","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Of all places, I remember seeing this film in an English class in senior year of High School (something to do with civil rights, not really to do with the quality of writing per-say), to give all the sides to the problems of equality in the American experience. Come See the Paradise does chronicle a crucial blunder during the second world war- the kind of lesson to be learned from it that does need to be learned in regards to the present- though I could imagine a better film being made at some point on the subject. This is the big chunk of it, anyway, the one that would get spoken of if passed along to someone as a one-line note. But there's also a romantic plot to it, relating the experience so that it's personal and not just an abstract form of a nightmarish reality. Dennis Quaid and Tamlyn Tomita play the romantic interest of the picture, Quaid playing a regular Joe who comes to work at a movie theater in Little Tokyo, meets the boss's daughter played by Tomita, and soon they fall for each other quite deeply. But as it's forbidden by the girl's father, they still try and sneak away anyway to have their love. Then come the internment camps, the camps created as a homegrown quasi concentration camp for the Japanese, where in Lily is once again with her family, away from her great love. It isn't exactly the most sunny of entertainments, and Alan Parker's writing is nowhere near the level of finesse and maturity his direction has, but there could be a lot worse as far as bludgeoning-over-the-head movie-making. I can also see, from my recollection, that it is understandably one of the least seen of Parker's films. "}{"Title":"Stalag USA","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" In 1941 Japan launched a surprise attack on the American naval base at Pearl Harbor and caught thousands of Neisei in between two worlds. Come see The Paradise is the story of the Neisei (Japanese immigrants and Americans of Japanese descent) who were removed to the interior from the West Coast. The film is loosely narrated by Lily Yuriko McGann née Kawamura, a young Nisei married to a white American. Notwithstanding the marriage, both she and her daughter Mini McGann (Elizabeth Gilliam; Shyree Mezick; Caroline Junko King) are interned under difficult conditions.The film strives for a degree of balance in that it does present those who out-right favored Japan and fomented trouble in the camps as well as those loyal to their adopted country who volunteered for service in the armed forces.There are several gaps in the film Mini McGann as the daughter of a white father, couldn't have been legally detained. Jack McGann would have been entitled to an exemption from the draft as a sole custodial parent.Alternatively, with Jack in the Army and Lilly McGann locked up, in those times a grandparent Jack's parents would have been legally responsible for Mini's care and support. How did grandpa Gerry McGurn (Colm Meaney) get away without ante-ing up? The film does not explain what happened to Jack McGann alias Jack McGurn (Dennis Quaid)during the war. There is a suggestion that past union activities caught up with Jack and that he was jailed instead of being sent off into combat.In 1944 that would have seemed unlikely as the US running short on man-power was already draining its prisons into the army. In any event, the unions had been legalized nine years earlier in 1935 by FDR. Former Leftist activity was not regarded as a bad thing during the war years when the Soviet Union was America's ally. The anti-communist purge would await final victory in the war.The movie erroneously claims the US Supreme Court ended internment; to the contrary it not only approved internment but also condoned taking away a reserve commission that had been awarded to a Neisei.But despite the minor lapses in the historical aspects of the account, the film is compelling. "},{"Title":"romance in difficult history","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" It's 1936. Jack McGurn (Dennis Quaid)'s wife had gone back to Ireland after losing their unborn child in an industrial accident. He is an union sweatshop lawyer who gets run out of Brooklyn after he disagreed with burning down a theater. He comes to join his brother Gerry in L.A. and eventually gets a job at a Japanese theater in Little Tokyo. He falls in love with the owner's daughter Lily Kawamura (Tamlyn Tomita). Her father forbids her and she runs away to get married in Seattle. It was illegal in California at the time. He gets into trouble trying to organize the cannery plant that he works at despite her objections. She goes back to her parents right when Japanese forces attack Pearl Habor. The police arrests all the first generation men. Jack rejoins his family in L.A. The family is interned and Jack is drafted.The movie moves deliberately. It takes its time to show the cultural differences and give the romance some space. It's a bit slow but it works as an old fashion romantic film. It doesn't really heighten the drama more than a simple melodrama level. The running time is over two hours long and probably would work better with less. This starts as a fine love story about Jack and Lily but that drama fades into the background in the second half. The camp part of the movie becomes more about telling different aspects of life through the family members. "},{"Title":"Nightmares of the Nikkei","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Every empire tells itself that it is unlike all other empires, that its mission is not to plunder and control but to educate and liberate. - Edward SaidAlan Parker's Come See The Paradise finds actor Dennis Quaid playing a young union activist who falls in love with and marries a Japanese woman (Tamlyn Tomita) shortly before the 1941, Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour. The film subsequently becomes a giant history lesson, Parker delving into the Untied States' treatment of Japanese Americans (anti-miscegenation laws etc), their detention in massive concentration camps, their subsequent loss of civil liberties , and the plights of immigrant communities during the early 20th century.In many ways, Come See The Paradise finds Parker attempting to atone for his earlier picture, Mississippi Burning. That film which was an anti-racist tract which ended up being racist, a fact which Parker essentially acknowledges on Paradise's DVD commentary track. He then admits he conceived of Paradise as a means of addressing the unfinished business of racism in the United States, and that he applied to the film a level of research he'd never before undertaken, interviewing hundreds of survivors, studying thousands of photographs and painstakingly selecting Japanese background music.You'd think all this research would result in a dispiriting work of social realism, but no, Parker's tone is actually something else. His film is lively, at times comical, and structured as a story recounted to a young child, a technique which allows Parker to get away with a slightly sanitised, playful view history. Most of the film's best moments likewise play almost like a silent film, relying more on music and imagery than plot and dialogue. Dennis Quaid, always likable, himself at times seems to be torn out of some Charlie Chaplin movie, bumbling about as the world goes to hell.According to some, Paradise was the first American film to directly show the Japanese-American internment camps, though many other films indirectly conveyed the ordeals of the Japanese diaspora. During the war years, Hollywood did precisely the opposite, whipping up racist hysteria and portraying the Japanese as villains, saboteurs and so propagating the myth of Japanese infiltrators engaged in espionage (eg 1942's Little Tokyo). Other films, like 1944's The Purple Heart, were designed to amplify the image of the savage, Japanese Imperialist, even as Western Imperialism (by 1914, the West held roughly 85 percent of the earth as colonies - up from 67 percent in 1875 - and was increasing its holdings by 240,000 square miles per year), was itself busy genociding up the place (over a million dead in the Philippines, for example).Come See The Paradise may be over-long, and may not always work, but it's nevertheless one of Parker's better films, is fairly subversive for a big-budget picture, and manages to tease out the underlying racism of a nation whose very mythology denies racial inequality.7.9/10 &#x96; See Frozen River and Korczak. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A beautiful piece of cinema","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie and was surprised to see so little comments on its page. This movie is a true little gem. The performances of the actors are excellent and the story is interesting from both the historical and the character aspect of the script. The movie is also very romantic so you can maybe use it as a nice way of spending an evening with your girlfriend/boyfriend or wife/husband.Excellent photography, nice costumes and all around emotional performances that make you really fall in love with the characters make this movie an real surprise. The only problem that I have with it is that it is maybe a little too long. I found myself looking at the watch a couple of times. "},{"Title":"I gave it a 7 but wish it could have been better","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Movie about the Japanese internment camps during WWII. It starts in 1936 when angry union organizer Jack (Dennis Quaid) meets beautiful Japanese-American Lily (Tamlyn Tomita) and falls in love. They get married, have a child...and then the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. All Japanese people, Americans or not, lost their homes, their businesses and were shipped out to internment camps to protect them. It shows how the camps affect Lilly, her family and Jack.As far as I know this is the only commercial film to deal with one of the more horrifying chapters in American history. Too bad it just isn't that good. It was made on a big budget with a sweeping music score and good performances by all (Quaid was just fantastic) but the script just wasn't that good. If jumps all over the place and it's hard to get a handle on what's going on. The flashback structure used in the film is confusing and intrusive. It starts off by Lily telling the child about what happened. They show the story, you're getting all caught up in the characters and situations--and then you're back to Lily talking to her kid. It pulls you completely out of the film. Also, all the Japanese characters seem to meekly agree to go to the camps. Wasn't there any anger at all? Any fighting back? I question how truthful that was.As for the internment camps this is definitely a bleak chapter in history. It wasn't even taught in schools until the 1980s! Doing this film (which came out in 1990) was pretty risky and the studio seemed to get scared. It was barely released and the ads concentrated on the love story NOT the internment one. It played in Boston for only two weeks with next to no advertisements at a tiny little theatre--I managed to catch it before it closed. This film lost a ton of money. Director-writer Alan Parker said the studio agreed with him later on--that they had f***ed up (his words not mine) on the release. Still--it just isn't that good. I never once felt emotionally involved with the characters or situations. It gets a 7 as a good attempt at a very difficult subject. "},{"Title":"Great film about injustice","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The horrible way we continue to portray Americans of Asian descent in Hollywood reminds me that bigotry and tribalism will never end.The line that always kills every American-Asian is when a Caucasian asks 'What are you? Chinese, Japanese, Korean? to which I reply What are you? French, German, Dutch?The film is definitely at its most emotionally powerful in its superb middle section, which beautifully dramatizes, in flashback, the shameful deportation of these Japanese-American citizens to interment camps in California, for no crime more serious than simply being of Japanese descent. Parallels to the rounding up of Jews in Nazi Germany are never far from our minds as we witness this wholesale forced migration of a group of innocent people singled- out to assuage the prejudice and fear of an ignorant but powerful majority. For these scenes alone, the film is most assuredly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been great","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Good, but could have been great. Details one of the shadier acts in US history - the internment of Japanese-Americans in camps during World War 2. Quite moving. You share in the injustice of the situation.However, pacing is uneven. Spends much time building up this event (not overly so, though) but then speeds up towards the end, skipping some details and diluting the effect. A more powerful movie would have concentrated more on the internment camps. A bit too schmaltzy too.Good performances all round. "},{"Title":"A movie which has to be seen, cause that is the real story","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been seen by my mom in the film festival of Cannes but she has never seen this movie in a cinema. So we found this movie in a shop and buy it cause she wanted me to see it. A pleasure for me and have a look... "},{"Title":"Inu desu.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Come See the Paradise was 2 hours too long, a strictly plot-driven movie filled with plot-driven dialogue, and stiffly acted at that. It tried to cram the following into one plot- the American Guy/Asian Girl relationship- World War II- the Draft- internment camps- union workers- death in the family- generic family issues- shady lawyersIt also had gripping child acting, hit-you-over-the-head symbolism, horrible, synthesized orchestrated music, flashbacks, characters who didn't look any older 10 years later, a girl whose face changed 3 times as she got older, historical inaccuracy, and unresolved conflict (a conflict which the entire first half of the film was centered around).Not once did it feel like we were in the 1940's. It felt more like the Joy Luck Club white guy story stretched to a full length feature. Without the fun dinner scene. And then it wasn't even resolved.Best of all, the Japanese families ALL SPOKE IN ENGLISH and threw in easy 3 word Japanese phrases so we, the Japanese 102 students, could feel smart.Go see The Last Samurai, kthxbye. "}]