[{"Title":"This is one of the most touching love stories ever made.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"111 out of 137 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is one of my favorite films.  It is romantic and touching. Ghost shows the love that transcends even death. The chemistry between Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze is incredible.  The way they look at one another is sexier than any of those very graphic love scenes.  They make a real romantic connection just through their eyes.  Ghost not only has wonderful, likeable characters in Sam Wheat, Molly Jensen, and Oda Mae Brown, but it has an engrossing plot that moves right along.  Entwined in all this is a beautiful score.  The theme song Ghost, written by Maurice Jarre specifically for the movie, is enchanting, and, of course, an oldie, Unchained Melody, adds another magical touch to a magical film.  "},{"Title":"Forever a classic","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"82 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Certain movies will just always be hard to write a review for. You can give your opinion and say what you enjoyed or didn't enjoy but I find myself hesitating in certain aspects just because a classic must be left some space to be a classic. Ghost as far as I'm concerned will forever be a romantic classic. It's sheer brilliance is it's twists, it is incredibly, deeply, romantic and at the same time terrifying, and has an underlying story that is never fully explored. It's got action, mystery, horror, and at the heart is the pure, simplistic romance of it all.The story is about an investment banker played by Patrick Swayze and his girlfriend, played by Demi Moore. Sam and Molly are deeply in love, planning for the future and happier in their lives than ever before. Until Sam discovers laundered money in investment accounts. He is robbed and subsequently murdered for his password to the computer in order to empty the laundered money from the accounts. But Sam doesn't go the other side. He is kept on earth in spirit form because of his unfinished business both with Molly and to discover his murderer. He must learn the ropes of being a ghost and nobody else can hear him until he runs into a so called psychic who scams people into believing she can contact their dearly departed. However it turns out, Oda Mae Brown played in her academy award winning role by Whoopie Goldberg can actually hear Sam. Together the unlikely team must help each other uncover the horrible murder plot and save Molly.Swayze and Moore make an incredible couple..hot on screen. Their careers have perhaps slipped since then one might say but this was them at their best. Swayze was indeed at the top of his game coming out of Dirty Dancing and Roadhouse and Moore was young and a new hot commodity which made them undeniably perfect together. Their roles fit them perfectly. Whoopie Goldberg was hilarious and believable as Oda Mae and her character was such an integral part of the film. Tony Goldwyn plays a great villain as the betrayer of the film. In a short time director Jerry Zucker establishes a best friendship between Goldwyn and Swayze, a deeply loving relationship between Swayze and Moore, and a plot line that goes far beneath the movie. Obviously Goldwyn's character is being used by a much higher up criminal to launder money although we never see him. Is he being blackmailed? Paid off? Something held over his head? Maybe he's not the bad guy but rather forced to commit these acts? It's a big job because we also know Willie Lopez played by Rick Aviles is involved in this as well. And deeper than that we have the theology in the film. The light brings good people to the afterlife and the dark shadowy beings torture the evil. This film is one of a few that is endlessly watchable meaning you can sit down any time and watch it through over and over and over again which is exactly what makes it a classic. It has it's holes, it has to with a plot like that. And it has it's disturbing moments, a gratituous death scene, a make out scene which although features Swayze and Moore is actually Demi and Whoopi...you have to see it to understand it. Also if Sam Wheat must learn how to physically touch things in his ghost form...how does he sit, walk, etc before he learns that? And his first experience with walking through a door happens days after his death. I'm sure sometime between then and that point he would have had to have walked through something. Perhaps those are minor points but they are things that will come up especially if you have seen it as many times as I have. The film is a must see and if you haven't seen it, go watch it right now!! Because it's one of those staples of films that everyone must know about. Ghost is amazing!! 9/10Happy Anniversary to my beautiful Sam...we watched Ghost together last night. "},{"Title":"When You're DEAD, It's ALL OVER; but When You're LOVED, It's FOREVER !","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The imaginative but well-conceived idea of dishing up a romance upon lovers communicating spiritually owing to one of them is dead, was first filmed by Steven Spielberg 8 months before the Ghost's silver screen release. Spielberg's movie Always(1989) had classy use of visuals fulfilling the needs of viewers with mystery-based expectations. Yet, Always lacked the sense of essential romance concept, despite having the same plot and even the same storyline in Ghost. Originally the idea has been created by Chandler Sprague and David Boehm.However, Ghost accomplished of what Always tried and failed to accomplish. Thanks to the great acting trio of Patrick Swayze + Demi Moore + Whoopi Goldberg, for together they registered indelible moments into Ghost. It is scraped in our memory how in time Molly and Sam happen to keep their thoughts off each others' feelings, and that taught us Love begins with emotions, ends with thoughts. On this account they never called off their faith on believing that they will keep an enduring love affair. These indelible scenes in Ghost are conceptually cut where the editing was so impressive that instead of trying to make the story more plausible, it empowered the devotion of lovers onto their relation. The scene which Sam's ghost drew upon Oda Mae's body to break the longing with Molly by kissing her is an imperishable cinematic instant. I was in love with someone, and it was February,2005; we were both watching the Ghost on TV, both talking on the phone. Then that scene came upon(Sam's ghost kissing Molly in Oda Mae's body), I felt lost deep in my heart seeking the girl I'm talking on the phone. I heard she was crying and sobbing, and keep saying to me I will never forget the first time you kissed me and I don't need to be alive to recall this Ghost is one timeless romantic masterpiece that had its moments. For me the kissing scene was the best kiss in movies of all time. MTV had honoured this kiss as well, several years after the release of the movie, as the best kiss in '90s. Superimposing that, the scenes where Oda Mae Brown convinces Molly that Sam's ghost is around her and then Molly reasons with police that Oda Mae knows what nobody is able to know but Sam and herself only, are the scenes that deliver the magic beyond eyes and beyond ears.To watch Ghost is in the to do list of what to do when you're on a date. "},{"Title":"It has a lot more subtext than its naysayers will tell you...","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"53 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It may be easy to write this fantasy/love story off as a bloated box-office winner with a heart of F/X, however the performances are so winning, and the Oscar-winning script so satisfying, I can't believe it doesn't rate higher with viewers. Murdered businessman (Patrick Swayze, not a good actor but doing OK here) sets out in ghostly form to bring his killers to justice--and to watch out over his lovely girlfriend (Demi Moore, hitting all the right notes of a grieving lover). Whoopi Goldberg won a Supporting Oscar as a fake medium and Tony Goldwyn is uncanny as a slimeball ex-friend (his sniveling is so convincing it may have cost him real-life celebrity). Extremely well-directed by Jerry Zucker--in anybody else's hands, this might have turned to mush. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"53 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I cant believe all the people who are slamming this movie for bad acting or miscasting. Its a wonderful movie and demi moore and patrick swayze do great.Whoopi gives her oscar winning performance in force as a psychic who helps the ghostly swayze avenge his murder.I couldnt believe the user who commented that they wish they could go back in time and recast with nicole kidman and jason patric as the leads -WRONG . now that would be moronic recasting esp jason patric ? who the hell is he? some beverly hills 90210 punk and nicole kidman would not pass for the sweatshirt type woman period. great movie ignore the naysayers "},{"Title":"Beautiful, touching and moving... a tale of a love so strong it defies death itself","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I must say this film surprised me. Coming in, I knew nothing about it but the famous clay-forming scene... I didn't know I was in for such a strong experience. This film had me from the first few moments of it. I never lost interest. The plot is so interesting and intriguing, you can't help but watch, often at the very edge of your seat. I will say that I found one twist somewhat predictable, but maybe I've just seen too many later movies before watching this. There is a lot of suspense in this film. When I found that it was directed by a Zucker(yup... Airplane and so forth), I was somewhat doubtful as to any other quality in the film than the humor of it... if you're reading this and you're thinking the same, trust me; he pulls it off. Excellently. There are few, if any, flaws in directing. The writing is solid. At times, there seemed to be a little too much humor and some scenes were maybe a tad long, but apart from that, there was not really anything with this film that was flawed. The score is great. The pacing is incredibly good. The acting is really good all-round. Goldberg provides a lot of comic relief, without being obnoxious. Moore and Swayze have magnificent chemistry, you truly believe them as a couple. The special effects are grand, yet they don't take over the movie. This is driven by the emotions, by how the plot affects these characters. I was completely into this movie all the way. The humor is very good and surprisingly tasteful for the theme. Much of it is derived from the situation of Swayze's character and his interaction with environment and other characters. All in all, just a very impressive film. I recommend this to any fan of drama, romance, comedy, thriller or fantasy, as well as anyone interested in seeing a non-parody Zucker film and fans of the actors. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent romance about true love that lasts eternally","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"37 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" GHOST, in my opinion, is an excellent romance about true love that lasts eternally. When Sam (Patrick Swayze) got mugged, I got really scared. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know why. If you ask me, Maurice Jarre's score is absolutely beautiful. To me, Carl (Tony Goldwyn) was a very creepy guy. Also, Willie (Rick Aviles) was just as scary as he was. I was amazed at the way Sam could step through anything in his ghostly state. All in all, everyone involved in this film did an outstanding job. In conclusion, if you like Patrick Swayze or Demi Moore, this is definitely a movie to see. You will really be touched by it. "},{"Title":"Ghost...........Classic!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After so many years, every time when I see this movie again, it always makes my eyes water! This is basically a simple story. However, the script writer by Bruce Joel Rubin and the director by Jerry Zucker are intelligent. They made the simple story a touching, interesting one. I think most people cried at the end of the movie. This reminded me another commercial successful movie Titanic in the year 1997. The music (composed by Maurice Jarre) was so moving. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore played well, not to mention Whoopi Goldberg. Her performance was amazing!(she also had excellent acting in Spielberg's early masterpiece The Color Purple) The visual effects by ILM was extraordinary in that time. By and large, this touching movie is not only a huge commercial success, but also a classic! "},{"Title":"This is a good film","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My wife loves this film, and I found it more then a romance movie.  A intriguing story, of deception, death, the after life, and greed.  This is a great film, with character you care about, suspense, romance, and a fresh script.  This film made Patricks carrier, and after this film  he chose a few films that killed his chances of acting in higher budget films.  I believe if he picked a couple more scripts like this one he would be on the same level as Tom Cruse.  I think the politically correct 90's found him too macho for their tastes, and it drove him to do that film about India which helped kill his carrier.  In the end this film is a little about what Patrick could have been, a true international star. "},{"Title":"A Zucker for Love Sories","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"61 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1970 we had Love Story remember? Ryan O'Neal and Ali McGraw crying and loving all the way to the bank? 1990 gave us Ghost love beyond death and corporate shenanigans. I saw it last night for the first time and surprise, surprise, 15 years later I do understand why people all over the world flocked to see, to devour this soufflé, again and again. Bruce Joel Rubin won an Academy Award for the screenplay, I remember Jodie Foster handing him the statuette with a smile worthy of a British diplomat. But in fact, the screenplay should have propelled the Academy to create a separate category alongside Best Original Screenplay and Best Adapted Screenplay. Yes, Smart Ass Screenplay of the year or Most Commercial Screenplay. Jerry Zucker does a masterful job allowing Rubin's stroke of genius to unfold without major interference. Demi Moore is scrumptious and what Maurice Jarre does with her tears deserves an award of its own. Patrick Swayze suffers with a certain amount of dignity, his anger is very virile but his expressions of longing are pure Lana Turner. What makes the whole calculated enterprise worth every bit of its hype is Whoopi Goldberg. She brings the tale where it really belongs. A comedy. A ghostly comedy about enduring love. "}{"Title":"A unique and romantic story","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I always wondered if a movie could be done from a ghost's point of view. What they're thinking, what's their view of death like, and if they visit their loved ones. This movie delivers that and much more.Sam and Molly are a happy couple who have just moved in together. Sam works at a bank and is about to come upon a big account worth $4,000,000. One night when Same and Molly are walking and talking about marriage, they get attacked by a murderer, Willie Lopez. Sam fights him and gets shot. He dies instantly with Molly holding him. After Sam dies his spirit(ghost) doesn't know what's going on. He stays by Molly's side(without her knowing that he's there). He discovers that they were set up and the murderer wanted Sam's wallet for a reason. And worst of all that he was set up by his friend, Carl. Sam stumble upon a psycic office. Where Odda May Brown is a phony psycic, but discovers that she can hear Sam. He uses Odda May to warn Molly about Carl.This is a great romantic movie. I would recommend anyone to watch this, unless you don't like sappy love stories. 9/10PS, did anyone ever think that clay could be so sexy? -D "},{"Title":"Love is a powerful emotion","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you have ever lost a loved one and want to believe that they are still somewhere you will be touch by the wonderful and not over sentimental Ghost.Some people may not find Ghost to have any sense but if you are romantic and open-minded it will hit you like the fast moving train.Ghost is an epic love story of Molly (Demi Moore) and Sam (gorgeous Patrick Swayze) who have so strong relationship but it is taken from them so early. After a tragic mugging episode the banker Sam loose his life and leaves Molly to face the cruel reality on her own. Sam is persistent to let Molly know that he is still there watching and protecting her. By the act of coincidence Sam finds a way to communicate his loved one with the help of fraud sidekick Oda Mae Brown (hilarious Whoopi Goldberg whose Academy Award-winning performance was very well earned!). There is some twist and turns, some difficulties but nothing can stop the true love finding it ways. Even if it does mean beyond the grave.Ghost was the unexpected hit movie of the year 1990. It won two Oscars. Dazzling Goldberg got a Golden Man for Best Supporting Actress and Bruce Joel Rubin got his prize for his writing skills. It launched the era of new special effect techniques, and boosted the careers of Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze.First time I saw the movie it didn't affect me as much as it did when I saw it for the second time. I wept like a little waterfall and felt strongly that there must be a life after death.Vincent Schiavelli was dark but sympathetic Subway Ghost who guided Sam on his path to become a real ghost.The film produced some of the funniest scenes in movie history. While Sam is trying to get Oda Mae to help him he tortures her by singing in a monotonous, deep-voiced way I'm Henry the Eight I am! That's so great. Also the word ditto became famous. I bet the Ghost-generation has repeatedly said it to their loved ones.If you manage get your mind open and let Ghost into your heart it effects might just surprise you! 9,5/10 "},{"Title":"The best and saddest movie!!!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie to pieces. I can't get enough of it like Dirty Dancing. Two of my oldy all time favorites! This is movie was fun with the comedy (Applause to Whoopie) and the dramatic change the movie comes to. The love scene between Sam and Molly was the best. So sweet and sensual, really declaring their love for each other. Poor Molly though, her heart is ripped from her chest when Sam dies. She had no idea it was a setup, but that's when Whoopie comes in and talks to Molly through Sam. It is really a wonderful cast and such great characters. I thought at the end of the movie that heaven was going to allow Sam to come back to life, but I guess not. With them thinking Sam had no idea that he was going to die. But the ending was really a tear jerker and when he got shot at the beginning. I give this movie a FULL 10! I'm also a huge fan of Tony Goldwyn. Amazing actor! This movie was the BEST and still is the BEST. It deserves all the awards and praise it got. And bravo to the director and producer!  "},{"Title":"a lot of great scenes sign of a great movie","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This may not be a classic, but it comes close. It has one big attribute of most great movies, a lot of great scenes. The story is about Sam, who has a great life, and this movie is the opposite of CLICK. Unlike that stupid movie, this guy doesn't want to fast forward his life with a beautiful loving wife and great career. But it is taken away from him when he is killed. He becomes a ghost. And that might be one of only two flaws in the story. Why he can project his needs when billions of other dead souls can't. But a great movie like this endears us to the characters and plot enough so that this is a very trivial flaw. He finds he can communicate with a fake spiritualist (Whoopi, in a role few could do as well), which is the second flaw, since we have a feeling we've seen this character in this instance all too often. Hoever, again, if the movie is good enough we can overlook this. Without making spoilers, I can only add that the movie satisfies the viewer. There is romance, humor, logic, adventure, suspense, and great scenes. Among the great scenes that make the movie (I'll only mention some) are the scene where Sam follows his friend to the killer's apartment (actually just about every scene with his friend is classic), the scene where Whoopi goes to the bank, the scene where she leaves the bank, the scene where Sam is a ghost in the office with his friend, the scene where the friend hits on Sam's woman, the first scene with the little dark men, the second scene with the little dark men...I could go on and on. What is lost in all of this is one of the greatest emotional bits of capturing character ever, when Sam realizes what is going to happen to an evil man when the little dark men appear the second time, and he expresses true sorrow and compassion for a man who stole so much from him. This is one of the most poignant and heroic scenes ever in any movie I would find it very hard to believe anyone could not enjoy this movie. Truly a winner. Know what? This is a classic. "},{"Title":"Agreeable and fascinating love story","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The motion picture concerns upon the starring's killing (Patrick Swayze) who returns from beyond to save his lover (Demi Moore) harassed by a devious killer . He's helped by a likable psychic (Woopy Goldberg) .In the film there are a wonderful love story , humor , tearjerker , suspense , action and a little bit of horror.Runtime film is appropriate , isn't slow-moving but adjusted and the movie is very entertaining.Woopy Goldberg's interpretation is fantastic and humorous , she was Oscar winner to the category for supporting cast , a very well deserved prize .The lover couple , Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze , are riveting but overblown sweets.Maurice Jarre musical score is fascinating but principal song is copied from Alex North's theme.Direction by Jerry Zucker is first class , better than his previous films like ¨Airplane¨ , ¨Top secret¨ or ¨Ruthless people¨.The movie will appeal to fantasy buffs and love stories fans.Rating 6,5/10 . Good and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"I neeeeeeeeed your loooooooove","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I well remember the moment I realised that Ghost was a good film.  It was several years since 1990, and I had written it off as a pointless chick flick.  Then two female friends decided to watch it and, having nothing better to do, I cynically sat down to watch it with them.  When I started to borrow tissues, I knew I'd been wrong.  It may star two of the biggest has-beens in Hollywood today, but you can't deny the emotional power of this love story from beyond the grave, somehow keeping its punch even when competing against a comedy sub-plot about a `sassy' psychic.  And remember the ugly guy on the train, too.  A cheesy classic, but a classic nonetheless. "},{"Title":"I´d just like to say...","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. I know I am just a romantic fool, but I can make these kinds of movie almost alive in my own little world. I almost feel myself live in a world where love is like this and where everythigs is like I would like it to be. It is a great feeling, but it sucks when the movie ends. But oh well...all good things must end. I just wanted to say this. "},{"Title":"Extremely Good!","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a must see movie. The movie fits with practically every Genre. It's sad,  funny, romantic, and violent. It takes place in some of the roughest places in  New York, that is clear when you see the buildings in the inside of a house. The  lead characters are Sam(Patrick Swayze) and Molly(Demi Moore). They arevery much in love but when Sam is killed right before Molly's eyes by Willie(Rick  Avilles), who turns out to the hitman and Sam's best friend Carl(Tony Goldwyn),  Sam's ghost knows he has work to do before he goes to Heaven. He  discoversOda Mae Brown(Whoopi Goldberg), who is the only person who can hear hisvoice. And he manages to annoy her into trying to convince Molly to believe that  Sam is telling her to watch out for the murderers. Molly struggles with whether or  not to believe her because Oda Mae mentions private things between her andSam. Patrick Swayze is very charmingly romantic, Whoopi Goldberg is veryfunny, and Tony Goldwyn is an awesome bad guy.  "},{"Title":"This is a keeper.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"36 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have an 800+ movie collection.  I do loan to my friends. This is one movie that I have an extra copy so that if something happens to my loaner, I still have my copy.  Though I am not a regular critic except for my own viewing, I feel that this should be a keeper in any collection.  The scenes where demons come to get the bad guy and where Patrick Swayze finally goes to the after-life are fantastic.  It has it all; comedy, romance, and action. "},{"Title":"Godspeed Your Love To Me","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If nothing else the popularity of the film Ghost guaranteed a revival of that great love song Unchained Melody. It's always a pleasure when good music is heard on the airways and we have Ghost to thank for this little treasure making a comeback.Ghost also provided Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore with a couple of career roles as a typical yuppie couple settling in Tribeca when tragedy strikes one of them. But as it turns out, that's only the beginning of the story.If you were to describe Ghost I guess the best way you could describe it would be a drama/fantasy with some humorous moments, mostly as a result of the casting of Whoopi Goldberg as a fake psychic. But she comes into the story in the middle of the film. Patrick and Demi, those brat pack alumni are now eager young urban professionals, Demi makes and sells her own pottery and Patrick works in a bank, in the high end area of one, he's not just a teller. When we meet them they are starting to fix up their Tribeca loft with one of Swayze's co-workers, Tony Goldwyn.But one fateful night after seeing a performance of MacBeth, Swayze is killed as a result of a street mugging. But was it just that, a simple robbery? Not by a longshot and Swayze who was killed before his time is angry enough to stay on Earth and find out what really happened.Of course he needs an ally and that's where Whoopi comes in. Turns out that there might be a little truth in her advertising as a spiritualist and consultant to the dead. Good enough for Whoopi to win an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, the other Oscar Ghost won was for original screenplay.But you won't forget Patrick and Demi as a pair of literal starcrossed lovers. You also know that the universal fates will reunite them because people who care for each other as much as they did aren't destined to stay apart.I do so love Unchained Melody. Introduced originally by blues singer Al Hibbler in the Fifties it got a revival a decade later by the Righteous Brothers. Tony Bennett also recorded a fine version and after his death a previously unreleased version of it was put out by Bing Crosby's estate. It's a perfect song for the theme for Swayze and Moore.One of the best love stories of the last decade of the last century, despite the tragedy that takes place, Ghost is one feel good motion picture. "}{"Title":"Touching and hilarious romantic thriller","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost has been riffed as a piece of romantic cheese, but really it is a classic movie incorporating everything from romance, horror and laugh-out-loud comedy.A well-to-do accountant Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze), shares an uptown apartment with his girlfriend Molly (Demi Moore), a clay potterer, a lady with whom he is very much in love. However, Sam is murdered in an attempted mugging and as he remains on earth in spiritual form he must find a way to protect his girlfriend before the killer strikes again...Swayze and Moore work well as a couple and you really believe in the connection between them. But you need some eccentricity in this kind of picture, in order to balance out the romantic element. The film gets this in the form of Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg). The joke with this character is that she is a fake medium, who learns to her surprise that her powers are in fact real. Goldberg is excellent in this role, her timing is perfect and she is hilarious throughout. Also of note is Vincent Schiavelli as the deranged Subway Ghost, who teaches Sam how to affect the world around him. This a brief but scene-stealing performance.The villains come in the form of Tony Goldwyn, as Sam's slimy, double-dealing and increasing desperate best friend. Rick Aviles is also well-cast is low-life hit-man Willie Lopez.Best of all is Patrick Swayze who heads the cast as the title character. Swayze takes a lot of riffing for his performances, but having seen him in three movies (including this one) I don't know why. Sure he's not a great actor, but he's not a bad one. He creates a terrific chemistry between him and Moore, and an even better comic chemistry in his scenes with Whoopi Goldberg. His partnership with the latter really makes the picture. Check the scene where keeps her up all night singing I'm Henry the Eighth I Am.The film is wrapped up nicely with a lovely moving theme tune and some good ghostly special effects. Despite some serious moments, in the main the film is very light-hearted and doesn't take itself too seriously.Definitely one to watch for a good night in. "},{"Title":"Amazing...","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching Ghost and I honestly must tell you it was one of the best romances I've ever seen. It was a great film because it blends like every genre together into one amazing movie. The scenes with Unchained Melody will leave you with a chill. This movie is beautiful and breathtaking. Having only thing Swayze in Dirty Dancing, I must say I was a heck of a lot more impressed by his role in this where he was VERY convincing. You felt like Demi and Pat shared a binding love. Honestly, the only thing that looked dated were the demons. And it was funny seeing those ancient computers. Whoopi was hilarious. Even though this movie is 15 years old, it's still wonderful. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Really Entertaining Film!","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam and Molly are a very happy couple and deeply in love. Walking back to their new apartment after a night out at the theater, they encounter a thief in a dark alley, and Sam is murdered. He finds himself trapped as a ghost and realizes that his death was no accident. He must warn Molly about the danger that she is in. But as a ghost he can not be seen or heard by the living, and so he tries to communicate with Molly through Oda Mae Brown, a psychic who didn't even realize that her powers were real.This film probably has every genre in it. It has romance, comedy, horror, thriller, mystery, action, suspense, and fantasy! It was really freaky because first you're laughing your head off but then it all turns into a horror film. There were even some edge-of-your-seats scenes! The cinematography of the film is also fantastic!This film is highly entertaining! There are some memorable romantic scenes between Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore and hilarious scenes mostly done by Whoopi Goldberg, which is one of the most memorable character in the film winning her an Oscar. The three and Tony Goldwyn were great in the film.As I said, this is a highly entertaining film. It will probably fit well for everyone because of it's various genres. This is one of the best films! "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion this film is probably the biggest tear-jerker I've ever seen. It is the only film where half an hour after the film has finished I'm still sat there in floods of tears. Brilliant. This film is funny, scary, weird and romantic. "},{"Title":"Ghost really has the power to make you believe","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film has helped me through so many bad times. Round about the time this was released on DVD i lost my mum to cancer. This was the last film I watched with her so nowadays it has sentimental value. This is a perfect film to watch if you're depressed as it does make you feel better after you watch it. This is my fave movie ever. I watch this nearly every month because I love the movie so much. This cannot be repeated twice, there can't be a sequel to it, It's a golden tear film (meaning weepie) The power that this film has is unbelievable. If you have lost a loved one then you'd know the power that i'm talking about. The acting is superb. Patrick really does make you believe in this character and this nightmare he is going through and by the end you really do feel the magic that the character goes through. It does really make you wonder what that life beyond death is really like. The romantic side of this film doesn't miss a beat. Patrick and Demi's chemistry is paramount to the story and it doesn't feel faked, it feels real. The inclusion of Whoopi Goldberg's character gives it a lighthearted style humour which by the end has a message to it. Jerry Zucker who recent flicks before this one were Airplane! does a great job mixing the heartfelt sentimentality with the stand out humour that you get when Patrick and Whoopi are together on screen. Whoopi quite rightly deserved that Oscar she got for this role. Her acting was brilliant. Two cast members has been outlooked by every one but without there characters this movie might not have worked. I'm talking about of course Tony Goldwyn as Karl and Rick Aviles as Willie. The subtle acting brings out their most evil side and you are genuinely shocked when you found out he was in on it the whole time. How could you allow your best friend to be murdered? You feel that their just desserts are quite literally deserved after how you see them as and what they had done to Sam. It is scary in some parts and even a little gruesome but the message does still shine through. Love is forever if you believe. By the end yes even i was in floods of tears. That is the power that this one has, to literally bring you to tears. No matter how hard you try, it will always do that. I have watched this time and time again and I still cry buckets at the end, even before the scene even starts, I'm already filling up. The end scene is the standout moment of the film. It is the magic of GHOST. There is no more powerful word than goodbye. Industrial Light and Magic create an effect that pulls at the heartstrings and the acting from the stars pulls even more. The real magic of this scene is Maurice Jarre's powerful soft instrumental theme of Unchained Melody. The soft violins lets the tears flow. It is truly beautiful. Even right now i'm thinking of it and i'm getting a lump in my throat. If you haven't seen this yet, see it now. If you want a great tearjerker, they don't come better than this. "},{"Title":"Get Out and See It ***12","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The unexpected hit of 1990 earned a best picture nomination and a best supporting actress Oscar for Whoopi Goldberg's portrayal of Oda Mae Brown, a psychic delivering comic relief in a film.Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore are lovers separated by fate. The fate being that Swayze is murdered. Murdered by his best friend, played quite well by newcomer Tony Goldwyn, the great grandson of Samuel L. Goldwyn.There are some scary moments as the plot reveals itself. Oda Mae is hilarious at a memorable bank scene. Those devils coming out to punish Goldwyn and others are quite eerie but necessary for the plot to sustain itself.The movie discusses the fact that not even death can prevent love from being pursued. As hard as that is to swallow, you leave the theater knowing that love conquers all. "},{"Title":"excellent movie of there time","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is such a great movie of the nineties. It's about the love between too people so strong. Then all of a sudden Sam gets shot for money and his spirit is set free to the mortal world. So basically he's trying to stop Carl from killing Molly and Oda Mae. Oda Mae (Whoopi Goldberg) made this movie happen with her witty humor and talent. She defiantly deserved that Oscar for her role. I hate Carl for betraying Sam the way he did. That was messed up. I love the chemistry between Oda Mae and Sam and how she had to help him to warn Molly. That was terrific. I love this movie so much. Best romantic comedy of the early nineties. This is a perfect movie to watch with your loved ones. This movie will always be remembered. "},{"Title":"You're dead, Willy.","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't know why but this is my favourite movie of all time... Wait, I do know why I like it so much. It just came to me. The actors were really good and correctly cast, I think. The plot made sense and the characters were believable. It's a little known fact that lots of comediennes's favourite movies are actually thrillers. My favourite movie is this and it's also a thriller too. How bizarre... Sam Wheat (Swayzee) is in love and has moved in with his girlfriend, Molly. (Moore) What he doesn't know is that his friend Carl is about to betray him. Whoopi Goldberg puts humour into this black storyline to create a lighter feel to the movie which I think is good to have. This movie kept me hooked the whole time. Dead on great film. I give it 10 stars. I also urge anyone out there to see 'Point Break' another one of Swayzee's films. "},{"Title":"Loved it....","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was very touching and nothing was wrong with it. Great performance by Whoopi...she was hilarious and kept the movie going along even better. I liked the part when Oda didn't want to give the money to the nuns. Overall a tearjerker it was so sad at the end. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"extremly beautiful, broke my heart in the most amazing way","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  inpecable directed, rich in emotions and situations, absolutely lovely whoopi goldberg is hilarious, demi moore is a sweetheart and patrick sweise is perfectly good....a touching film that nobody will forget ever personally i couldn't stop crying......  "}{"Title":"One of the most amazing and touching movies ever made.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is definitely a one of a kind movie. It's a total tear-jerker that is just amazing. Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Tony Goldwyn and Whoopi Goldberg are all absolutely brilliant and the chemistry between Patrick and Demi is great. Ghost is a definite must-see for everyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A tear-jerker!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Life after death can be real experience after passing from the living. It can be a dream or a nightmare when you have lived you life. In Ghost, it can be both. A yuppie in New York named Sam Wheat(Patrick Swayze) lives with his sweetheart Molly(Demi Moore) with his life in full motion. Then one night, everything changes. His life is ended with a bullet, and he's wandering the streets of New York confused and scared out of his wits. He does get help with a psychic (Whoopi Goldberg) who happened to be a know con-artist. With her help they make an effort to save Molly from certain doom. Not only Sam's killer is the culprit, but someone from his job is also guilty to his murder Carl Bruner(Tony Goldwyn), Sam's own friend! How could it be? Somehow, he was the bigger thief than Oda Mae Brown. This movie is strong, uplifting and supportive in every way. Swayze and Moore make a great team, but Goldberg and Swayze are top-notched, that's a fact! If this movie doesn't move you, then you got a problem. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"True love transcends time and space","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What an ageless movie. It's been 18 long years since the movie's release but even when you watch it now, you know it's a classic. Shot at a time when Patrick Swayze was still riding high on the wave of fame brought about by Dirty Dancing, this movie serves to prove his critics wrong. Though not considered a great actor in the mold of other pretty boys like George Clooney and Leonardo DiCaprio, Swayze more than holds his own in Ghost.It's a movie, first and foremost, about love. Along with it, there are other issues such as betrayal, death, and trust. Sam Wheat was murdered by a thug after watching a theater performance with his longtime girlfriend Molly (Demi Moore), and finds out only in death that his best friend Carl (Tony Goldwyn) was the one who hired the thug to kill him.It's a powerful message the movie sends- how love can transcend all tangible and intangible barriers, as long as the heart is willing to believe in the one you love. Even as a ghost, Sam does everything he can to try and protect Molly from all dangers.The film has many touching scenes guaranteed to leave tears flowing freely when Molly weeps in her grief at home while doing the pottery, and Sam wants so badly to comfort her but she can't see or hear him at all. And nothing will beat the scene when Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg) was outside her door, trying to convince Molly to open the door, but Molly refused to believe her. Then Sam uses the power of his mind to move a coin up from the floor to the door and finally into the palm of her hand. The moment was magical.Great casting, acting, and directing- this film will leave you spellbound long after the credits roll.Almost perfect. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Terrific performances in a sweet movie.","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie really was a great follow-up role for Patrick Swayze. I was intrigued by his performance in 'Dirty Dancing' and wondered how he would approach this very different role. I was pleasantly surprised by Patrick's ability to shift gears from dancer/actor to straight actor. His portrayal of a man's eternal love for his soul-mate was very convincing. His portrayal of an investment banker was not as strong. That huge mane of curly hair did not seem to fit into the image of a corporate team player.The strength of the film was in the chemistry between Patrick 'Sam' and Whoopi Goldberg 'Oda Mae'. These two performers played off each other so flawlessly, it was magic. It made for a strong comedic theme in a performer not noted for his comedy skills. On second thought, perhaps it was much more Whoopi than Patrick.The chemistry between Patrick and Demi Moore 'Molly' was not as strong. They had flashes of excellence between more mundane moments. The scene where 'Molly' making pottery on a wheel turned into an amorous encounter was a very sweet moment.The performance of Tony Goldwyn as best friend/traitor 'Carl' was extremely creepy and convincing. When he attempted to take advantage of grieving 'Molly' I first suspected that the plot would involve 'Carl' having 'Sam' murdered so that he could move in on 'Molly'. That did not exactly happen, but it seemed 'Carl' would have enjoyed this as an additional bonus to the money he wanted so badly he killed for it.The finale made the film. Even the hardest heart melted at the love and loss experienced by 'Sam'. He showed how beautiful and loving 'Sam' really was. He had bonded with 'Oda Mae' too and it no doubt made her decide to become a better person from his example. "},{"Title":"Movie Entertainment at it's Finest","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I went into Ghost a little apprehensive. I had heard so much about it, and it was supposedly the crowning moment of one of my favorite actresses Whoopi Goldberg. However, my apprehensions were instantly wiped away. This movie lived up to all of it's praise! It's the story of two young lovers Sam (Patrick Swayze) and Molly (Demi Moore). They have just moved in together. After a night out on the town, Sam is brutally killed by a seemingly random mugger and Molly holds Sam's bloody corpse in her arms- all while Sam's spirit watches. He has been left to wander Earth and desperately try to protect Molly. He gets help from Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg) a psychic fraud who has more power than she realized. Together, Sam and Oda Mae begin to piece together the puzzle of Sam's death, and uncover something much more sinister than they ever imagined.The whole cast does an excellent job here. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore play the roles of grieving lovers perfectly. Ms. Moore is especially affecting. But it's Whoopi Golberg's fantastic performance as Oda Mae Brown that truly steals the show. Her performance is hilarious and endearing throughout, and she takes the film to an entirely new level. She's really is half of what makes it so good.This, in my opinion, is a great film. It entertains, it thrills you, and it even moves you. The writing is also excellent. The only place the film suffers is the special effects. Even they are fine- accept for the demons. The demons of the film are laughable. That is one major downfall. However, it's not bad enough to ruin a film that is one to be treasured. Good fun all around! 8/10 stars! Jay Addison "},{"Title":"I watch it over and over!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies I watch over and over--no matter at what point I find it, I settle down and watch it. As another viewer said, this movie has it all--love, humor, violence-- and best of all, the good guys win! I think it's the best thing Demi and Patrick have done (I admit I haven't seen all their work), and I think Demi should wear her hair that way all the time--to me, it's much more becoming than her later long styles. I was so happy to learn that Whoopi won an Oscar for her performance--she was funny and scared and puzzled and all the things Oda Mae would have been. I've just reviewed the list of awards this film won, and believe it deserved every one of them. As the loathsome Carl, Tony Goldwyn should probably have won one of the awards too, because he did a great portrayal of the classic coward, the type who tries cozying up to someone to get what he wants the easy way, but has no way of coping with problems except to go kill someone or hire it done for him. I'm glad the dark spirits got him too! In all, a very satisfying movie! "},{"Title":"Your spirit will believe! One of the best of the 90's.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When seeing Ghost 16 years ago with friends, and family I knew that this film would go down as a classic and it did it's one of the 90's best films. The movie in my opinion is so successful because of the many themes it's associated with it's not only a love story, but also this film has plenty of comedic moments while at the same time the main characters face a web of betrayal. The plot is well written with many turns as Patrick Swayze gives a strong performance as a New York City banker, who is gunned down and killed right in front of his sweetheart(Demi Moore)and all of this is over a dirty investment scandal. Ghost then gets very interesting when the Swayze character finds out that the after life does indeed occur! He can see people, but they can't see him! Never fear the only hope is to team with a psychic(Whoopi Goldberg who rightfully wins an Academy-Award for best supporting actress) to uncover the truth behind his murder and to rescue his love(Demi Moore). Overall this movie is a great romance that touches your heart, and makes you appreciate your loved ones especially after their gone. The laughs are also good with Whoopi and it's nice to see the now late Vincent Schiavelli have a small part as a subway ghost, who helps Patrick believe in his supernatural powers. Overall again one of the best movies of the 90's that taught us love, hope, and made us a believer that our past loved ones could be ghost. Also this picture helped make Demi Moore a superstar in the 90's, as she would earn 12 to 15 million a picture during this decade. "},{"Title":"A transparent love story.","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam Wheat is a banker who is killed and comes back as a ghost to seek vengeance on the man who killed him. He also comes back to tell his girlfriend Molly that she is in danger but it is not easy, being a ghost and all. So he visits a fortune teller to help him with both. Whoppie does a great job playing the fortune teller because she is so hilarious. The funniest part is when she tells Sam that the nuns cannot buy underwear. It makes me laugh every time.The love story is also touching and beautiful. It is also believable and can make anyone cry, especially the ending. I love the pottery scene and think that it is one of the greatest love scenes in any movie of all time.See through all the bad movies and see this movie. "},{"Title":"One film that should live forever - 84%","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Some films tend to live far longer than their quality suggests, either due to key scenes which are firmly lodged in our collective memories or because they are frequently copied or parodied. The Matrix is one example although given the quality of the (first) film, it was always going to become a hit. Ghost, it seems, is one that has been damaged by comic imitation - Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear almost ruins it on its own - but the fact is that this film is about so much more than The Righteous Brothers and THAT scene. It remains a powerful, emotive tear-jerker in the finest traditions of Hollywood and despite looking understandably rough around the edges these days, it is still worthy of your attention if you're in the mood for a modern classic love story.Patrick Swayze plays Sam, loving partner of Molly (Demi Moore) and banking business partner of best friend Carl (Tony Goldwyn). Life, it seems, is pretty much perfect and as the film opens, we see Sam and Molly moving into a new apartment. But nothing lasts forever and Sam is shot and killed in a street mugging. Finding himself stuck as a ghost, Sam continues to spend time with Molly who is deep in mourning and unable to see or hear Sam's ghost. But Sam quickly finds that his death was not as random as it appeared but what can he do when no-one can see or hear him? Only with the help of an apparent medium (show-stealing Whoopi Goldberg) can Sam help save Molly from the danger that is still out there waiting for her.Plot-wise, it's pretty weak and the supposed mystery behind Sam's untimely demise is about as deep as an episode of Scooby Doo. And despite the Oscar-winning performance by Goldberg, Swayze is disappointing as the dewy-eyed, square-jawed spirit. It also has to be said that the special effects are somewhat dodgy but nothing too serious - a special edition DVD release could probably sort that out. So if it's a predictable mystery with a poor lead actor, why is it such a popular film? Simple - despite being a comedic love story with a supernatural twist, it actually acquits itself very well. Swayze and Moore make a great couple and have real chemistry on screen, making their parting all the more painful. It is a classic love story and one which appeals to women more than men - not enough Demi for me. It is also a chilling ghost tale with scenes that are genuinely disturbing such as the shadow people who drag souls into Hell with an unearthly scream.Despite looking very dated in places and the fact that you know what will happen in the end, Ghost remains a film that no self-respecting romance fan should be without. It has its detractors and the minute Unchained Melody starts playing, you'll struggle to suppress a wry smile. But I must admit, I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the movie which I swore was cheesy and needlessly gushy when I watched it years ago. If you watch with a loved one then it will almost certainly result in tears but in a good way, for once. Ghost is one film that deserves to live forever in our collective minds because it is a real winner. "},{"Title":"Before Titanic,This Was The Love Story Of The 90's","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost (1990) Starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopie Golberg, Tony Goldwyn, Rick Aviles, Martina Deignan, Susan Breslau. Director Jerry Zucker, Writer Bruce Joel Rubin Before Titanic (1997) Ghost, released in 1990, was the most beloved romantic movie of the 90's. It is still considered a romantic classic and has all the makings of a terrific movie sans the romance itself. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore sizzle as the married couple Sam and Molly. Sam is killed after a botched mugging. His rival Carl Bruner (Tony Goldwyn) is bent on stealing money from his bank account and stealing his wife. Whoopie Goldberg plays Oda Mae Brown, a fraudulent psychic who claims to talk to the dead. When Sam dies, he becomes a ghost to extract justice. Sam is able to communicate with Oda Mae. Whoopie is actually at her best in this film. I do know she had already made several funny movies in the 80's but this one is quite delightful. Of course, Sister Act made her famous too but as Oda Mae she's a real riot! Later on, Molly learns of his being a ghost. In its day, Ghost was a combination of thriller, paranormal surrealism and romance, an odd mix. The theme song Unchained Melody by the Righteous Brothers sold like crazy in record stores and was always on the radio. There is much to appreciate about this film. The cinematography is quite beautiful. It is both dark and light, tragic and triumphant. Yes, Molly has lost her husband but not his love. As a ghost, their relationship has never been stronger. The scene in which Sam (as a ghost) is caressing and kissing Molly as she works on the potter-wheel is still incredibly erotic and romantic! How can one not find that romantic ? Ultimately, evil is defeated and good triumphs. The ending is satisfying in every way. In fact, that ending is one of the many I have loved in movies. Also, this is one of the films that at the time were just meant to be watched with no real need to overanalyze it and to just enjoy it. The early to mid 90's was the time of VHS and this was one of the hottest videos in stores at the time. Sit back, turn off the lights, light some candles, get together with your partner and enjoy the timeless tale of a woman and her ghost! "}{"Title":"Till Death Do Us Part Doesn't Have To Be The End","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Ghost' is one of the most beautiful and heart felt films i have ever seen in my life. I love this film and i don't care who you are in at least one part of this film you will shed a tear.The Story.. Sam (Patrick Swayze) and Molly (Demi Moore) are the perfect couple, they love each other, they have an apartment, life seems to be going great but one night Sam is killed while trying to fight off a mugger. Molly is having trouble coping with the memory of her late lover and is even more distraught when a simple seance con artist called Otamea Brown (Whippi Goldberg)turns up claiming that Sam has came to her to send a message to Molly that Sam wasn't randomly chosen out of the crowd by the man who tried to mug him...I love this film and it has an amazingly sad ending that touches the heart. Patrick Swayze is brilliant as Sam, he really brings out the emotions of a man who is coping with death and the after lie of watching his love deny all the signs that he is still with her.A must see film, 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Can you feel me? With all my heart.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is an inspiring touching movie. The love of Molly and Sam overcomes the obstacle of Sam's death when his spirit stays earthbound in order to protect Molly from the crooks who killed him. At first he is unable to communicate with his loved one. A chance visit to a fake psychic named Oda Mae reveals that she is the only person who can hear him. He quickly obtains her help in contacting Molly and getting even with people responsible for his death. All three leads are marvelous in their roles. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore make a wonderful yuppie couple. Banker and artist. Whoopie Goldberg gives the best performance of her career as the feisty Oda Mae. Funny romantic and suspenseful everything you could want in a good ghost story. "},{"Title":"Humorous, intelligent, and overall moving.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS When I first heard of the movie Ghost, I really wasn't interested, mainly because I was about 7 or 8. May 2003, when I was 13, I saw this movie. I thought that it was one of the smartest, funniest, and touching movie I had ever seen. Patrick Swayze will always be recognized for his part as Sam, probably second behind Johnny from Dirty Dancing. He is one of those guys who tries to act all macho, but he is obviously sensitive and down to earth. His girlfriend is Molly, played by Demi Moore in an equally memorable performance. The most memorable performance, though, is that of Oda Mae Brown, played by Whoopi Goldberg. Goldberg won a very deserving Oscar for Supporting Actress, as well as the same award at the Golden Globes. She is the psychic fraud who is able to communicate with Swayze, whose ghost refuses to move on to the next life. When he finds out that Molly is in great danger, him and Oda Mae team up to save her life, leading to an eye watering ending. For those of you who love this movie, Ditto!  8/10 "},{"Title":"A really good movie","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Saw this on tv last night. I have seen it before but this is the kind of movie you can watch many times. My favorite part of the movie is when patrick is trying to convince Whoppi to help him by singing to her. Not only is this film funny it is also very cute and romantic. Well to be honest, it is more romantic than funny. A great date movie. "},{"Title":"Have the tissues ready.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My family hates it when this one comes on TV. It doesn't matter if it's the first or last five minutes, I put the remote down and watch it to the end. Some of the effects are a little lame but Demi and Patrick are wonderful together. If you're a macho man, watch it alone so no one sees you cry! "},{"Title":"Wonderful story of fantasy and love mixed with comedy","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost was a movie that nobody wanted, the studio wanted two big names for the lead but no stars like the script, they picked two slightly unknown actors (Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze), the script was rewritten, the studio did not like the finished movie and put it on the shelf to collect dust, the studio brought in a different head of production and he discovered Ghost, as did we all. Ghost is lighting in a bottle, perfect acting jobs by three people in Hollywood that get no respect, (Moore, Swayze, and Whoopi Goldberg. A wonderful story of fantasy and love mixed with comedy. The music was wonderful and fit the movie perfect. Ghost would not have been as good without the ending, it will make you cry and think about the afterlife. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A romantic tour de force with Demi Moore in her prime...","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A couple of years ago I bought Ghost on vhs when I was on vacation in New York. Not knowing that that there are two (at least?) vhs standards I ended up with a movie I could not watch. Well, tonight I saw it for the first times in years and it was just as good as I remembered it. Demi Moore i simply put touching and Patrick Swayze is not bad either. These two certainly were in their primes at the time. If you can stand the slightly annoying Whoopi Goldberg then this is a really good and romantic movie. Just think of that clay scene... "},{"Title":"Hard not to like it.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost isn't very subtle, and similar themes have been done elsewhere with more depth, but I say just relax and enjoy.  The best reason is of course, Whoopi Goldberg, who is hilarious and as always, very good. As for the story and the characters' reactions  not being plausible, you really need to have a little imagination when you watch movies!  I give any movie credit for not being bad, since there are so many dreary movies out there, and Ghost is not bad.  "},{"Title":"Bravo Whoopi!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time I really liked it. Not just because it's a nice romantic film, but also because Whoopi Goldberg is fantastic in it and, obviously, deserved that Oscar. She didn't just bring some comedy to the movie, she acted perfectly.For the first time I kind of liked Demi's performance (and hey, she was playing a normal woman...). The sound-track by Maurice Jarre is touching and very appropriate to the movie. The don't think I'll ever get tired of this love story. "},{"Title":"i love Patrick Swayze","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this is a great movie. of course i love any movie Patrick Swayze plays in . this is one that really touched my heart an makes you wonder what you would do in that situation.i think it was a movie that has it all. love, comedy, suspense,waiting to see who the bad guy was.an waiting to see if Demi Moore was going to believe that he had come back. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was perhaps five. I don't remember it clearly, but my mother says that I cried my eyes out at the ending, saying he should have stayed with her! Well, I just watched Ghost again, for the first time since then. History repeated itself, and left me sobbing into my pillow. Ghost is a wonderfully touching love story, and the chemistry between Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore makes the story believable and much sadder. It's a beautiful movie - sad, but beautiful - and I recommend it to men and women alike.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Incredible","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie heaps of times, and I still love to watch it.  I liked it so much, I bought my own copy. The first time I watched it was when I went to the Video shop to get an action movie for myself, and a soppy one (Ghost) for my wife.  I watched it 3 times during that weekend.The directing was superb; the casting perfect and the acting out of this world.  I have never been moved by a film as I was by Ghost.I like movies with a lot of action, you know guns, explosions, chase scenes etc, but when Demi said Ditto near the end of the movie, I nearly lost it.If you have never seen this movie, or if you have not seen it for a while, watch it.  You will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Woaw! -- that's all I could say when I saw it for the first time.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It might be a love story, I ended up feeling sad when I saw Ghost for the very first time. I never risked seeing it again, because I was scared to cry in the presence of my family. It is so touching when Sam dies and his ghost leaves his body. Whoopi Goldberg is at her absolute best ( same goes for Patrick Swayze ) and Demi Moore is believable but not outstanding. Gosh, this was indeed a great movie. Unforgettable. The soundtrack adds that little piece of magic and romance. Every time I listen to Unchained Melody, I remember Ghost. The end is the most beautiful part of the movie. I don't remember well what happened, because tears filled my eyes and I couldn't see for a few moments ( it was the only moment of the movie I cried! ). It is possibly the only movie that makes you feel both happy and unhappy. A masterpiece! "},{"Title":"A Great Romantic thriller!","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a very entertaining film on many different levels.  It has something for everyone.  Humor, romance, action, mystery, the supernatural and even a few scares.  "},{"Title":"Good entertainment... never mind about the rest!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, and no matter how many times I see it (and no matter how many more flaws I see each time), I will continue to think of it as a good, kind of sad/poignant, and very interesting thing to watch.   It's one of those well-known movies that can easily be referred to as a classic, when maybe the acting and directing weren't perfect, or the storyline was flawed, or whatever.. I've heard this referred to as a chick flick, which I don't necessarily agree with, as those kinds of movies typically sicken me, but if it is one, it's one of the best I've seen!  (I didn't care for some of the make-out scenes though... especially the one where it was really him in Whoopi Goldberg's body... I mean, could you really ignore that if you were in that situation?)  And Unchained Melody is so beautiful.... You won't see me get this mushy over much else! "},{"Title":"Outstanding. An easy 10!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Bitter-sweet tragic, yet uplifting romantic/comedy/thriller. The pottery-wheel scene makes the entire movie.  Outstanding performance by Whoopi Goldberg who almost steals the show!  "},{"Title":"(Two person conversation)Should I watch Ghost? Ditto.","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The great Patrick Swayze died just recently. So, I am going to review some of his films. I have already reviewed Dirty Dancing before. So now I am going to review Ghost, which to me, was his best film. I know a lot of people prefer Donnie Darko, but I actually enjoyed this film more. This film is more interesting, and more romantic than Dirty dancing. Though, I think that was a great film as it was, Ghost is even better.The 2 time Oscar winner is about a guy(Patrick Swayze)who is in love with his girlfriend(Demi Moore), but has a hard time saying it. One night when he is walking home with her he is murdered in the alley. He has the choice to walk into the light and refuses. So he is a ghost living on earth and is looking to find out who murdered him or who was behind his murder. He also realizes that his girlfriend is in trouble too, so he tries to save her.Ghost is a hell of a film. I loved it and there are many good performances. Including Whoopi Goldberg, who actually won the Oscar for this film. I would never want a friend like Sam's(Patrick Swayzes). After seeing Ghost I always questioned friendship because what if my friend decide to do this to me? Well, I love Ghost though it is low budgeted, it is still a great love story. Ditto.Ghost****/**** "},{"Title":"Most Heart-Touching, Immortal tale of an immortal Love","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Call me biased, call me blind, but this is the most beautiful, heart-touching movie you can see if you are the romantic kind of person. It's like the Bible, the father of all romantic movies. It MAY not be the best out there, but it is definitely a MUST see. It's like those classics that define pure love, a love beyond anything one can imagine, striving story of one soul's wanting to be near his loved one. There may be other movies even better, but this one will surely be remembered as long as there will be 'Love' in people's minds. I watched it like 19 times since it was released and till now, it touches me like it touched me the first time i watched it - true love never grows old - maybe that's why. Enough said, it's time you watch it - only then you will know what i am talking about ) "},{"Title":"the ghost vs. crime","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam and Molly seem to be the perfect couple, they bought an apartment. Sam is a banker and Molly does art work. They think nothing could go wrong, until the night after leaving a play, Sam is shot and the shooter leaves him to die which leaves Molly alone in the apartment. But Sam is a spirit, and discovers that the killer who murdered him is after Molly. Sam teams up with a psychic named Odamay(Whoopi Goldberg) who can hear ghost not see them, in hopes to catch the killer and save Molly. But can Sam's ghostly powers save Molly in time? I enjoyed this movie plus sister act with Whoopi Goldberg playing a big role in the movie. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore were also great Sam and Molly. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my top 50 favorite movies. Everybody is great in it from Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore to Whoppi Goldberg. Even the two villains were excellent though I heard that the actor who played Willie Lopez actually passed away not long after making the film.Sam Wheat a banker, is murdered during a mugging while coming from a show with his girlfriend Mollie. For some reason Wheat is still walking the Earth, now in ghost form. He follows Mollie and finds that the killer was really after a password that he had to authorize funds transfers through the bank. Now Mollie is also in danger from the killers and Sam feels helpless.Sam then happens upon Goldberg, who is running a scam as a medium who can communicate with the dead. Apparently, Goldberg can hear Sam talk so Sam uses Goldberg to try to communicate with Mollie and warn her of danger.Sam then realizes that the only way to protect Mollie is to be able to use some sort of physical force. The only problem is as a ghost he has no physical substance so he cannot touch anything. Or can he? Sam learns that maybe he can touch objects when he encounters another ghost who is able to do just that. The other ghost turns out to be one of the most entertaining characters of the film.The movie has it all from a love story, to excellent comedy, fairly decent special effects and a great story. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Patrix Swayze is one of my favourite actors. The first time I saw him on screen, he was in Point Break, and was great. When I rented this out and found out he was a character in Point Break, I was much more hopeful. And am glad. This, no matter what anyone says, really is a great great film.Sam and Molly are a seemingly happy couple living in an apartment in an American city. Sam is in the financial business and Molly is seemingly a house-wife. His supposed best friend Karl and him are partners, only when he is betrayed and killed. His never-ending love for Molly allows him to stay on Earth, but only as a ghost, hence the title. After an emotional scene in which he sees his dead body, he is determined to make contact with Molly and warn her of the trouble she is in. He finds help in a phony pshycic who actually has powers, and she, reluctantly (after a hilarious encounter) decides to help him. At first, Molly doesn't believe the seemingly impossible equation. But as more and more things fit, she begins to believe. Could it be possible? No matter how many bad things you hear about this film (hopefully you won't hear many) do not listen. I'm not a huge fan of romantic comedies but this, as well as making you laugh endlessly, keeps you on the edge of your seat as well as entertaining. Emmaculatly well done, this is a never-ending classic that has found a safe, comfortable place in my film collection. Overall ***** out of ***** (5 out of 5) "},{"Title":"tragic, yet funny ghost tale","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A man is murdered by a mugger and his ghost comes back to his girlfriend. She can't see him, but another woman can; this woman convinces the girlfriend that he is there in spirit. One of the most tender and engrossing films of the 80's followed. The ending is guaranteed to soften the hardest heart. 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"One ghost movie to rule them all!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie has everything a ghost movie should have. There were no cheap sound effects or graphic effects that tries to scare you when you are asleep during the movie (like cheap ghost movies nowadays).This movie has a good story, good special effects, good actors, good and haunting music, what more could you ask? Forever classic. One ghost movie to rule them all!I could easily say that this movie had built groundwork for movies like The Matrix and some. Patrick Swayze, Demi More and Whoopi Goldberg' DEFINING/BEST roles!A MUST FOR ALL GHOST MOVIE FANS!!Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Still has the power to make you cry.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a movie defines the term tearjerker. Despite being a really bittersweet story and despite being hollywood to a TEE it's a good movie. So sad and if I had to pick a movie where the tears flow through the duration this would be at the TOP of the list-still despite it's obvious tearjerker build up, this is a beautiful HAUNTING movie. Once in awhile people are cast in a movie who are so right for their roles you just can't picture anyone else who could play them. This is such a case, partcularly with Swayze who was wonderful and Demi Moore, despite having gone onto more of the tough girl kind of roles shines here-and I'm not even a major fan of hers. Moore is best when playing a more soft kind of role and here she is about as good as it gets. Ghost is definetly on its way to being a classic-or maybe it already is. It's definety one of the best love stories to come out of the 90's and still remains a beautiful addition to the romance genre of movies.   "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one film that works on so many different levels.  First and foremost it is a great love story that shows how even though someone dies, love for a person never dies.  It manages to do this without becoming sappy.  It also is a great thriller as you see Sam as he tries to save Molly from Willie and Carl while he is in his ghostly state.  Many of those scenes scenes kept me on the edge of my seat.  But most of all the comic moments with Whoopi Goldberg were what helped make this film an all around entertainment.  She provided some much needed humor into what is pretty much a serious film and won a well deserved Academy Award for her performance.  This film is definitely an all time classic. "},{"Title":"What we do for love.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful. Very exceptional romance flick with a flare of comedy. A man (Patrick Swayze)is accidentally shot and killed during a mugging. His spirit does not go to the 'here after', but remains on earth in the form of a ghost to protect his girlfriend(Demi Moore). The eye contact  between these two speak the language of love. The atmosphere is enhanced with bits and pieces of the song Unchained Melody. And when it comes time and you first hear the sounds of the Righteous Brothers singing one of their trademark hits...there is not a dry eye in the house. To this day, every time I here this beautiful classic I think of GHOST and the power of love.I am not a fan of Whoopi Goldberg, but have to say she was great as the spiritualist Oda Mae Brown. Also in the cast are Tony Goldwyn and Susan Breslau. Highly recommended as a first date movie. Bring plenty of hankies. Be prepared to fall back in love with love.  "},{"Title":"Really A Loving and Moving Story!","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Really a loving and a moving story. About live in lovers, Sam(Played by the late Patrick Swayze), and Molly(Demi Moore) as they are living in a new apartment. But despite great jobs, he as a banker and she as a potter, Sam just can't bring himself to saying he loves her but only saying ditto.One night, as Sam proposes to Molly, some thug named Willie(the late Rick Aviles), kills Sam as Sam while trying to chase him realizes he is a ghost nobody can hear or see. As Molly is beside grief.Sam later learns that he was not killed by a random accident. And with reluctant help from a con artist-medium Oda Mae(Oscar winner comedienne and actress Whoopi Goldberg), supplying huge comic relief, they try to help Molly who is also in danger.Sam is upset to realize it is his best friend and fellow worker Carl(Tony Goldwyn) who had him killed in an embezzling scheme.Now Sam must protect Molly along with go to the other side aka heaven as he failed to do so once he was killed in the first place. Plus with the help of a veteran ghost(played b the late Vincent Schiavelli), he helps to move objects with willpower.Really a loving and moving movie. Just love the romance and the chemistry between all three lead actors and supporting actors. RIP Patrick Swayze! Still great after 20+ years! "},{"Title":"Beyond words, but I'll attempt it","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although often marginalized by my contemporaries, colleagues, and the world of academia at large, the character of Ode May Brown is one of the most riveting, pivotal, and important literary characters of the past two centuries and quite possibly ever. Not since Charles Dickens' character of Louis Fontaine and Shakespeare's obscure and typically underrated Thomas Jack Abercrombie has a character sparked a national revolution, packed theaters (stage, projection, or otherwise), and redefined the term exoneration. The 1980's, similar to 1923, was a time of prosperity, indulgence, and limitless thinking. With this hotbed of bohemian sentiment and excessive wealth to invest in the outrageous, the timing was perfect for imaginative works of zaniness and the fantastical. While stock-brokers were hitting it big on Wall Street, Andy Warhol was working in his factory in New York with Basquiat, Robert Greenwald was directing the yet unknown glitter-encrusted light and roller-epic Xanadu and Ridley Scott was preparing for work on his unicorn fantasy dream known as Legend. Nobody was prepared for the cesspool of cinema stinkers to come in a period known as the nineties. Being the final decade of a century,one would think the world was ready for images and sounds that were out of this world. Instead, the world was treated (heavy on the sarcasm) to such gems as Reality Bites, The Silence of the Lambs, The Piano, and Basic Instinct. Not only were these films and every other film in the decade minus two completely devoid of anything spectacular or colorful, but they lacked the charm of the previous decade. In fact, the only other creative work to hit cinemas in this decade in addition to the piece discussed in this manifesto was Evita (review coming soon). The decade had the number 90 in it and was a time of grunge, filth, over-sized sweaters, garbage, flannel, and various other low-life things. The stage was set for something better for audiences to feast on. Breaking into this Bleak House that was cinema in the mid-90's, 1990 brought us a revolutionary picture that nobody would ever forget yet everyone strangely already knew because it was so engrained into the fabric of their being. Tired of grit on their movie teeth, people ate up this film with such enthusiasm. This film was Jerry Zuckers, Ghost! (Editor's note, the actual film title does not have an exclamation point in it because the marketing person at Paramount Pictures is an idiot. The exclamation point has been added because it should have had one in the first place.). Everything from the music (who will ever hear the Righteous Brothers' Unchained Melody the same way again?) to the special effects were unfathomable. However, while the film was superior to every film effort up until that point, the actual film paled in comparison to a small unassuming character housed within the feature presentation. Much like a priceless Merlot in a Dixie Cup or scribbles writing musings from Plato, Ghost! was simply a cheap container from Wal-Mart to hold something which surpassed everything anyone has ever known. That character was Ode May Brown. A character with such warm charm and charisma that anything that surrounded it was rendered meaningless and often profane. It is well known that the actress Whoopi Goldberg won an Academy Award for her portrayal of Ode May Brown. Many of my fellow and sometimes accomplished critics feel that her performance was nothing short of, well, amazing. This is the general malaise' and rhetoric that plagues both my writings and my acceptance in the mainstream media world. But I ask, and perhaps I digress, but to what capacity was Goldberg actually participating in? Going against the grain, I feel that Ode May Brown existed before Whoopi was even born and her character was not acting at all. Furthermore, the writer of this entry loathes Goldberg and feels that she has completely the only task she was put on this Earth for and can just as well disappear for all I'm concerned. The only thing about about Ode May Brown and the only thing Whoopi can do on this Earth that is worthwhile would be to make Ghost! 2! I'm not sure what exec. at Paramount has not set this production into motion, but rest assured, once this article gets out, Ghost! sequels WILL get made which, unfortunately, will revive the career of Ms. Goldberg, but more importantly will bring back Ode May S. Brown (if you know what the S. stands for, please e-mail me!!!) and her 2 lovely sisters to the big screen. For me, this mythic character is the most enthralling...thing I can imagine and I would pay sums of money to learn more of her origins. Prequel anyone? "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Congratulations to the director of this fine movie because he/she did a real fine job. In times when movies are all action and violence, Ghost tells us that there is hope for mankind...somewhere...somehow...it's not a religious thing and the movie doesn't try to push that either. There is more than one touching scene and the actors and actresses played their roles perfectly. Demi Moore fits in very well and you can see her liking the part all the way thru. Schwayze is fantastic too and is able to turn from the more 'violent' scenes to the mellow ones without any problems at all. The scenery of the movie is well-chosen too. More movies like Ghost should be shot every year!! "},{"Title":"My opinion of Ghost","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Long before I saw the movie, Ghost ~ which became probably my favorite movie ~ I had said that this is how it happens; some people die so suddenly and unexpectedly that they don't realize they're dead; they can see and hear everything here, but cannot be seen or heard by anyone except people with a special sense of clairvoyance or something of that kind. Now, to be in that state, not understanding what's happened, and trying to communicate with people they can see and hear but getting no response, must be a most miserable condition; just think how it is to be 'sent to Coventry' in this world, by people around us, even for only an hour or a day not a pleasant feeling at all! And this, I think, is the rationale behind the funeral ceremonies performed for the dead ~ or should be. That movie strengthened my conviction that this is so. I recommend watching it with this idea in mind; it makes a lot of sense; it would be interesting to know of the research that went into the making of this film. If someone could enlighten me about this, I would greatly appreciate it.Thanks,Abhinyana.(abhinyana@hotmail.com) "}{"Title":"best film of the 90s","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING contains a few SPOILERSThis is with out a doubt, one of the best films of the 90s. Its funny, witty, clever, romantic and never boring. It sounds like a horror or suspense film and thats exactly what i thought when i first watched it, but believe it or not, this is more of a romantic comedy and there is (nor meant to be) anything scary about it whatsoever. With a well picked, all-star cast along with a clever and romantic story line and some unforgettable moments, ghost is a fantastic choice for anyone who simply enjoys great movies.Recommended to anyone who enjoys romantic comedies or generally funny films, or are fans of Whoopi Goldberg, Demi Moore or Patrick Swayze.Not recommended to no one reallyWatch this if you liked Casper "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  *~*~*~*~*POSSIBLE SPOILERS*~*~*~*~*i remember this movie somewhat. i watched it at a friend's house and i liked it. i then remembered watching it as a child. i was and still am very impressed with this movie. anywhoo.....i like romances. this one is perfect. not too cheesy not too boring. it is just right. sam is murdered while with molly. i think it was a hit man? if i can remember correctly he was shot? its been a while since i've watched this movie. turns out his friend carl was the culprit. sam knew carl's scheme and carl had to do away with him. i love the heaven/hell sequences. well the hell sequences are a bit scary but they're still interesting. hey, hell is a scary place. better be a follower in the Lord Jesus Christ or you will be there. anywhoo..... sam's love for molly makes him turn away from leaving earth and going to heaven. he seeks help from the con lady oda mae brown. soon her ghostly visions are true. So if you're looking for the not so typical romance as opposed to a typical Romeo and Juliet romance-tragedy, check this out. it ends happily. suspense, romance and some comedy all blended into one really puts the icing on the cake! 10 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but silly","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I find Ghost to be a highly entertaining bit of silliness.  The believability factor here is absolute zero, so leave your brain at the door -- but the film is funny, entertaining and moving at parts.  The (much discussed) ending IS in fact sickeningly sweet and sentimental (as well as straining credibility to the point of embarrassment), but it can't put the film into the new age drivel category since the movie never does take itself very seriously.Overall, a very entertaining and engaging film with some over the top moments, and an ending almost as bad as Fatal Attraction.  You don't have to enjoy love stories to like this film (although it will help) -- if you can suspend disbelief (or just ignore it) and don't have too many preconceived notions of after death, you will be entertained.7/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie (a tiny spoiler possible)","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the many films that we know isn't a masterpiece, but it's definitely a classic.  The story is great.  The song played with molly and sam while they're playing with pottery is perfect.  Patric Swayze is good in the film.  Demi Moore makes a wise decision in making this film, definitely better than her others (Striptease).  Whoopi Goldberg is the standout here, which won her numerous awards (Golden Globe, American Comedy Award, and two Academy Awards).  The movie is well-written, and is one of the best drama/romance movies ever.  The cast works great together.  Ladies, I guarantee you'll cry over this one!7/10 "},{"Title":"This ghost movie is no dud of a nuke","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Released in 1990.  This film is still amongst my favorites to this day.  The acting was great by every character.  I know I'm a guy, but I was crying at the end, because it was really emotional!  The movie is mostly a love story.  We all have relatives we've known who are now dead and we can relate to the pain of loosing a loved one.  But this movie shows something beyond that death.  Love beyond the grave, and it just impacts you.  The acting was wonderful, when they wanted suspense they made suspense, when they wanted to make you laugh they made you laugh, and when they wanted to make you cry they made you cry.  You will never forget this movie, I was 10 when I watched it the first time and I have not forgotten this movie since then.  I watched it again a few years ago and it was even greater than the first time I saw it.  There is sooo much power in it.  I can't even explain how deep it goes.  This is a good alternative to Sleepless in Seattle to see with a girlfriend or wife.  It is a very decent movie, not very much violence except towards the end, all in all this movie will be thoroughly enjoyed by everyone. "},{"Title":"Simply Marvelous","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful film.  I do not have many romantic movies in my collection, but this is definitely one that I have. Whoopi Goldberg is in a good movie for once and actually delivers. My friend Joe hasn't seen the whole movie, but the parts he saw he did not like. I guarantee he will be a raving fan by the time I make him watch it. "},{"Title":"All time favorite","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost has everything of a genre, drama, sexy scene, suspense, romance, a little action, thriller, comedy, sci-fi, and even a painful death in the end that is so simple it would make SAW like a joke. All the chemistry between actors work very well. It's a movie that plays with your emotions constantly, not a dull moment. Sixth Sense is boring compare to this movie. Very creative writing, very smart. Even the editing, the transitions were ahead of its time. And this is before digital special effects were popular.This is really a classic, that you can watch over and over. They did sound effects really well in this film.I would recommend this to everyone, specially those who are in the film-making business. "},{"Title":"This film delivers time and time again","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) is murdered, just as he and his sweetheart, Molly Jensen (Demi Moore) were enjoying their near perfect life. Not ready to accept his early departure from the realm of the living, Sam is left walking the earth as a ghost. He is trapped, only able to witness the truth behind his murder and the threat that now surrounds Molly.With the help of Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg) a spiritualist with a questionable history; Sam tries to solve the mystery and save the one he loves.The cast is very strong and they all deliver, the direction is sublime and the story is both complex enough to provoke your thinking and simple enough to captivate everyone. The result is a movie with many humorous moments, visuals that really work effectively, a love story that is very moving and a mystery that is thrilling to watch.Ghost is enjoyable time and time again, and it is still remembered for its originality and impact years later.8/10 "},{"Title":"You Know You Can't Give Up The Ghost","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) is gunned down by a Puerto Rican hit-man after stumbling upon a co-worker illegally funneling four million dollars into a fake account. His ghost then tries to avenge the murder and protect his girlfriend Molly, a young Demi Moore who looks like a 12-year old boy. Hilarity ensues when he recruits the worst actress ever, Whoopi Goldberg, to act as a medium between ghost and human world.One evening in January 2006, I had nothing better to do than watch Ghost on the ABC Family network with my sister. And I freely admit it sucked me in. This was my first time seeing the film since being considerably younger, though I recalled most of the plot. I re-watched the film yet again in October 2007 and August 2010.The real fun of the film begins when Swayze learns to touch the human world thanks to Vincent Schiavelli (a character actor who coincidentally died a week before my January 2006 viewing). Not unlike Ghost Dad, the challenge is to make things happen in the world of the living while you remain dead. And unlike Beetlejuice, you cannot come back by having someone say your name three times.The special effects in this film I always thought were pretty good by 1990 standards. The walking through walls looks fine, and the hell spirits (for lack of a better term) really scared me when I was younger (and even now are somewhat creepy). Sure, the microscope vision when he walks through doors and such is cheesy and was completely unnecessary, but it answers a question some viewers may have had about what ghosts see.I've heard physics people complain that Sam can go through walls and doors and other objects, yet is able to stand on the floor just fine, or even go up stairs. That is a really valid point... but let's just admit it the plot would be less interesting if they had to deal with such limitations, or brought Sam back as a mere spirit with no shape.Quicker than you can say turn me on, dead man this film will work its way into your heart with a simple, romantic (yet somewhat action-packed) plot and classic song (Unchained Melody). You've probably already seen this movie a dozen times, but if not (if you're like my sister) you should see it soon. "},{"Title":"A film beyond words, although I'll supply many","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although often marginalized by my contemporaries, colleagues, and the world of academia at large, the character of Ode May Brown is one of the most riveting, pivotal, and important literary characters of the past two centuries and quite possibly ever. Not since Charles Dickens' character of Louis Fontaine and Shakespeare's obscure and typically underrated Thomas Jack Abercrombie has a character sparked a national revolution, packed theaters (stage, projection, or otherwise), and redefined the term exoneration. The 1980's, similar to 1923, was a time of prosperity, indulgence, and limitless thinking. With this hotbed of bohemian sentiment and excessive wealth to invest in the outrageous, the timing was perfect for imaginative works of zaniness and the fantastical. While stock-brokers were hitting it big on Wall Street, Andy Warhol was working in his factory in New York with Basquiat, Robert Greenwald was directing the yet unknown glitter-encrusted light and roller-epic Xanadu and Ridley Scott was preparing for work on his unicorn fantasy dream known as Legend. Nobody was prepared for the cesspool of cinema stinkers to come in a period known as the nineties. Being the final decade of a century, one would think the world was ready for images and sounds that were out of this world. Instead, the world was treated (heavy on the sarcasm) to such gems as Reality Bites, The Silence of the Lambs, The Piano, and Basic Instinct. Not only were these films and every other film in the decade minus two completely devoid of anything spectacular or colorful, but they lacked the charm of the previous decade. In fact, the only other creative work to hit cinemas in this decade in addition to the piece discussed in this manifesto was Evita (review coming soon). The decade had the number 90 in it and was a time of grunge, filth, over-sized sweaters, garbage, flannel, and various other low-life things. The stage was set for something better for audiences to feast on.Breaking into this Bleak House that was cinema in the mid-90's, 1990 brought us a revolutionary picture that nobody would ever forget yet everyone strangely already knew because it was so engrained into the fabric of their being. Tired of grit on their movie teeth, people ate up this film with such enthusiasm. This film was Jerry Zuckers, Ghost! (Editor's note, the actual film title does not have an exclamation point in it because the marketing person at Paramount Pictures is an idiot. The exclamation point has been added because it should have had one in the first place.). Everything from the music (who will ever hear the Righteous Brothers' Unchained Melody the same way again?) to the special effects were unfathomable.However, while the film was superior to every film effort up until that point, the actual film paled in comparison to a small unassuming character housed within the feature presentation. Much like a priceless Merlot in a Dixie Cup or scribbles writing musings from Plato, Ghost! was simply a cheap container from Wal-Mart to hold something which surpassed everything anyone has ever known. That character was Ode May Brown. A character with such warm charm and charisma that anything that surrounded it was rendered meaningless and often profane.It is well known that the actress Whoopi Goldberg won an Academy Award for her portrayal of Ode May Brown. Many of my fellow and sometimes accomplished critics feel that her performance was nothing short of, well, amazing. This is the general malaise' and rhetoric that plagues both my writings and my acceptance in the mainstream media world. But I ask, and perhaps I digress, but to what capacity was Goldberg actually participating in? Going against the grain, I feel that Ode May Brown existed before Whoopi was even born and her character was not acting at all. Furthermore, the writer of this entry loathes Goldberg and feels that she has completely the only task she was put on this Earth for and can just as well disappear for all I'm concerned. The only thing about about Ode May Brown and the only thing Whoopi can do on this Earth that is worthwhile would be to make Ghost! 2! I'm not sure what exec. at Paramount has not set this production into motion, but rest assured, once this article gets out, Ghost! sequels WILL get made which, unfortunately, will revive the career of Ms. Goldberg, but more importantly will bring back Ode May S. Brown (if you know what the S. stands for, please e-mail me!!!) and her 2 lovely sisters to the big screen. For me, this mythic character is the most enthralling...thing I can imagine and I would pay sums of money to learn more of her origins. Prequel anyone? "}{"Title":"Ghost - Do you believe?","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The best thing that can be said about Ghost is that it's starkly earnest in the portrayal of two people whose love for one another is boundless, not even by death. So when Molly Jensen (Demi Moore) coos to her yuppie boyfriend Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) that she loves him, to which he dimly replies Ditto, it's genuine romance - it's the real McCoy.Ghost was the romantic hit of 1990 and was directed amiably by Jerry Zucker (of Airplane! infamy) and written by Bruce Joel Rubin, who also scripted Jacob's Ladder that same year, which was another film that questioned the paranormal activity that is life after death. Ghost contains many of the comedic elements on display in Zucker's earlier Airplane! hit but remains pretty loyal to the seriousness of its subject matter.Sam has led a pretty charmed life he has a beautiful girlfriend, a trustworthy friend Carl (Tony Goldwyn), a well-paying job as a Wall Street banker, and a brand-spanking new apartment with the woman he loves. But Sam's charmed life comes to an abrupt end one night when he's gunned down during an attempted robbery by Willie Lopez (Rick Aviles) - he's Puerto Rican.But the movie's not over, as Sam is left to roam the streets of New York City alone and without any way to communicate with the living. He can't be seen or heard by living people, so he spends his days walking the streets and watching carefully over the grieving Molly as she attempts to piece together her life without him. Between doing this and that, Sam eventually learns the identity of his assailant and where he lives but cannot do anything about it.But when all hope seems lost, Sam wanders into a shop run by a storefront psychic named Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg, who won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress), who likes to swindle grieving people out of their money by convincing them that she can talk with the dead. It's from their dynamic interactions that much of the film's comedic elements are derived.Oda Mae is shocked when she finds that she really can hear Sam (but can't see him) and he uses her as a medium so that he can communicate with Molly and inform her that she's in danger. (He's able to convince Oda Mae to help him by singing Henry the Eight I Am.) Sam, with Oda Mae's help, gradually learns that his death was no random street mugging, and that he was murdered Willie had been instructed by a mysterious third party to kill Sam and then retrieve his wallet, as he was on the verge of uncovering a money laundering scheme involving drug dealers.Ghost does boast one of the most compelling and moving love stories ever told. The story is effective and is certainly a revealing and engaging look at the afterlife. The acting is powerful and profound, as each of the performers fill out their roles with perfect glee and believable emotions. The special effects are dated, but are also quite effective as well in showing us the processes in the afterlife, as it turns out that spirits can interact with the living and doesn't even attempt to spare us the darker sides of death.Since Sam lacks a physical human body, he cannot move objects. But with the help of the tragic ghost (Vincent Schiavelli) that haunts the New York subway, Sam is able to physically interact with the living. He learns that by controlling one's emotions and then letting them erupt like a reactor, he can physically move an animate or inanimate object.Do you believe in ghosts? I believe in karma, and I do believe in life after death. These are all elements in the story that are fleshed out well in Rubin's imaginative script, brought to life by the actors and the guidance of Zucker's direction. I do believe that the ladies might need tissues to wipe away the tears too, as the film's ending would prove.Ghost, I believe, is one of the best love stories I've ever seen. It's funny, it's heartwarming, and it's all done in a believable fashion. Love is grand, and it's forever; Ghost will make you believe.8/10 "},{"Title":"Million buck movie, don't miss it.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This. Is. The Best. Movie ever!!! I don't have a favorite movie (so many, how to choose) but this would probably be it. It has sci-fi, suspense, horror, action, drama, romance, sex, comedy, every thing. You're cringing, then crying, then laughing your butt off. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore play two lovers torn apart by death, seriously making you cry. While Patrick and Whoopi banter and argue to make the funniest scenes. You have your bad guys, the slimy and the scary, but yauaugh, the ending is a bit gross- be warned. But still, you cannot miss this movie, it is sooo gooood. The ending is a big tear bringer, with the saddest song and the even sadder goodbye... I've watched parts of the movie so many times. It's a winner. "},{"Title":"insurance papers","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I often wonder about what the lives of the characters are like after the movie is over. Like, how are Bobby and Snooky doing? Did Oda Mea ever hear (or is ever haunted) by Prospect Place Willie after his death? Or Carl for that matter? Did they try to scare her and her sisters? What about Ortisha and Orlando? Did Orlando ever come back to Oda Mae, jump into her body, and tell Ortisha where the insurance papers were? Did she keep the same Autumn Sunrise hair color? Does Molly keep the penny that Sam slid her underneath the door as a good luck charm forever? My friends think I'm silly for quoting Ghost lines all the time. They think I'm way too into this movie! I just tell them (insert name) you're in danger girl!I pushed a penny under the door for my husband and he didn't know what I was doing. I said It's for luck and he replies What's wrong with you?!! I tell It's for luck. The love inside....take it with you. He's confused, I think he thinks I'm talking to white people on the phone during Arsenio. I say It's Sam Wheat!! He left me long too long ago. He had a transfusion to make on the second floor and he stole my pen. He wanted to keep it. He made up for it by buying some Asian Pears. I told him Don't you see!.. I'm not a fake!....not about this.... Whenever someone calls on the phone, and we don't know who it is, I say it must be Rita Miller. That's our running joke. I get gas from time to time. "},{"Title":"Worth a good try","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There are many movies which deal with death and the afterlife. The problem with most of them is that their unwillingness to respect any established boundaries of moral theology ungrounds the entire universe and leaves a product that is unhuman.Ghost does not make that mistake. Although the metaphysics are clearly fantastical, we can suspend disbelief, because it is quite clear throughout that love and good works are the path to salvation, while hatred and evil deeds are the path to damnation. While there is no overt religious iconography, there are still a few satisfying if amorphous suggestive elements that a discerning eye can easily connect to formal religious doctrine.Whoopi Goldberg's Oda Mae is often written off as just another Magical Negro trope. It is true that hers is a black supporting character whose role in the primary plot is to expedite, through (highly) extraordinary means, the resolution of the white protagonists' conflict. However, Oda Mae is a far more interesting character than either Sam or Molly, both in personality and in backstory, and is also, unlike Sam and Molly, dynamic along the way to getting them out of their glut, she is forced to confront her rotten past as a charlatan and turn her life around. There is a partial inversion of the trope here, for it is the undeveloped, static and almost supernaturally angelic Sam who ends up leading the formerly banally criminal Oda Mae to salvation, and she repays him by helping to save Molly, the woman he loves.Although, it's not entirely clear that Sam was actually meant to be so bland, and indeed, if you're watching the movie looking for personal inspiration, he and Molly might not be the best in terms of making an emotional connection. It's clear that they love each other very deeply, and for many people that may well be enough to make an emotional connection. I would have liked a little something more, but then, I've never tried to watch this as a date movie. At the least, your girlfriend won't suspect you only wanted to watch it for the incredible special effects, which do not exist. Have fun! "},{"Title":"Possibly the Best Supernatural Love Story Ever Filmed","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What makes this film work is as much about the premise as it is about the acting and the music. The leads, Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, and Whoopi Goldberg turn what could have been a B-grade forgotten film into a very touching experience. Ghost is one of a few handful of films which is actually a hybrid of other genres, in this case the love story and the supernatural ghost story, successfully combined. Few hybrid-genre films have been as successful while most fall flat probably because of the difficulty of one genre overshadowing the other. One successful example which comes to mind is the original Ghost Busters, which combined comedy a la Saturday Night Live and supernatural horror.Patrick Swayze, in possibly his best performance, plays Sam Wheat, a bank executive who has as his lover Molly Jensen, a kind and completely loyal woman who creates pottery. One of the most famous scenes prior to Wheat leaving the world of the living is when they both forge pottery together. Unbeknownst to either of them, some bank executives at Wheat's firm are embezzling funds, which they hide into an account held by a fictitious person. Wheat finds out about the discrepancies but becomes the target of a hit, successfully carried out, which kills Sam Wheat the living person and turns him into a ghost. Before leaving for the afterlife, Wheat decides to investigate further into the circumstances which killed him, and solicits the help of a crack-pot con artist-turned psychic, Oda Mae Brown, in an academy-award winning performance by Whoopi Goldberg. A strange threesome develops the Ghost, Brown and Jensen to investigate the scandalous behavior of Carl Bruner (Tony Goldwyn), former colleague and supposed-friend to the late Sam Wheat. In one of the most moving of scenes, the Ghost of Sam Wheat lets his presence known to the lover he left in the world of the living, Molly, played with absolute believability by Demi Moore in possibly her best performance. Demi Moore's emotions and tears are what make this film work. When she realizes the ghost of Sam is in her presence, we as the audience are taken by her emotions. We suspend our disbelief and are captured by Moore's performance. She believes she has been touched by the ghost which makes us believe that we are also in the midst of a supernatural presence. Strangely, I have seen few scenes in films as moving as this one. Only certain scenes from Casablanca rival it.Now certainly, I wouldn't rank this as one of the greatest films ever made, but it is a surprisingly strong offering, and one of the most moving supernatural stories I have ever seen. Horror movies are not typically designed to elicit tears in the audience, but this one does. The three leads are perfectly cast and make us care about the experience. One of the reasons I think Ghost succeeds is that it hits on the true emotions we feel in regards to the loss of a loved one. While ghost stories are usually designed to invoke feelings of dread and fear, we sometimes forget that the emotions are about love and loss in the real world when someone close to us passes on. Ghost reminds us that we often want to hear from loved ones who are no longer a part of the world of the living. "},{"Title":"The Ghost Whisperer","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Admittedly, I had a grudge against this movie. But, not until the following year (1991) when the Oscar Nominations were read. This got nominated for Best Picture and not Pretty Woman? And not just that, very few eyes were on, what I considered (and still do) a masterpiece, Pretty Woman and more on Ghost? It would be years until I saw this again.I was sorry when I finally revisited this in the mid-1990s because, I had to concur this was a well made film. Great in a lot of areas, even. And I've loved it since.Not so much a spoiler, thanks to the name of the movie, but Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze, RIP, in yet another masterful performance) dies fairly quickly into the movie and becomes&#x85;the title character. He's not transported either up high or down below and must learn the ways of the ghost. Mercifully, with the help of (the fantastic character, and Oscar winning Whoopi Goldberg as) con-artist (?) Oda Mae Brown, Sam can both reconnect with his widowed lover and catch the bad person who put him in this purgatory.The movie does work in mysterious ways. It's highly hilarious and touching. It's suspenseful and deep. It contains a triple pleasure a great soundtrack, score and cinematography. And with it's on the surface clichéd characters, the actors bring much more to the table. Even though everyone, including the Subway Ghost, acted their best and made their roles their own, Academy Award winning Whoopi Goldberg shined the brightest in here, despite her blatant racism. I still laughed and loved her throughout her (sadly) short time on screen. I have always been a Whoopi fan, but here, I believe she brought her best out.This very positive review comes from someone who doesn't even like ghost stories. This one felt many more times different than the others I've seen and I will watch this many more times than the typical modern day and boringly predictable paranormal films.Side Note While I did not downgrade the movie because of the following I have to say, this movie made me thoroughly dislike Tony Goldwyn. Granted, he played his slimy role as he was told or felt his character needed to be seen. But, he's literally like a magnet to my magnet when I see him on screen. He's the one thing I cannot look at when watching this movie and I haven't liked him since. Just a personal preference. "},{"Title":"Emotional And Brilliantly Acted,","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a fantastic movie with a brilliant story line,a fantastic cast and great characters.The movie is very emotional from the moment Sam dies and I will admit,I usually don't cry watching a movie,but the end of this left me in tears,I wont tell you what happened,but if you have any heart,you will be upset.Whoopi Goldbergs performance in this movie is amazing and she definitely deserved her Academy Award for Best Actress In A Supporting Role,I believed her performance all the way through,she did seem genuinely creeped out that she could hear ghosts.Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) is killed by a man who is now looking to kill his girlfriend Molly (Demi Moore).Its up to Sam to protect Molly,but he is only a ghost,so he gets help from Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg),a woman who can hear ghosts. "},{"Title":"A love story with a lot of heart and Whoopi Goldberg.","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The problem with romance movies is trying to make the love between the two main characters look believable to the point where you really think that their love would transcend death. Ghost's problem? Making Swyaze's Sam believable as a ghost who would risk his afterlife to protect Demi Moore's Molly. And I was somewhat sold primarily because of Swayze's performance. As Sam, Swayze looks like a man who has literally lost everything except for this love he has for Molly. Moore's performance was kind of lackluster to me, there were times where I was just kind of put off by her.However, when Sam and Molly are together and are just looking into each other eyes, I completely believe them. The chemistry between them is sexy. The dance scene when Sam possesses Oda Mae Brown's (Whoopi Goldberg) body is just electric. Or the scene where they're fooling around with the pottery wheel is incredibly sexy.Overall, the acting is believably good. It's really not that shocking to learn that Whoopi Goldberg won an Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role as Oda Mae. (Ghost also won for Best Writing, Screenplay and was nominated for Best Picture, Best Music Original Song, and Best Film Editing.) Unlike other romantic movies, the plot doesn't disappear behind the love story. The twist with Sam's death, the story with his best friend Carl (Tony Goldwyn) made the movie even more enjoyable to watch. When movies are bogged down with the love story, it takes me out of the movie, and Ghost did not suffer that problem.Ghost has an interesting plot with a variety of characters, strong acting with cheesy 90s special effects makes it one of my romantic movie favorites.I love movies that can make me cry simply because of the love story and this one definitely hit the mark. For all those girls who watch those Nicholas Sparks movies need to watch a real 'romance' movie that's good. Ghost is one of the best.Highly recommended. 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A touching and entertaining movie on all levels","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Having lost a lot of friends and relatives, I don't typically enjoy a movie with death as a major theme but this one is really different. It's an interesting and entertaining story from the start to the finish with believable and enjoyable characters. Demi Moore plays one of her best roles and Whoopi Goldberg steals the show as a seance who didn't realize her own ability. She won an Oscar for this role. Patrick Swayze plays Sam - who discovers that things are not all over at death.The bad guys in this one are some real nasty and believable villains too.This is a great movie that the whole family can enjoy. It's a wonderful love story, it has twists and turns, some humor and a good share of pathos. If you have somehow missed this one, add it to your 'must see' list. "},{"Title":"A Matter of Love and Death ...","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" No matter how prepared we get for corniness, we rapidly find ourselves absorbed by the romance between Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze and much more by the depiction of death&#x85; strangely plausible and, no pun intended, quite haunting.Indeed, the main premise of Ghost, which won the Best Original Screenplay Oscar, is to feature death from the dead's perspective. Not a revolutionary plot device but the only one that occupies the whole story with the ghost trying to reach the living. Why wouldn't Sam try to talk to his parents, his friends, why would Molly, all of sudden, become the center of his afterlife? The script tactfully escapes from this criticism when it's clearly established that Sam's death is not accidental, and the cause of his murder incidentally puts Molly in a dangerous situation. I also want to answer one criticism expressed by Roger Ebert, why would a ghost still care about Earthly matters, why wouldn't follow the white light and go have a chat with either Elvis of Aristotles? I think that the most important feeling channeled by Swayze's performance is disbelief. He can't get the idea of not belonging to this world anymore, and this is why I felt that the portrayal of death, as a separation between the soul and the body, and the atrocious witnessing of one's death, was 'plausible', I could imagine myself dying this way. It's even ironic how Sam goes through the stages of grief for his own death, from denial to resignation. And it's extraordinary how Swayze perfectly captures the desperateness of a man who had so much to do, so many dreams and projects and finally saw his life abruptly cut. His penetrating expressions are astonishingly convincing, whether it's for sadness, empathy, compassion, his eyes are more eloquent than any of his lines. And his performance is crucial since he's portraying an isolated character. As soon as he becomes a ghost, he only interacts with a few other ghosts, even Whoopi Goldberg who plays the medium Oda Mae, can only hear him. Swayze's believability relies on his ability to touch the viewers instead of the characters, definitely the most defining performance of an actor who sadly left us too soon.And Sam's exhaustive journey, starts with his necessity to deal with his new condition, in order to stop the scheme that lead to his death. And the learning part renovates all the good old archetypes of the ghost crossing doors and touching objects. Ghosts can feel sensations and only touch or move things if they're able to think themselves as ghosts, it's an exciting part of the film to see a man learning his powers to be able to use them as weapons. In conclusion, Sam stays because he can't believe he dies and he tries to reach Molly because she's in danger. We're far from the whole 'unfinished job' and 'transcending love' clichés, the film delivers something original out of familiar material. The film also innovates with the scary portrayal of the bad guys' deaths. The atrocious sight of moaning evil shadows converging to take someone away justifies the belief in a sort of immanent justice, and the exhilarating idea that we all die twice, the good people going to heaven, and the others in some place, we don't want to know. The villains' demises is very unsettling, it can even traumatize some sensitive minds, and you see in Swayze's eyes that he feels sorry for them, for even death don't make people even. But Ghost's thrilling metaphysical value also originates the magnificent ending which is probably the closest depiction to heaven ever gracing the screen.And there's another cliché that the film tactfully reinvents, the 'Old Magic Negro', and it succeeds for two reasons. First, Oda Mae is a crook, she's not a real medium, which is funny and she discovers that she really has the power, which is even funnier. Secondly, it's Whoopi Goldberg and it's one of her greatest roles, earning her the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, and beyond the comic relief aspect, this is exactly what a supporting performance is supposed to be secondary, yet so scene-stealing that we can't imagine the film without it. Goldberg provides all the laughs, capable of the most acid irony with Swayze, and being comprehensive and diplomatic, in her streetwise way, with Molly. This is a credit to Jerry Zucker, who didn't forget his comedic roots and made a few hilarious moments of the film. My only regret and this time, I share Ebert's view, I wish he had the guts to portray the second kissing scene with Whoopi Goldberg. No matter how weird it would have looked, it would have touched a very sensitive nerve and be even sadder because we would still get the idea that the sweet and tender Molly can't see Sam since he entered Oda Mae's body and it would have made the final scene even more rewarding. And I can't go on without mentioning the sweet and sensitive performance of Demi Moore as the fragile Molly, unbelievably cute with that short haircut, that became one of the film's trademarks along with Swayze's red shirt and Oda Mae's exaggerated dress. Even though Jerry Zucker, the co-director of so many spoof classics, can seem as unlikely choice to direct a drama like Ghost but with all the material he had, the script, the casting, the visual effects, a magnificent score from Maurice Jarre, all he had to do is to assemble all these elements of greatness in a straight-forward way, without overdoing anything. And the film had the cinematic quality of successful movies; this capability to be memorable in a genuine and creative way, the unavoidable iconic pottery scene with Unchained Melody probably earned the film its ticket for immortality.Not to mention the powerful ending, which, after the death of Patrick Swayze, had the bittersweet feeling of a sad premonition. "}{"Title":"Amazingly Underrated Classic","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The movie Ghost, when it came out, was extremely popular, and for good reason. The story was far from what could have been a very cliché plot. I like to think of it as A Christmas Carol meets John Grisham novel. The romance in the movie was well played and very touching. Even though this movie may have some spiritual content that Christian's may not agree with, it does express the relationship between good and evil in and out of this world and touches upon spiritual warfare with demons and angels. Heaven and hell are both shown in detail, but it makes it look like if you do good things you go to heaven, and vice versa. I believe that this is not the case in my faith, that all you have to do is accept Jesus into your heart; but even so people of all religions should enjoy this movie. The suspense and action did not disappoint. The real star of this movie was Whoopi Goldberg, who stole every one of her scenes with her bold and loud presence, personality, and humor; she well deserved her Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress as Oda Mae Brown. She wasn't the only actor who did exceptionally well though; Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, and Tony Goldwyn made a fantastic ensemble. Swayze and Moore had beautiful chemistry together with the memorable pottery scene. The whole movie works as a whole and it great entertainment, one of my favorites. **8/10** "},{"Title":"A Lot More Going On Here Than Some Will Give It Credit For","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost (1990) *** (out of 4) After being murdered, a man's spirit (Patrick Swayze) remains on Earth to look after his fiancé (Demi Moore) as well as try and find out why he was killed. The only one who can see him is a fake future teller (Whoopi Goldberg) who reluctantly agrees to help his cause. It's easy to see why GHOST made so much money when it was originally released and why it remains so popular to this day. No, it's not a CITIZEN KANE and it's not a film that's ground-breaking but in regards to pure entertainment it pretty much delivers on all levels. Yes the story is fairly simple but it allows for some great performances, good direction and several very memorable scenes, which is more than enough for a film like this. There's no doubt that the film wouldn't have been as strong had it not been for the terrific cast with all of them fitting their roles perfectly. Swayze offers up one of his best performances as he has to hit several emotional levels throughout the picture and he does it with ease. It's very easy to connect with him and this allows you to care about what's going on and want to see him get his revenge as well as protect the one he loves. I think Moore gets the least flashy character in the film but she still makes a very good love target and there's no question that she's got a rich chemistry with Swayze. The same is true for Goldberg who shines in her Oscar-winning performance. She certainly brings this serious film a lot of needed comic relief and there's really no one else that could have done this part so well. Tony Goldwyn is perfect as the sleazy villain and there's no doubt that he deserved a lot more attention and credit for making the film as good as it is. Everyone remembers the Unchained Melody love sequence and it's certainly a very memorable but there are other great scenes scattered throughout the picture. GHOST isn't a masterpiece but it's about as good as you could hope in a film like it. Director Jerry Zucker deserves a lot of credit for being able to mix up the drama, romance and comedy as well as he did. "},{"Title":"My paranormal love","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie,the late Patrick Swayze made a very sexy ghost.It is very hard to watch this movie with out crying. Now that he has passed away it is even harder to watch.This is one of the best love stories I have seen.Demi Moore was very good in this movie. The two of them worked very well together,they made me think that;they were really in love.Woopi was very funny in this movie,she made me believe that she could hear ghosts.Tony,did a good job playing both sides of the coin. That is my mom's take on this classic romantic movie. I too love this movie, it made me laugh , cry and feel angry. All true signs of a really good movie! It was sad before but now I can't watch without breaking into tears. From beginning to end, but beside the tragedy . And sadness, it is still the best romantic movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Ghost Is A Timeless Romantic Crowd Pleaser","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a commercially successfully movie that features Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg together with Tony Goldwyn,Rick Aviles, Stephen Root, and Vincent Schiavelli.Blending comedy, romance, action, and horror, Ghost was a box-office smash and managed to garner five Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress (Goldberg), Best Original Screenplay, Best Editing, and Best Score; Goldberg won her first Oscar. It was written by Bruce Joel Rubin and directed by Jerry Zucker.The plot involves an interesting hybrid of popular film genres as it showcases the talents of its entire cast. While out on the town one evening, New York couple Sam and Molly are confronted by a mugger. After submitting to his demands, Sam is murdered anyway. He then finds himself a disembodied spirit, invisible to the living world, wandering without hope until he finds a spiteful spirit aboard the subway who gives him some helpful pointers on how to co-exist. Soon Sam comes back into contact with those he knew in life, and he begins to learn piece-by- piece of his close friend and co-worker Carl's embezzling plot which caused his death; the apparent mugging was, in fact, a premeditated murder. In the meantime, Carl has designs on Molly, and Sam is determined to extract revenge. He contacts a psychic, and together, the two set out to serve justice and stop the maniacal Carl from getting to Molly.This is a timeless romantic film that also relies on the supernatural aside from its many genres to entertain that viewers particularly the lovers and hopeless romantics.It maybe corny and superficial but nevertheless,it contains some nice ideas and nice whole moments at a time, succeeds in evoking the mysteries that the the screenplay deals with.The cast succeeds quite nicely in unifying the movie's multiple personalities especially the leads - Swayze,Moore and Goldberg - that generates a lot of interest from beginning to end.But despite of its somewhat predictable and formulaic plot,the movie succeeds due to the sincerity rarely evoked by the movie and the way it manages to please the viewer. "},{"Title":"The perfect movie !!!","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have watched lots of movies from every type and category - from horror to romance. And, at least for me, I can truly say that this is the perfect movie. This movie is the most complete movie I ever watched it has a true and powerful romance story that is perfectly combine with a thriller, horror, sf, comedy layers. So indeed it is a complete movie. The acting is impressive and the 2 main characters played by Demi and Patrick are perfectly played and really convincing in the way they portray the roles. I really enjoyed the movie and I saw it for more than 10 times because it really makes me fell well. I would recommend it to any one who wants to fell something while watching a movie. "},{"Title":"I have grown to love Ghost","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is the latest of a dozen or so films that I have come to appreciate much more over time. I had seen it a few times in the '90s and liked it, but not on the level of yesterday's viewing. Every film is a world unto itself, and generally speaking, the more interesting the world, the better the film. I like the world of Ghost. I like the treatment of the supernatural. The denial thereof and other character annoyances can be rationalized away quite satisfactorily. I would, however, prefer a more restrained Whoopi Goldberg, who is a little out of control for the sake of humor. It is something of a comedy after all.The special effects hold up very well. Maurice Jarre's score hits the mark (no surprise there). Jerry Zucker directs very competently. Bruce Joel Rubin won the Oscar for his marvelous original screenplay. Demi Moore is a must for Molly. Likewise for Patrick Swayze as Sam. His regrettable and untimely death adds to the mystique. Only a 6.9 on this site, but nothing talks like money with over a half-billion dollars worldwide. If you last saw Ghost many years ago and thought it good, not great, I suggest you rewatch it. It quite touched me, and may do you as well. "},{"Title":"Dramatically powerful, but marred by excessive comic relief","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The film blends some divergent genre styles, and mostly succeeds. Where the film goes wrong is in too much ambition to be all things to all people, and in so doing, diminishes its own viability. The entire Oda Mae charlatan/psychic side line is distracting; Whoopi Goldberg plays her comic relief part way over the top, and draws far too much attention to herself. Somebody must have thought Believers in the paranormal will like this, but let's pander to the skeptics by letting them laugh at it, and then they'll like it too. However, the self-jabbing sequence is executed awkwardly. This leaves the film with a confused identity, lost somewhere in a void between 6th Sense and Ghostbusters.Patrick Swayze plays his part well, except in scenes with Whoopi, where he gets oddly comedic. This makes her the focus, even though the tragic circumstances of his murder parting him forever from his love should be the cornerstone of the story. Demi Moore's acting is better than it usually is, but what's up with that hair of hers? She looks like she's going trick-or-treating as Ringo Starr. Most of the remaining cast are pretty decent, except for the dead souls that haunt Whoopi. They were just annoying.The plot develops well, and the memorably haunting Unchained Melody theme was the perfect choice. The eerie black shadow creatures, with their shrill howling and blindly malevolent behavior, were suitably demonic in their design. The murder mystery and suspenseful danger to an innocent person is skillfully done.Oda Mae should have been left on the cutting room floor. Otherwise, this film succeeds pretty well in its unusual genre-mixing approach. "},{"Title":"Something for everyone","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although it might sound like a cliché phrase, I feel that Ghost is a film that has something for everyone in it. Such a combination of fantasy, romance, thrills, drama, and comedy would be risky in many other films, but it works very well here. The film involves Sam (Patrick Swayze), a man who is murdered on the streets and, as a ghost, discovers that the man who killed him also plan to kill his girlfriend (Demi Moore) and rob the bank at which he worked. He attempts to communicate with a psychic (Whoopi Goldberg, Oscar-winner for this role) and get her to warn his girlfriend. The main plot is a fantasy by nature, though the cross-genres are very evident here. It is a very romantic film, and I believe that Swayze and Moore have some of the greatest on-screen chemistry I've ever seen. There are thrilling scenes involving fights for those who like action movies. The film is also decently funny at times, mostly thanks to wisecracks and situations by Whoopi Goldberg. I have never professed to be a fan of Goldberg, but this role was completely enjoyable and made the whole film even more worthwhile. It takes about 30 minutes for the film to really get going, and some parts can be somewhat bizarre, but hold on. The rest of the film is excellent in just about every way. This is an all-time favorite, and I believe everyone can find some aspect of the film they can enjoy.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Now do you believe in ghosts?","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam Wheat is killed during a botched mugging but his spirit is stuck in spirit world limbo. Watching over his left behind lover, Molly, it becomes clear that there is far more to his killing than it at first seemed. Enlisting the help of kooky psychic Oda Mae Brown, Sam must protect the now in danger Molly whilst simultaneously getting to the bottom of his murder.Ghost is a multi genre offering, not just purely a romantic weepy that its detractors would have you believe. Romance, fantasy, mystery, thriller, comedy and no little bit of spooky shenanigans all fuse together to form Jerry Zucker's monster box office smash of 1990. Made for $22 million, it has gone on to make a staggering $517 million worldwide, proof positive that the public by and large will buy into a simple story as long as it's put together well with the afore mentioned elements. The central theme of true love reaching from beyond the grave to prove itself eternal is something that most folk find endearing in a non sickly kind of way, with it naturally helped by having a cast list firing on all cylinders.Tho Jerry Zucker's (Airplane/Top Secret) direction is uneven, it's to be expected when this is after all his first solo feature, he is however well served by his stars. Patrick Swayze wasn't wanted for the part of Sam Wheat, but he fought tooth and nail for the project and nailed the role with gusto and emotionally driven force. Demi Moore as Molly was never lovelier, trimmed short hair to reveal a gorgeous young face, her feeding off of Swayze's energy provides the film with its credible impetus. Whoopi Goldberg as Oda Mae turns in an Oscar winning performance, wonderfully funny, yet also at times sympathetic without over stretching the essence of the piece, while Tony Goldwyn and Vincent Schiavelli also provide two memorable (for the right reasons) performances. The effects work of course looks amazing for its time, none more so when the dark side of death is fully realised via shadows in the films most creepy moments, whilst the editing (Walter Murch) and screenplay (Oscar winning by Bruce Rubin) is from the top draw.So yes it's safe to say that me, a butch middle aged bloke, is personally a fan of Ghost, there's a little bit of corn in there, especially in one particular dance sequence, but mainly the film is a pure delight. Helped by Maurice Jarre's hauntingly sweet score and boosted by the use of the magnificent Unchained Melody by The Righteous Brothers, Ghost is a film to revel in if you are prepared to let it get deep inside of you. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" So many things about this movie are- objectively speaking-preposterous, unsubtle, cringey, laughable or simply bad.That said, none of this at the end of the day matters much Ghost is a classic romance, with good leads, a highly watchable storyline, plenty of charm and wit and a climax that it seems literally to be physiologically impossible not to cry buckets over. The reason for this last attribute is that Ghost of course taps into many very fragile parts of the emotions that reside in nearly all of us- it is hard to sneer at a film that so earnestly carries on its' sleeve such motifs as the joy and depth of love, the inevitable fear and mystery of mortality, and the fathomless pain of loss. Such themes have seldom been dealt with in Hollywood movies in quite so brazen and nothing-if-not-sincere a manner. This is perhaps a part of Ghost's magic and endurance.There are not many movies that tackle the otherside of death as Ghost does; and of course the reason is that nothing could be harder to do satisfyingly, convincingly. Ghost on many levels does indeed fail to do so itself; the script is duff, many of the concepts it suggests are crude and ridiculous; and yet such objection seems somehow churlish given the undeniable ballsiness-if nothing else- of the movie's subject matter. Few movies- hokey or perfect- can lay claim to offering such emotional solace to people's real life experiences of bereavement than Ghost, no matter how much the lines and the plot developments might grate upon your nerves. In one of the movie's most moving scenes, the viewer is able to vicariously experience that tantalising, painful wish-fulfilment that is longed for by any one who has ever suffered the death of a loved one; that final embrace that so many are denied.It is ultimately this sincerity and universality that- just about- carries the film along from start to finish; helped of course by Whoopi Goldberg's turn as an apparently fraudulent psychic- Sam's blustering, clucking, reluctant key to communicating with Molly. The role famously earned Goldberg an Academy Award and remains a sparkling gem of a performance. Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze never betray the film or highlight its' weaker points in their respective performances, and the two share a good level of chemistry together, more particularly impressive given the amount of scenes they spend unable to interact.Good movie. Don't forget your Kleenex. "}{"Title":"Love never dies.","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Now I'm sorry if you find the summary above trite in any way, but I figure if countless horrific tales say the same thing about evil then its only fair that we should have a lighter contrast to think about! The soul of Ghost is sweet natured; it offers a little something for everybody provided they are content to let the odd corny moment and occasional spot of sappiness slide.All of the cast do well (even Swayze, despite it reportedly being offered to every possible leading man in Hollywood before him) and the concept is a true crowd-pleaser because it contains elements that will appeal to a variety of different types. Sensitive folk will connect with the pure love story, thriller fans will enjoy the details of the plot, and fantasy buffs will appreciate the effects and the exploration of the afterlife. It's a blend of different styles that works well throughout, and is undoubtedly one of the key reasons why the film became such a big hit.Stealing the show is supporting actress Whoopi Goldberg. At times it feels like the part of her character was expanded upon when the creative team saw for themselves what she was going to be able to do with it. I don't know whether or not that's true, but it's such a memorable performance that every now and again it even eclipses the main romance.If you're searching for a piece of popular entertainment that's manipulative in a good way, then Ghost is a one-stop shop catering to all your needs. "},{"Title":"True meaning of love","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I for one am not accustomed to writing or critique a movie however I feel that Ghost is one movie that is well deserving of commentary.First time viewing this movie soon after it's release, opened the floodgate of tears and the memories of losing my mother at such a young age rushed at me as I watched Sam (Patrick Swayze) struggle coming to terms with his untimely death and roaming his home town as a ghost. Choosing to remain on Earth in search of and hold accountable the person(s) that caused his death, all in the name of protecting the love of his life, Molly (Demi Moore).I, like so many others have viewed this movie over and over many, many times and each time we notice different things or segments be it quite noticeable or minute; scary or not, humorous or not, but whatever the case may be all of these I feel, we lose or miss the fundamental nature.With regards to the actors, I acknowledge Whoopi Goldberg is a 'breath of fresh air and hilarious to watch. But I truly commend Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore - they played their roles exceptionally well, portraying the true essence of this film - love for one another in every sense of the word; love in the way humans were designed to do so.And, this is captured in Sam's parting words to Molly just before he walks into the light, when he tells her about the love inside, it doesn't die, you take it with you. This in itself describes what I feel is the whole essence of this awesome movie. The music and lyrics of Unchained Melody encapsulate the true essence of this story.I highly recommend to anyone who has not seen this wonderful movie to do so and receive it with an open mind and heart. "},{"Title":"A slightly insubstantial but entertaining ghost story","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost was the No 1 box office smash hit of 1990. It made household names of rising stars Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore and netted an Oscar for the always excellent Whoopi Goldberg. Its easy to see where its appeal lies. A heart wrenching love story. A compelling murder plot. Moments of real comedy. And fantastic special effects. All the components needed to turn Ghost into a crowd pleaser. Not everything about the film always rings true. And some of the revelations about the afterlife are disappointingly clumsy and clichéd, but for the most part Ghost is a film that's remarkably assured, and delivers on what it promises.Swayze is the yuppie investment councillor Sam Wheat who enjoys a blossoming relationship with Moore's artist Molly Jensen. It all goes sour when Sam is shot and killed by a mugger. But remains on Earth as a spirit. Unable to be seen or heard by anyone. And incapable of physical human contact. But when it turns out his death was all part of an elaborate setup, Sam enlists the aid of charlatan psychic Oda Mae Brown (Goldberg, gloriously entertaining) to warn Molly that the killers are after her now.Although a lot of people were drawn to Ghost for its romantic elements (the pottery scene is now infamous) what I found more entertaining about Ghost was the logical approach it takes in weaving a story from a spirit's POV. When Sam becomes a ghost, it takes a while for him to learn the rules. He learns right away that he can't touch anything. But it takes longer for him to learn that its not impossible for him to regain the ability to move objects. He discovers this when he meets a more seasoned ghost on a subway train (the late Vincent Schiavelli).Ghost is actually a film that draws up some fascinating dimensions concerning the spirit world. Its when it directly addresses the aspects of Heaven and Hell that it slips up but I'll go into that later. In this film, there are many people who have died but haven't moved on. There's an almost spiritual community living among us. Sam is a relative newcomer, and is taught by that subway ghost to channel his emotions into manipulating physical objects. For the simple reason that he's not physical anymore.We also learn about the limitations of being a ghost. It is possible for spirits to communicate with the living by possessing them. We get to see this twice. And it happens to Whoopi twice. The first is played strictly for laughs after Oda Mae learns her charlatan psychic powers are for real. Ghosts have flocked to her to be heard once more. One ghost gets impatient with her and possesses her body. When he's forced out, it saps his energy for a short time. The second instance is more poignant when Oda Mae allows Sam to use her body to caress Molly (although the film shows Sam doing this, and not Oda Mae).Another thing of interest is the surprisingly smart screenplay written by Bruce Joel Rubin. Not only does he handle the spiritual side of Ghost with consummate skill, but he also crafts a credible thriller, and keeps things ticking along nicely, balancing the drama with comedy whenever things threaten to get too maudlin. Jerry Zucker's direction is also worthy of mention because its so confident and assured. Surprising considering he comes from a background of screwball comedy.As for the performances, they're a little uneven. Although Patrick Swayze is not one of the greatest actors to grace the Earth, he's quite well suited to the part of a ghost. In fact this is probably his best role. But its in his scenes with Whoopi where he really shines. They make quite an amusing double act. There's one inspired scene where he has to talk her through closing an account and half the time she misinterprets his instructions. Or when he (eventually) convinces her to hand over a cheque for 4 million dollars to some nuns (a bit prophetic for what was to come for Whoopi!).Demi Moore is typically flat as a pancake and spends half the time crying her way through the movie. In the supporting cast, Tony Goldwyn does well as the sleazy best friend who set Sam up for drug money. And Vincent Schiavelli gives an interestingly live-wire performance as the ghost who helps Sam get in touch with his inner self.But its Whoopi Goldberg who steals the film out from everyone else. She's downright hilarious from the moment she appears. She's clearly having a ball as the fake medium who's more surprised than anyone when she finds her powers are genuine. She gets all the best lines and she knows it. And she has greater chemistry with Swayze than he does with Moore. She deserved to walk away with the Oscar. Sometimes they do get it right!The special effects have lost a little of their sparkle over the years but hold up well. The images of Sam moving through a human body and seeing blood and inner workings is striking. Or seeing him walk through doors and leap from train to train is memorable. But the scenes of the light of Heaven and demons from Hell are cheesy as anything, and recalls some of the limited imagination of Flatliners, made the same year.But Ghost still commands a certain attention and is a great deal of fun. It sometimes gets a bit too mushy for its own good, and wicked people punished for being bad and good people rewarded for being good is too simplistic. But thanks to a slick narrative, good plot twists and great performances (and in that I mean Whoopi!) Ghost is a film that flies high. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1990","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one Jerry Zucker's great successes! The screenplay is fantastic in this movie, with Swayze, Moore, Goldberg and Goldwyn making it effective.Goldwyn and Aviles play good villains, and Shiavelli plays a very scary role too (a very suitable actor).Thia movie does include quite a lot of goofs, but it has a great plot, which makes up for the goofs.The spirit effects in this movie are fantastic too, regarding that the year was 1990! This movie is a must-see romance/horror movie! "},{"Title":"Great film!!!!!!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film today, and, it was one of those films that really hit me. After watching it, I found it hard to come back to reality I didn't want it to be over and I just kept thinking about it.The film opens with eerie music....for god's sake, the film is called 'Ghost'. But it's not scary. It does, however, make you think about a few things - life and death, afterlife, and those you love. And how you would feel if an invisible ghost started beating you up.'Ghost' is just brilliant - its more than a romance it's thought-provoking, hilarious at times (thanks to Whoopi Goldberg), thrilling, mysterious and even sometimes shocking. It's everything! I have to say I didn't know much about Demi Moore before watching this film - and I didn't think much of her either. But now I can see what a talented actress she is. Her performance in this film, as well as that of Patrick Swayze, was heart-rendering.Definitely should watch it - it may not have the biggest, best special effects like we have in the 21st century, but it doesn't need them. FAB!! "},{"Title":"excellent love story with a strong character arc","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam (Patrick Swayze) unable to truly express his deep love for his lover while alive, demonstrates his love and devotion to her in his afterlife as a consequence of avenging his murder and bringing those guilty of it to justice.Patrick Swayze does a remarkable job of playing Sam, an uncertain, pessimistic character in his human life, who dies and through trial and tribulations in his afterlife protects his lover from evil and brings about personal justice. In the process of bringing this about, Sam defines his love in a way he was unable to do in his living life. The screenplay's strong character arc (from a weak character to a strong hero) gets the viewer deeply involved in the first person and ends in a way that more than satisfies expectation. "},{"Title":"Death can be hard to handle...","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghosts and supernatural beings are hard subjects; Beetlejuice and Field of Dreams were great, while Manos The Hands of Fate...well, take a look at the top 100 worst and see for yourself. Ghost wouldn't be caught dead anywhere on that list, in my mind. Everyone, even Patrick Swayze (Whose facial expressions are perfect in this film), did as great a job as the crew behind the scenes making special effects that were great for their time and some of which are still good today. I'll bet that puts to shame a LOT of modern movies. Of everything I've seen here, though, the plot is magnificently original. Guy loves girl, girl loves guy, guy gets killed, becomes a ghost with a bunch of others, tries to help wife, wife stops believing, etc. What's guy to do?I give this film my rating now.5 out of 5-*****  "},{"Title":"Life after death? Hmmm...","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was about 12 years old. It's one of the few movies that I've evr watched that I continue to watch faithfully to this day.It really makes you think about the question, is there really life after death?Whether it's a belief that one goes to Heaven or Hell, or whether the spirit if reincarnated on earth, or is death simply, the end?Who knows. This movie will make you think about it.So think about the next time you're alone and that door closes by itself, or that light clanks on and off, are you really alone?However this movie was not meant to be scary at all, which is what I thought when I first heard the title.  It's actually the touching story of a murdered man named Sam who refuses to leave his fiance's side, even in death.Molly is of course, oblivious to his prescence.He enlists in the help of psychic Oda Mae Brown (played by Whoopi Goldberg, and her performance alone is reason enough to catch this flick), to his surprise he finds out really can hear him (after she's been ripping off all her customers who want to contact departed loved ones.His fiance (Demi Moore) is of course a bit reluctant to believe some stranger who shows up at her door telling her that she's talking to her dead boyfriend.Even after Brown reveals things to Molly that only her and Sam knew and many of their most private moments, she's still somewhat unconvinced.Finally she does become convinced and agrres to let Brown in.Sam wants to warn Molly that his best friend had him murdered and that she could be next.Probably the most touching part of the film is when Oda Mae lets Sam use her body so that he and Molly can hold each other one last time.It all comes to a head when Sam's best friend confronts Molly and Brown and Sam is there to protect them from beyond the grave. Carl, (Sam's friend with pals like that who needs enemies?) is impaled on glass during the melee and he dies. And after seeing his own body he's taken away by the shadow ghosts (probably the only half-way scary part of the whole film).And in closing, Molly somehow can finally hear Sam as he tells her goodbye and goes into the light.I love this film.I think I'll go watch it now. "},{"Title":"a personal view; by Aurora Pérez Ferreira","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER Ghost is a very sentimental and powerful film. it is about a man who is killed, and then, his spirit tries to help his girlfriend to escape from danger. The main character's murderer was his best friend, and by committing this crime, he betrayed him.During the film we can see a comic character, Wooppy Goldberg, who is the go-between for the two lovers, Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore.In my opinion, this is a film which deals on love and its lasting after death. Even though Sam has to overcome his new dead situation, he is still able to help his girlfriend to fight their common enemy.The main character is a good, handsome and educated man who works in a big business. He used to live with his girlfriend and they were both very happy. The third major character is a woman who can speak with the dead. She is very important for the couple's relationship and even more for the development of the film. The movie is sad, however with this character we have notes of humour; the result is a perfect combination of humour and drama.Another important aspect of this film is that it is indeed realistic, because nowadays it's easy to think of a lot of people who would be able to kill a friend for money.The most interesting moment (or the most sentimental) is at the end, when the two lovers see each other for the last time.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and provocative...","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Although those of us with a orthodox theological perspective might take issue with the premise, Ghost is a movie that has a lot to offer.  Even non-romance lovers will find plenty of reasons to smile.Patrick Swayze (Sam) is above average (for him).  Demi Moore (Molly) is a bit weak, but not enough to detract.  I've never liked Whoopi Goldberg on general principle, and I detest her on Star Trek T.N.G..  Here (as Oda Mae) she shines, as in Sister Act.  Most comical was the scene in the bank as she impersonates a wealthy tycoon-ess.  Sam's reaction to her foibles will have you laughing as well.Another good scene is when the non-corporeal Sam seeks the guidance of the tortured soul on the subway (Vincent Schiavelli).  Reluctant at first, the soul briefly accepts Sam as a sort of afterlife protege.SPOILER Most memorable was near the end.  Sam and the traitorous Carl (Tony Goldwyn) square off for the (literally) final showdown.  Afterwards, Carl sees Sam, and seems glad to see him, almost in the old manner.  Knowing that Carl is about to be sent to his 'reward', Sam only regretfully says, Oh, Carl.This movie offers a lot romance, murder intrigue, betrayal, action, comedy, and the metaphysical.  If you haven't already, give it a try.7.5 of 10 "}{"Title":"A Classic (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost was a great movie. Even though it was made in the early 90's it will never get old, it's a classic. The plot is great, even though when I first saw it as a child, this movie seemed kind of scary. It is great overall.There is however, one flaw in this movie I have noticed. During the 'pottery scene' Demi Moore's hands are dirty because she is making the vase, but when she reaches out to kiss Patrick Swazi, her hands are MAGICALLY CLEAN. Overall this movie was great and fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Film That Has Stuck With Me","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) and Molly Jenson (Demi Moore) are a young couple living in a studio apartment in the city.  But when Sam is accidentally shot while defending Molly from some thug, his desire to stay with her is so strong that his ghost remains on Earth.  He tracks down the man who killed him, but can do nothing to manipulate the world around him.  That is, until he meets Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), a con-artist/seer who can hear him speak.  Sam now must enlist the help of a reluctant Oda Mae to warn Molly that the killer may come back for her as a potential witness against him.This isn't one of the greatest films of all time, but every aspect of the film is somewhat above average.  For 1990, the effects are very good, especially the shadow monsters.  Bruce Joel Rubin writes an excellent and original script that manages to capture female audiences early one with the two people in love and male audiences with the murder mystery/thriller aspect.  Oda Mae is also thrown in for some good comic relief.And I like seeing Demi Moore before she became all plastic and lost that innocence she seemed to have.  The cast is uniformly good, and the cameo from Vincent Schiavelli as the 'Subway Lord' is one of the best parts of the movie.  It may not be for everybody, but you must give it a chance if you've never seen it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, except...","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I actually liked that movie. Wonderful tearjerker in one moment, brillant comedy (especially by Whoopi Goldberg) in the next. Good actors, interesting story and so on - I don't need to recommend that further as a lot of people did it before me.But there's one thing, well, I didn't like at all, and that the others didn't mention Well, of course, the characterization of heaven and hell and especially the hell's scum where quite clichéd and Hollywood typical,too pathetic the heaven, ridiculous hell... but it's a movie,that wasn't exactly the point I disliked, but Why do the bad guys have to die? I mean - is it really a good solution to revenge murder with murder? Do they necessarily have to be KILLED, just, that it happens to them what they did to Sam? Well, he's dead and wishes them (from the beginning!) dead, too! And just because he's dead, well, does that set the movie apart from other self justice movies? That's what the makers must have thought. But self justice is never a solution. Sometimes it's understandable (still not right),there are some movies who handle that difficult topic quite well. But it definitely shouldn't be propagated completely uncritical by a movie - and that's what this one does!!! It's a pity, because the rest, as I said before, is a good, if not very good, movie! "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is one of the best romantic thrillers of our time (along with the bodyguard).It has one of the best theme songs to (Unchained melody now ruined by Gareth Gates).It is about a banker and his girlfriend (Sam and Molly),when Sam is murdered in front of Molly,he returns as a ghost who comes back to protect Molly.It turns out the people who killed him are crooks who did it for his money,and they are now after his wife.Ghost has that romantic effect on you which will make you cry and leave you in tears by the time the film ends.The audience witness's Sam and Mollys relationship and you know what they have.Along with the romance is the suspense,the danger his wife gets in.Then the story kicks in as Sam struggles to save her.Ghost is brilliant,a pure classic,I would say it's definitly worth the buy.I rate 5/5. "},{"Title":"The best love story","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After 12 years Ghost would have to be the best love story in recent years. The story of unconditional love beyond the grave is so beautiful and makes me cry even after seeing this film 30 times.Patrick Swayze is Sam and Demi Moore is Molly. One night Sam is mugged and killed and is trying to contact Molly beyond the grave as the murderer is in her life. With the help of Oda Mae Brown, brilliantly played by Whoopi Goldberg he contacts Molly through Oda and of course Molly doesn't believe her. I won't spoil the outcomes for the people who haven't seen this but there are a few twists and turns although one was very obvious and was picked up the first time I saw this as a 13 year old girl. This is the only film which makes me cry every time I watch it. This movie makes you appreciate exactly what you have and who you spend your life with and not to take that person and each day for granted. This will always be a wonderful film that will be remembered in years to come. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very excellent movie.It, however, is a tearjerker.I cried and cried the first time I saw it.Whoopi Goldberg is very believable as well as Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze.I would recommend this movie.The music in it is wonderful-Unchained Melody as well as the theme.Amazing. "},{"Title":"A very nice movie","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is simply great, especially with the lovely person Demi Moore. I can only compare this movie with another all time favourites of mine My Cousin Vinny Both are hilarious, romantic and has a nice story. I can watch this movie again and again like I did with the many favourites of mine. "},{"Title":"This movie is underrated in IMDB","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  After finishing watching for another time, I thought it must be ranking on the top 250 movies in IMDb. I am very surprised its rating here is so slow.In my opinion, Ghost is a great movie great story, great acting, great music and great imagination. I watched this movie and Titanic in the same evening, Ghost is far better than the later. When watching Ghost, I did not move a step as I did not want to miss any detail. But for Titanic, I even can't concentrated on it, I got bored and going through it became a hard job. "},{"Title":"Good romantic movie.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Jerry Zucker directed Ghost is the same director as Airplane! and Top Secret! with his brother David and Jim Abrahams. At first the writer (Bruce Joel Rubin) of Ghost was afraid, that the director would ruin his vision the way he want the story on screen. The writer was surprise he had the same idea about the plot. This movie is the first time that Zucker try a more serious story to direct. Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg make excellence performances in this picture. If you like Ghost, another movie I can recommend to watch. My Life (1993) with Michael Keaton and Nicole Kidman. Made by the same writer as Ghost but is directing and Zucker is producing the film.         "},{"Title":"moving drama","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Patrick Swayze plays a respectable bank worker who gets murdered, then comes back as a ghost to protect his girlfriend and find out the truth behind his death. With plenty of romance, nifty special effects, and a strong comedic performance by Goldberg, this is definitely worth your while. 3/4 "}{"Title":"I'm trying to think of the few films that moved me to tears","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm trying to think of the few films that moved me to tears - you know us stiff upper lipped males can't be seen with a tear in our eyes - not very macho. The first film that achieved this was for me was 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' an all-together more serious adventure. So what was it about this lighter weight film, which could so easily have veered into corny territory, which remains, for me, a contemporary classic love story? - I'm not sure - it could be the sincere performances, it could be the sound track but I think it is probably the way it explores that area of love that goes beyond the boundaries of mortal souls, beyond the realms of this world, a bond which transcends that fragile hold we have on life to an unknown world of everlasting love. "},{"Title":"Mostly good film, just a shame about those horrible damnation scenes","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I must say that, in most respects, I found 'Ghost' a very good film.  It made me laugh, it made me cry, and it probably made me feel a lot of other things too.  The only parts of it I really did not like were those truly horrible scenes where assorted bad guys die and are shown being dragged off somewhere probably-not-at-all-nice by ghastly shadowy spectres or demons.  Were those scenes really necessary? "},{"Title":"This was a very good film","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This story had it all - comedy, heartbreak, love and very good elements besides such as the murder plot which was very well done, but there could've been a few more suspects to choose from and since we're already down to two to begin with - Willy and Carl, there's no real surprise when it transpires that Carl is in league with Willy and they murdered Sam, or at least conspired to. But it's never really made clear whether Sam was accidentally killed.Excellent performances all round - not just Whoopi - though the bank scene where she realizes she's going to get $4 million is just one of the highlights of the film. Of course, with any film, there's going to be some dull points. However, they are kept to a minimum and as this film, like many others, is almost unbelievable some of the time, it still doesn't bore and makes for entertaining filming for two hours. Sometimes the acting is weak but most of the time its good.The film contains some rather strong violence in places so I wouldn't recommend this film to people with a nervous disposition. However, if you want a good film that's not at all bad, then Ghost is my choice. Perhaps the ending was not quite believable enough - though I won't give it away here. See the film and judge for yourself. Perhaps some of the film also is too quickly executed - such as Whoopi's rather quick appearance -- though later we do miss Whoopi because the film does drag quite a bit between scenes without Whoopi. Goldwyn makes a good villain as does the actor who plays Willy. It's still a good film, definitely 8 out of 10 from me.  "},{"Title":"One of my mother's favorite films!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My mother frequently has this in her VCR, and I don't blame her. The film has so many things going for it, besides the casting and story. There are so many film themes running here. It is a romance, a murder mystery, a supernatural thriller and a comedy (Whoopi Goldberg's performance as Oda Mae the Fortune Teller is priceless, and well-deserving of her Oscar). Yes, the ending is tear-jerking, but it is done so WELL! I find myself reaching for the Kleenex each time I watch it. Enjoy this film when you need a good cry, along with a happy ending.   "},{"Title":"Before Sam Died he promised Molly that he's love her forever. (sob)","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie years ago and I must say watching it again now that it still has it's magic. The characters are cast well with Patrick as Sam Wheat and Demi Moore as his partner Molly. There is also the comic interest with the brilliant Whoopi Goldberg as the fake spiritualist women who is the only living person that the dead Sam comes across who can actually hear him speaking. It's a classic love story filled with romance, violence, suspense and a twist that creates the films magic. 9/10 "},{"Title":"very tear jerking","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is one of the most sad and beautiful romance movie of all time.This was a real tear jerker. The performance were excellent. The music was beautiful. This was a powerful movie that teaches us a good lesson. Love is forever. How many movies out there deal with a love so great that it goes on even after your dead. I mean Sam loved Molly so much that even when he was dead his love never changed. I believe this movie is one of a kind.I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a very touching and beautiful romance movie. "},{"Title":"stands the test of time","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  sense comments are still being posted for this movie, more than ten years later, it's obvious that this movie stands the test of time.Unchained Melody is a great song, of coarse, and this one has a big spiritual impact for me Life after death, Heaven and Hell, it does a good job with those issues. when I heard the title, ghost I thought of a haunted house and dead trees and thunderstorms. you know, that sort of thing. but I was pleased that this movie proved to be quite differant. sure, it deals with a serious issue, but the comedy is always welcome. I did laugh during this movie, especially with Woopi Goldberg as the reluctant Oda Mea Brown. Ghost is another classic that should have it's own special anniversery re-release. "},{"Title":"A great tear-jerker","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore are perfectly cast as lovers in this film. Whoopi Goldberg as the Psychic is absolutely fantastic. The remainder of the cast also put in great performances. The film is about the ghost of a murdered man (Swayze) who is trying to protect his love (Moore) from the villian. He contacts the psychic (Goldberg) and uses her for various parts of his plan. Demi Moore's work in this film is about the best I have ever seen from her. The story moves along at a fairly decent clip, although there are a couple of short periods where I thought it dragged just a bit. The musical score is very good, with a stroke of brilliance in using the old Righteous Brothers Unchained Melody. Overall, a very well done flick and definitely worth a watch. I have read several other people's comments and I will join them in saying that I found that my eyes were leaking some sort of strange moisture after seeing this film. Well done! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is one of the rare films that can appeal to both men and women...there are fights, blood, gore, comedy, drama, romance, mystery, music, and intrigue. I got a huge kick out of Whoopi Goldberg's character, and I agree with the previous reviewer who commented on the extraordinary chemistry displayed by Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore. All the actors here, including Vincent Schavelli (who I recognized right away as Mr. Vargas from Fast Times at Ridgemont High) as the subway ghost are great. My favorite scene would be the vase-making then love-making scene set to Unchained Melody, which in my opinion is one of the greatest love songs ever. I really didn't agree with the spiritual, life after death issues displayed in the movie, and I did think the ending could have been better. Other than that, the film wasn't bad. It really does show the power of love. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****; Grade B+","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderfully affecting comedic/romantic thriller about a man killed who remains on this planet, trying to warn his living fiance about danger with the help of a con-artist who happens to hear the dead.  Gauzy romance, huggable humor (complements of Goldberg, who won a deserved Oscar for this role), and moments of tension and wonder blend surprisingly well, and create a satisfyingly varied experience.  Swayze and Moore are charming together. "}{"Title":"I can and can't understand!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can and can't understand about the way the Oscars went with this movie.  I'm glad Whoopi Goldberg got her Oscar because she deserved it and the screenplay was good, but this movie should've gotten best picture too.  Ghost has a pretty good storyline although I don't see how Sam would want to kill Carl and Willie after he finds out that they killed him because they were dealing with drug dealers so they wouldn't get killed.  Other than that, it was great too!  And other than the swearing, I felt Sam's anger and rage when he finds out why he was killed, especially when his friend betrayed him.  I'd be pretty mad too! I mean, we all have one life, why take another?  And after finding out that Rick Aviles was also a comedian, it surprised me that he could play a killer and not show any comedy at all except for the part when he jokes around after Carl told him about Oda Mae Brown knowing about him.  When I first saw this movie, although I was only a little kid, I thought it was a horror movie because of the objects flying at Willie near his death scene and then the demons from Hell coming and taking him.  That part gave me the creeps.  Although, being the spiritual Christian I am, I am not agreeing with the way they handled life after death in this movie, overall this movie was excellent. "},{"Title":"A real feel-good film","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not usually so fond of sappy emotional films, but I just can't help but like this one. Whoopi Goldberg is fantastic! I kept forgetting I was watching her as she so vividly 'created' this other persona (Oda Mae). Demi Moore was pretty good, but she had a kind of wimpy role (perfect for her acting ability). Patrick Swayze proved that he can do more than just gyrate his hips around. Before this movie, I didn't realize he could act!Anyway, a really nice movie, makes you feel good. "},{"Title":"Hugely Entertaining","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a drama/thriller that is hugely entertaining. Though Ghost is a tear jerker aimed at a female audience I think that this movie can entertain males as well. This film plays like a mystery thriller which  really gives it an edge. The whole cast turns in very good performances (Especially Whoopi Goldberg who won an academy award for her performance here.) "},{"Title":"Very Well-Researched!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The writers for this film obviously thoroughly researched what is known about ghosts.  I understand that they checked with Tibetan Buddhist monks on what someone is likely to encounter in the bardo state, after death.  Over many centuries, Tibetan Buddhism has compiled countless data about this.A more recent film which shows similar depth of research is The Sixth Sense (1990).   "},{"Title":"A couple of things to notice...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There are a couple of artful touches in the movie that might go unnoticed at first.  For example, the show Mollie and Sam were out to see that fateful night was Macbeth, which of course, is about murder for ambition.  Another funny touch is when Sam sings, I'm Henry the VIII I am..., we've got that line, wouldn't have a Willie or a Sam, who are two of the main characters in the story.    "},{"Title":"The rules of the game..","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The film really plays up the sappiness of lovers but for romantic die-hards like myself, this is THE movie to rejoice in. I loved the music, the drama of the script, and the emotions that renders a person helpless in watching as the movie unfolds. It may not be for everyone's taste.. but mainly for lovelorns who appreciate a wonderful tale of love lost and found. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films, I just bought my own copy of it! The love between Sam and Molly is described extremely good, so pure and deep. And they managed to show a strong and passionate lovescene; without making it into pornography. (That's well done in film I think.) Patrick Swayze plays uncredible good at the last scene where he and Molly meet again, and he cries while he is dancing with her (in Oda Maye's body.) I love the music Unchained melody is beautiful. As the movie. "},{"Title":"A super supernatural romance","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I hadn't seen this film for many years but having watched it again I'm glad that I did as it was as entertaining as it was when I first saw it.The film opens with Sam and Molly moving into their new apartment, every thing seems to be going right for them; they are in love, he is a successful banker and they have a lovely home. Things go wrong in the worst way possible when he is killed by a mugger as they return from an evening at the theatre. From the title of the film you probably guessed that this isn't the end of him. As a ghost he follows Molly home and soon learns that his mugging wasn't as random as it first appeared when the mugger breaks in to his home and starts looking for something. Unfortunately for him, with the exception of being able to scare the cat, he can't interact with the world of the living, luckily however when he follows the mugger he encounters a medium who can hear what he says. She is rather alarmed at this as up until now she believed herself to be a fraud. He persuades her to contact Molly to warn her about the mugger's plans to return but not surprisingly Molly isn't impressed with her story.With Sam dead his best friend Carl starts seeing more and more of Molly, first to comfort her then later he tries to seduce her. Sam understandably loses his temper and in doing so knocks over a photograph, an ability he didn't know he had. Earlier on his travels he had met another ghost who could move objects so seeks him out to learn how to do it himself. I won't spoil the ending by saying exactly what happens but we do learn why he was killed and that not everybody is quite what they appear to be.This film seems to fit in several categories, it is a love story, a comedy, a thriller and obviously a ghost story, it combines these elements well. The effects are pretty good given the film's age, especially the shadows that come to life to drag the bad guys off when they die, these were genuinely creepy. The acting was good, there was a chemistry between Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore... especially during the now famous pottery scene and Whoopi Goldberg was good as the medium although she walked a fine line between funny and embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Spectral","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes a movie just grabs you.This one is formulaic. I have not a shred of respect for the artists involved, not a one, not a shred. And yet it works for me.And it works even though I am deeply engaged in all sorts of self-referential and ironic structures. This story takes itself serious. There is humor of a sort Whoopie Goldberg is convinced she needs to be funny, so does her jackanapes thing, but that's IN the story, not of it.It may take a special sort of talent for people to seem like they really are taking things at face value. Demi does this particularly well &#151; something her former husband just couldn't do. What happens for some is that the foundation story is so strong, the yearning so overwhelming that we join in. All the business about money laundering and threats is basically background noise to make things move while we can steep in this notion of love and loss, sustained desire.I admit I cried. It may be because I watch tons of clever movies and simply need a place to pour out.I'm not sure about the development of popular songs in film. American Graffiti was more than 15 years before. The excuse for songs there was that kids listened to the radio. Still here, we couldn't accept a song as simply part of the score. We had to be introduced to it as a record being played in the story, during that erection scene. Afterward, it could be recalled, but only after that literal insertion into the world of the story.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Now do ya believe in Ghosts?","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film when I was about 11 and loved every single aspect of it. To me, it was just what a film should be - heartbreaking, funny, spooky and thought provoking. Patrick Swayzee lead a great cast into what was about the best film of 1990, with the oh-so-memorable 'clay scene' it couldn't fail to be a very, very good film. Swayzee play Sam Wheat a very much in love man, who's life is tragically cut short by his nasty friend Carl (Tony Goldwyn). Too scared to 'step into the light' Sam stays on earth and soon befriends crooked Oda Mae (Whoopie Goldburg) who suddenly finds out her talents for talking to the dead are actually for real. Sam spends much of the film trying to contact distraught girlfriend Molly, who he's left behind and believe me, the ending calls for a very big box of Kleenex! "}{"Title":"Boy loves girl but dies ... but doesn't leave until he heroically saves her life from the bad guys who killed him.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It had been a long time since I had watched this movie when I first put a vote in. I had the opportunity to watch it again today and changed my rating upwards.The angels coming from heaven and the demons coming from hell might be a little hokey but it gets the idea across. All the actors did an excellent job on this story including instantaneous reactions to supernatural events which overtake them suddenly. This movie is not just Patrick Swayze candy. (The more I see his acting, the better developed are his acting skills. He grows with each part and is way past the bouncer, dancer, guy from the wrong side of the road, etc.) He does seem to be working on his craft even though the stories of his personal road of life have not portrayed an easy time.Whoopi continues to delight me. I become a bigger fan of her talent and her humanity every day.Demi also continues to grow with every picture although my two favorites still remain G.I.Jane and A Few Good Men. Maybe she just looks good in uniform --- and I am a 56 year old woman married for 33 years --- don't let your imagination take you to wrong places. Having wanted to be in the military myself in younger days, she epitomizes to me how a young woman officer should handle herself while dealing with the difficulty of proving herself worthy every day to wear the uniform. Yeah---I think it is an honorable estate to serve this country and not every one is capable of making the grade! So much on those thoughts!!! All in all, Ghost is romantic, funny, suspenseful, and a good movie for a Saturday night! "},{"Title":"I Love You, Ditto","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie makes you believe that there are love affairs that last beyond death. Patrick Swayze's character, handsome, rugged, honorable is murdered in what seems like a random mugging. But it isn't and Patrick feels the need to stay around and find out what or who is behind his killing. When he starts to find out things, he has to tell Demi Moore's character and that is where Whoopi's character comes in - she is a medium and she hears Patrick. There is a sensual chemistry between the two main characters, and there loss of one another is very heart wrenching. Whoopi adds some lightness to an otherwise sad story It is a chick flick for sure, but its done well and it leaves you feeling sad and uplifted at the same time. It is worth a watch. Not really appropriate for small children. "},{"Title":"One of the best romance movies i've seen.","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I can't make a good comment on a movie because i don't have the talent and knowledge to do it, but i just have to say a few words about this one. It is without doubt one of the most charming movies i've ever seen. I may be mad but last month i've seen and is for the 13th time. It has a nice story, and it just makes you believe and love in the most genuine way that you can. The way Sam (P. Swayse) loves Molly (D. Moore) can inspire anyone to fall in love with love-story movies, further more it contains a bit of action and i can guarantee you won't wanna leave the screen till the end of it. And because a film is never whole without a melody that matches it, this one has go the best one  Unchained Melody from the extraordinary voice of The Righteous Brothers.It's frankly a movie to be seen that why i link it on to a 10. "},{"Title":"Blunt Film","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost has an interesting premise and good use of suspense. Whoopi Goldberg's character stuck out too much and the movie's comedy aspect probably didn't mix in with its romantic aspect. Nevertheless the romance was done well and the theme music was nice. Ghost's Christian spiritualism may partly explain its box-office success. Character seemed to be a product of plot, and not the other way around. Hence many of the characters are stereotypical. Skin color seems to correlate with wealth and intelligence. At times the romance lacked subtlety, but romance is hard to pull off without reverting to clichés.7/10  "},{"Title":"Good show!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was released in July of 1990, it cost $22,000,000.00 to make, and it has returned over $517,000,000.00 in profits. If Striptease was the nadir of Demi Moore's film career (thus far), then THIS has to be considered her apex! Look, Patrick Swayze runs the acting gamut from A to B (thank you Dorothy Parker for that put-down!) - he has all the charm of a wooden Indian - but he helps make the movie work. Just like he did in Dirty Dancing. Hey, THIS movie doesn't just work, it SOARS! Bottom line, I'm a guy, but at the first refrains of the Righteous Brothers' hit song, Unchained Melody - and the first appearances of teardrops under the eyes of Demi Moore - I LOST it! Okay, SO it's a chick flick, we should ALL get in touch with our feminine side, sometimes!  "},{"Title":"One of the best love movies","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Very good love comedy/drama with mainstream formula but very effective performances and production which tells a good story quite well.The special effects are also top notch and the attention to detail was taken at heart.May not be appreciated by non-spiritualists though for it's uncompromising theoloogical depictions and statements.This movie is so spiritually moving,it will bring tears to most BELIEVERS just as effectively as the closing moments did in the masterpiece It's A Wonderfull Life.What keeps this movie from being a masterpiece like the above mentioned movie is the average cinematography,editing and script.Also,the lack of premium acting from Moore which is only adequate.Great performance from Swayze and Goldberg!For love story fans who are spiritualists and for big fans of the lead actors......    "},{"Title":"A Touching Tale of Romance.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a great film! This is one of the best romance films ever made. Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, and Whoopi Goldberg are absolutely brillaint!!!! This is an amzing film. It is very touching. Overall, this is great film with a great cast, and great directing!!! I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!!! ) "},{"Title":"Whoopi, Swayze and Moore at their best","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a great supernatural thriller with a humorous edge. Sam Wheat and Molly Jensen (Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore) have decided to live together. He is an investment banker and she is a sculptress. Paul (Tony Goldwyn) works with Sam. Sam and Molly are truly in love, the only problem is Sam cannot say the three little words that Molly wants to hear. When she tells him she loves him, all he can say is Ditto. Sam and Molly are refurbishing their dream house. They are enjoying their life together. After attending an Off-Broadway production of Macbeth, Molly decides it time to get married. They are mugged and Sam is shot and killed. His spirit starts to ascend but he cannot leave Molly, so he is stranded on Earth. Ghost Sam follows Molly around. But he has problems passing through doors. Sam gets trapped in the townhouse. When the door opens it is not Molly but the man who killed him. He realizes that his death was not random. Sam follows the killer home and discovers that Molly has something he wants. On his way back he notices a storefront Sister Oda Mae Brown Spiritual Adviser Contact The Dearly Departed. He is curious and enters. Oda Mae (Whoopi Goldberg) is a charlatan psychic but during her séance, she can hear everything Sam says. Sam realizes she has the gift and decides use her to warn Molly. Of course, Molly has a hard time believing Oda Mae. Even when she does believe, she still has doubts. Eventually, Sam finds out the whole truth. But the man behind the killing is getting desperate and he needs to get rid of the last witness, Molly. Jerry Zucker was most famous for Airplane and other spoofs he created with his brother. No one expected this level of sophistication in his direction. It starts out as a romance, then becomes a supernatural movie with comedic elements and ends up a mystery, which it was the whole time. Each handled with precision. Patrick Swayze had a series of hits but all the films would be considered light weight. This was his first acting triumph. Demi Moore was known for good performances in B Films. This was her first great performance in an A Film. Whoopi Goldberg took show business by storm. Mike Nichols discovered her on woman show and brought it to Broadway. This started her meteoric rise. Next Spielberg cast her in the lead of The Color Purple and Whoopi received a Best Actress Oscar Nomination. Since then, she was a star but never found another defining role. That is until Ghost. She takes Oda Mae Brown to a level even the writer and director did not expect. Her ability to go from high drama to slapstick without it looking unreal was perfection. I knew when I saw the film that this was her Oscar performance, and it was. Ghost has something for everyone in it. DVD EXTRAS Documentary - Remembering the Magic - A look back on creation of this film. It is very interesting with great insights about the film and the makers. "},{"Title":"God Speed Your Love","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a film that breaks the normal rules. It is a film about the supernatural that is not a horror film. It is a comedy which takes as its theme violent death, but which is optimistic in tone rather than black or cynical. It is a romantic comedy in which the leading man dies during the first half-hour. And it is a film that breaks the rules and yet remains within the commercial Hollywood mainstream rather than branching out into art-house experimentalism.When Sam Wheat, a New York banker, is murdered in the course of what appears to be a robbery, his spirit remains on earth in the form of a ghost. The ghostly Sam quickly realises that his death was no random mugging gone wrong and that he was murdered because he had stumbled onto the fact that his bank was being used by criminals to launder money. Sam also realises that his girlfriend Molly is also in danger from the criminals who killed him, and tries to warn her.The film takes a fairly traditional view of the afterlife. (Much more traditional than, say, Beetlejuice, another film from around the same period). On death, the souls of the good are rewarded with heavenly bliss, while the souls of the wicked are dragged down to hell by demons. A few souls, however, those who have unfinished business in this life, remain on earth as ghosts. They can see the living, but cannot normally be seen by them or communicate with them. Sam cannot therefore appear directly to Molly or speak to her, and in desperation he tries to make contact with Oda Mae Brown, a medium. Oda Mae, in fact, is a charlatan who makes her living by deceiving her clients into believing that she has psychic powers, but for some reason she is able to hear Sam (although not to see him). She is persuaded to help Sam warn Molly of the danger she is in, and also to help him frustrate the schemes of Carl, his corrupt former colleague who is responsible for both the money-laundering scam and Sam's murder.The film contains a mixture of comedy and sentimentality. The comedy mostly comes in the scenes involving Oda Mae, well played by Whoopi Goldberg as that stock comic figure, the rogue with a (well-hidden) heart of gold who can (very reluctantly) be persuaded to do the decent thing. Goldberg has appeared in some very weak comedies, such as Jumpin' Jack Flash and A Knight in Camelot, but Ghost is one of her more successful roles. There are some very amusing scenes, such as the one where Oda Mae, using fake ID, manages to withdraw the $4,000,000 which the criminals have deposited in a false bank account and is then cajoled by Sam into giving the whole amount to a charity run by nuns rather than keeping it for herself.The sentimentality comes in the scenes between Sam and Molly, both before his murder and at the end when she realises that his love for her has survived his death. The film's most famous scene- indeed, one of the most iconic scenes in modern cinema- is the one where Sam embraces Molly while she is making a pot (she is a potter by profession), to the strains of Unchained Melody, and they end up making love. I will never think of pottery in the same way again. Or Unchained Melody, come to that, although the words of that song do seem very appropriate to the film's theme of longing for an absent loved one.I must admit that I had difficulty envisaging Patrick Swayze as one of the yuppie classes, but that is probably because I always think of him in terms of his working-class-hero character from Dirty Dancing. Demi Moore, however, made a delightful heroine, showing just why she was regarded as one of the hottest young actresses of the late eighties and early nineties. No actress since Audrey Hepburn had worn that short, boyish haircut with such style and elegance. The film as a whole can sometimes seem corny, but overall it is a watchable mixture of comedy and tenderness. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Ghosts don't always have to be scary","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's a ghost story,love story,and good vs. evil story.This movie connects on every level.It makes you laugh,cry,and puts you on the edge of your seat.There is excellence on every level,here, including casting,story,and special effects.Thumbs up to Whoopi Goldberg for her well deserved Oscar.This movie is proof that a ghost does not always have to be scary.They can be warm and funny,too.Really,the only thing you can question about this film is their perception of the afterlife,but who among us really knows how that goes?They may have gotten it right,for all we know.Ghost is thoroughly entertaining and enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Demi Moore's Top Role in an Otherwise Average and Disappointing Acting Career","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Lighted hearted and touching film about love and death.  Demi Moore gives the performance of her life as Molly Jensen.  Her career has never been the same as she has put in many lousy performances over the next few years. Its too bad because she shows here that she can act with the right material. Directed by Jerry Zucker who is mostly known for his parody comedies like Ruthless People(1986), Top Secret!(1984), and Airplane!(1980). Ghost(1990) gave new direction to the career of Jerry Zucker.  Whoopi Goldberg is good here because she is not overly annoying like in other films that she has been in. "},{"Title":"Lovely!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Truly a recommended classic, for me that is. With some of my favorite casts like Whoopi Goldberg and Demi Moore. I also like the way the story has been built up; with laughter and tears. "},{"Title":"Good ghostly love.","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Not being a fan of love stories, and running away from anything schmaltzy, I knew what to expect when I watched this. In what is probably all of the main actor's defining roles, they produce a film that is quite good. It's the best love story film that I have seen, but admittedly, I haven't seen many. Its strong point is its central theme of Patrick Swayze as a ghost, trying to save his lover from danger, involving murder, theft and betrayal. Being a ghost, he has to try and help out without being able to touch anything, and be invisible except to other ghosts. As plots go, this isn't bad. However, as a spirit, he can conveniently interact with things in the real world. He can walk on floors and sit in chairs, and initially has a problem in going 'through' doors. Then he learns how to knock things over, and finds out that he can be heard through a medium. I expect that when this was initially being written, they probably reluctantly had to make him do these things in order for the story to work. I'm still not sure about the door thing though. The effects are pretty mediocre. Even at the time it was made, I'm sure they could have been better, especially when a 'baddie' dies. Cartoony wraiths come out of the ground and drag them away. It's all very unconvincing. It's not just a straight love story. There are elements of other genres as well, and they work. All in all, a rather good film. "},{"Title":"Good premise; mediocre execution","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a decent film overall, but for every good moment, there's an equally bad one. It takes an interesting premise of a man returning as a ghost after his murder and muddles it with a rather silly money laundering plot. Many actions of the villains, and the reactions of side characters to various goings-on, are unbelievable.Would the banker hand Ode Mae a cashier's check for $4 million dollars after she acts like a complete lunatic and more than a tad suspicious? And why is that bank scene so padded and long? The 'comic relief' it provides isn't worth its extreme lack of credibility.Could the killer, Willie Lopez, be less sneaky? He's always after Ode Mae with guns blazing even though he's a hired killer and practiced burglar. I just can't believe, even with Sam's help, that Ode Mae could avoid this guy catching up with her eventually.As for Carl, he has to be one of the most unbelievable villains I've ever seen in a film. There's absolutely nothing about him that would suggest he's capable of plotting a murder. Not only is the actor miscast, but the character is so underdeveloped, it reminds me of movies I'd make with my friends with a video camera when we were in junior high school.A few other things that bothered me - The subway ghost goes from psychotic to helpful in an instant.- The policewoman who coldly dismisses Moore after she tells a fairly convincing story about things Ode Mae told her. Even if she isn't convinced, would she be so rude to a recent widow that she believes has been conned? - Demi Moore's hearing seems to go on the fritz a few times also. She can't hear Willie Lopez sprinting out of her apartment after the cat attacks him? She can't hear Carl talking to and threatening Sam in the kitchen while she's out of the room for a moment (she returns to the room after the rather loud argument and says, 'Were you talking to someone?' He drops a large knife out the counter (clink!) which she doesn't hear or notice when she's 5 feet away from him.)- If ghosts are capable of moving things around with ease, wouldn't there be a more widespread phenomenon of such occurrences? Or are Swayze and the subway ghost the only ones who have ever figured it out? For a movie that tries so hard to be serious, there are far too many of these things to write off as suspension of disbelief.I did find a some clever or satisfying bits in the film, like the floating penny, some of Swayze's learning curve of what he can do as a ghost, and the idea of the demons dragging evil-doers to their ultimate punishment (although the special effects fail here).It's sounds like I despised this film, but I still gave it a 6 because despite its many flaws, it still entertains and the flaws aren't as glaring on the first viewing. Those who generally enjoy love stories or find pleasure (even guilty ones) in Lifetime Original Movies will more easily overlook the bad stuff.Lastly, the performances are mediocre at best. Goldberg does the best job of anyone, but the writing is too silly to make her character truly believable. Swayze does his best work here, and it's still not so great. Moore cries a lot. Goldberg didn't deserve an Oscar in my opinion, and the film itself certainly didn't deserve its win for Writing or a Best Picture nod.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films -- still moving and touching...","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's hard for me to truly understand why a film such as Ghost appeals to my inner moviegoer so very much. Here's a film so full of clichés and tired ideas that somehow--miraculously--manage to stay fresh, presenting us with a great love story amidst an intriguing backdrop of murder and revenge. The only problem with the movie is Demi Moore's haircut, but that's an entirely different matter.The story is classic Sam (Patrick Swayze) is a successful accountant earning the big bucks in the big city. He's got it all A great job, a great apartment, a great girlfriend to share it with, and an overall great life. Curled up in bed with his girl, Molly (Demi Moore), he watches a news program stating that an airplane crashed and everyone aboard the aircraft died. Just imagine, he says. In an instant--just like that. Bam. He is, of course, referring to the instantaneity of death.The irony in the situation is that we all know the same thing is about to happen to him, and indeed it does, when Sam is shot dead in front of Molly by a mysterious stranger who runs off into the night. Sam dies immediately, and it takes us a few moments to realize this--since we continue to see him run after the killer. It's then that it dawns on us it's his ghost.Unable to make contact with the living, Sam follows Molly for weeks preceding his death. (This is where that SNL skit came in--Oh, Molly, don't do that, it's disgusting! There's a tissue right across the room! I've got a bit more info on that later on.) However, Sam soon realizes that his old friend and fellow accountant (Tony Goldwyn) had hired a man to shoot Sam because he had seen evidence of money laundering in one of the accounts.Now, in order to warn Molly of possible danger, Sam enlists the help of a psychic hoax (Whoopi Goldberg) to pay a visit to Molly and tell her the truth about everything. Go away! she yells as Sam taunts her with obnoxious songs until she agrees to tag along and go visit his old girlfriend.It's useless to delve any deeper into the plot, since it's all pretty predictable. But in all honesty, it's a fun ride getting to the end. This is a film that uses a tried-and-true formula of good vs. evil to achieve its goals. It's as old as the days and as true as nothing. I'm reminded of that speech about principals by Donald Kaufman in Adaptation This works, and it has through all recorded time. No doubt he had Ghost in mind when he said that. (I'm just joking.)I do like the way Ghost uses its ideas of a ghost coming back to haunt his killer in a way different than most films, though. This ghost's intentions aren't to scare away people in a haunted mansion, but rather to reach out and touch the woman he once loved, and then--finally--to keep her from harm by seeking revenge on the baddies who plotted against him.I like the way one of the villains gets trapped in a bathroom and glances at a steamy window. The word, Boo suddenly appears as if someone was writing it, and with a scream the criminal flees the room and runs out into the street outside.If this were a horror film, the window gag might creep us out a bit and give us a chill or two. But Ghost uses the old ghost clichés--haunting people, making writing appear on windows, etc.--and makes us re-think them. Maybe that bartender from The Shining wasn't just a creepy old ghost. Maybe he was just having a bit of fun with Jack.Or...maybe not.That's where the film succeeds, I think in its ideas, even if they have been done before. I also enjoyed Patrick Swayze's performance. Swayze is often ridiculed as an actor, and this caused him to sink back into the depths of unemployment for a number of years--now appearing in co-star roles and low-budget films--but I think he's a good actor with a likable on-screen personality. And he doesn't take himself too seriously, which is always a good thing. (Anybody see that Hans and Franz skit on Saturday Night Live about ten years ago? Utterly hilarious. How about the Ghost parody?)Okay, so Whoopi Goldberg didn't deserve the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. Everyone knows it was just because the Academy was in a certain mood that year, where it felt that it had to give its appreciation to the black community of filmmakers, but it's a done deal and the movie is still a good love story, regardless of whether or not one of its actresses didn't deserve an award for her work. (On a sidenote, Goldberg's performance is quite fun--still, no worthy Oscar material, I soundly agree.)I must confess with a bit of shame that it is one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasures--the type of movie that puts me in a good mood every time I watch it, and a movie with an ending that makes my throat choke every time I see it. The ending really is perfect, and if the movie had resorted to a silly I came back from the dead! bit, my high opinion of the film would surely be somewhat less enthusastic than what it is today.You can't always say that many movies are really beautiful love stories, but here's one.  "},{"Title":"In this our afterlife","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" So it was a cold and wet Sunday afternoon, prematurely dark outside. My wife and I had just got in from walking our dog just before the rain really started and there was no question we weren't venturing out again. I asked her what film she thinks we should watch and she says a nice one. I flick through various selections and she stops me at Ghost. She saw it years ago in original release but I've never seen it, so Ghost it was.Turned out to be a good choice. I've always been a sucker for fantasy movies dealing with visitations from the afterlife and whatnot, going back to Topper, The Bishop's Wife and of course the daddy of them all It's A Wonderful Life and Ghost unquestionably taps into all of that, with good ghosts hanging around their loved ones until they find release through redemption, ascending to the light while bad ghosts don't get to stay long, getting immediately dragged down to the nether regions by irresistible black forces. This latter turns out to be very convenient for Patrick Swayze's nice-guy Sam Wheat character when two of his enemies later die on him in hot pursuit.Sam doesn't get to last too long in his physical form, being slain in front of his loving girlfriend, Demi Moore's Molly by what seems to be a random mugger. When Moore is later consoled by Sam's best friend and banking work-colleague Carl, the bigger picture quickly became clearer, leading to a reasonably exciting if slightly over-the-top conclusion as Sam races to save Molly from joining him in the hereafter as the bad guys come after her.Of course, to communicate with Molly, Sam has to find a suitable conduit so enter Whoopi Goldberg's Oda Mae fake medium character and an entertaining sub-plot caper where she and Sam conspire to thwart Carl's embezzlement plans in person at the bank as well as the inevitable scenes where Goldberg first becomes aware of his at first unwelcome presence and later when she's trying to convince Moore of Sam's existence.Sure there are slushy bits too, like the oft-parodied (and very suggestive!) pottery scene to the backdrop of The Righteous Brothers' Unchained Melody, making the film a woman's favourite ever since, but that may be as much to do with big old handsome Patrick as anything else. Undoubtedly though he and Moore are two of the beautiful people, living the life in downtown New York, but they combine well and have you rooting for them all the way through. Goldberg gets to do her goofy, sometimes histrionic comedy thing but she's kept just about in check by the direction. The special effects, for the time, are fine, particularly all the out-of-body stuff.Such was the success of the movie on original release that Unchained Melody was re- released as a single in the UK due to the popularity of this film and raced to number 1 in the charts (which it never did on original issue) but I can see why. It's a warming, life- affirming entertaining movie and good clean family entertainment, an old-fashioned Hoolywood movie in the best tradition - and what's wrong with that, as someone once said? "},{"Title":"It's autumn sunrise.......","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam Wheat is a banker (that's not rhyming slang), Molly Jensen is an artist, and the two are madly in love, thanks to Unchained Melody. However, when Sam is murdered, instigated by friend and corrupt business partner Carl Bruner over a shady business deal, he is left to roam the earth as a powerless spirit. When he learns of Carl's betrayal, Sam must seek the help of psychic Oda Mae Brown to set things right and protect Molly from Carl and his cat loving henchman, Willie Lopez.....It's true, the more times you watch this film, the more schmaltzy it becomes, but there is something really raw and powerful in what is otherwise a poor mans Truly Madly Deeply, with added murder.The narrative and story are simple, Sam must find a way to protect his soul mate, so he seeks help from the weird looking like on the subway, and Whooping Goldberg, easily the best thing about the film.But what makes the film rise above its smoochy, saccharine origins is the fact that it can be really dark and visceral at times, which makes it the fondly remembered movie it is. One minute you are laughing at Goldbergs fake seances and truly wonderful chemistry with Swayze, the next you are in the middle of a very unsettling dream sequence/vision Sam has when he is shot.So even though the film does lay on the romance thickly, and there are some genuinely funny scenes involving Goldberg, it's the visceral, unsettling moments that stick with you. You'll always remember Willie and Carl being taken away, rather then the guy on the operating table, because it grabs you, and the scene itself feels cold and murky, just like where they are heading.So all in all, it's romantic Swayze turned up to ten, but just as the film gets that little to tender, that little too schmaltzy, the makers give you a jolt that snaps you out of it.Which saves it, more than you'd know.And Sam would never say that. "},{"Title":"A Film That Goes Beyond Excellent","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Even though the film world has made this 1990 movie Ghost as being insignificant, inferior to other movies that came out in this time period. But to me Whoopi Goldberg's Oda Mae Brown could easily pass off as one of the most near-perfect, intriguing, mesmerizing characters to ever be featured on celluloid. Her character has truly exceeded any character that Charles Dickens or William Shakespeare ever created. Goldberg literally sold her character and when she graced the screen with her performance, people were just dying to see her such a dynamic performance and who could blame them.With the 1980's coming to a close, we has the honours to reflect what a decade it has been in the era of film-making. Some of the great creative minds emerged from this occasion. It was a time when thinking and direction was compatible. There was very few lazy remakes or CGI green screen dependency. It was originality and creativity all the way. There was no competition to see how much money you make in one day. Artists like Robert Greenwald was creating artful flicks like Xanadu and Ridley Scott was making original modern-day fairy tales like Legend, no one expected that the 1990's would come along with a plethora of bummer films. It was like the creativity was lost. The colourful and the spontaneous dynamics were badly watered down with blandness and half-baked films that were only out there. The only film of the 1990's that had the charm that was lost in the 1980's was the 1996 movie Evita. While the 1990's crept up with its grunge, baggy clothes and other societal lowering, the time to have something to embrace on was eagerly anticipating. So while cinema was going on the decline, 1990 did provide a gem that will eternally be etched in the hearts of many because everyone had already figured out this film was going to be special because they were getting tired of the grating films that were hitting the box office this film was selling faster than hotcakes. This was clearly Jerry Zucker's best directed film (no matter what, he never exceeded his expectations). It has everything to offer, great acting, brilliant script, a few chuckles, a few cries, but the score was excellent. I mean I love the oldies and one of the most beautiful ballads is Unchained Melody by The Righteous Brothers. If that song won't have you slow-dancing with a partner. I don't know what will? Even the special effects though low-key deserve mentioning.Even though Ghost is worthy of all its accolades it may surprise you that with the powerful big budget films that were coming out in 1990 like Mermaids, The Little Mermaid, Goodfellas and the grandest of them all Dances with Wolves, Ghost was the biggest budgeted film that year, but was still the underdog in the Academy Awards category. What made this film stand out the most was the performance of Whoopi Goldberg as Oda Mae Brown. She sold her character above everyone else, even the late Patrick Swayze (his baby will always be Dirty Dancing), and Demi Moore who's career stalled after the Brat Pack. It was her flair, her charisma that carries the beat of this movie. She truly stands out like no other performer. She truly is a diamond in the rough. Granted Miss Goldberg did win the Best Supporting Actress Oscar that year for her performance as Oda Mae Brown. And the critics around chewed on that notion including me. But their rhetoric is vague and at times not fully justified. But I must go deeper and to assume that Oda Mae Brown was around before we ever knew Whoopi Goldberg in fact Oda and Whoopi are two completely different people. What I'm trying to say is that I'm not a big fan of Whoopi Goldberg (not that I loathe her either) and that this movie and The Colour Purple were the two movies that made Whoopi a household name. I would love to see her make a sequel or even a remake to Ghost. I mean her humanitarian efforts are phenomenal, but her acting is greatly missed. And the long awaited return of Oda Mae Brown gracing the screen is something I would pay to see. "},{"Title":"When you love a movie you spit on its big-moused critics","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The plot is delicately designed, Demi Moore is fragilely beautiful, acting is fine, the script is fine, I don't know why so many of you throw mean reviews on this brilliant work. You have the freedom to talk, but don't misguide people into thinking this is a bad movie just because you are jealous or drunk or having a bad insomnia. People are supposed to be gentle about movies that praise love and bravery, instead of telling the audience Jerry Zucker and Bruce Joel Rubin. I'm telling you that you'll be really frustrated if they sleep on the street while you are working in the film studio. There is an ancient Chinese saying about this you can you up.Spoiler alert!!!!!!!!!!!!!The plot is fine, but I don't understand why Sam can just leave with Carl's body stuck in the window. Molly can be in jail if she doesn't dispose the body like a murderer. All the danger is brought upon her by Sam, maybe he should deal with the dirty business before he goes to the land of pleasure. "},{"Title":"One of the hits of 1990","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's amazing, Molly. The love inside, you take it with you.Only one film beat Jerry Zucker's Ghost at the U.S. Box Office in 1990 and that was Home Alone, but Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore's romantic fantasy managed to take everyone by surprise as it topped other films like Pretty Woman, Dances With Wolves, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Total Recall, Goodfellas, and even the sequels for Die Hard, The Godfather, Robocop, and Back to the Future. What is surprising is that this ghost tale still remains such a beloved classic to this date, thanks in most part to the amazing chemistry between Swayze and Moore and to the fantastic soundtrack performed by The Righteous Brothers. I don't know however, if this film would've worked without Whoopi Goldberg's hilarious supporting performance (which won her her only Oscar) considering the story doesn't really pick off until she enters the picture. Of course that overly emotional touching scene at the end is what everyone probably remembers (and the reason why this film won an Oscar for Original Screenplay), but I don't think it has aged too well. The film is entertaining, although it is cheesy at times and the visual effects don't live up to today's standards. What surprised me the most when I saw this is how well it balances those melodramatic moments with the comedy, because I always believed this film was a romantic tale from beginning to end, but it really is more of an action comedy with several twists along the way (albeit predictable ones). There is no doubt that the universal premise of wanting to believe that our loved ones are still with us when they pass away to protect and guard us is what really sold this film and Ghost easily manages to tell that story with two likable actors sharing a strong chemistry together.The film opens by introducing us to a lovely couple, Sam (Patrick Swayze) and Molly (Demi Moore), who've just bought a property and are ready to make their dreams a reality. Carl (Tony Goldwyn) is Sam's good friend and work partner at the bank who is always there supporting him and Molly. However, their dreams are shattered when Sam is murdered after a thug tries to steal his wallet one night. Sam's spirit remains on Earth and he discovers that this wasn't simply a robbery and that Molly's life is also in danger. He must warn her before it's too late, but no one seems to see or hear him. That is until Sam meets a psychic named Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg) who will try to convince Molly that she can speak to her dead lover's spirit before it is too late.Up to this point Jerry Zucker was known mainly for co-directing satires like the classic Airplane!, Top Secret!, and Ruthless People. Prior to his solo directorial feature debut in Ghost, he had helped write the screenplay for Naked Gun as well, so he was mainly known for his work in satires. Many probably believed this ghost story was just another satire and so the romantic story took everyone by surprise. I'm sure Bruce Willis was regretting not having accepted to co-star along with his wife at the time, and that may be the reason why he accepted to star in The Sixth Sense years later. It's a different film but it does seem to borrow certain ghostly elements from this romantic tale. I did find it kind of ironic that in the 90's you had these actors standing next to each other being forced to act as if they couldn't see one another, while now you actually have actors forced to talk to characters who aren't there but thanks to the magic of movies and CGI are easily placed later.estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Like a cake - a thick layer of sticky icing with a bit of substance","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You can honestly skip the first half hour of Ghost. Its not worth your time. All you need to know is that Patrick Swayze is handsome, Demi Moore is cute and they love each other. A lot. Like seriously, they love each other. They even make clay together.Still with me? OK, good. Once Swayze's character is killed, the story picks up. Swayze performs well as Wheat, his grief and his anger bubble on Swayze's face. When Whoopi Goldberg pops into the story as Oda Mae Brown, she provides a bit of entertainment but I know she's capable of more. Moore is great at the emotional side of Molly, but doesn't do much more than that. Vincent Schiavelli pops up as a poltergeist haunting the subways in New York, probably the most interesting character. A little bit of imagination gives Schiavelli's character incredible depth. The way Swayze interacts (or rather doesn't) with the other characters is very well executed, and requires good acting chops from all involved. The pacing is good but writing a bit sloppy. There is a reason the only thing anyone ever thinks of from this film is the clay scene. The music and chemistry between Moore and Swayze are the film's strongest assets.Ghost is sweetly sentimental, a nice watch, but definitely didn't deserve two Oscars, and didn't touch me in the way I had hoped it would. "},{"Title":"Very Touching and Romantic!","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is one of the best romance stories ever made and it is not hard to see why this film became an instant classic. I liked the spin to the eons-old romance tale by introducing the afterlife aspect. This film works very well as a romance story as well as a mystery thriller and it has one of the most happy-sad endings I have ever seen in a Hollywood film. The film also work its magic through the use of music thanks to Maurice Jarre's wonderful score and the use of the Righteous Brothers. Jerry Zucker's film is about a couple named Sam and Molly who are happily in love. During a botched mugging, Sam is shot to death. Sam comes back as a ghost and he realizes that he was murdered and that Molly is in danger. With the help of a reluctant psychic, Sam must communicate with his wife if he wants to protect her. Each actor added some dimension to their roles. Firstly, the chemistry between Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore is very believable and realistic. They both do a great job in their roles. I was particularly fond of Swayze and his attempts to communicate with the real world. Whoopi Goldberg does a wonderful job as the psychic not wanting to do with the events. Tony Goldwyn made a good villain, even if he was a little bit of a scaredy-cat. Overall, Ghost is a 90's classic and I really hope this film won't be a victim of the remakes craze that has been infesting upon Hollywood these days. The film is a mixture of mystery and romance and it delivers a touching story without being overly saccharine. I find this film the second most touching romance of the 90's after Titanic. This film is certainly has its share of unchained melodies. My Grade A "},{"Title":"Whoopi is the real star!","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a fun movie. It's part love story, part tragedy and a whole chunk of comedy to keep it moving at a good pace. I would say this is probably one of Whoopi's finest acting performances - OK it might be lightweight and comedic, but hey, there's nothing wrong with that!!! And it takes a great actress to pull off comedy the way that she does! Plenty of sentimental moments. It's simplistic in its message, but that's not a flaw, it's an accolade. If you've experienced somebody very close to you who has died, this is the way you would like to think that they cross over, if you believe there's something else after this earthly life. The sentimental scenes are acted beautifully. Sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Thriller That Will Make You Believe!","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg, Tony Goldwyn and Rick Aviles star in this 1990 romantic thriller. The late, Swayze (Dirty Dancing) plays mild-mannered man, Sam Wheat who has a girlfriend, Molly Jensen (Moore). One night they're mugged by thug, Willie Lopez (Aviles) and Sam is accidentally shot. Sam dies and his spirit is trapped on Earth because he's not ready to leave Molly. Soon, he learns that his death wasn't an accident and Molly may be in danger. He seeks help from Oda Mae Brown (Goldberg), an-ex con turned psychic who has a natural gift of communicating with the spiritual world. Goldwyn (Kiss the Girls) plays Sam's friend, Carl Bruner whom Sam learns is the one behind his murder for money and Willie is his accomplice. Molly meets Oda Mae and doubts her being able to communicate with Sam, but eventually she believes. This is a great film that's one of Swayze's best with a great cast & score that will make you believe. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Love transcends death","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Movie intelligently mixing fantasy with romantic drama.The couple Swayze-Moore exudes a warm and excellent chemical being especially famous scenes in which the two merge their hands to the sound of the legendary song unchained melody.Woopi Goldberg uses his great qualities as a comedian to achieve likable down to viewers, being a lovable character and hard to forget.Surely the great merit of Ghost is the mix some different genres, but none comes annul the other, although it remains a highly dramatic film but it tastes good moments interspersed with humor and fanciful creating an atmosphere of pessimism, despair and turn hope.A really nice and sweet film, as tragic and funny at the same time.Recommended. "},{"Title":"You can't spell forever without love","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Leave it up to Unchained Melody, Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze to make pottery making into a cinematic statement screaming beauty, love and suggestive undertones. If there has ever been a more romantic scene in either film or real life, than I certainly haven't seen it! Ghost is giant melting pot of romance, thriller, suspense, comedy and a hint of the supernatural and with the loudmouth medium Whoopi Goldberg added to the roller coaster ride, you know it also has the vibrant and colourful cast to match. A young couple move into their first apartment together; she's an artist and he's the corporate type. But once again love sees no class because these young kids are deeply in love, aww how sweet, I think I might need a tissue. However soon tragedy strikes as Patrick's character Sam Wheat is murdered but what seems at first at the hands of a low life street mugger. But this is Ghost and love is so powerful and eternal that not even the afterlife can keep these two apart as Patrick spirit returns. How unfortunately the only person who can see or hear him is medium Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), so the pair must work together in a race against time to save Demi's character Molly Jensen's life when it to comes under threat. When I say the power of love, you say; Pretty Women, Dirty Dancing, an Office and a gentleman and the Notebook, but for me the true heavyweight in the world of romance is Ghost, the very epitome of love conquering all. You can't spell forever without love. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The setup After being killed during a botched mugging, a man's love for his partner enables him to remain on earth as a ghost.The verdict Strong cast pulls the most out of mediocre material. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. If you can find it on DVD or Bluray for under $8, buy it, but it won't be worth much more than that to you because it's a bit outdated. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching Just to Watch Whoopie!","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" With an opportunity to see the Broadway production of the musical, I thought it would be good to revisit the original with my family. I saw this in a movie theater on its first run and came away with some mixed feelings. I guess if you accept the premise that one can be caught in a kind of purgatory, stuck between heaven and hell, then you can also accept that there are demons that come up from hell and pull the bad guys down. I thought that a less clichéd view of the spiritual cosmos and not a hackneyed Dante-esque one would have been more effective, but then I have no belief in fire pits and angels playing harps. The story itself is quite fun with Patrick Swayze killed so that his trusted colleague can embezzle money, using accounts Swayze has access to. Swayze lives with Demi Moore (who is a knockout) and they have had trouble committing. Once dead, he is able to move about and observe all that is happening. He also becomes part of a fraternity of dead people stuck in the same place (apparently, they haven't settled their scores). As he watches he realizes that his lover is in danger from his murderer and his friend. Swayze engages a medium, played by Whoopie Goldberg in an Academy Award performance, to try to connect with Demi. She can hear him, but can't see him. It takes time for him to break down the barriers of distrust and apprehension (what would we do?). He learns from one of the other dead guys how to make things move through mental effort, and he uses this to his advantage. Of course, one has to mention the famous scene with the sculpting of the gigantic phallic symbol while the Righteous Brothers sing Unchained Melody. The other memorable scene is the one where Whoopie is in the bank and Swayze is telling her what to say as she withdraws four million dollars from an account. It's certainly worth a look if you've not seen it. "},{"Title":"Ghost - A Love Story and More","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just bought the special collector's edition DVD and watched Ghost again. It never gets old. It's exciting and emotionally stirring - a great love story, an absorbing mystery, and a touching spiritual experience, too. The excellent cast intensifies all these aspects Good-hearted Sam (Patrick Swayze) doesn't want to move on until he can DO something - to protect the woman he loves and to right the wrong done him. Lovely Molly (Demi Moore) is outwardly tough, yet somehow fragile as she faces the loss of her soul-mate. The pain in her eyes is so real, the tears so believable. Hilarious Oda Mae (Whoopi Goldberg) lightens the action with a bright touch of humor. Even the creepy evil-doers are truly frightening. The beautiful love theme Unchained Melody by the Righteous Brothers flows through the entire storyline.Sadly, Patrick Swayze died after a valiant fight against pancreatic cancer. Watching this movie, I feel his loss keenly. Ghost stands as a bright memorial to this talented dancer and much beloved actor. "},{"Title":"something coming for everyone towards the film's end......take it","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A lot of drama and material has been put into it but there is nothing much sense-full in this movie except one thing that is revealed....thought not intentionally....but yes towards the end of the movie.The one thing that every religion talks about, that many ancient Indian Scriptures and books talk about and that has recently been taken again in one other movie ( famous though misleading to useless fantasy ) harry potter. So just if you wish to watch then GHOST movie can be seen but the real punch arrives towards the end. There is a line that tells us one of the biggest truth of this entire existence of matter and consciousness. Something that must be kept in mindIts amazing....., love inside, take it with you. "}{"Title":"So much power in the truest emotion of eternal love.","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You have to be pretty darn cynical to dislike this spiritual romantic drama that shows you don't have to expose breasts or buttocks to have a box-office winner that today remains a modern classic. It is a story of good vs. evil, a story of redemption and a story of what can bring about the damnation of the soul. The story focuses on two attractive young adults (Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore), so obviously in love, that even sudden tragedy can't end. Moore, at her softest and loveliest, is an aspiring sculptor, and Swayze is her Wall Street broker fiancée. Their closest friend (Tony Goldwyn) is supposedly their biggest supporter, but the fates prove otherwise. When Swayze is shot and killed in a botched robbery, he is immediately separated from the physical but remains on earth as part of a mission to protect Moore from on-going evils. Swayze locates a fake spiritualist (Whoopie Goldberg) whom he quickly realizes can hear everything he says and haunts her until she promises to help him warn the woman he loves.You in danger, girl, the Oscar Winning Goldberg tells her, and the skeptical Moore must fight reality and her need for communication from Swayze in order to go on with her life. The truth comes out quickly for the eternally awake Swayze who learns quickly the facts about being a ghost, first from a kindly old man whose spirit roams a hospital, and then from the angry ghost who fell off a train. The trains here are as much a character as Swayze, Moore and Goldberg are, tooting their horns as if a warning of evil premonitions. The J train/Myrtle Avenue stop is the location for where Swayze locates both his killer and Goldberg, and you can see him at various other New York City stops, learning the powers of being among the walking dead and jumping from moving train to moving train in order to locate the seemingly sinister ghost who initially screamed at him to Get off my train!.Then, there's Tony Goldwyn, playing one of the great villains of movie history, showing that a lifetime of loyalty only can go so far in surviving the Wall Street game. Rick Aviles is his sinister partner in crime, a character so vile that you can't wait for him to get his come- uppance. That comes so suddenly and horrifically that the sensitive spiritual best be warned. It opens a lot of room for talk about what is beyond our control outside of the world we see around us and what makes for righteous and what makes for ruthless.As for Goldberg, she brings both a sense of her brilliant comic timing and subtle poignancy to the role of Ota Mae Brown, fake spiritualist who shows that underneath the facade of a life-long con-woman is a true beautiful human being. To watch her go from phony to fantastic is the stuff that retribution is made out of. Veteran character actor Phil Leeds is memorable as the first ghost Swayze encounters, while Vincent Schiavelli proves to be downright touching as the subway ghost, first frightening, then sadly vulnerable, an extraordinary cameo you won't forget.Swayze shows that a Wall Street broker doesn't have to be a ruthless cheat or a non-feeling corporate S.O.B., yet he isn't perfect either, as evidenced in the somewhat sick scene with Goldwyn on the elevator where they play a prank on the stone- faced passengers that is delicious payback for those of us who have dealt with corporate coldness and the evils of office politics. Moore is a total winner here, absolutely gorgeous, and the epitome of what a true lady is. Her sadness over loosing the love of her life never makes you feel sorry for her, but you empathize with her. Jerry Zucker, the man behind Airplane! and The Naked Gun movies, proves to be a brilliant dramatic storyteller, even if he comically spoofed the famous Unchained Melody sequence in the first Naked Gun. This is a story that everybody can find relatable, especially if you've gone through a tragic, sudden loss and need to find comfort in something more earthly than what any earthly being can tell you. The simple message is that grieving never completely goes away, but it gets better whenever the griever is ready for it to get better, in their own way and time. "},{"Title":"Ghost combines both horror and love. Truly haunting","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was, years ago, my wife's favorite Patrick Swayze film until he actually died. Now she refuses to watch it. Basically, it's a very moralistic story about an unfinished life cut short and revenge following death, at the hands of the ghost that was murdered. Somewhat inconsistent, especially when he meets up with the subway ghost who is a truly disturbing character. Whoopie Goldberg runs away with an Oscar winning performance as the reluctant medium. She injects much humor into an otherwise humorousness movie which is quite terrifying at times and quite graphic as well. The pottery wheel love scene is famous but also infamous as producer Jerry Zucker mocks it in one of his own Naked Gun movies. Great and bad CGI abound, as ILM gets the Heavenly scenes right but bungles the Devilish takedown of the two villains the white-collar embezzler and the drugged-up, stupid murderer. The soul-sucking evil spirits just don't seem convincing enough. Today, a movie about computers, stolen identity, and off-shore bank accounts is old hat, but it was fresh in 1990. The film is therefore uneven, but fascinating just the same. It's a one-of-a-kind film that can never be repeated. Not quite Hitchcockian, but worth your time at least once. Warning Bloody at times. Not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"One of my best films","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well what can i say, this film is one of my best ever films, if you love a good storyline and romance then this is the film for you. It has romance, love, humour, great acting and more.Top actors / actress's make this film the best, everyone in this film played their part well, very well. I don't really have a bad thing to say about this film, it is a film i could watch over and over, i have always liked it since the first day i saw it many years ago. I would definitely recommend this film to people who love a good romantic film with top acting. I wasn't sure whether this film should have got a 9 / 10 or a 10 / 10, i went with 10 / 10 as i can not fault it at all. "},{"Title":"A love story between realms","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One of the greatest love stories ever told with all the right ingredients of a successful title. Romance, mystery, heartache, unsuspected friendship, betrayal and revenge, all perfectly encapsulated in one gorgeous story.We have a young Molly Jensen (Demi Moore) and the ghost of Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze), her murdered lover. Sam tries to save Molly from dire circumstance with the help of the hesitant Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), a gifted psychic.The majority of the film's great success is owed to the magnificent and electric on-screen chemistry created between Swayze and Moore as the two torn lovers. Their connection is truly believable, and with the support of one of the grandest love songs of all time, 'Unchained Melody' by The Righteous Brothers, you can't go wrong.Whoopi Goldberg's Oda Mae Brown is everything you would expect of an eccentric swindler come psychic, and makes for good humor amidst the turmoil.Loney rivers flow, to the sea, to the sea... I'll be coming home, wait for me. -Hy ZaretA fantastic watch if you like to be swept away and enchanted, but kept on the edge of your seat. A must-see film. "},{"Title":"The perfect supernatural love story.","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Jerry Zucker, who together with his brother David are known for their spoof movies, directs one of the most popular and highly-acclaimed love stories ever Ghost. Here, yuppie couple Sam (Patrick Swayze) and Molly (Demi Moore) are in love and happy together. On their way back to their apartment after a night at the theater, they encounter a thief and, during the botched robbery, Sam is murdered. While Molly is left grieving for Sam's death, their undying love keeps Sam's spirit on earth and he is determined to get to the bottom of his murder, which he finds out was no accident. With the help of psychic Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), Sam must warn Molly of the impending danger.This is one of those movies I would watch over and over again and it is still fresh every time I watch it. It's full of suspense from start to finish as Sam tries desperately to communicate with Molly from the dead, and as he tries to prevent the bad guys from harming her. Sam and Molly's love for each other give this film a dose of romance and features one of the most memorable scenes in cinema history their love scene while the Righteous Brothers' Unchained Melody is played in the background. Oda Mae Brown delivered this movie's much-needed comic relief, giving us a dose of her acid wit humor. And, add in the drama of Sam's mission, this is a multi-genre film that will endear an audience for years to come.Swayze, Moore and Goldberg all did a great job in their performances, with an exciting story and plot by writer Bruce Joel Rubin and solid direction by Jerry Zucker. There is never a dull moment in this film; it's just fast-paced fun that will keep you entertained.Grade A "},{"Title":"Original, and hugely entertaining","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam and Molly are young, in love, and covered in clay, so Molly is understandably miffed when Sam is killed. It turns out that Sam is equally miffed, because his spirit is still hanging around, aware that Molly is in danger, but physically unable to do anything about it. Until, at least, he discovers that he can enter the body of Oda Mae, a fake psychic (at least she thought she was fake), through whom he can try to put things right.Ghost is essentially a suspense thriller with strong supernatural and romance elements, and a dash of humour. It is unusual in that all the disparate elements work, and the whole thing holds together. This is partly because it is quite original, well written and directed, but also because it is very well played by Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg.If you haven't seen it, you really should. "},{"Title":"Movie classic","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sam (Patrick Swayze) and Molly (Demi Moore) are a happy loving couple. Molly wants to get marry, but Sam just can't seem to say I love you. All he could come up with is Ditto. One night he gets shot in a mugging. He's trapped as a ghost when he refused to go into the light. The mugger breaks into their apartment, and Molly's life is again in danger. Tony Goldwyn plays their friend and Sam's co-worker. Whoopi Goldberg plays a medium that Sam tries to communicate with.This movie has elements of romance and thriller. It doesn't get more romantic than the pot making sequence. It's almost too iconic in movie history for its own good. Sam's murder provides the mystery thriller. And Whoopi injects a little bit of controlled humor. The movie is now a classic. "},{"Title":"All life comes to an end, but love is everlasting","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Given that the acting isn't that fantastic of the leading roles (although both were nominated for the Golden Globe), the storyline and clever script is really what makes this picture so gripping and an instant classic &#x96; as well the supportive performance of worldwide film favourite Whoopi Goldberg.Although this picture depicts the kind of supernatural romance that you only find in the most strangest of motion pictures, it's a kind of love that we can all relate to. The presence of Swayze's character &#x96; Sam &#x96; as a ghost is instantly forgotten as we as the audience simply focus on the love between him and Molly Jensen portrayed by Demi Moore in what would be her career-defining role.The movie opens up with the madly-in-love couple Sam and Molly whose love is simply an unbreakable bond as try to make a serious life for themselves in New York. Their world is, however, torn apart at the hands of a petty mugger who takes Sam's life to fulfil his own selfish needs and whose associates threaten the safety of his dearest love Molly. In an attempt to steer Molly away from such danger Sam (now as a ghost) is able to communicate through an apparent 'phony' psychic &#x96; Oda Mae played by Ms. Goldberg in her Oscar, Golden Globe and BAFTA Award-winning role &#x96; whose help is required to save Molly from the depths of despair surrounding her lover's killers.Something I don't particularly enjoy and take interest of in a picture is its musical scoring. Composed by Maurice Jarre, the score's so stunningly crafted and performed incredibly well to suit to movie; beginning softly and reflectively before opening up into an outburst of love and triumph as the orchestral piece is in full swing. Nominated for Best Score at the 1991 Oscars, I never thought I would say this about a musical category but Jarre should have won that golden statuette! "},{"Title":"seed  of  emotions","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" bad acting ? atheistic message ? propaganda for spiritualism ? only blind verdicts. because this film is a basic love story. nothing else. or, far from aesthetic values, it is beautiful message for soul ( hot soup for soul ). a romantic movie, tender, delicate, subtle, out of great ambitions, a moral lesson and argument for a general hope - death is not the end, love is strongest bridge.. sure, the cast is nice and music - Woopi Goldberg is really fantastic. but axis is music. touching, magic, persuasive.it is not wise to put it in a Procust bed. because important is final feeling. like a spell, like touch of flavor, like sparkle of pure joy.the rest can be silence. "},{"Title":"Love Demi","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The imaginative idea of writing a romance upon lovers communicating spiritually for one of them is dead, was first filmed by Steven Spielberg 8 months before the Ghost's silver screen release. His movie Always(1989) had its visuals fulfilling the needs of viewers with action-based expectations. Yet, Always was lack of the sense of romance, despite having the same plot and even the same storyline of the Ghost. Originally the idea has been created by Chandler Sprague and David Boehm.However, Ghost accomplished of what Always tried and failed. There were indelible moments in Ghost, which were lessons to whom wants to be loved. It is scraped in our memory how Molly and Sam kept their thoughts off each others' feelings, that taught us Love begins with emotions, ends with thoughts. On this account, they never called off their faith on believing to last endlessly together. There were also indelible scenes in Ghost, where the editing was so impressive that instead of trying to make the story more plausible, it empowered the devotion of lovers onto their relation. The scene which Sam's ghost drew upon Oda Mae's body to break the longing with Molly by kissing her is eternal.I was in love with someone, and it was February,2005; we were both watching the Ghost on TV, both talking on the phone. Then that scene came upon(Sam's ghost kissing Molly in Oda Mae's body), I felt lost deep in my heart seeking the girl I'm talking on the phone. I heard she was crying and sobbing, and keep saying to me I will never forget the first time you kissed me, the next would be the end of my life Ghost is one timeless romantic masterpiece that had its moments. For me the kissing scene was the best kiss of all time. MTV had honored this kiss as well, several years after the release of the movie, as the best kiss in a movie of the last decade of the 20th century. Superimposing that, the scenes that Oda Mae Brown convinces Molly that Sam is around her and then Molly reasons with police that Oda Mae knows nobody is able to know but Sam and herself only; are the scenes that deliver the magic beyond eyes and beyond ears.To watch Ghost is in the to do list of what to do when you're on a date. "}{"Title":"A bit of everything","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Maybe Ghost's enduring appeal is down to the fact that there are elements in it for everyone. There is enough romance in it for women and just about enough humour and storyline for the guys to enjoy as well. On some levels this film also works well as a murder mystery as well.It looks a little dated in places and I have no doubt that in a few years time some bright spark producer will try to do a remake of it.The leads are all good in their roles and the film is enjoyable enough if you look past a few of the plot holes.I think this film will continue to make people laugh and cry for many years to come and the newly opened musical will only help this. "},{"Title":"How to send this movie to heaven ? (dvd)","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie looks like the thoughts I had the day we buried my grandmother one year ago. I nearly shouted to her with my heart and soul but nothing happens in front of me. If she was there, how can explain we can't communicate. The best conclusion I had was that as she can't move things, she was really in an other plane, explaining we can't speak to each other.Thus it was great that a movie tries to answer the same existential question and meeting the same paradox how does Sam the ghost can pass thought everything but can sit on a real chair well, it's about experience and mind. Beyond this, the movie offers really great scenes about being a ghost and it's strange nobody does it like this since Shakespeare. It's more about sharing your lover sorrow, being her shadow than doing poltergeist.Another good thing is that it's not only paranormal and romance, it's also a thriller and a comedy. Swayze (who sadly turns into a real one now) and Demi was really a fine couple but this movie hasn't changed my opinion about Goldberg she was irritating me before and she is after.Another weak point is the dark spirits if they are here to punish bad people, they are rather good spirits. But talking about the devil would be a new discussion in another movie. So i conclude for those who like the Unchained Melody, urging them to listen to U2's cover because it's simply surreal! "},{"Title":"Still entertains, one big flaw...","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost, unfairly I think, gets slammed for bad acting and miscasting. I just saw it again (unfortunately on commercial-laden AMC) last night for perhaps the 5th time and it's held up remarkably well. My biggest gripe is the god-awful evil special effects that contrast so poorly against some exemplary night shots of New York. I can sense Adam Greenberg howling at the special effects supervisor. It leaves me wondering how much better it could be made today from just a technical standpoint. Swayze did his best work here and injected just the right level of humor and horror--- unfortunately some of it is marred by less than state of the art SFX work (oddly, I could make the same argument to STARMAN, albeit Jeff Bridges' performance was far superior). Still watchable and highly entertaining! An 8. "},{"Title":"Love lasts forever","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I feel so sorry that I haven't watched it 'till today.. I spent months looking for a good new movie, but now I realize that going back to the past seems to be easier to find one.Ghost is an extremely great movie that showed everything the spectator wanted to see. Love, hate, friendship, revenge, justice, determination... It is indeed a classic which has to be seen by everyone who likes cinema and their development throughout the years. Also it deserves to be rated well for its originality and authenticity.The acting of the main couple was satisfying and Whoopi Goldberg's character was a good support for the couple and her acting was truly funny. A must see for film lovers. "},{"Title":"Greatest Ever","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One of the timeless classics. One of the movies you can enjoy any time, over and over. It has some high quality romance, a hot and perfect couple on screen, who emote their love for each other's company through their eyes, than you know by slipping out of pants!!! Good old fashioned romance, comedy, twist and turns in plot make it a evergreen classic Goldberg got Oscars I guess for her immortal portrayal of lovable medium Watch it with your date, your wife. I believe it will bring you happy memories and you will share a warm hug!! Ideal to rent it on Feb14 every year, to love forever!! There are few lovable ghosts out there other than the Capser variety. Say the unsung Frightners starring MJ Fox as ghost busters, using friendly ghosts to get even with evil ones, experiencing near death to save the woman he loves, and goes upstairs to meet his dead wife, who approves of his love and sends him back to Live onSuch out of the box ghost movies are hard to come by these days, till such times Ghost Rules "},{"Title":"Ghost is a highly romanticized love story that happens to feature elements of crime and suspense. A worthy rental for those interested in the afterlife.","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a highly romanticized love story that happens to feature elements of crime and suspense. It's a movie that begs the question What happens after you die and offers a spin not often thought about in regards to the afterlife. The film, starring Demi Moore, Patrick Swayze, and Whoopi Goldberg has been praised by some and criticized by others. It got nominated for Best Picture when it was released in 1990 and received a variety of other nominations. I tend to walk with those who praise the film, regarding it as a authentic love story that, although super cheesy, really does provide a sense of wonder as to what one may be able to do after they die.Ghost starts out like a very traditional love story. We're introduced to Sam and Molly (Swayze and Moore), a young and in love couple that just moved in together in an old New York loft. After a few romantic interactions, one being one of the most arguable romantic ever caught on film (the pottery scene set to the tune of Unchained Melody), we realize that this couple couldn't exist without one another. Their love is such that it could quite possibly only exist in movies. Regardless, we believe in it, we appreciate it, and we remember it throughout the rest of the film.What happens next shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone familiar with the story. Sam is killed in the streets while walking home with Molly. He sees the light, but decides he isn't quite ready to go just yet. Instead, he stays on Earth, to be with Molly, only to come to the realization that no one can hear him, see him, feel him, or talk to him. He's simply a fly on the wall, someone who's able to look over the ones he loves, but provide no assistance in how things play out. That is, until he meets Oda Mae Brown, a local psychic, who's able to hear his voice and play a crucial role in saving Molly from the men who Sam believes murdered him for money.Ghost is more successful at being a love story than a crime drama, but it does make sense as a background to the story. Sam is not only able to track his killers (without them knowing), but he's also able to warn his wife of the incoming danger and give her the clues necessary to solve the crime. The most interesting part of the film is seeing Sam and Molly interact through Oda Mae Brown. At first, Molly doesn't want to accept the fact that her dead boyfriend is literally standing right next to her. It takes a number of personal insights (the color of her underwear, the location of their first date, and a reference to ditto) to make her a believer, but once she accepts that Sam is present in the afterlife, the story starts to transform into a romantic thriller that hits all the right notes in both of its respective genres.If there's one thing that doesn't really work in Ghost, it's the final twenty to thirty minutes when Sam learns how to move things, punch people, type on keyboards, etc. To me, it feels a little fake, and loses out on the premise that made the film so promising in the beginning. He can essentially do things that a ghost shouldn't be able to do, and to me, it takes things a little too far in terms of believability. Some people would argue that the whole film is too far of a stretch, no one can hear dead people. I for one, accept that piece of the puzzle, but as far as an actual physical presence that can interact with psychical surroundings, I don't feel like going that far.Regardless, Ghost offers a romantic love story that will make your heart melt. Whether or not you appreciate the crime backdrop will depend vastly on the person, but the love story should be quite universal. See this movie, realize the hype, download Unchain Melody, and think about those you love. Could you live without them? Would you stick around to see them through? Ghost asks a lot of questions, but provides clarity on one Does true love exist? Yes. Just let Sam show you.Michael Buffa Editor, Popcorn Jury http//www.popcornjury.com "},{"Title":"textbook crowd-pleaser, for better or worse","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Young Wall Street whiz kid Patrick Swayze is murdered but his spirit lingers on, earthbound until it can find the man who killed him and who still threatens bereaved girlfriend Demi Moore. You would think a dead man could afford to be fatalistic about such things, but Swayze wants revenge, and after a slow start (to both the film and his vendetta) he gets it, with reluctant help from a bogus medium (Whoopi Goldberg) able to hear his disembodied voice. The clever (and often eerie) effects help salvage the story from some predictable clichés and tired comic relief, and by the time Swayze joins that big Industrial Light and Magic show in the sky the film has carved itself a sizable chunk of territory once claimed exclusively by Steven Spielberg, who no doubt is kicking himself for making the similar but saccharine 'Always' instead. With a pair of more than simply photogenic stars the movie might have been a bubblegum classic; as it is, 'Ghost' succeeds in putting a warm afterglow around the afterlife. "},{"Title":"One of those romance movies that can appeal to both sexes.","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" At its core this movie is in fact a chick flick, kind of in the same way the film Titanic is a chick flick. Basically, it is a film more geared to the fairer sex, but there is enough plot points and laughs and in the case of Titanic enough of a disaster to keep a guy's interest. You would think the Twilight series could do a better job at holding a guys interest, but for whatever reasons they apparently are completely hated by males, me included...sorry. This one though had an interesting enough plot after we see Swayze and Demi making pottery, as Swayze gets killed and leaves behind the love of his life. However, he sticks around as a ghost (hence the title) to try and keep his love out of harms way and to solve his own murder. Kind of hard to do when no one can see or hear you, that is until he meets a woman who claims to be able to speak to the dead. Well she is actually a fake, that is until Swayze shows up and her powers come to life. The film has some really good elements to it, a nice scene by Vincent Schiavelli in the subway. There is a nice dose of humor too mainly consisting of the scenes between Whoopie and Swayze. The film is not without its faults though as when you think about it the part where Swayze takes control of Whoopie's body is a tad creepy when you think about what is actually going on. This would be by far though Swayze's biggest movie and I think Demi's as well. Made of a very modest 22 million and grossing over 200 is quite impressive especially when you consider this movie did not exactly fly out of the gate opening only with a modest for the day 12 million. At its core a romantic movie geared to females, but with enough stuff added to keep all entertained. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful and moving movies of all time.","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first watched this movie on TV when I was about 8 and just had to ask my mom to rent it and I've watched it a dozen times ever since, My mom never let me watch the pottery scene when I was little lol. Anyway ghost tells the story of a manhatten yuppie couple Sam wheat(Patrick Swayze) and Molly Jensen(Demi Moore) who have just moved into a fancy apartment and wanna spend the rest of there lives together. There is that classic love pottery scene I was talking about where Sam and molly really show how much they love each other while the classic tune unchained melody by the righteous brothers plays on the disc jockey. Sam works at a bank along with his friend Carl bruner(Tony Goldwyn) and Sam notices something fishy going on at the bank when Sam discovers too much money is magically appearing in his accounts. Sam Molly are walking home from a movie later that night until a man Willy Lopez(Rick aviles) approaches them with a gun and asks Sam for his wallet and they fight and the gun goes off and shoots Sam. Sam can be seen running down the street but it's his ghost as he looks down at his dead body. Molly is saddened deeply by his death and later Sam's ghost sees his killer break into there apartment to look for Sam's wallet. Sam then teams up with a psychic lady Oda Mae brown(Whoopi Goldberg) to help him connect with molly to warn her that she's in danger from a similar fate. Soon Sam finds out that his so called friend Carl was behind Sam's murder all along and that he hired Willy to steal his wallet which had the mac code for Sam's account. Sam cannot move things and watches in disgust while Carl hits on Molly. Sam then turns to another ghost who haunts the subways of new york and is able to touch things and Sam ask's for his help and eventually learns to move things with his mind. Sam then takes Oda Mae to pose as a a fake customer by the name of Rita miller to close the account that Carl was supposed to get four million dollars. The bad guys then soon come after Molly and Oda Mae and Sam has to protect them and both bad guys end up dead and taken to hell and finally Sam gets one last moment with his beloved one before going to heaven.One of my most favorite movies of all time it is a mixture of romance, action, comedy, and thriller. Patrick swayze, Demi Moore, and Whoopi Goldberg all give brilliant performances. Tony Goldwyn and Rick aviles were also terrific as the villains of this story. Classic movie and highly recommend it for everyone. "},{"Title":"Ghosts have never been cuter!","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Do you like a good weepy? Do you enjoy watching films that will make you value life and love forever? If so, Ghost is definitely for you. If not, watch it anyway it's brilliant. This film is everything a good film should be. It's full of dark morals about greed and hell and full of moments that will make you weep. Packed with action, romance, tension and some dark humour, this is a film that will absolutely have you enthralled from start to finish. Plus, you will be thinking about it days after you've seen it. If you are in a relationship, it will make you value it above everything. If you're not, it will make you value your closest friends, as Whoopi Goldberg plays the psychic that gets a bit more than she bargained for and makes a terrific friend for someone who has just lost the love of her life. This is a film for all genders and there is no way that you wont fall head over hills for this beautiful work of genius. 10 out of 10. Brilliant! "}{"Title":"Is this only a romantic film?","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie twenty years ago. It was too long ago. However, thinking of the movie 'Ghost' made by Jerry Zucker, first of all, I hit upon the clay- forming scene with a sweet melody. I can't help thinking of this as the most impressive and romantic scene among a lot of scenes. But is this only a romantic film?Sam (Patrick Swayze ) and his girlfriend, Molly (Demi Moore) move in an apartment together in New York. They really love each other. However, on the way home after watching the movie, Sam is robbed and murdered by a mugger. He doesn't go to the other side, with him becoming a ghost. He is kept on this world in the form of a ghost because of his love with Molly and the murderer who killed him. Soon he recognizes that a ghost can't communicate with people in this world. But he comes across a psychic, Oda Mae (Whoopi Goldberg) who can hear ghost's voice, contrary to ordinary people. With the help of her, Sam uncovers the truth behind the murder and saves Molly from danger. He finally leaves this world, assuring her that he loves her forever.I'd like to say this movie is a diverse genre. It shows a mixture of various elements that are difficult to categorize it into only one genre. First of all, it looks like a horror movie. The first scene starts at the dusty and foggy house with faint atmosphere. However, I changed my thought about that. Two lovers' fantastic and romantic clay-forming scene makes me sure that it is rather a romantic movie than a horror one. While most love stories are usually based on their conflicts and problems of their life in this world, it is a unique romantic movie that deals with a love story between a ghost of a dead person and his girl friend who lives in this world. Meanwhile, the murder that Sam was killed breaks out. Complicated plot is developed like a mystery in order to find a murderer and to save his lover. So, again I can think of it as a thriller and a mystery. Last, to solve the murder case, a psychic who plays a critical role in it is so comic and ridiculous that she can help me free my tension and fear. I can conclude it is a mystery and thriller and comedy. I'm also surprised to see the director, Jerry Zucker create his ghost who feels sorrowful and mournful, even though other directors have used a ghost as a horrible existence, a non-emotional or revengeful one. Exercising his imagination, he makes his movie fantastic and warm-hearted like a variety of gift sets. He also makes use of sweet music and arouses empathy between me and the ghost. The acting of Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore is very attractive to me. I can't forget their fantastic facial expressions with delicate emotion. They look like a real couple. Whoopi Goldberg won a Supporting Oscar as a psychic. I totally agree that her acting is excellent enough to get it. She shows a lot of comic acting and looks like a real cheesy fraud. She is too talkative but cute and sometimes childlike. She looks strong in personality but in fact, she is tender. The song, 'Unchained Melody' perfectly looks good on the clay-forming scene. The song is emotional and touching in itself. And then it stirs romantic emotion twice more than any other scenes do. The plot of it is too predictable, and at the last part it is rather too corny because there is a obvious structure of conflict between the good and the evil. Nevertheless, it gives tension to me until the criminal is found. Last, this shows too common a message about where the ghost of human beings go after death. The message is that good people go to heaven in the afterlife with mysterious and brilliant lights from the heaven and that on the contrary, bad people go to hell with dark shadowy lights. In spite of too clumsy a message, it still draws my attention.I watched it again last week. Even though too much time has gone by after my first watching, I still have a same opinion that it is touching and emotive. If you fall in love with someone or you want to love in the future, I strongly recommend you should watch it. "},{"Title":"Ghost--Shakespearian justice","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie in 1990, I was impressed with that sense of justice that occurs at the end of the movie. The Ghosts carry off to hell the soul of the perpetrator of murder immediately after he had been killed by a large shard of window glass.At the end of 1995 Richard III with Ian Mckellenan, Richard falls off a girder into what could be easily construed as the fires of eternal damnation as punishment for his evil machinations.In Road to Perdition, Tom Hanks as Michael Sullivan gets justice for the murder of his wife and son, even to the extent of killing his own foster-father. Foster-father and Michael Sullivan are in a church basement when his Foster-father, Paul Newman as John Rooney, says to his son Neither one of is bound for heaven. A pivotal point in the movie reminding the viewer that Michael Sullivan does not want his son on the Road to Perdition, and hence the necessity of the ending.These ideas of judgment in the afterlife are as old as Dante. In the Inferno, evil doers are afflicted in the afterlife in mockery of the sins they committed in the temporal life.And that idea itself is as old as Plato's Gorgias where the Ferryman carries souls to a place of purification or a place where there is no redemption, so dark are their sins.In a day and age where hedonism plays such a powerful role in the American soul, in a day and age where people can lose their soul to drug addiction in less time than it takes for a TV sitcom and for less money than a pack of cigarettes, these movies from Hollywood remind us of an afterlife where a soul is punished for an eternity. "},{"Title":"Who You Gonna Call?","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film has always been one of my favorites. From start to finish it just takes you on a roller-coaster of emotions. The heartfelt passion and symbolic love-gestures taken on by the characters and expressed in deeply profound and moving ways just makes my very flesh electric with giddiness. When the first ghost appeared in the library I was genuinely frightened, but with timely doses of humor, the fabulous cast of actors got me through it just fine. My favorite character in the movie would have to be Peter Venkman. Played by a charming Bill Murray, Venkman handles the responsibilities of friendship with three coworkers and Dana Barrett, his love interest with startling believability. I to wish I could have friends as whimsical and intelligent as Spengler, Stantz, and Zedmore. It must be difficult to run a ghost-catching service and still have time for the little things in life like romance and everlasting friendships. When I first saw this film Slimer the ghost really spooked me out big time. Now I see he is just comic relief, and he like us the moviegoer are just along for the ride, and what a ride it is. "},{"Title":"STOP PRESS DEMI MOORE IN GOOD MOVIE!!!!!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This wonderfully moving love story/comedy/thriller will enchant anyone who sees it.That it does so in spite of its trio of stars is the most amazing thing about it.Patrick Swayze I can accept;he is an earnest performer(not great)but in the right role like here he gives of his best and Sam Wheat is that sort of role.He makes you believe in his plight throughout and the climax of the movie and his handling of the scenes is excellent and it would be difficult to imagine anyone else playing this sort of stuff anything like as convincingly.Whoopi Goldberg I have a problem with;she is not an actress I care for,she is not funny(apart from her Oscar duties)and her movies are usually appallingly bad and cloyingly sentimental.Here,however,she is very good indeed and again it would be a lesser film without her.The biggest surprise is Demi Moore who is just right here in the only film she has ever appeared in which is worthy of any kind of note.The trouble with Demi is that although she has(or had)acheived stardom it is very difficult for audiences to have a mind image of her as she seems not to know from one day to the next whether she wants to be brunette,blonde,redhead,bald,gray ;whether her hair should be long,short curly or whatever whim takes her  next.She should have retained the fetching short black bob she wears in GHOST as she never looked more attractive than here.This movie succeeded because she was paired with a strong male lead as she was in her only other hit movies.Put her on her own and you can't give her away and at the time of writing her career is on a deserved decline.She need not fear too much though for as long as movies last there will always be an appreciative audience for the likes of GHOST. "},{"Title":"Oscar fluke number five hundred seventy","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The comedy scenes between Goldberg (who won the Academy Award)and Swayze give the film some heft, and the makers' idea of the little fellows who take us to hell rather than heaven is genuinely spooky, but overall this cosmic afterlife-romance doesn't have a whole lot going for it.Still, to this day, viewers (women in particular) have rose-colored memories of the picture.  Most talk of the pottery/love making, or the awkward Goldberg/Swayze/Moore kiss-channeling scene, and an the film clearly struck a chord with movie-going masses and Academy members back in 1990.Are there any films that deserved the Best Picture slot that it miraculously managed to snag?  No, unless you count the gruesome independent classic Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, the majestic sci-fi allegory Total Recall, the tense, hard-boiled con game The Grifters or Whit Stillman's fearsome dramedy Metropolitan.  And besides the fact that I'd rather have seen GoodFellas take up TWO spots on the Best Picture voting ballot than Ghost once (who wouldn't have?), I can very nearly see how it finagled a chance to go for Hollywood's top prize.Ghost isn't entirely dislikable--not at all.  But its high-concept ideas (from Jacob's Ladder's Bruce Joel Rubin, no less!) to its slick, by-the-numbers execution have probably done more for the independent film movement than three of Pulp Fiction, two Clerks, and a half hour of Sling Blade put together.  In the early nineties, like many other times over the past century, young men and women sat up, pricked up their ears, and in unison, cried Well heck!  Even I can do THAT!  Today, it is they who are winning the awards.In short--thank you, Ghost. "},{"Title":"a very good movie!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  ghost was very good top notch entertainment from beginning to end. it's also a tad scary in one or two parts. it was also a very touching movie. i give this movie ***1/2 out of **** there are also some funny parts in this movie.  "},{"Title":"An undying love story","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I really like this movie. Call it a Chick  Flick but I think men would cry too, if they weren't taught to be so macho. Whoopee did a good job. It makes you think true love never dies. Do ghosts really exist? The last scene was truly touching. "},{"Title":"Whoopi Was Great! - Premise was not","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Whoopi Goldberg was a hoot in this picture. I think she is the highlight.The main point of the story was not that the good guy became a ghost and pined for his live girlfriend, but that the bad guy was trying to find and steal the good guy's computer password. What did he expect to find in Patrick Swayze's wallet, a piece of paper that said My password is....? Pretty silly. "},{"Title":"Incredibly inconsistent but Goldberg is wonderful and it's utterly life-affirming.","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a strange one. Certainly something special for the novelty. It's perhaps the most inconsistent film I've ever seen. Some parts brilliant, some parts ludicrous. Poor execution or poor idea? I can't tell. According to Bruce Joel Robin, back in 1990, he was told Ghost was the best screenplay ever written in Hollywood. It was even awarded the Oscar. It doesn't receive that much acclaim nowadays, Pulp Fiction must've blown it out of the water and Hollywood begged for forgiveness from Casablanca. It now stands quite oddly, part dated (though I can forgive misguided special effects) and part beyond its time. It's like Michael Jackson's Thriller. A deliberately mixed bag with something for everyone. In Ghost, every character is perceived in tone and style through a different genre. There's romance, comedy, crime thriller, murder mystery and even a touch of horror. Unfortunately, this makes it wildly erratic. In fact, while its first few punchy moments showed promise, it's first half hour is an utter lame bore. There's a few setups that are intelligent in hindsight, but Patrick Swayze's poor acting betrays the material. Unconvincing isn't even the word. He's absolutely laughable, his reactions to things are pure parody. Its iconic moments feel ridiculous in context. The film doesn't start to get bearable until Whoopi Goldberg's appearance. She's surprisingly delightful, I always kinda doubted whether she deserves her acclaim, but she certainly does. Her addition gives the film an incredibly fascinating and entertaining dynamic. Makes it a much richer and immersive film. She always earned belly laughs with every joke. And the twists and turns keep coming at a Shakespearean rate with the amount of betrayal. Despite Swayze's acting, the emotion of the film works and its metaphysical ideas of life after death are easy to connect to and it ends wonderfully life-affirming.However, while its admirably ambitious to try and display different characters through different genres and weave between them, it does mean we get immersed in one side of the story story and have that dissatisfying feeling of being disconnected from others in the film. Then leave that character we were immersed in and that's dissatisfying. I'm not sure why it doesn't work emotionally as it's a pretty great idea from Rubin and Zucker. I can't help but wonder what this story would be like as a play. There were many times when I really wanted to break away from the camera's limited perspective and look at a different character. The stage would allow that freedom and it would be a richer experience. Though they'd have to figure out how to do the passing-through-objects convincingly. I know there's a musical but it's sentimental enough already. Regardless, this film was a huge success. Maybe we can call Ghost the most commercial script ever written instead.7/10 "},{"Title":"Both romantic and glamorous","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love Ghost. It is a film that manages to be both romantic and glamorous, sometimes even at the same time. And it also manages to mix the sentimental and the supernatural wonderfully. The production values are great, the special effects are a treat and the costumes, lighting, sets and cinematography are top drawer.The soundtrack also fits accordingly. Unchained Melody is a touching song and used to great effect here. The script is of good quality, and the story has a great premise with a poignant love-beyond-the-grave theme and a ending that proves that pure schmaltz actually does work. Jerry Zucker's direction is very good.I love the performances too. Patrick Swayze gives one of his best performances as the murdered banker who tries to warn his girlfriend that she is in danger. Demi Moore isn't as good, in fact she is just okay to start with but gets better through the course of the movie. It is Whoopi Goldberg who steals the show in a performance that is outstanding, her presence doesn't jar at all and livens up what could have been a maudlin atmosphere.All in all, a great film with a great premise and worth seeing for Swayze and Goldberg. 9/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"A fair movie but nothing special.","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost made serious money in theatres. It was the highest grossing film of 1990. It had incredibly broad appeal with it's slick combination of action, romance and comedy. Does that make it a great film? No, but Ghost is still worth a watch. The originality of the film's premise made my first viewing of Ghost quite enjoyable. I mean in how many movies is the main character a Ghost for most of the film? This is the only such movie I have even heard of. However, it is when you look beyond the novelty of the Ghost premise, that you see the film for what it really is; a very routine, predictable piece of Hollwood film making. This is not a bad film. It's just not interesting enough to be worth more than one or two viewings,especially for fairly experienced movie buffs like me. That said, I still recommend that you see Ghost some time or another. The fun performances of Whoopi Goldberg and especially Patrick Swayze and the entertaining ghost effects make the movie worth viewing, but just don't expect a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"Clever, charming, totally in command of some weird material...","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Whether or not we believe that in the afterlife we're all very much concerned with unfinished business and can simply contact a medium when we want to get in touch with the physical world, GHOST is a complete charmer from beginning to end.It all starts when a couple of yuppies (PATRICK SWAYZE and DEMI MOORE) are strolling back to their luxurious apartment one night. He's an investment counselor and his digs are something to kill for. However, that's not the reason he's murdered by thugs in an alley. Seems he's been on to a laundering scheme by some black market investors and it's a contract killing.Well, you can't keep a good man down and soon Swayze is interacting, at first in minor ways, with the living but is frustrated enough in trying to reach his wife so that he contacts WHOOPI GOLDBERG, a fake medium who has no idea that she is indeed able to hear words from Swayze until he starts prompting her and giving her information about him that only he and his wife know in order to convince Moore to pay attention to him. As one of the bad men involved in the investment scheme, TOM GOLDWYN gives a funny, terrific performance in a key supporting role. Much of the humor comes from his work and, of course, Whoopi, who won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her insolent supporting role, as well as a Golden Globe.Whatever, it all works even though it seems highly preposterous when you stop to think about it. But the lines are so clever, the interaction between ghosts and real people so inventive, and the climax so satisfying that you can't help admiring how the screenwriters were able to take a very difficult subject and turn it into one of the smartest comedy/drama achievements of the year.Summing up Highly recommended for some good chills and lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"Heavily overrated but deserves a watch!","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is a beautiful romance story from beyond the grave. The main problem with this movie is that it's highly overrated and it has every possible clichè from Hollywood. First; it's lead characters are Hollywood superstars with a bad reputation although they deliver a great performance. Then, the movie had a HUGE promotional campaign. Everybody knew about Ghost when it came out and to these days, it's one of the most spoofed and parodied movies ever made (the sex scene is always spoofed!).Anyways, Ghost is a really well done movie. It has romance, suspense, comedy drama, and even little horror elements such as minimal gore. The acting is really good. Whoopi Goldberg steals the show mixing drama and comedy. The woman is amazing. Demi Moore is extremely cute and delivers a tender, sexy performance. Patrick S. also impressed me with his solid dramatic and comical performance. The direction is also top class, and the score is perfect! There you go. This is a kitschy movie but surely entertaining and tender.I recommend it for people who like supernatural love stories. This is by far the best of it's kind. One of the best romantic movies from the past 25 years. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  i loved this film and i actually think its one of my favorites of all time. Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze gave mediocre performances, but whoopi goldberg was incredible.  Really, to me, it was whoopi goldberg's wonderful performance that propelled this film to getting two major oscar wins and a best picture nomination.   Its a fantastic film, a really feel-good film. It's not really so much about ghosts and the supernatural but rather about how love lives on after death.  Once again, whoopi goldberg was incredible in this movie! i give it three and a half stars. "},{"Title":"beautiful, multilayered love story","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Touching romance/fantasy/thriller about a successful bank executive whose life is shattered when he becomes the victim of a botched mugging. Once deceased he returns&#x97;in the hereafter&#x97;to not only find out why he was killed, but more importantly to protect his grieving girlfriend (Moore) from a similar fate. His only hope is to enlist the aid of a slick con artist (Goldberg) who possesses the uncanny ability to communicate with the living dead. A smart, entertaining, and heartfelt tale of love and redemption, with occasional touches of comedy and suspense, crafty special effects, and perfect performances from the three leads. Swayze is commanding as the unfortunate victim, Moore terrific as his lost love, Goldberg amusing and just right as a swindling spiritual adviser. A good mix of genres and memorable characters make this one really special. *** "},{"Title":"you will believe...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was GOOD.  It was a terrific combination of mystery, romance, fantasy,and drama. Whoopi Goldberg deserved the Oscar she got, and you will want to see this movie hundreds of times.There will not be a dry eye in the house during the final scene. Patrick Swayze is okay at best, but you won't mind. *** 1/2  out of ****!!! "},{"Title":"An all-round interesting movie, but a bit too long!","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just watched this movie this morning, though it's bit old, but it's the first time I watched it. As the name says Ghost, its not more of a horror-flick, but a movie that has everything in it, yes the drama, thrill, crime, comedy, romance, scifi!! It's for every other movie fan, but unfortunately there's no horror in it! Yes but there's a ghost(Sam), he is murdered by a man, while being with his girlfriend outside some theater, however that girl ( Demi) thinks that he was somewhat accidentally killed, but actually he was murdered by their trusted good pal named Carl in this movie. Sam stays in this world as a ghost and he has to tell his girl that he was killed and the killer is gonna kill her too! There's much more then that, little bit of comedy shared with the spiritual contractor lady, some sci-fi and some interesting thoughts put into this movie. There are some touchy scenes, they might make you feel the movie! In the end, a must watch , I'm not going to tell you all, so you can watch this. Overall, i'd give this movie 7.5/10! The best actor for this movie has to be Sam. "},{"Title":"Getting the Red Carpet Treatment.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a good film, but did it deserve a Best Picture nomination in 1990? Well, I would lean towards the answer no. The Oscar-winning original screenplay deals with a man (Patrick Swayze) who has been brutally murdered and is now an earthly spirit trying to protect his lover (Demi Moore) from those who ended his life. Along for the ride is a wise-cracking would-be psychic (Oscar-winner Whoopi Goldberg) who acts as the medium between Swayze and Moore. The film was a box office smash and was a slight triumph with the critics. Ghost just never really quite did it for me though. Harsh issues throughout are then overshadowed by scenes of humor and romance. The tone is somewhat uneven and the supernatural aspect is overplayed. Still a good picture, but somewhat over-rated. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Good but not the best film of all time","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Ghost' is a good film, but it is not the greatest film of all time. In its day, it was a huge success to the point where it was much over-rated.In short, the film is about a woman (Demi Moore) who comes to terms with her lover's death, and he returns as a ghost while she still clings on and lives a pretty sad existence for a while while her deceased lover is determined to save her from a similar doom. (It's highly emotional in places. One of the best and most quoted scenes is the scene where Demi's character is creating and molding a clay pot.) Coupled with excellent cinematography and pacing and actors/actresses, this film is worth a watch because it succeeds in conveying its emotion from the screen to our hearts. Expect to be emotionally moved, but don't expect the best film of all time. Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"We Liked This?","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This huge hit that came out of nowhere in 1990 looks pretty silly in retrospect.Because Dirty Dancing was such a big hit, people made the mistake of thinking that Patrick Swayze could actually act and began casting him in roles that required it. His eager attempts at emoting coupled with his ridiculous coif haircut are good for a chuckle or two. Speaking of haircuts, who thought it was a good idea to make Demi Moore look like a little boy? The love scene between Swayze and Moore is both embarrassing and icky, embarrassing because they rub clay all over each other and icky because Moore looks like Pinocchio.The only person who salvages the movie is Whoopi Goldberg, playing a fake medium who ends up being a real medium after all. Goldberg's crowd-pleasing performance won her an Oscar, and if anything about the film deserved an Oscar, God knows it was her.And I never want to hear Unchained Melody again....Grade C "}{"Title":"An unchained melody of a film.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After so many movies have made ghosts look evil, it probably was about time for a good ghost. In Ghost, Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) is murdered, only to discover that he is now a ghost - and hubby Molly Jensen (Demi Moore) can't see or hear him. Feeling bummed, he comes across medium Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), who can hear him. Through these connections, Sam is able to protect Molly after he realizes that her life is in danger.Ghost is the sort of movie that one would expect to be little more than a sappy mess. But they did a good job with it. Whoopi Goldberg seems to be having an especially good time with her role, for which she won a well deserved Oscar. And that pottery scene? Not only does it make one truly appreciate the existence of Unchained Melody, but Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear spoofed it.One more thing. I saw Ghost right after I had just seen The Sixth Sense. There are some interesting similarities between the two. The obvious one is that they're both about ghosts (maybe also that one stars Demi Moore and the other stars Bruce Willis). But dig this one was released at the beginning of the '90s, the other at the end of the '90s, and they were both the second highest-grossing movies of their years. Oh well. Maybe I'm the only person who picked up on that. The point is, this is truly a classic. "},{"Title":"Corporate Movie-Making At Its Most Predictable","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" GHOST hearkens back to films of the 1940s and 1950s which mixed screwball comedy, romance, and suspense with a ghost story. And GHOST reads exactly like a cross between TOPPER RETURNS and A GUY NAMED JOE Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze) is murdered--but his spirit remains earthbound, seeking to uncover his own killer and re-establish contact with his beloved and grieving Molly (Demi Moore.) Eventually Sam manages to establish contact with a fraudulent medium named Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg)--and in exchange for helping her out in the spiritualist business he convinces her to act as his agent on the earthly plane.All of this sounds fine in theory, but GHOST plays like something created by corporate marketing men, and instead of a fantasy confection the film serves up something more akin to a three month old poundcake awash in slobbering sentimentality. The cast makes absolutely no attempt to create characters--but given the zero-quality script level you can hardly blame them; the story itself is extremely predictable, and if you don't know who killed Sam halfway through the film you need to run out for quick brain-scan; and everything from cinematography to editing to design is just as ho-hum as it can be.The only reason to watch this film is for Whoopi Goldberg, who is absolutely hilarious as Oda Mae Brown--but frankly even Goldberg's comic turn can't make this turkey fly, and if you want to see her at her comic best I'd recommend you catch some of her stand-up work. My recommendation? Hunt down a copy of TOPPER RETURNS and A GUY NAMED JOE and watch the originals instead.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Just plain dire...","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm a heartless soul but I hated the combination of sickly slush and glamour that is Ghost. I'd rather spend an evening shelling peas. The problem with describing this film is where to start.Maybe wooden acting and over sentimentalised script. Or complete lack of any sense of dramatic realism. Or poor direction and obvious plot progression.I've enjoyed romantic films before, but I'd recommend settling down to an old black and white movie, or anything in preference to this.1/10. "},{"Title":"10 stars only for Tony Goldwyn","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Tony Goldwyn as Carl Bruner does one of the best jobs in movie history for a guy deeply in panic - maybe, similar to the airplane episode in Twilight Zone. Thats why I still like to watch the movie when its on the TV. Forget about the love, the magic, the cheesy special effects and the crooner music. He is playing a guy who notices to late he has made one mistake too much, and even for greedy intentions, and later is sweating his brains out. Best moment in the movie, when he notices he was framed by Whoopie. I may switch off Ghost later, but I never miss that moment. Otherwise - Demi Moore with a worse hair cut then in G.I. Jane, and it even inspired girls at the time. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ghost is one of the best romantic films ever made, It is simply beautiful, a very intense romantic drama, with some bits of fantasy and comedy, and lots of heartwarming and captivating moments. The song of the Righteous Brothers Unchained Melody fits perfectly with the story and the tone of this film.The performances of Patrick Swayze and Whoopi Goldberg were simply outstanding&#x85;Demi Moore performance was just average, but that doesn't affect the film at all.Ghost is one of the best romantic films ever made, and it had a powerful, emotional ending. This movie deserves more appreciation and recognition. It is awesome. "},{"Title":"..not much without Whoopi..","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ...and she wasn't even listed as one of the actresses !! Can you imagine this movie without her ? Of course she over-acted in every scene - what else? This movie needed all the help it could get. I couldn't see where in New York City this film was shot, but that's the way it looks, guys. SO chic to have a million-dollar loft in dangerous parts of the city.I think Patrick Swayze and Demie more and Tony Goldman (and the many extras) did their roles o.k., such as they were. I don't think Jerry Zucker could have done much more with Bruce Rubin's script. I suspect there was a lot of re-writing as the movie was filmed. The love-story aspect was good - thank heavens Swayze had the subway-ghost to teach him........I thought it was a much more recent movie - sure I saw an ad in the local paper for it. Re-release? At least the cinematography was good.Without Whoppie Goldberg, hang it up. If you want a good Ghost movie, take a look at City of Angels........... "},{"Title":"A very poorly aged Ghost","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What we have here is another modern classic which looked much better when it came out, but failed to stand the test of time. Or probably it depends on the age of the audience, who knows...Anyway, Ghost is a rather long and predictable story about supernatural love and vengeance from the grave. However the best part of the movie is what was probably meant as comedy relief, to build up the tension for the romantic moments.It's not a good sign when the secondary plot takes the cake, relegating the core of the story to a role of pretty-but-shallow dressing.Furthermore, the mysterious killer story was so predictable it ruined whatever interest it might have had.And the love story, sorry, but I just couldn't find a good reason to care about Sam & Molly... Who are they? Why were they in love to the point of getting involved in a threesome with a potter-wheel?Ghost, as a love story, falls short in terms of characters' development. As a murder story is too predictable. So it's at its best as a comedy. Not totally intentional I suppose.Whoopi Goldberg as the charlatan-medium is really funny, and she manages to give some depth to an otherwise stereotypical fat black woman. And Oda Mae is the best character of the movie, by a mile, just to underline how poor the effort in character creation was.The production is fine, and the script paved the way to a plethora of romantic dramas and romantic comedies in the following decades.To this day, Ghost enjoys a vast popularity, despite its obvious shortcomings. A tribute to the smart people behind the movie, or to the gullibility of the public, always ready to reach for a Kleenex at the first hint of a troubled. yet formulaic, love story?Either way, Ghost looks good but tastes worse at every further screening. "},{"Title":"Scariest Films Of Al Times","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I feel that I should warn anyone who was attracted to watching this movie by the name alone- This is not just a horror film- It's the most terrifying, mind crushingly disturbing piece of art in history. After watching it I spiralled into a foul pit of depression for 17 weeks in which I spoke to no-one, said nothing, went nowhere, and felt only the knowledge of my own impending doom rushing inevitably towards me from all angles. I was enclosed in a tomb of hatred, an OLAP cube filled with emptiness, nine inch nails driven into my very soul my eyeless creatures whose only joy is ill-gained by their concentrated torture of the insane. There was not exactly darkness, but there was an all encompassing absence of light, of life, or breath; it was like existing inside the dying lung of a smoker, like swallowing cement, like choking yourself with the cold feet of a dead neighbour. Imagine a dream where you lose your shoes and have to tie Jennifer Lopez and Andie McDowell to your feet just so that you can push Bernie Mac up a vertical cliff face in a barrel.After a few weeks I began to have visions of a new world filled with creatures called Burlapians in which I was an Alien slave recently released. Everyone spat on me as I walked by, and I wasn't allowed to enter a Burlapian café for a caramel square. Soon my despair began to manifest itself as boils on the inside of my eyeballs. These boils burst, sending my eyes out of my now devastated carcass of a face, and onto the floor. Born from the boils of my despair was another race of miniature creatures which I named Rubtuckuryans as I was delirious from the pain. I couldn't see them as my eyes were lost, and even now I doubt their existence, but I felt that they were there and that they were mine, and so I commanded them. If you have never felt the sensation of 14 million little men running over your skin then let me tell you it is among the most exhilarating and revitalising experiences of my life. For the first time in my life I was at one with a larger society. I was their leader, but more than that I was them and they were me. I was worshipped from all quarters as God, Mother, and Saviour, but by the Burlapian classes as a creature to be derided and shoved. One afternoon when the town was asleep, I sent my 14 million little soldiers on their first and final mission; one of which none could be certain of coming home. They entered the houses of each Burlapian and wreaked the most horrific forms of vengeance ever imagined. I felt sick at the carnage created by my hand. Sick with joy. Sick with sickness. There were many casualties, but the few survivors who stumbled back to me no longer felt a part of me. They had committed such acts that I could no longer fathom their existence and so I screamed to the heavens and launched myself of the nearest mountain top. I hit the bottom at around 150 miles per hour and splashed beautifully across the gray wilderness. At last I was happy and free. I could now come back to life. I woke with a start to find I had grown a bushy yet stylish beard and some odd bacteria between my toes. The TV license people assumed I was dead and so no longer send me a bill. So everything worked out in the end.If you wish to avoid such a trauma then go watch The Exorcist or another less harrowing horror movie. This is too much. The way the hands merge with the clay, the way the spirits come screaming from the shadows to claim the newly dead souls as their own, ripping from our world onto the next, Whoopee Goldberg. Not for the faint hearted; not for anyone. A movie made by Frank after opening the box.Best Scene When Swayze is trying to jump through a wall but he doesn't realise that ghosts are perfectly sold molecular creatures like the rest of us and he breaks his neck smashing into it. "},{"Title":"Not better the second time around","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There are some films you enjoy seeing a second time - or even more. This flick is not one of them for me. I remember reading a reviewer's comment about Patrick Swayze (I believe Leonard Maltin, either regarding this movie or Dirty Dancing) describing Swayze's acting range from A to B.That, plus the fact that upon seeing this movie again, after a long passage of time, I realized how summarily unappealing the characters and performances were in this picture. You can't have a more fictional premise than the lead character and others walking around while dead - but, nevertheless, there should have been some evidence of just what the hell Swayze did in his supposed high-finance job. Tony Goldwyn seemed to know more than Swayze, but his efforts seemed solely centered on money laundering, the crux of the story.Whoopi Goldberg provided nothing funny, or even the least bit believable - especially in the scene where her bizarre character bumbled her way through drawing a bank check for multi-millions, from the manager, with less effort detailed than you'd have cashing a small check in your home bank, where you know everyone and appear twice a week.Despite the steamy scene with both leads drenching themselves with the soft, wet clay which Demi Moore was sculpting, there was zero chemistry between the two lovebirds. And the enjoyment of this scene was simply demonstrating two very attractive persons in a rather unusual, spontaneous romantic interlude. Beyond that, even this scene lacked any chemistry, or even a trace of emotion on Swayze's part. The nature of this story is worth perhaps a 7* rating for viewing it the first time - but 4* is generous for a subsequent one. "},{"Title":"Ditto","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Perhaps it is worth a mention prior to anything more serious that unfolds with Ghost, however the very opening sequence is both eerie and initially hard to define.The quick movement to a sort of pedestrian interplay removes the stark and if you will undefinable aspect of the very opening with the braking down some old wall and as viewers we are then provided with the story that as suggested as pedestrian.If I recall even the music attached to the scene however short its appearance equaled a position that was more interesting than its duration allowed for,however it did not seem to have been meant to provide much more than that.Ghost,like so many movies,provides the viewer with what appears but does not allow for what is.The question when any pretense requires our cooperation is if in fact what we are being asked is either worthy or in fact believable?Is what we are being asked by our watching this picture worthy of a more serious consideration?The story is not so easy to unravel as the supra natural plays a part in the drama and even allows for our lead male to provide an unflinching dare as to the eternity that awaits.It is without question a brave and desirable emotion that makes for the truth and that is what is believed in.The lead is worthy but some of the other aspects are not.Sam Wheat is a genuine good guy and though we do not perceive this initially he is very intelligent and even accomplished as his position with the bank symbolizes.The counter to Sam Wheat is not so easy to pigeon hole as both Molly Jensen and Carl Bruner are very much on the same side as both seek to deny the existence of perhaps a soul but just as important to deny Sam Wheat a life.This though is not customary in the consideration of Molly but there is nothing in her characterization that would suggest to me that they not only knew each other but truly loved each other as well.I felt we were not looking at the real thing but the mere suggestion which is as it is a mere suggestion.It is a critical perception to understand that there is cause as to why nothing that can be suggested is believed in either.The Law as to these events is so uncaring and unbelieving that they sought out the truth to kill more so than to be convinced otherwise that there is a truth of any sort to be gained.The only truth the law recognizes is the law and the law needs to get its way.What does that mean?It means that there are many weaknesses to this pictures underpinning and the presence or for that matter the place that law enforcement should represent is terribly lacking and without a face,it is without a heart.There is such compelling evidence that any real detective work would of uncovered Carl Bruner and Willy Lopez and perhaps required both Federal as well as International Law concerns with the revealing of the person on the other end of the phone.But this picture seems to have drawn a conclusion about something else and it is something else that it wants to showcase.Molly like Carl does much to deny the existence of the heart and soul of the picture by not allowing for some far fetched idea about the supra natural but it seems is won over by perhaps the pictures lead Female in Oda Mae Brown.The character of Oda Mae Brown has the ability to communicate with the dead and it is the place that Sam Wheat finds a kindred soul and a receiver if you will for his cries from the world beyond that allow this picture some leeway.Indeed both Sam Wheat and Oda Mae Brown are critical to love and justice even unto the end of time.Both of these performances are very good and should provide real entertainment.Molly is not as suggested a full bodied presence though indeed the appearances suggest otherwise but that is neither here nor there as Molly does not believe and as such has a more difficult time determining just how that kind of information became the property of some foreign body in this character Oda Mae Brown.She eventually seems to have been won over but not before the very soul of the picture rises having been provided with the truth so that the heart and life being required now leaves this world behind and is allowed to rest in peace.The end of the picture is very good,it is if you will a truly emotional parting and an ascension that is believed in.A degree of success is achieved through this if you will miracle however it is very lovely and very charming and well worth the viewing pleasure of the audience.The darkness that awaits all who heed not to repent will befall them as they did to the Willy Lopez and Carl Bruner character.There deaths in the picture occur with a chilling fearful acknowledgment of the designs of the darkness and the results that it provides for.It is a true admission when Carl gets it in the end and like a moment in time does not believe that the end of time has come for this particular criminal.This is where the picture does provide some interest and it is in its attempt to a moral underpinning that allow for the furtherance of the supra natural conceit showcased through out the picture.Why conceit?Because that is where the answers are not here in this world but in the supra natural and though it is the supra natural,the underpinning is of a world that we do not possess the natural ability to know which only through some sort of miracle we will ever have just that kind of ability. "}{"Title":"What a film","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I cried and cried like a baby at this film. I think Patrick Swayze is so dashing and a complete dreamboy.Demi moore is ok but she just distracts me from Patrick's eyes. He makes me go all weak at the knee's.I was just so sad at the end that i went out and bought myself a pottery wheel and sat there naked spinning my clay. "},{"Title":"Great Movie Bad Casting","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is the perfect example of a great movie with terrible casting. When I found out that Nicole Kidman had originally auditioned to be inthis film I wanted to cry.  Try to imagine how amazing it would havebeen to see Ghost starring Nicole Kidman and Jason Patric--theyreperfect for the film, immensely talented, and damn sexy. Demi and PatricSwayze are terrible in the lead roles (especially Swayze).  Whoopi doesa fine job in her role even though it is something of a cliche (theminority as comic relief).  Its to bad time travel doesnt exist cause Idlove to go back in time, recast Kidman and Patric, and make Ghost atruly classic love story instead of a classic film with bigflaw "},{"Title":"Loony afterlife romance","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It seemed so lush at the time but this film hasn't dated well. Whoopi Goldberg is really the only one to come out of this well as the wise-cracking medium who discovers she's not really a charlatan after all. It's the least successful of Swayze's purple patch of tough-guy romantic leads, largely because he's not a physical presence! Demi Moore is at a peculiar stage of her career where she seems unable to decide whether to be cute or deadly - again her interaction with Swayze can't quite deal with the dramatic possibilities of the back-from-the-dead concept. Jerry Zucker keeps the basic story on track though and presses the right buttons (or throws the right pots) on cue. Watch on sofa with cat and chocolate. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Ghost","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film, with E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial and The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King, gets me every time I watch the ending, I cannot help but cry, and it's always enjoyable, directed by Jerry Zucker (Airplane!, Ruthless People, Rat Race). Basically banker Sam Wheat (Golden Globe nominated Patrick Swayze) and potter Molly Jensen (Golden Globe nominated Demi Moore) are a couple truly in love, renovating a new apartment with Sam's friend Carl Bruner (Tony Goldwyn), their most passionate scene is them doing pottery together, while listening to the song Unchained Melody by The Righteous Brothers (number 19 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments). Sam discovers high balances in obscure bank accounts, Sam tells Carl he'll investigate, but that night, while walking home, Sam and Molly are mugged by a street thug, he pulls a gun and in the struggle shoots, out of his body Sam is shocked to discover his own dead body, he has become a ghost. Sam stays by Molly, trying to get to grips with his condition, he cannot be heard, seen or felt, he is later shocked when the thug that killed him walks into the house, looking for something, but Molly returns and Sam scares the cat to attack the thug, he flees his mission. Sam follows him through Brooklyn and discovers his name is Willie Lopez (Rick Aviles), he tells someone on the phone he will go back for what he was looking for later. Walking the streets Sam stumbles into a spiritual reading parlor, there he witnesses con artist Oda Mae Brown (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Whoopi Goldberg) posing as a medium, but as he mocks her he realises she has an actual gift when she can hear him, he convinces her of the danger that Molly is on and to warn her. Sam convinces Oda Mae to meet Molly in person, she is skeptical, only until she relays things only Sam would know, but hearing all the danger scares Oda Mae away, so Molly goes to the police, only for them to pull Oda Mae's record, convincing Molly she is a con artist and demands her to stay away from her. Molly tells Carl this information, he goes to visit Willie at the given address, but Sam following is surprised that they are working together, Sam was murdered to obtain his book of passwords to access the bank accounts and launder money. Sam getting angered by Carl trying to get close to Molly unintentionally knocks over a picture frame, he remembers encountering a poltergeist on the subway (Tomorrow Never Dies' Vincent Schiavelli) that can move things, Sam convinces him to teach him how to do the same, after learning these abilities he returns to Oda Mae and convinces her to help him withdraw the money in the fake name Carl had set up. Oda Mae does so, taking away $4 million, she endorses the money to charity to avoid being caught, Carl tries desperately to find the money, while Sam deliberately scares him, Carl goes to Molly, where she lest slip that she saw Oda Mae at the bank, and he pieces together what has happened. Willie returns looking to catch and kill Oda Mae, Sam prevents him by terrorising him and sends him into oncoming traffic, Willie is killed and like Same did earlier sees himself dead, and his ghost is grabbed by creatures in the shadows that drag him away screaming (presumably to hell). Sam returns to Molly's apartment with Oda Mae, she is finally convinced of Sam's ghost when he levitates a coin, and Oda Mae allows him to possess her body to feel Molly and share a slow dance. Carl interrupts, so Molly and Oda Mae flee onto the fire escape, in the loft under construction he catches Oda Mae, but Molly saves her, before being grabbed and threatened by Carl with a gun, Sam disarms him and chases him to the window, trying to throw a hook at Sam he shatters the glass, and Carl is impaled by the falling glass, he becomes a ghost, and like Willie is dragged away screaming by the dark creatures. Sam speaks to the women, Molly can hear him now, a heavenly light shines in the room and illuminates Sam, the two women see him, they realise it is time for him to go (presumably to heaven), Sam and Molly share a farewell kiss, he thanks Oda Mae for everything, and he finally tells Molly he has always loved her, to which she replies his own word he repeated to her many times, Ditto, Sam then walks away into the light and disappears (this ending is number 5 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers). Also starring Armelia McQueen as Oda Mae's Sister, Gail Boggs as Oda Mae's Sister and Phil Leeds as Emergency Room Ghost. Swayze gives a surprisingly good performance as the title character, Moore is fantastic being innocent and emotional, Goldwyn is good as the snivelling villain, and Goldberg almost steals the show with her deserved Oscar winning turn as the psychic, with many comic moments. It is a film that delivers well- timed laughs and a witty script, and the supernatural element works well, with terrific special effects, it is dramatic, but most of its a sentimental but highly affectionate love story, a must see romantic drama. It won the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing, Best Music for Maurice Jarre and Best Picture, it won the BAFTAs for Best Make Up Artist, Best Original Screenplay and Best Special Visual Effects, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 19 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, Unchained Melody was number 27 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, and it was number 76 on The Ultimate Film. Very, very good! "},{"Title":"Decent, the 6.6 is about right","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I wish my own experience with a ghost had turned out as clear and happy as the one in this movie. Patrick Swayze is not a great actor, and neither is Demi Moore, but they can pull it off when they need to, and here they do as fine a job as they do in any other of their films. Whoopi Goldberg has always chose these kind of roles--independent women with lots of talent (remember Eddie?). The film has no cohesive photographic style, though, and the art direction is similarly disjointed. Still, if you need a feel good ghost story, you can go in for this one. I am still dealing with my most unpleasant ghostly experience (I lived in a haunted house, and I recognise how unbelievable that sounds). "},{"Title":"...So what can a ghost do afterall?","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It is one of the few times i rate a rather light movie less than the overall rating. This movie has many flaws, according to me. I mean...the movie turns around from the things a ghost can or cannot do. So, from the movie we see that a ghost cannot touch people or make them feel its presence. They cannot hear it. Additional, a ghost cannot touch material things, such as doors, unless it concetrates hard. Yet, we can see the ghost walking on the road, walking on the floor of its house, taking the stairs (!!!!) to go to the next floor. We can see it jump...so does GRAVITY affect ghosts? What are they made of then? Don't get me wrong, im not the kind of guy that would search a movie for flaws to judge it, and i have enjoyed many films about ghosts and other supernatural things. But, in this movie, i could not understand what the ghost could do. It couldn't touch a door to open, it could walk right through it. OK. Yet, he couldn't walk through the walls? Or worse, through the floors? Or he could sit on a couch???? Could he feel the material things, yes or no??? There is a difference between claiming the ghost can move things with the power of its mind, soul or whatever, and claiming a ghost can naturally walk, jump, feel the wall but not the door, pass through the wall of the train and land on the floor of it??? (pardon my English). Those mistakes, can naturally be made since we are dealing with supernatural things, but if they ruin the whole point of the movie, then yes it affects the way im gonna rate it. "},{"Title":"Tender and romantic valentine to the power of love","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  GHOST (1990) **** Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg, Tony Goldwyn, Rick Aviles, Vincent Schiavelli.  Widely popular romantic/drama cum supernatural thriller with Swayze as a recently murdered man stuck between worlds and facing the reality of helping his lover Moore from some dangerous situations with the help of fake psychic Goldberg (a hilarious turn and winner of the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress).  Neat blend of comedy, waycool special effects and suspense; Swayze has never been better.  Nicely directed by Jerry Zucker and affective Oscar-winning screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin. "},{"Title":"Insipid new-age drivel","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Let's start with the good things about Ghost. Or in this case thing (singular). As a Whoopi-fan I sat through this film and yes, she was magnificent as Oda Mae Brown. Touching, funny, silly... it won her the Oscar she should have got for Colour Purple. But the rest of Ghost was just awful. There is a thin line between emotion and sentiment, and Ghost has overstepped that line by a mile. It is, without a doubt, the most sickeningly sentimental film ever made.   "},{"Title":"Cheesy","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a lovely story that's so, so cheesy. You have to watch it to see how much cheese is totally emanating from... well, everywhere. I like the accompanying plot twists and the villains are pretty villainous yet somewhat white-collar-gone-mad, which is a v. scary combination. At the same time, I felt like Moore took so long to believe her husband was a ghost despite all the details the psychic told her that a lot of the plot hinges on her being, well, idiotic? And what was going on with the kiss with the villain (where it's not romantic if she doesn't smack him and scream at him to get out, instead agreeing to have dinner with him?) Other plot holes include where Swayze takes over Goldberg's body and then begins to caress Moore, and I was so confused--almost illogical. During the entire romantic scene, I was wondering what it must really look like... Goldberg's character herself is really annoying, especially when Swayze has to coach her through a bank move--it was idiotic (again), and the plot hinged on it.This has really nothing to do with ghosts or the eternal or anything mysterious (there are scenes of demons from hell that are pretty ridiculous and over the top); it's just your standard love story... except they can never be together again. I love the performance by the subway guy, who is v, v, passionate. If this is about true love that lasts eternally, though, it's kind of depressing. I thought the special effects were kind of nice for the 1990s (of course super over the top in 2011). In general, a very standard, CHEESY movie that is helped by the strong side plot of crime and avenged death that drives the love story. "},{"Title":"Get Real!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Dull artist loses her even duller husband in some type of N.Y. street violence.  African-American woman is out to con the widow out of her money by pretending to be a channeler of the dead.About the only thing mildly interesting in this quasi-bit of celluloid entertainment is Goldberg's Oscar winning supporting role as a pretend psychic who turns out to be a latent psychic.There's nothing worse than a romance, trying to become a comedy, trying to become a horror story.  The lead actors (Swayze and Moore) are still as dislikable as they are in previous and subsequent films (I mean, who really saw Swayze in anything other than 'Dirty Dancing,' and what drugs was Moore taking when she agreed to appear in 'G.I. Jane and 'Striptease?').Not even the 'oh, my darlin' love theme (still beautiful, but I forget who sang/composed it) could save this unintentional nightmare from making me want to hurl.  Watch this one with 'Ghostbusters' as a double feature on 'Mystery Science Theater 3000.' "}{"Title":"Okay","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Whoopi Goldburg's oscar winning performance gives this film what life it has.  Otherwise, it's just a routine romance with a spot of comedy.It did not deserve a Best Picture nomination over Reversal of Fortune, The Grifters, The Rapture, Postcards from the Edge, Journey of Hope, etc.  It didn't make my top ten of the year.See it once, for Goldburg's performance.  You won't really want to see it again. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies i've ever seen","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I don't know why, but i really don't like this movie because of Patrick Swayze, probably is because he played the typical role of a man that loves a woman, but he has to fight for her, in this case with the death.The only good thing from this movie is Whoopi Goldberg, in my case she saved the movie, she gave it a touch of her. But then the role of Demi Moore and Tony Goldwyn were really bad.Well, even Patrick Swayze was a good person, why did he look for revenge? Well as i saw, he was a very violent man and also he was easy to become angry, was he really a good person? Probably many of you will think that my review sounds stupid but, i'm sorry that's my opinion and nothing can change me. "},{"Title":"Ghost of a chance","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Interesting drama/mystery/love story only spoiled by hocus-pocus and ridiculous ideas of heaven and hell, and, funnily enough, ghosts.Ghost may have been more effective, if less popular, filmed straight down the line as a mystery-drama. Imagine Pleasant love story takes a dark twist when Swayze is killed accidentally, or was he........You might say that would have been dull, but it would have saved the movie going off on a foolish tangent.Nevertheless, Ghost works well enough as a tear jerker, with a very funny performance by Whoopi Goldberg. Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore made a lovely couple.Sunday, May 12, 1991 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Overplayed and overrated (spoiler?)","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Stilted dialogue, stilted acting by all except Whoopi. A simpleexample of the dialogue is Demi's Stop this! when stop it! mightbe more natural and it isn't surprising that she can't read theselines better. As for Patrick, he merely seems bemused by thewhole thing.Otherwise, a reversion to the fantasy movies of the 30s and 40ssuch as Here Comes Mr. Jordan whose hero (Robert Montgomery) was even more miscast. The fundamentalist-style demons that drag off some of the villainsdon't help either and are poorly done.I'm not a great admirer of Whoopi Goldberg but she really shineshere and makes it worth watching. "},{"Title":"A movie that can't make its mind up what to be","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I went into watching Ghost thinking it would be just a soppy romantic fantasy drama. I was wrong. It offered so much more. Unfortunately, it failed to deliver.I was confused by which direction the movie wanted to go. It fell between too many stools. At one point it tries to be all out, serious romance, then thriller, then fantasy comedy then slapstick comedy. It fails to nail any of these sub-genres and ends slightly messy.For a film that tries so hard to get you to accept Swayze walking round as a ghost, it fails to convince in many other areas such as are we really meant to believe Swayze's best friend would get him bumped off just for money? Plus, was there supposed to be mystery around who was behind his killing? Let's look at the characters we've been introduced to so far; Sam, Molly and Sam's friend....well, it doesn't exactly take Sherlock Holmes to deduce who it is! The execution of the whole plot line with Carl getting Sam killed is so poor I feel it lets the whole film down. The special effects in the film also sail close to the wind. They are particularly poor with the demons who come to take bad people down to hell. These black blobs with their wailing are more comical than frightening.The character of Carl is a curious one indeed. Waivering between a total wimp and a would-be killer, it just becomes a muddled study of someone who never really gives much resonance his role in proceedings.And as for some great love story? It's OK, but for more than half the film Sam can't really interact with Molly, just through Oda Mae, which is just too madcap to be taken seriously. Goldberg, as with Swayze and Moore, delivers a competent performance but no more than that.After viewing this film I am bemused that it is held in such distinct regard some 17 years on. A decent film elevated to something it isn't and is ultimately a letdown.Shame. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film when it came out, as it was being recommended by everyone I knew.  I found the romance to be forced and contained little to no chemistry.  It was nothing more than a poorly constructed and thinly veiled who-done-it.  I knew who done it half way through the film and there was really nothing left to watch after that.  I won't even get into my opinion that it wasn't particularly well acted.  That this film made it to the top 20 of the American Film Institutes 100 Great Love Stories is a sad commentary on our culture.For a truly passionate romance that contains some of the same elements without the muddling influence of a murder mystery, see Truly, Madly, Deeply,  which came out around the same time.  Among other things, the acting is magnificent. "},{"Title":"Just plain awful...","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ghost is a hold over from the atrocious movie making style of 1980's Hollywood which would not take a chance on serious film after the high budget Heaven's Gate flopped in the early 80's. (Hollywood in the 80's were marked by a series of teen films and crappy semi-serious films that were so maudlin they seem comic in retrospect). Ghost is one of these just plain awful films. Bad acting, bad writing and terrible special effects. It is a sappy piece of trash that was popular with people who see one or two films a year. Whoopi Goldberg overacts horribly and the whole premise is ridiculous. Good riddance to the bad Hollywood film making of the 1980's!  "},{"Title":"Lacks substance","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It would have made a good half-hour Twilight Zone episode. Unfortunately, there just isn't enough story to last a full two hours; as a result the movie looks, and is, padded-out. Mediocre performances from Swayze and Moore overwhelm Goldberg's considerable contribution.If you want a good life-after-death movie see Spielberg's Always (1989) which is far, FAR more restrained in it's handling of similar material. "},{"Title":"Whoopie Goldberg was the best thing in this film","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Whoopie Goldberg was the best thing in this film, overrated beyond belief when it came out, and overall fairly shallow although it has its moments. Demi Moore (she of the beautiful hair - see Friends where Phoebe cuts Monica's hair) seems to be trying an Audrey Hepburn impression taken from Breakfast at Tiffany's, which only serves to remind us of who is the better actress (Hepburn can act her socks off while still being cute and elfin, Demi Moore just looks cute and elfin). As for Swayze, it's the only thing I've ever seen him in, and likely to remain so, judging by this performance. The guy may be cute, if you like that sort of thing, but I found his acting so bad that at times I laughed out loud. To be honest, I thought he could give William Shatner a run for his money. It was left to Whoopie Goldberg to show us what real acting is like, and although her character did not have much variety or development to work with, she managed to steal the show. The film had some comic moments and was not a total waste of time, but touching it was not. Only bother if it's raining and you really have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Language Spoils Touching, Entertaining  Story","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If it weren't for my pet peeve of using the Lord's name in vain, I would rate this film with high marks because it's very entertaining. It also has the winning combination of drama, suspense, romance and comedy all rolled into one. But 20 blasphemes in a PG-13 comedy?? That's ridiculous. Demi Moore looked as good as I've ever seen her and it was nice to see her play a nice character. Patrick Swayze and Whoopi Goldberg also entertain.This one had a real tear-jerking ending that was memorable. Without the language, this would be a very good movie. "}{"Title":"Bad Writing, Bad Acting, Bad Directing, Good Righteous Brothers Tune","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you feel like you SHOULD like.  It's so noble.  The scenery and special effects are quite good.  But in the end it is just another mediocre movie starring Patrick Swayze. I don't like dramas that rely on characters doing the stupidest possible thing in order to keep the plot moving. I liked Demi Moore's performance (perhaps because her character is most sympathetic), and Tony Goldwyn gives a good effort, but Whoopi and Swayze's scenes made me cringe (particularly the bank scene). 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sappy, silly, but a little romantic","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's always fun to go back to movies that were popular in their day to see if they still hold up to criticism many years later.Pretty Woman - now that's a classic love story. Love Story - another classic love story. Those films have stood the test of time and faired quite well.This movie, however, is so sappy, melodramatic, poorly-acted... it's just pathetic. If there was an Oscar for the most crying by a lead actress, Demi Moore would get it for sure.The special effects are a joke - even for 15 years ago. The acting is downright pathetic Patrick Swayze, as washed-up as they come. Demi Moore, never really been much more than a pretty face. Whoopi, other than Star Trek The Next Generation - has made zero good decisions since The Color Purple.Back then (in 1990), I would have said, give it a shot. Now, I'd say, don't waste your time on this drivel.3/10 stars. "},{"Title":"after 13 years...","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  13 years ago, I think I thought this was a cute movie.   Tonight I watched it during a bout of insomnia and wow, is it bad or what!  I think if you were to sum up what happened to Patrick Swayze's career in one word, it would be Ghost.  The acting is laughable.   Whoopi is redeeming but can't get past the ridiculous script.  The little black ghosty dudes that come get the bad guys have to be one of the worst decisions a special effects crew ever made.Verdict  Repeat viewings are not necessary.  Leave well enough alone.  "},{"Title":"One of those movies that ages poorly","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Well, i just got done watching this movie for the first time. in 2 years this movie will be 20 years old. that's scary.first of all, i have to say i did want to see this movie because of hearing how popular it was in its day... that was then. this is now.i'll be honest - i thought this movie was OK, on the better side of average - however there are two noticeable problems the special effects, and Patrick swayze.first of all - i haven't seen to many movies featuring swayze, but i guess luckily so. i thought his performance had one or two good moments - basically whenever he shared screen time with whoopi. overall, however, i was literally cringing. his reaction to his dead body, passing through a doctor's head, etc. all made me just frown in uncomfortableness. i think any actor could have given this character more life and reality behind it. the special effects... well... i know you'll say - you're being contradictory! you SAID this was made 20 years ago! don't be so judgmental! OK - whatever... Jurassic Park came out like two years later - and those visual effects are still as amazing as ever! i think this movie gave very little time and effort in regards to the effects, therefore... they suck... why do we need to know or see that when you're a ghost and you pass through someone's head, you can somehow see all the tiny blood cells and veins inside?! unnecessary... pointless...i think the only redeeming part of this movie was whoopi Goldberg - who is a genius! i thought her performance 100% deserved her Oscar and am so proud that she won. the humor she instills in her character just breathes life into an otherwise dreadfully dull movie. i actually laughed out loud at one or two of whoopi's lines! ha ha!basically - GHOST was OK, definitely not Oscar-worthy at all (except whoopi!), not even deserving of all 5 of its nominations! overrated, dated, cliché, white noise in terms of movies in general.******/********** (6/10) i don't recommend this title, unless you're a fan of whoopi and you're ready to sit through bland movie to see her... "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, romantic fantasy thriller...but some disclaimers","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie some years ago, I confess that I found it cute, funny, and romantic. However, I've matured a bit and now find that despite its love tale, suspense, and humor, I have several difficulties with it. First of all, I can accept ghosts as pure fantasy (as in A Christmas Carol), but the villains being dragged off after death to a presumably unpleasant place is neither amusing nor trivial, not something you should joke about.The ridiculous plot is entertaining. The story revolves around an unmarried young couple, an investment banker Sam and a ceramic artist Molly, who have just begun living together. However, Sam is suddenly murdered one night by a 'thief' in an alley while walking home from the theatre with Molly. The dead Sam discovers that he is trapped as a ghost (it's a fantasy, remember?) and must warn Molly that she, too, is in danger from his murderers. He is unable to communicate with her, so enlists the assistance of a reluctant phony psychic named Oda Mae, who realizes she can hear (though not see) Sam.Major sex symbols play the leads. Patrick Swayze is cast in the role of Sam, who in the afterlife must bring about justice for his murder as well as warn his beautiful, endangered lover. Molly is played by Demi Moore, an actress definitely not my favourite, though I admit she is suitably sensuous in this role. The best performance is definitely given by Whoopi Goldberg, who won a Supporting Actress Oscar for playing Oda Mae. The psychic's role is kind of a crazy one, but Whoopi pulls it off brilliantly.*** WARNING SPOILER AHEAD *** This popular flick has of course a legendary, super romantic, tearjerker of an ending that requires a whole box of Kleenex. That final scene where (the late) Sam is able to physically interact with Molly for one last final farewell, and comes up behind, touching her as she's molding the clay, all to the unforgettable, haunting (no pun intended) strains of Unchained Melody...you'll picture this scene forever after every time you hear this song.All terribly touching, except I hate to put a damper, but I have to agree with a comment I noticed on the Message Board. Pity Sam and Molly weren't married to start here. They weren't apparently committed enough before living together to take vows pledging enduring love and fidelity through all circumstances, so what is so wildly romantic now about this farewell scene? Yes, they were engaged apparently, but I had to kind of laugh at one reviewer's comment about them moving in together and beginning 'premarital LIFE', a euphemism surely for the real meaning, premarital SEX. Anyway, I lapped that farewell scene right up myself along with everyone else way back when, but I kind of question now whether it wouldn't have all been just a little more meaningful if this same cute fantasy had featured instead of the engaged live ins, an endearing pair of young newlyweds.It's a fun, touching movie, but there ARE many more meaningful and genuinely moving love stories out there in the cinematic world. Remember this is a FANTASY, and don't get either your morals or your theology from it. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, the worst Oscar-winning performance ever.  Whoopie Goldberg is terrible in this not-very-good-movie.  Watch the scene in the bank with un-sexy Patrick Swayze.  If you were put in that situation would you act that way?  No.  You would do your best to remain calm--listening to him while paying attention to the banker.  She is totally hamming it up and it doesn't work.  Bad acting by a bad actress in a bad movie.  "},{"Title":"STUPID ARGUMENT","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I can't think about another movie that was more stupid than this one.I think that the only positive thing this movie has is the romantic song Oh my love, my darling, I hunger for your touch..Demi was fantastic in that scene. "}]