[{"Title":"Good Beat Em Up Cop Flick","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Most people just don't understand movies.There are different movie genres,and none can really be compared to the other.Take this movie for instance - it's not  Hamlet  nor is it  Jason Goes To Manhattan .Not to be crass,but Van Damme makes movies not for artistic value,he makes movies you can pop into your VCR or DVD Player when you feel like kicking someones ass.Think of his movies as  Primal Drama . What's  Primal Drama ,you might ask ? It's movies that are made to appease your inner beast.Just as you might feel like screaming at someone, or breaking a chair over someone's head,you reach for a Van Damme or Stallone movie instead.Somehow,watching the hero in these simplistic displays of eccentric unbelievable melodrama makes life a little easier.Watch an emotional display of comic brutality, and somehow everything's alright again.Look at Van Damme's movies the same way you did Comic Books and you'll understand.Just like Comic Books,Van Damme movies will always have a place in the heart of the Alpha Male.Lowbrow for sure,fun nonetheless. ***** 7 out of 10 *****  "},{"Title":"A Cut Above In A Couple Of Areas","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This was an intense prison movie with Jean-Claude Van Damme as an undercover cop. Louis Burke, trying to solve a crime inside a tough prison.There is excellent suspense, some surprisingly-good photography with excellent closeups and slow-motion. Language-wise, I liked the fact there wasn't a lot of the usage of the Lord's name in vain. All of that help make this better than I anticipated.The final fight scene is a little long and is Rocky-like ridiculous in that both combatants get viscously beaten to a pulp.....but keep coming back and not even having their hair messed up!! That notwithstanding, it was an entertaining movie and a cut above most martial arts fare. "},{"Title":"What Van Damme is all about.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie, simply for how entertaining it is, I dont think anyone would say this is dull.  You have Van Damme as a detective shooting a suspect dead, then saying your under arrest.  Then, immediately following, you have this great vision of an airplane flying overhead into the sunrise (or sunset) with some great feeling so fine music playing while JCVD all dressed up so smooth walks into a federal building to a meeting where we learn about the forecoming story.  Then while undercover in prison, the laughs dont stop and the action heats up.  This is classic Van Dammage that you dare not miss. "},{"Title":"Death of An Era The 1980s","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The 1980s were a guiltless time. Rock music was hard, meaningless, and not subtle with its innuendo. The same can be said about 80s action movies. The 80s Action movie had to be classic good guy-bad guy, because all action movies should be like that. The 80s action movie had to have some babe in it, and though it was meant to attract female viewers to a movie, the result was nothing more than a sex object for men. The 80s action movie had to have an absurd amount of killing and testosterone. 90s and 00s action movies are the same, but, they are riddled with guilt. They try to have a good guy-bad guy mix, but the good guy is not entirely good and the bad guy is not entirely bad. They try to incorporate deep love interests, but fail miserably...at least 80s action movies didn't really try in that department. Lastly, they don't have good action anymore. Everything is computer and shaky camera during fight scenes. Where is the good old fashioned pile of dead extras? 80s action movies are guiltless and treat themselves like revenge fantasy epics, while modern action movies try to be deep. Just like 80s rockers, they did not try to be deep, while modern alternative music's attempt at deepness and subtleness fails to invoke any real intelligent thought. 80s music, movies, presidents were not deep in meaning...everything was a MTV sound bite, a rude, in your face, unashamed whatever it was. It did not pretend to be something different.Death Warrant, like the band Firehouse, was the last breath of the 80s burning out in the 90s. It has 80s music, 80s clothes, and most importantly, the 80s mentality. The story revolves around a bad ass, shallow as a puddle, cop in Van Damme. He quickly defeats Kilpatrick (Naylor Sandman) by firing 400 bullets at him, and gets th-rusted into the average American prison&#151;a cesspool of political corruption, racial tension, violence, and sodomy. The movie is rather guiltless at all of these aspects of America's prisons, making stunningly deep observations. The politician justifies harvesting prisoner's organs because they're all scum&#151;a reflection of real policy. When Burke (Van Damme) enters the black part of the prison, the music gets stereotypically black with its bass (guiltless 80s mentality) and the warden's comment I know that you are here&#151;Why? I can smell the (n-bomb) is a reflection upon the racism. As a prison movie, violence and sodomy don't need to be explained. Of course the movie is all ridiculous hyperbole, but it is so extreme, yet at a strange level true, it makes the bad ass action movie extremely comical as well.The movie has many ridiculous elements added on purpose, for the sake of guiltless bad-assness and hilarity. Everyone in this prison is part of a gang, has access to drugs, cell phones, weapons&#133;people leave their cells at will..the Priest (a prisoner), seems to be more powerful than the Governor of California, let alone the warden of the prison. The Sandman is stronger than Goliath and refuses to die until he ironically dies like every other prisoner who died as part of the organ ring conspiracy&#151;a spike in the back of the head. Lastly, the Sandman, after taunting Burke, lets him wallow a little longer. Sure, the Sandman could had killed him right there, but instead he says something incredibly deep instead Bring me a dream Burke, bring me a dream&#133; This has nothing to do with the plot. It is an inside joke, a little jab at the song named Mister Sandman, which the first lines of the song are Mister Sandman, Bring Me a Dream. The movie ends as all movies should end. The hero gets the babe, mends racial boundaries, gets the ultimate honor of Prison Respect (where every convict will move out of your way and sing your praises like He just dusted the Sandman and You got it homes&#133;), and ends with a kick ass 80s sounding rock ballad called Bring Me A Dream&#151;another inside joke. I wrote an email to the composer of the song and he sent me the MP3 of it, because I got the joke. Very cool.I rate this movie 8 out of ten in not a light fashion. I have watched a lot of movies and only a handful are 8 and up. This movie is that good for its genre and its ultimate entertainment value. It is smart, incredibly stupid, subtle, but blatant at the same time. It is an 80s movie masterpiece and is up there with some of the best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Death Warrant is classic 90's Van Damme.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant is classic 90's Van Damme. This time around Louis Burke (Van Damme) is a policeman who goes undercover in a jail to investigate a murder. While inside, he realizes there's not just murder, but corruption. Now he has to high kick and low split his way to justice.After the weak Lionheart, Van Damme realized that he should take a break from the Kumites, and the Underground Brawls and focus his efforts into a making a fun action pic. The final fight had all the ingrediants for the usual Van Climax Swift, brutal kicks to the face and an action hero trademark, an impaling.If you watch enough Seagal, Norris, and Van Damme flicks you realize it's all the same, but who cares, it's another 90 minute action movie with mediocre writing and directing! Yeah! For more insanity, please check out comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Lethal injections...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A police officer goes undercover in a prison to discover why inmates are disappearing at a fast rate. The investigation is going all fine and dandy until the serial killer that this particular cop caught is transfered therefore putting him in jeopardy and blowing his cover. Good thing the cop knows kickboxing. This is one of Jean-Claude's lesser efforts, it lacks the overall excitement of Bloodsport and Kickboxer as well as the visceral enjoyment provided by his later movies like Universal Soldier and Hard Target. The story itself is too routine and although at times Death Warrant has a grisly twist that give it a jolt, Death Warrant is very forgettable stuff. I myself enjoy a good action flick but I like them more upbeat and it's only the action sequences which make this mildly diverting.* * out of 4(Fair) "},{"Title":"Bring me a dream Burke","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Like I keep tellin' youse guys....ya watch a Van Damme flick, ya can't expect any MORE than a Van Damme flick. Why watch the thing then complain another Van Damme stinker...that's a no-brainer!  To quote Rocky It ain't so bad! Van Dumb plays a Canadian undercover cop sent in to root out a whole heapa jail corruption - see?  there's a realtime story line - don't knock it!Patrick Kilpatrick as the Sandman....is the star of the flick anyway, even if he HAS nothing whatsoever to do with the story at hand! A mega-tough inmate if ever there was one...Sandman looks for all intents and purposes like a close relative of Michael Myers and his climactic set-to with Van Damme is worth the price of at least a small carton of popcorn. You can't kill me Burke, I'm the Sandman he utters, shortly after stepping nonchalantly out of a raging furnace no less, totally aflame but otherwise quite unbothered. Naturally Van Dumb proves him wrong on that point! Comical but entertaining stuff. Certainly not one of JCVD's worst!  "},{"Title":"This is one of Van Damme best films.","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Well this is one of my personal favourite Van Damme films.Its a prison movie and a an action/drama/crime movie.Van Damme goes undercover to prison where inmates have been disappearing and discovers that their body parts- livers etc are being sold by the corrupt guards.Van Damme gets off to a decent tart in uncovering the truth with some decent fight scenes.Then The Sandman enters the prison and recognises Van Damme and reveals his real identity.Along the way Van Damme is helped by the beautiful Cynthia Gibb.There is a scene where Van Damme arrive in his cell and his cell mate wants him to pay.Van Damme replies ii don't pay,and i don't punk.As he says this he has his cell-mate pinned against the wall which is actually funny.The Sandman is unstoppable,but he hasn't met Van Damme yet.Now Van Damme must survive and bring the truth to light.This really is one of his best movies. "},{"Title":"I have a warrant... FOR YOUR DEATH!","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What is a death warrant? you may ask. I'm not too sure myself. I assume it must like an arrest warrant, but instead of arresting the target of the warrant, Van Damme gets to kill them. Pretty simple really. I mean, if Jean-Claude was only intending to ARREST the antagonists, it would be a pretty boring movie, right? Van Damme plays Louis Burke, a Canadian Mountie who never wears the proper Mountie uniform, which is a damn shame because those Mountie hats are cool. Burke is on assignment in Los Angeles, tracking down a villain known as the Sandman, bullet-proof serial-killer extraordinaire. After taking down The Sandman in the first few minutes, Burke is given another assignment The inmates of the local maximum-security prison have developed a nasty habit of being killed by ice-pick to the head. Burke's assignment is to go undercover (naturally) and find out where all these ice-picks are coming from and who is behind it. Is it a prison-gang war, or a massive conspiracy involving corrupt officials and mad scientists? Have a guess.Naturally, one would assume that a Van Damme movie - set in a prison - called 'Death Warrant' would be action packed. Unfortunately, 'Death Warrant', much like 'Legionnaire', proves that not all Van Damme movies are excuses for a showcase of spin-kicks. It is a shame that 'Death Warrant' is not as action packed as I would like it to be. There are some cool fights, but it is a fairly slow movie, and the less said about the scenes involving a character called Priest (Abdul Salaam El Razzac), the better. Priest is a weird, weird fellow. I'm pretty sure he is really some sort of alien replicon from the beyond the moon...Now, I'm trying to judge 'Death Warrant' harshly, I really am. There just isn't enough action, but I just can't speak ill of any movie that was made in the 80s, is about the 80s, or features music and fashion from the 80s. In this case, 'Death Warrant' has 80s music AND a mad scientist. Both big bonuses in any movie's favour. Granted, the mad scientist's screen time is almost negligible, but the presence of a mad scientist makes the coolness metre of any movie shoot straight up.Sure, 'Death Warrant' may be slow, lack action, and feature a lot of Van Damme acting rather than fighting, but it is entertaining enough (what with the 80s music and all), but it is only for Van Damme fans - 6/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best JCVD movie","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Dare I say that when this movie was made JCVD was at the peak of his physical shape ? He really looks awesome in this movie. He's a pretty good actor as well, which is evident when you compare Chuck Norris' movies from the same era.Although the movie is more than 20 years old, it doesn't look dated. The movie is also not a mindless martial arts movie either. It has some good story behind it. Even compared to Lionheart made the same year, this movie is way ahead in terms of quality.Amanda Gibbs is gorgeous in this movie. Too bad that we didn't get to see her during the '90s asides from this movie.Seriously, this is one of the best JCVD movie made and is recommended for viewing even if you're NOT a JCVD fan. "}{"Title":"No-Holds-Barred Action Prison Style! - The best of Van Damme!","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant (1990) is no-holds-barred-action classic another prison style Van Damme movie. It is my fourth favorite best underrated Van Damme movie. This movie is really underrated, but it is one of my best favorite prison style movies. Also my favorite childhood movie that I still watch today, like other Van Damme action movies I do. The action fighting sequences are awesome. Sylvester Stallone made an action Drama movie Lock Up in 1989 and Jean-Claude Van Damme made Death Warrant a year later in 1990. Directed by Deran Sarafian and written by a David S. Goyer who at the time was a college student and it was his first script. Cynthia Gibb is awesome as co star alongside Van Damme. The movie is awesome another adrenaline action packed movie I also love the music score Bring Me a Dream by Craig Thomas, which I am still listening today.Bring me a dream Burke.This movie to me is a kicks-ass, Patrick Kilpatrick as The Sandman was a bad ass villain on screen, I have ever seen. This movie is also a horror film and get's scary, when you see the prison place and the murders of the doctor and the prison inmates inside those cells. When prisoners brake loose was really scary. I love loved the prison movies, about prison inmates, it was, one the reason why I love Prison Break (2005) and why it become my favorite TV Show! This movie is a kick ass and it will always be forever my favorite Van Damme movie that I love it to death!  Don 'The Dragon' Wilson (Bloodfist) and David Bradley (American Ninja 3) the action stars from the 80's and 90's both ripped off Van Damme movies! Like Bloodfist 1 ripped off the story from Bloodsport, Bloodfist 2 ripped off the story from Kickboxer and Bloodfist 3 ripped off the story from Death Warrant! And Don Wilson was praising him self that, he could beat Van Damme to a pulp?! I don't think so! David Bradley's Hard Justice (1995) ripped off the story from John Woo's Hard Boiled (even the title they stole), Bloodfist III Forced to Fight and Death Warrant! That movie copied and stole everything from those three movies. That is the thing I had a problems in the 90's, they could have been all creative and not copy someone else's movies work! Even Jerry Trimble - Live by the Fist (1993) ripped off Bloodfist III Forced to Fight. I know they were all different movies, but they copied and ripped off the story from Death Warrant geesh! I want to point this out! That's fine by me, if you read my review and you don't agree, but that is me.Attila from Lionheart and Sandman in here Death Warrant fights comes very close. The movie is filled with action and the inside of the prisons is great. The cells are also great. This is the first time Jean-Claude Van Damme played a Canadian, the second time he played a Canadian was in Sudden Death (1995). I always enjoyed Death warrant and like I mentioned before it is my fourth favorite best Van Damme Movie. The other three are Hard Target, Bloodsport and Universal Soldier than is Death Warrant. It's part of that first generation of JCVD films (Bloodsport, Cyborg, Kickboxer, Death Warrant, and Double Impact) before the biggest budget film he was part of (Universal Soldier). I love Jean-Claude Van Damme and I am a big fan of him. I grew up watching, his old movies and other kids including me grew up too watching his movies. Bolo Yeung, Michel Qissi, Abdel Qissi and Patrick Kilpatrick where great villains in Van Damme movies. Cynthia Gibb was also awesome she played in Youngblood (1986) in the 80's another my favorite all time sports film. Death Warrant is a 1990 action movie starring Jean-Claude Van Damme. The film was written by David S. Goyer while a student at USC, and was Goyer's first screenplay to be sold and produced commercially. This movie get's 10 by me and I don't care if it is underrated I love it.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, MGM-Pathé Communications Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Robert Guillaume, Cynthia Gibb, George Dickerson, Art LaFleur, Patrick Kilpatrick, Joshua John Miller, Hank Stone, Conrad Dunn, Jack Bannon, Abdul Salaam El Razzac, Armin Shimerman Director Deran Sarafian Producer Mark DiSalle Screenplay David S. Goyer Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 29 Mins. Budget $6.000.000 Box Office $46,665,776 "},{"Title":"5.0?!","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Its amazing to me that this movie only received a 5/10. This is Van Damme in his prime and the plot & storyline were as good as they get for a 1990 movie of this genre. It was also one of his movies that incorporated him being from Quebec (yes I know he is from Belgium) which is much more effective in my opinion than some of his other films that portray him as being a cowboy from the U.S. It makes the plot seem much more realistic by at least addressing his accent. I mean, I can't remember ever hearing a cowboy talk like him.Jean was even accompanied by good actors for once including Cynthia Gibb, Robert Guillaume, and of course, Patrick Kilpatrick. If you haven't seen this film, (especially if your a Van Damme fan) please give it a try, you won't be disappointed. And for the voters who gave it a 5 or below rating - please watch it again when your not in a depressed state of mind. Even 'Hard Target' got a 5.7 rating. "},{"Title":"Bring Me a Dream, Burke!","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is Van Damme's secret gem! JCVD is great in this detective film. All typical and trademark moves you expect from JC plus great acting and a great plot which is rare in his films, this is similar to his more recent film In Hell which was highly rated when it came out, this film also has a great yet short love scene with co-star Cynthia Gibb.We also get to see Larry Hankin aka Mr. Heckles from Friends who gets burnt alive for helping Burke, played by Van Damme who is an undercover policeman in a state prison where he meets the Sandman played by Patrick Kilpatrick who have a fight to the death at the end.Great entertainment, this film along with Nowhere to Run are under-rated gems starring JCVD but this one has lots more Van Damage! Bring me a dream, Burke! "},{"Title":"Mister Sandman Give Me A Dream","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS** One of Jean-Claud Van Damme's better movies in which he plays a Royal Canadian Mountie who goes undercover in a California prison to find out why a number of prisoners have been murdered at the Harrison State Prison over the last year. Being that officer Louis Burke, Jean-Claud Van Damme, is from out of the country and has worked with the LAPD before, he lost he partner while tracking down a serial-killer known as The Sandman (Patrick Klipatrick) it's felt by the prison authorities and the DA's office that no one will recognize him in the pen.Working with DA attorney Amanda Beckett, Cynthia Gibbs, who's posing as his wife on the outside Burke keeps in touch with her on whatever information he can come up with on the dead prisoners. With the help of some local convicts that he befriended in the prison including Hawkins, Robert Guillaume,Burke begins to find out that whats happening is being conducted by the very people who placed him there, DA Tom Vogler and head of prisons Ben Keane, George Dickerson & Jack Bannon. Voler & Keane are working together with the head of the prison guards and the prison doctor Sgt. DeGraf & Dr. Gottesman, Art Laflevr & Arimin Shierman, in killing healthy and non-addicted, to either drugs or alcohol, prisoners. These murders are being done in order to take out their vital organs and then sell them on the open market to the highest bidder! In fact DA Voglar has gotten Dr. Gottesman to get him a healthy liver, from one of the murdered prisoners, for his sick wife Helen, Dorothy Dells, without even her knowing about it. Burke had been set up by the corrupt state administrators to show the higher ups in the government that they were doing all that they could to find out about the murders there. When Burke started to find out the real reason for them, the dead prisoners, he was to be terminated before he could expose Volgar & Co. and their illegal human organ racket.The action in the film was as good and as exciting as you could ever want in a movie like Death Warrent with Van Damme in top form taking out the bad guys with his fists and feet in a number of gut crunching fight sequences. Being a marked man with his identity, as an undercover policeman, exposed by the prison officials themselves it's a wonder why those in authority, not involved in this organ racket, didn't come to Bruke's rescue earlier then they did. Bruke's outside contact Amanda was doing everything to alert them but they seemed to be either out to lunch or on vacation. Thrilling final with Burke having it out with the almost indestructible Sandman giving him a hot foot as well as a one way trip to Blazeville with the prisoners, forgetting about Burke's police identity, giving him a standing ovation at the end of the film. P.S Despite two major inconsistence. #1.Why the non-corrupt government authorities were so late in sending state troopers and national guardsmen to Harrison State Prison in order to rescue fellow police officer Louis Burke from hundreds angry and homicidal convicts. #2. The fact that The Sandman seemed to have come back to life at the end movie after he was obviously killed by Burke, with a hail of bullets, when the movie started. The film hold together pretty well and gives you the kind of non-stop action that you would expect from it. "},{"Title":"i'm the sandman.......","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant, or the film where Van Dammes voice broke is an odd affair. It's not like really any of his other films, it's very dark and gloomy but still has some great fights in it.the story is something about human organs being harvested by the prison, and Van Damme goes in there undercover to find out what in the hell is going on.About halfway through the film,'the sandman' becomes an inmate, and before you know it, he tells everyone that Van Damme is a cop, and probably the fact that he is from Belgium too.This is when the action really begins, but not in very large amounts. Van Damme is very broody and mumbles a lot through the film, there are good cops, bad guards, cross dressing prisoners, and red herrings galore.It's not the best film he has made, but it's far from the worst.If you are a fan of Van Damme, it's well worth seeing. He does his trademark roundhouse kick a few times, and the fight at the end has the good old editing that makes Van Damme look like he kicks the bloke twenty times, when really he does it once.very dark at times, narrative could be better, bit it's a cannon film, so it's ultimately a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"I don't punk for nobody.","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Canadian cop Louis Burke is assigned to go undercover in a notorious prison where prisoners are mysteriously being killed off. Being one tough cookie he is able to earn respect and trust from the hardened criminals, but just as he thinks he's getting to the bottom of the case, and old adversary shows up.I agree with the other reviewers who boldly state that you know what you are getting when you load a JCVD film into your player. It's safe to say that by and large, you are a fan of sorts of nonsense high velocity bottom kicking!. I consider myself one of that number, however this doesn't mean that every film should be talked up as worthy entertainment, Van Damme has done some pretty naff films, Death Warrant as it happens, falls somewhere in between decent and poor. Just two minutes into the piece and Jean is whooping some punks who clearly can't see he's built like a brick toilet!, and that of course is merely a taster of things to come. Death Warrant actually doesn't score too high for the amount of fight sequences, it finds Van Damme and the makers veering towards putting flesh on the bones of their story, it's formulaic for sure, but it's interesting enough and the support cast is worthy of interest.Robert Guillaume is a face most will know from popular TV work go on, look him up, Patrick Kilpatrick was in Minority Report and Eraser, and the astute fans of action films will spot the awesome Al Leong, who's credits include Big Trouble in Little China, Lethal Weapon, Action Jackson, They Live and Die Hard. Sadly the female lead Cynthia Gibb is hopelessly hopeless, tho to be fair to her she really is only Van Damme fodder, if you get my meaning!, and of course the inevitable twist is just that, inevitable. But it has its moments, it's just not a film anyone should put forward as a first film for someone interested in a bit of Van Damage, steer them towards Bloodsport, Sudden Death or Timecop instead. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme  is great in this movie","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant (1990).Jean-Claude Van Damme stars in this movie as a cop called Louis Burke who goes undercover in a prison to try and find out who is killing heaps of prisoners.He befriends a few prisoners like Hawkins and Priest who help him to try and find out who is killing the prisoners.And as they are getting close to uncovering who is killing them and what for a psycho called The Sandman that Jean-Claude put in jail is transfered to the jail where he is.Jean-Claude is in trouble now because all of the prisoners know that he is a cop now and the Sandman and the rest of the prisoners are trying to kill him.This movie is by far one of Jean-Claude Van Dammes better movies and if you are a die hard Van Damme fan this movie is a must buy.And if you liked this movie you should watch one of these Van Damme greats like Bloodsport (1988),Kickboxer (1989),Timecop (1994) and Sudden Death (1995).Over all i really like this movie and do not believe the crap rating of 4.7 this movie has got.My rating for this movie is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever, Sandman i look up 2 him","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Death Warrant has to be the greatest action movie of all time even though its a comedy. The on liners are as good as the ones in Airplane etc. You cant Kill me Burke i`m the Sandman wot a guy that feller is. The suspense at the end. The Sandman he`s a tough cookie how come Patrick Kilpatrick never got Knighted after that, I dont know the Queen cant of been a fan. Van Damme he`s a bit of a weed in it he`s no Frank Dux from bloodsport he`s acting more like Ian Mason or is it brian Kilcline. Anyway greatest movie ever. "},{"Title":"With Lionheart, Van Damme is making his career gold with this movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I think starting with Lionheart 7 then this 1 & the other ones 2 come, Van Damme's career is reaching gold. Its a cool one with The Sandman. He just can't die but Van Damme is ready. Action here we come. A must see "},{"Title":"One of Van Damme's Better Movies !!!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  'Death Warrant' is one of Van Damme's better films. The plot in the movie is pretty good, but the acting could have been better. There is some good fighting-scenes. The best one is the last one, when 'The Sandman', steps out of the fire... I give the movie 6/10 ;-) "}{"Title":"One of Van Damme's better films.","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Death Warrant is one of Jean Claude Van Damme's better films. It is entertaining and well paced. "},{"Title":"My favourite - not the best movie ever, but definitely MY FAVOURITE!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has entertained me ever since I first saw it a few years ago - since then I have had it on video, VCD and now DVD (although some scally just stole it). I'll be buying another copy on DVD - this film is that much fun!The story is a gripping tale of corruption and defence. Van Damme is super cool, and who doesn't just love prison movies? This has in my opinion a perfect balance of action and tension building storyline developmentDeath Warrant is without a doubt the best Van Damme movie. Death Warrant is without a doubt my favourite movie of all time. Death Warrant is with doubt the best movie of all time! "},{"Title":"Delivers what it promises","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Probably qualifies as JCVD's first actual movie, or at least the first one with a budget above six figures or where he's not playing the karate tournament guy ('No Retreat, No Surrender', 'Bloodsport', 'Kickboxer'). Written by David S. Goyer (Yes, that David S. Goyer, his first sold screenplay), it's got clichés and contrivances galore, but it's also got flashes of wit rare for the genre and moves along at a brisk, fat free clip. Speaking of fat free, this is JCVD at the height of his JCVDness, and though his normal screen charm (and I mean that) is buttoned down here thanks to the prison setting, he brings the physical goods. Co-star Robert Guillaume helps class things up a bit and it's stylishly directed by the otherwise unremarkable Daren Sarafian ('Terminal Velocity'). Not a great film by even the loosest standards, but much better than you'd expect. "},{"Title":"Early Goyer is a Disappointing Goyer","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Sheesh... this was not one of Van Damme's better films...David S. Goyer has always been a hit-or-miss from the start, but I still can't believe he wrote this crap for one of his first-ever movie industry projects. I guess you had to start somewhere.Burke is a cop who goes to prison as an undercover inmate to investigate a series of inmate murders. His cover is threatened when one of his old busts is taken to the same jail. Throw Van Damme and a hot supervising officer into the mix, and you should have an undeniably fun action gem chock full of helicopter kicks and Van Damage.But it isn't.So what went wrong?The plot twist was a bit clever. That's probably the best thing I can say about this movie. Van Damme at least has some kind of charm about him in most of his movies--that kind of charm that makes you want to see more of an actor, even if his or her acting is terrible at the time (Schwarzenegger is another good example).One of the most annoying things about this movie was the dialogue. It obviously wasn't Goyer's strong suit back then, because in the opening scene, we find out who Van Damme's character is, where he came from, why he's there, and that he isn't a guy who plays by the rules--in three lines of some of the most forced dialogue I've heard in quite a while. Expository dialogue is everywhere in this movie. They even explain the twist and the motivations behind it.The generic music sucks at setting the right tone, sucks at building suspense, and even sucks at being generic. Van Damme's acting is Oscar-worthy, as usual. Then again, his hilariously poor acting skills are not why I watch Van Damme movies. But the reason I watch his movies wasn't present in this one he's usually fun to watch. Unfortunately, here, he was a bore. "},{"Title":"Van Damme kicks again","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" RCMP Louis Burke (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is in L.A. and brings down madman Christian 'The Sandman' Naylor. Sixteen months later, he returns to investigate Harrison penitentiary where the assistant warden as well as some prisoners have been killed. He goes undercover as a convict with lawyer Amanda Beckett (Cynthia Gibb) posing as his wife. Sergeant DeGraf (Art LaFleur) runs the prison with an iron fist. Hawkins (Robert Guillaume) is the one-eyed elder statesman prisoner. Louis runs into gang trouble but the prison holds darker secrets.There are a lot of cheesy B-movie aspect to the prison. Most notable is the basement brothel. The production is second rate. The good part is that Van Damme gets to do some butt kicking. There's nothing wrong with that. If anything, it needs more Van Damme butt kicking. The investigation is lackluster. There isn't much tension. Van Damme fans may like this but nobody else will. "},{"Title":"Van Damme In His Prime","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" An in his prime Van Damme is in top form in this routine action flick. Plot In A Paragraph Tough police officer Lewis Burke (Van Damme) is sent undercover in a maximum security prison, to investigate some mysterious deaths of inmates and guards. On the outside investigative attorney, Amanda Beckett (Cynthia Gibb) poses as his wife, whilst also investigating what is going on. It is routine, it is predictable, it is clichéd and it is poorly acted at times. However there is still fun to be had here, as the action pieces all well done and there is a certain amount of tension. Van Damme is in great shape and acts as well as Van Damme could back then. Cynthia Gibb, who I always enjoy watching on screen looks fantastic and also gives her usual reliable performance. It's a shame she disappeared in to TV movies in the 1990's after this movie, as I have not seen her in anything since. "},{"Title":"Bring me a dream, Burke!","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Let me cut right to the chase here the only reason to watch this movie is The Sandman. The poor guy barely gets to be in this, but when he gets his moment of glory he totally delivers. The Sandman is one of the most ridiculous villains I've ever seen, and therefor also one of the most entertaining. When he shows up the movie immediately looks better, because up until then there really isn't much going on. Van Damme investigates some mysterious murders in a prison, but it's pretty obvious what's going on so the moment where you're supposed to gasp at who's behind everything doesn't work. Also, while it's a good thing Van Damme is less of an egomaniac than Steven Seagal and actually lets himself get hit once in a while, this movie pushes it too far to the other side. Van Damme takes about a thousand punches throughout this movie and is on the ground for most of the running time, in fact he only wins the end fight (talk about a spoiler!) by dumb luck/opponent. Obviously this makes more sense than a fighting machine taking down dozens of prisoners at a time, but who the hell wants a Van Damme movie to make sense? Death Warrant gets a pass because again, The Sandman is great, but it definitely isn't Van Damme's best. "},{"Title":"Bring me a dream, Burke.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Canadian cop Louis Burke (Jean-Claude Van Damme) goes undercover in California (?) prison to solve series of murders. Then a serial killer called the Sandman (Patrick Kilpatrick) shows up there. Burke put the Sandman away so they have things to discuss. It's a JCVD movie, so you pretty much know what to expect kicking, kicking, and, not surprisingly, more kicking.By-the-numbers Van Damme actioner. Every prison movie cliché is on display. It's watchable enough. You get what you pay for. Robert Guillaume is good as the older inmate who helps Van Damme out. Cynthia Gibb is the requisite love interest who gets her pipes cleaned by the muscles from Brussels. Cartoon-faced Art LaFleur is hard to take seriously as the sadistic prison guard. First movie from screenwriter David Goyer. "},{"Title":"A deadly situation with unrealistic payoff","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" By 1990, Jean-Claude Van Damme had claimed success in his late 80s sports films like Kickboxer (1989) and Bloodsport (1988). Along with this film, was Lionheart (1990) released the same year, which also many fans enjoyed. The thing was for almost every film Van Damme had played in, his role was that of a character with a family member he had lost and was fighting for. It was new and touching for him as an actor in the beginning. But as time went on, the story lines began to feel awfully similar. Still, they entertained fans and viewers alike for the most part. Then came Death Warrant (1990), a movie with a whole different setting and situation which is great, yet failed to change the rest of the elements that Van Damme has already worked with in past stories. Van Damme plays a cop named Burke who goes incognito at a penitentiary to solve a series of murders that have taken place there. This particular plot line is fine if it were handled without being treated so generically. Helping Burke from the outside is Amanda (Cynthia Gibb, best known for playing Sandy in Short Circuit 2 (1988)), posing as his wife. Starting off with how generic this story line is already headed, I'm sure viewers could pick out what happens between Amanda and Burke. It's quite blatant with how both characters are set up and developed. Are they memorable? Mehhh,...maybe to some. The only part of the plot that is different from Van Damme's past movies is that he's no longer fighting for a family member, he's fighting for himself. Kind of like First Blood (1982) but with a mediocre script.Besides these actors, the rest of the main cast isn't terrible but are mostly under developed too. There's Abdul Salaam El Razzac as a man named Priest and Hawkins (Robert Guillaume - known for voicing Rafiki to The Lion King (1994)). Both of these actors give interesting character portrayals but somehow side with Burke for little to no reason. If they are criminals what exactly made them warm up so quickly to Burke? Then there's a cult favorite for some fans, Art LaFleur for playing in Stallone's Cobra (1986) & The Blob (1988) remake. He plays the head of the penitentiary and dislikes Burke a lot and for what reason? It's not given either. Lastly is a character known as the Sandman (Patrick Kilpatrick) who has the ability to withstand almost any type of lethal damage. And the reason behind this is? Again,...not given. Kilpatrick also isn't that memorable as a villain. He's more obnoxious than actually threatening.Here's the biggest surprise, the screenplay was written by the now insanely sought out David S. Goyer. Yes, the man behind all the future comic book movies - this was his entry into film. Wow, Mr. Goyer you didn't start off that great. Russell Carpenter as head of cinematography was OK but nothing really stood out. The editing was strange at times though, especially during the fight scenes. There would be quick cuts to an action Burke would make and it would be repeated to make it look faster but instead it felt like filler. Even Gary Chang's score was in the middle. At times it work by using his signature marimba drums to emphasize the wild like instincts to survive such a hostile place, but it also didn't feel totally appropriate at times. He even has a main theme for Burke but it doesn't have a tune that is memorable. Sigh.Its situation is written differently from that of Van Damme's earlier efforts but somehow all the same elements make it in as well. Plus, the screenplay suffers from several motivations and explanations that aren't explained. Thankfully it at least has a decent cast and music to back it up. "},{"Title":"Okay, I REALLY do like Van Damme, but...","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Despite some of the more esoteric films that I like, I really DO enjoy watching Van Damme's movies. I think that they are a blast! A lot of people say that he is 'wooden', but I just think he pulls it off as being very cool. Not all actors in his category can do that and really DO look wooden (cough... Steven Seagal, cough...)With that said... unfortunately, in my lowly and wretched opinion as opposed to several reviewers here, I truly do NOT think that this is one of the better Van Damme films. As a matter of fact, I feel that in all the ones that I've seen, this is probably my least favourite. The story, although rather plain, is fine. His acting and the supporting actors are fine. Even some of the quirky prison stuff and people are okay. It's just that for some odd reason, around the last 30-40 minutes, to me anyway, it really seems like the director starts to get VERY lazy. All of the sudden where everything was just fine before, the scenes, acting, and ESPECIALLY the editing, line delivery, and pacing REALLY take a dive. It honestly is like about two thirds of the way into the film the director lost interest, or did a few too many funny cigarettes or something, I don't know. At that point it just seems like whatever focus or sharpness the direction had was lost. Really weird...So, being that the end of a film SHOULD indeed be stronger to finish it out, this one left me feeling like it ultimately was a bit silly. IF the director had finished it out at the exact same level of quality with which he shaped the first two thirds of the film, then I think it would have been just great.Also, Kilpatrick usually comes across as very, VERY menacing, but in this movie he seems like more of a goofy, grinning pussy somehow; I think that that really took away some of the impact that the ending could have had.I don't know, maybe for a Van Damme film I'm just thinking too 'damme' much... ) But, a film is a film, and when you start at a certain level you really should finish it at LEAST at the same level. But hey, for people who like Van Damme and his films (like most of the other reviewers here) you likely will enjoy it anyway.For me personally, this was one of his least satisfying films; one of my personal favourites would have to be 'TIMECOP' (I don't know if that helps or hurts my credibility...  ) "}{"Title":"Death Warrant = Best Action Prison Movie Ever!!!","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Probably the best action prison movie around. I am not talking about escape thriller type films. I am talking about high kicks, jump kicks, face punches, and people getting lit by fire. This was filmed during Van Damme's glory years with such classics as Kickboxer, Bloodsport and Universal Soldier (MY personal Favorite). Death Warrant is Top Tier Van Damme and he knows it. He has that early cockiness about him that he seems to lose as he gets older and his films steadily get worse and worse and eventually he only makes straight to video type films. Interesting tidbit, Death warrant was written by David Goyer, who has also written Christopher Nolan's Batman Trilogy, for those starving Batman fans who need more. This film is dark and gritty but still has that 90s flare which I think brings a nice balance to the movie. If you are in the mood for some Van Damme Spilt kicks and don't want to think to hard then this is the film for you.You can get more info by visiting my Youtube Channel Logan Toxic or by visiting my page at https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIsf-VfAAtU "},{"Title":"This is L.A., not Canada! We have procedures here!","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant should do just fine when film fans need their action fix. It's a pretty entertaining Jean-Claude Van Damme vehicle with a solid pace, assorted brutality, and enjoyably heinous villains. Written by David S. Goyer, and directed by Deran Sarafian, it stars JCVD as Louis Burke, a Royal Canadian Mountie from Quebec (thus explaining his accent this time around) who is recruited to work undercover in the L.A. prison system. Posing as a prisoner, his job is to find out who has been offing various inmates. The real trouble begins when an old nemesis of his, a serial killer dubbed The Sandman (Patrick Kilpatrick) is transferred to the same prison as Louis. All in all, this movie is a good deal of fun; even if forgettable in the end, it's slickly made, with JCVD in fine form and kicking lots of ass as per usual. It benefits from a strong supporting cast beginning with Robert Benson Guillaume as Hawkins, a one-eyed veteran prisoner who provides Burke with valuable assistance. The bad guys are an entertaining bunch, from brutal head guard DeGraf (Art LaFleur) to the hilarious Sandman, a swaggering psycho often to be seen with a smile on his face. He also proves to be very hard to kill! Joshua Miller (Near Dark) is a geeky genius computer hacker, Armin Shimerman ('Star Trek Deep Space Nine') a nefarious prison doctor, Conrad Dunn (Psycho from Stripes) the solicitous Konefke, and the extremely striking Abdul Salaam El Razzac plays enigmatic prisoner Priest. The pretty Cynthia Gibb is adequate as the major female presence and requisite love interest. The instantly recognizable Al Leong has one of his standard henchmen parts and Larry Hankin, himself no stranger to prison pictures having done Escape from Alcatraz, appears unbilled as Myerson. Russell Carpenter does the frequently moody cinematography and plenty of atmosphere is guaranteed due to the prison setting; the opening sequence with Burke searching for The Sandman is likewise full of menace. The final quarter hour or so with Burke and The Sandman facing off is exciting and a total hoot as The Sandman keeps coming back for more. Fans of the star and the genre should be quite amused, overall, and at just under an hour and a half, the movie does not overstay its welcome. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Let me guess, you're innocent right?","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A husky sounding Jean-Claude Van Damme is a typical Canadian mounted maverick cop who goes undercover in a maximum security prison to investigate the random deaths of certain prisoners. Surprisingly Death Warrant seemed to focus on Van Damme actually acting than more so on just busting body parts. The sadistic violence (and its good to see Van Damme is only human copping a battering or two) plays second fiddle to the brooding dramatics of this undercover investigation. Still the over-the-top, knuckle cracking sequences were excitingly well-done, especially when Van Damme goes up against his nemesis a maniac performance by Robert Kilpatrick as the dangerous Christian The Sandman Taylor. When the two come to blows (after the first being landed by a large spanner), hell erupts. Kilpatrick's character might no have much to do with the central plot, but his rousing inclusion (the atmospheric first encounter in the prison) was a memorable one. Van Damme goes about trying to make friends with the inmates, but instead sticks out like a sore thumb by finding himself in glaring competitions, asking numerous questions, using his mopping skills on unexpected victims and he can't seem to hang around with his own kind. From this he catches the eyes of the prison guards. Art LaFleur stands out as the rock-hard prison Sergeant. Robert Guillaume is good as a grizzled inmate and Cynthia Gibb as an outside contact. Also showing up in smaller parts are George Dickerson, Abdul Salaam El Razzac, Joshua John Miller and Armen Shimerman. The simplistic plot is a routine genre piece, which opens up a can of worms involving a secret conspiracy&#x85; although a predictable structural development unfolds with some uncanny acts. While it might be clichéd with its characters, circumstances and anxiety (things not entirely going to plan), director Deran Sarafian's tidy handling crafted some tough suspense and simmering visuals from its sordidly dark and testosterone laced surroundings. Sarafian has gone on to much bigger things. A commendably taut Van Damme action drama vehicle blast.Here no evil, see no evil. "},{"Title":"Undercover Prison Madness","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" People are dying in prison so, rather than a sudden government inspection or closing it down and investigating the causes, or even examining the bodies, someone decided that the best approach would be to send in an undercover policemen posing as an inmate. That's how much the police force cares about the people it puts away. It can't bare to see them come to harm. It would rather risk the life of one of its own, knowing full well that if discovered he will surely be horridly killed.But this is just what the audience knows from near the start. The real plot is described below (and spoiled) Once upon a time, in the 1980s, a brilliant doctor figured out a way of preserving donated organs at fridge/room temperatures for ages in some weird pink jelly stuff. But rather than write up his findings in Nature, the Lancet or the New England Journal, he just sat on this for years. Exactly which organisation funded his research and then did not care that he did not disclose what he was up to to anyone remains a mystery. Perhaps it was the Pablo Escobar Heart Foundation, or the FARC Guerilla Gorilla to Human Transplant Institute. Then, in 1990 or thereabouts, some rich guy approached this doctor (who was now working in a prison), somehow knowing he was an expert in organ transplant, asking him for an organ. Because organ regulations and murder investigations in the US were quite weak in those days, no one realised that a prisoner was mysteriously murdered and had also had his liver removed. So this doctor realised he could make loads of money knocking off prisoners and doing this again and again.There is also fun with Van Damme - no guard reverse round house kick - fighting, and disappearing ninja bad guys who like to stand in risky positions (like in front of an open furnace they just opened up for no reason), and fickle prisoners that keep changing their minds about murdering someone. "},{"Title":"I don't pay!.. I don't punk!","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme is definitely a guilty pleasure for me. I don't go looking for fine acting and a great script. I want action and lots of it! Van Damme is a Canadian cop who goes undercover in LA to find out what is going on in a prison. He is made for this type of role, as he will have plenty of opportunity to display his considerable martial arts skills.He isn't in prison long before he ticks of the Hispanic gangs and has to continually fight to stay alive.Cynthia Gibb provides the essential babe in these flicks, even if she wasn't completely satisfying. And, when does a prisoner in the hole get out for conjugal rights? I always enjoy Robert Guillaume, and he didn't disappoint. Patrick Kilpatrick made a formidable foe and the final bout was well worth the time spent getting there.A guilty pleasure, but a pleasure nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Great plot, good action, can be taken serious, but . . .","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I really get tired of fight-action films where men keep getting pummeled to within an inch of their lives, then, the next minute, they're back up and running and ready for the fight to continue, as though they'd just finished warming up. When the Sandman was sent into the firey furnace near the end, you just KNEW he was going to climb back out, in this case, flaming on fire, but his hair wasn't burned, and it would be the first thing to flame away. Come on, Hollywood or canadawood, quit with all the malarkey of this sort, make the fighting scenes realistic and believable, and don't make us have to adjust our brains with this kind of un-killable warriors. It was a great film, but the intense fighting scenes just push beyond the limit. "},{"Title":"Your usual Van Damme film","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant is another good film from the early nineties featuring Van Damage and all his greatness, this time Van Damme (a police officer) goes undercover to a prison that supposedly has been the hosts to some rather mysterious deaths. What transpires from there is your usual prison flick fights, gangs, murders, plotting to get the bad guy, the eventual fight sequences, etc. Considering the time this film came out (1990), it isn't too bad at all, I have definitely seen much worse in the action film department than this. There are some flaws, continuity errors, goofs, and what have you, but Van Dammes films in my opinion should be devoid of any Roger Ebert-laden scrutiny. They are entirely designed for the action sequences that many fans (along with myself) find enjoyment in watching for the simplicity of entertainment value. I recommend 'Death Warrant' to anyone who appreciates your good old rock 'em sock 'em Van Damage (Bloodsport, Kickboxer and Lionheart for example). Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Don't touch my kidney.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Canadian Mountie Louis Burke is sent on a mission undercover into a US maximum security prison as a prisoner to investigate the deaths of several prisoners. Once there he discovers an underground scheme by the corrupt prison authorities to kill & harvest prisoners for their organs. When they discover Burke, the black marketeers send in the Sandman, a violent killer who Burke had previously arrested, to kill him.Jean-Claude Van Damme started his career in the late 1980s, making films such as BLOODSPORT, KICKBOXER & LIONHEART / WRONG BET, where he would participate in some kind of underground fighting tournament. These films limited his career until Albert Pyun cast him in CYBORG, which was not a great film or even a good one, but which broadened his appeal to action fans.Death Warrant is perhaps the first mainstream action film that Van Damme had enjoyed success with. As far as films go, Death Warrant is an action film with horror undertones, with its almost superhuman serial killer, the Sandman (played by Patrick Kilpatrick, who gets the chance to go full-on with his role), a psycho who proves to be one of the toughest villains Van Damme has ever faced (along with Dolph Lundgren & Vincent Klyn). The film's story is not as well sketched out as it should be, but remains passable (if you ever get the feeling that it was written by a teenager, you would be right &#x96; Goyer wrote this when he was 18!).The acting is pretty standard, although special mention must be made of Robert Guillaume as the seasoned black inmate who befriends Van Damme, Art LaFleur as the corrupt prison warden & Abdul Salaam El Razzac, a guy who will give you the creeps with his strange eyes.As usual, the film's main attraction is watching Van Damme spin-kick his way through several inmates, most notably one scene where he takes on a Hispanic prisoner & his homey Bruce, who likes to kick the crap out of white trash. Watch as he VanDamminates both knuckleheads with nothing but his fierce determination, martial arts skills & a broken mop handle (although Bruce does have the edge by brandishing a metal chain &#x96; sort of like a contest of scissors, paper, rock; or more like sticks, chains & legs). Death Warrant, with its underground practices & tough inmates, most closely resembles The Story of Ricky, that infamous Hong Kong gorefest, although Van Damme does not get so much as a scratch (he does take a wrench to the chest & nearly gets impaled on a wood lathe).At the end of the day, I would recommend Death Warrant to action fans, Van Dammists & those who like prison films. Just don't ask where that kidney came from. "},{"Title":"Great action thriller with some horror elements","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Of course just like the most of the movies with Jean-Claude Van Damme, this one has some martial arts scenes, only this time there is a little less of them. Martial art scenes were great, especially the last one, but what I liked about this film was the story, though some people may say that the story is nothing special, I really don't think so. It's a prison flick with some horror movie elements. The atmosphere was kinda creepy, there were few cruel murder and torture scenes and as in most of Jean-Claude Van Damme movies, there is some colorful bad guys. I think this movie would be interesting for a different audiences, but if you like prison flicks, than you definitely got to watch it. "},{"Title":"Above average fight-fest","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Hmmmm, a six or a seven??? I expected very little from this movie other than a few good fights - I was so surprised by what I got that I have to give it a 7. Interestingly, Van Damme totally avoids the over-the-top martial arts that made him famous - there is ONE flying kick at the very end... and you don't even really see it. The fights, nonetheless, are good Brutal, down and dirty - as you would expect in a gritty high security prison I guess.The plot is interesting - the movie is mostly suspenseful and you definitely want to know why all the killings are taking place. I was amazed to see that this is David Goyer's first work - a promising start to his brilliant career. Some of the lines are corny, but nowhere near the cheesiness of an average Van Damme movie. In fact, the performances are very solid. Kilpatrick, in particular, is just brilliant - his smile and menace freaked me and my wife out totally. If his character was used more, the Sandman could have been one of the great B-movie villains.So this movie really took me by surprise - it is almost certainly Van Dam's best OVERALL (taking into account acting, plot, suspense and so on - although of course Bloodsport has better fights). It's low rating at IMDb probably reflects that most viewers of this movie just want a huge marital-art fest. Well, it's obvious that the makers consciously decided against that - they decided to tell a suspenseful, quite thrilling, story - and have a few down and dirty brawls as required. Overall... well worth a look, just hang the preconceptions of what Van Dam movie 'should' be. "}{"Title":"Van Damme against violent inmates using his incredible martial art","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The cunning detective named Louis Burke(Jean Claude Van Damme), a Royal Canadian police, fights in an abandoned location with a villain called Sandman. Later Burke is sent prison of Harrison to investigate assassination nine inmates mysteriously murdered. He poses as a prisoner and advocate Amanda(Cynthia Gibb) acts like his spouse. Burke befriends an one-eyed inmate(Robert Guillaume) and the Priest. The Harrison Penitentiary is ruled by a tough sergeant named De Graff (Art Le Flour) and attended by a doctor(Armin Shimerman). Burke must to confront brutal inmates(Al Leong) and his cruel enemy Sandman(Patrick Kilpatrick). Burke and Amanda are only helped by a teen hacker(Joshua Miller) until the stirring and strong final showdown.This violent film contains suspense, action, tension and spectacular fights. Entertaining movie, thanks to tight pace, skillful edition and well mounted combats. It's tense and exciting , at time lackluster action movie , but the struggles and fighting are well done . Jean Claude is nice as two-fisted hero in this middling budget picture. Interesting screenplay by David S Goyer, today famous as producer and screenwriter of superheroes(Batman, Blade,Ghost Rider). Appropriate musical score fitting to action movie by Gary Chang. Colorful cinematography by Russell Carpenter, a future cameraman of blockbusters (Titanic, Charlie's Angels I and II, Monster in law). The motion picture is professionally directed by Deran Sarafian who achieved success with ¨Terminal velocity¨, though today exclusively directing for television (CSI Miami, NY, Without trace, Lost). Pointlessly energetic and excessively violent, the film will like the true devotee of main actor. It's a must see for Van Damme fans. "},{"Title":"Good premise, utter tripe","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Louis Burke is an undercover cop sent to investigate a prison where inmates are inexplicably dying. Doesn't sound too shabby, Jean Claude Van Damme in a prison full of people who can slowly put their faces on his feet and fists. That is, in essence, why you would watch a Jean Claude Van Damme movie so it's disappointing that this is exactly the opposite of what happens. After running around corridors for an hour and a half, being put in solitary confinement (although allowed out to have sex, because sweet mercy that's what being Jean Claude Van Damme is about) Burke suddenly finds out inmates are being killed and their organs removed, not in some event relating last hour's worth of clues he'd been gathering but because the guards left a surgical saw conveniently next to their big suspicious medical cabinet. Despite knowing full well at this point Burke is an undercover police officer, rather than simply kill him they decide to resurrect the most homosexual super villain since the 1960's The Joker to do the job for them. After having his cronies beat up Burke The Sandman brandishes a knife in his general direction, stroke's Burke's torso a bit and walks of laughing whilst Burke collapses (due to the damage incurred by two minute Hispanic men slapping his shoulders). From here in the movie just becomes one massive cock tease. There are about 4 opportunities where you're CERTAIN an awesome fight scene is about to break out. Opportunity 1 Hundreds of prisoners begun running at Burke, just asking to introduce their skulls to his feet. Fight avoided by fat evil guard shutting door on prisoners. Opportunity 2 Nasty guards surround Burke, leave their guns outside and start being massive jerks. Situations revolved by priest running in and shooting guards. Opportunity 3 Evil guard, who has been begging for a fight since the beginning of the movie enters the room with a shotgun and begins goading Burke into a fight. Fortunatly the guard stops to tell an injured black man how he's certainly going to shoot him then stands there smiling into space for over 7 seconds before Priest (with no real explanation why he's there)simply walks in and shoots him. Opportunity 4 Burke's spider sense tells him The Sandman is close by, and he flexes he screams for his nemesis to engage him in a final duel. The Sandman doesn't feel like duelling and instead takes Burke out by THROWING A SPANNER AT HIM....real mature asshole.At this point Burke and the Sandman enter into a tall rectangular room, with the entire inmate population gathered above them, cheering for Burke's demise. I hope you're not the type of person who enjoys action movies with a climactic final battle, though if you're the kind of person who enjoys movies with a hilarious slap fight you're in for a treat. Here is a brief overview of the fight - The Sandman picks up a bottle and slaps Burke with it 4 times. - Exhausted by the effort of slapping man with a bottle, The Sandman stands bolt still for a good 5 seconds before diving on the floor while Burke waves his feet in his general direction. - The Sandman runs over to a huge furnace, opens it, puts his hands in the air and begins giggling like a schoolgirl. - After standing laughing for another 5 seconds Burke's simply kicks The Sandman into a furnace - The sandman leaps out of the furnace, charred to a crisp, puts himself out by rolling, stands in front of a piece of metal sticking out of a wall and giggles at the camera for a further five seconds. - Burke performs the exact same kick, only this time The Sandman is impaled on a spike. With his last words he reminds Burke that he is The Sandman and resumes his giggling until he dies. - The inmates, overjoyed that Burke killed their companion, decide he's not such a bad guy after all and let him leave the prison.Burke kisses his girlfriend, his one eye'd black companion is put in an ambulance (fortunatly the gun wound directly to his heart is now on his stomach so he'll probably live). Credits roll, we all wonder what the hell happened to a movie which started out quite well. "},{"Title":"Decent early JCVD film.","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Death Warrant starts as tough cop Louis Burke (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is assigned to go undercover in Harrison Prison to unmask a killer, nine inmates & an assistant warden have all been murdered there within the past few months & it's Burke's job to find out what's going on before the media gets wind of it. A young law graduate named Amanda Beckett (Cynthia Gibb) will act as his wife & be Burke's go-between, Burke is transfered to Harrison Prison under the assumption he is there for armed robbery. Once there Burke sets about questioning various inmates & trying to find out any information he can but his questioning doesn't go unnoticed & soon finds himself in trouble from both the inmates & the sadistic prison guards. As Burke uncovers the shocking truth behind the murders he discovers a high level conspiracy that leaves him to literally fight for his life...This Canadian American co-production was directed Deran Sarafian & was one of JCVD's early decent budgeted films & one has to say that that Death Warrant is actually a pretty good action adventure film with a few darker horror thriller sub-plots also thrown in there for good measure, in fact it wouldn't surprise me to learn that death Warrant originally started out as a straight horror thriller but when JCVD became involved the money-men decided to up the action & fights & downplay the the darker elements a little. While I like to see JCVD kick ass as much as the next guy I did feel the film built itself up with the mystery surrounding the murders & the conspiracy but then almost totally forgets about any pay-off in favour of a big fight between JCVD & a serial killer he put away. In fact the darker elements of the story such as murdering prisoners & then selling their organs for profit are never really fully developed & don't go anywhere which is a shame because the hard violent action & fights coupled with the horror themed elements could have made for a great film, as it is I think Death Warrant is certainly a good film but by no means a great one. There is also one major plot point that I didn't understand, why did 'that' guy (I won't call him by name as it's part of a twist ending) send JCVD into Harrison Prison in the first place to investigate tha murders when he was behind it all along & could have (& does) ended up being exposed as the guy behind it? Why send your best man to investigate a crime your behind? Does that not slightly increase the chances of you being caught or found out? The pace is good, the story is fine although the ending isn't as satisfying as I would have liked & the character's are all serviceable & likable when they need to be & unlikable when the don't.The 'N' word used as a derogatory racial term for blacks is used throughout which may upset some since in these politically correct times your not allowed to say it anymore. The fights are good, well staged (although I don't know why The Sandman opens the furnace door & then just stands there waiting for JCVD to kick him inside it), have a certain energy & are fairly brutal & violent. The film has a really good look to it, the prison looks quite seedy & the maze of dark twisting tunnels gives it a labyrinthine look & atmosphere. The film is quite stylish as well with a well shot scene of someone being set on fire featuring some effective slow motion & close-ups.The film is well made & has good production values, Death Warrant was the first script by David S. Goyer who has gone on to write huge Hollywood films like Dark City (1998), Blade (1998), Blade II (2002), Blade Trinity (2004), Batman Begins (2005) & had a hand in The Dark Knight (2008) while cinematographer Russell Carpenter also has quite a CV with films like The Lawnmower Man (1992), Hard Target (1993), True Lies (1994), Titanic (1997) & the two Charlie's Angels films to his name. The acting is alright with Art LeFleur as a sadistic warden & Patrick Kilpatrick as a serial killer hamming it up & having fun with their roles.Death warrant is a solid JCVD action film that will satisfy most, I personally would have liked the mystery & horror elements explored a bit more but all the same Death Warrant isn't a bad film by any stretch of the imagination. JCVD returns to action prison genre in the flick In Hell (2003). "},{"Title":"He's not a bad actor....but","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The fighting is just too fake. Trying to look like a hero but he looks so bad. He gets beaten up too easily and totally fakes it. The fighting choreography looks so fake. It looks so staged. The guys just stand there and so expect to get hit. I mean, he's no Bruce Lee obviously, but look at Jet Li's choreography! This fighting is so easy to follow it looks so boring and fake. Jackie Chan's choreography looks so great too, his is funny. His acting is okay, but the fighting is just too boring. It puts me to sleep. Please man, no wonder this movie got its rating. This guy is not creative, he shouldn't do any more action films if the action puts you to sleep. Look at all his movies! A lot of them get low ratings! Come on guys, if you call THIS good then you haven't seen nothing yet. "},{"Title":"Money Can Buy Anything in Prison !","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film is filled with non-stop Action and it all begins when Jean Claude Ban Damme(Louis Burke),The Savage,'03, is given the assignment of going into prison as an under cover cop. Cynthia Gibb,(Amanda Beckett), Full Frontal,'02, has to play the wife to Louis Burke and encounters some horrible strip searches trying to visit her husband behind bars. If you want to see what life in prison is like, this film will give you a pretty good idea. Louis Burke finally gets some big bucks given to him and he is offered hard Moonshine Booze and some weird sex if he so desires. Louis Burke meets up with some pretty rough dudes and prison guards who do not take very lightly to cops. This film will definitely keep you on the edge of your seats. "},{"Title":"Lame action movie","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those action movies when an innocent action movie star goes to hell on earth &#x96; prison. Of course we know that he has to go there ,because duty calls. This movie is cheesy fantasy in style of early 90's.The story written by David Goyer (writer of &#x84;Blade series and &#x84;The Dark knight trilogy) is mildly interesting. The movie wants to be dark , but personally I find Death warrant too cheesy to take seriously. I find it laughable that such pretty face like Van Damme beats all those scary tough criminals. The love story feels completely generic here. The action scenes are kinda lifeless. The movie becomes really laughable in the end with Van Damme showing signs of really bad acting and over the top violence. The writing is mediocre at best.Another movie strictly for Van Damme fans. I would be impressed with this movie if I was 8 years old. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"not bad for a Van Damme movie","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Van Damme is in top form in this movie, in terms of physical conditioning and martial arts moves.there is a bit of acting here,but the movie mainly focuses on fight scenes,and they are pretty good.the story is OK,but not overly inspired,by any means.Cynthia Gibb adds some class as the love interest and Robert Guillame is also good as a fellow prisoner.Patrick Patrick Kilpatrick is quite good as the villain in the piece,though his role is limited,unfortunately.most of the movie takes place in a prison,so of course there is lots of violence and action.in my opinion,this is one of Van Damme's better movies,at least in terms of action and showcasing his martial arts skill.don't expect great acting,or you will be disappointed.but then,you probably don't watch Van Damme movies for the acting.for me,Death Warrant is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Van Damme the ULTIMATE 80's / B-movie actor","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is a well scripted Van Damme movie. Considering it is from the 90's, I was initailly wary of it as Van Damme movies have been progressively getting worse - I think because he is now into producing them himself. Where was I...ah, yes, this is a well scriped movie. It is packed with an intense plot, okay dialogue, and cosmic martial arts. Van Dammes roundhouse is noticeably slower than in No Retreat, No Surrender, but his flying roundhouse has become more accurate than in bloodsport(where it him a few consecutive hits to knock out Tong Po). The movie i set i a prison, so there is only ambiguous romance and your own imagination. I would recommend watching his earlier flicks before moving to this as it is a highly evolved Van Damme movie. To grasp a true appreciation of his calibre one must first know the evolution of such a talented actor / fighter. "},{"Title":"Starts well but slips into standard video action movie mode before it's half way done","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Having successfully captured the serial killer The Sandman in America, undercover cop Louis Burke is offered the chance to go undercover in a prison and investigate mysterious deaths that may or may not be linked to guards and inmates working together for some reason.  Things are complicated during the undercover operation by the discovery of how far the conspiracy goes, the fact that Burke has been marked for death but also the arrival of an all too familiar inmate.Made in the early nineties this now seems very dated, the costumes, music etc all are 80's style.  However that aside this is OK for most of the time.  The first half mixes some action with a reasonable plot that builds gradually.  However in the second half something goes wrong and it becomes a by-the-numbers fight movie.  What happens is that the script realises that it's Van Damme v's a conspiracy &#150; but how can you have a man on man fight against a conspiracy?  To solve this problem we wheel in the Sandman from the start to give Burke someone else to fight for the end.  This brings the conspiracy to an end and gives a more traditional fight ending that isn't as good.Van Damme is ok here but really all he does is fight and look tough.  The rest of the cast is pretty good but nothing special.  Overall this starts out as a reasonable film but slips back into the typical Van Damme action flick mode.  Shame. "},{"Title":"this is one of those kind of movies  that give you...","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Well...It has past eleven years since this movie was made and I decided to comment it now. Why? I have no idea. I'll start from the grade that I gave this movie- it was four, but maybe if this would year '90 the grade would be much higher. Now the time has past and Van Damme has lost his magical macho muscle. The movie was actually quite good for it's time, it was very dark like a real thriller. This is one of those kind of movies that give you the very sad situation and then very happy ending.The film itself is about a canadian police officer who is put in jail as an undercover cop to investigate the murders of few locals. In jail he meets his old friend (the bad guy) who he battles to the end. Overall it wasn't very bad movie even watching it eleven years later. "}{"Title":"A confused, but entertaining potboiler","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It seems that Double Impact was the movie that made Van-Damme a star, while the martial arts-based B-movies that preceded it merely built his fame ever-so-gradually. Death Warrant is the odd-one-out in that regard as it is neither a Kickboxing tournament flick nor laughably awful. It seems to be set in some semblance of reality though the story never seems to be quite sure of what it wants to be or where to go.Lewis Burke is a kickboxing Canadian Mountie (there's a sequence of words you never thought you'd read) who, in the opening moments of the film, guns down and kills demented serial killer The Sandman at point blank range with a .357 Magnum. Some time later he is sent undercover in an extremely corrupt prison to find out who has been serial-killing the inmates. Helping him out is Amanda Beckett (Cynthia Gibb, looking exactly like Emma Watson...only prettier) a lawyer who poses as his wife and feeds him information from the outside. Meanwhile, it turns out that The Sandman ain't quite dead (despite being shot many times with a .357 Magnum) and is seeking revenge. There goes Burke's cover.Death Warrant (meaningless title, btw) was the first screenplay by acclaimed writer David S. Goyer (The Invisible, The Dark Knight trilogy) and you can identify his surreal trademark even at this early stage. However, the film builds and develops like a supernatural horror, yet is firmly grounded in the 'prison thriller' genre. The eventual revelation is very weak, and belongs in a totally different movie. If it had the nerve go all the way with the supernatural element it would have been much better. I would rather a movie aim for something higher, and fail, that aim for something low-wattage and dull (which Death Warrant unfortunately does) and 'succeed'. Patrick Kilpatrick (an edgy, nervous actor who you might recognize as Finn in Last Man Standing, or as the mercenary who unwisely challenges Penn's authority in Under Siege 2) is brilliant as the Sandman but he's given little to do. His presence in the movie feels out of place.Deran Sarafian's slick direction makes a lot of use of light, shadow, and creepy cinematography, but with such a schizo script there's only so much he can do with it. A disappointment, but decent entertainment nonetheless. "},{"Title":"it kills me","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The sandman is the star of this film. He cracks me up.The only question is how did this film get released? It's the greatest comedy i've ever seen and it's meant to be an action film. Send me a dream Burke send me a dream. P.S this film cannot be found on video anywhere that i know of. To sum this film up Mousey loves it and that says it all. "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  As a popcorn guzzling action lover, I found this film to be pretty bad. Sure, Van Damne may not be the greatest of all the action movie heroes, but he does have his moments (Hard Target, TimeCop, Sudden Death, Universal Soldier).  But this film was just a waste.  It was a slow paced, pretty boring film.  The action of the film consists of two fight scenes, neither of which are any good.  This is Van Damne's worst film, and one of the worst action films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I've Seen It Before","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I've seen it before but I've never had occasion or the inclination to do it myself apologise for giving a movie such a high rating.The punch line seems to be JCVD thinks this is good stuff. After every movie he releases the critics as one gang up on him and saw him to pieces for every imaginable and unimaginable cinematic crime. And he writes to them - he writes to them and apologises. And laments his latest and greatest didn't turn out as good as he'd counted on.And then he launches into a narrative about his next movie - and how good this next one, as opposed to all the losers before it, is going to be.Either the guy is just an astute businessman or he really thinks these movies are great or both. Either way it doesn't matter and what really matters is what we get to watch.No one I know would ever 'choose' to watch a movie like this. That we did watch it has to do with the fact that transmission is poor right now where we are living in paradise and there's only one channel and this is all that was on. Oh good grief.There's a certain competition going on amongst these non-actors seeing who can come up with the goriest most unbelievably bloody, disgusting, and bloody disgusting scenes. And that's bad enough.But the direction and the S/FX make it even worse. A Bugs Bunny cartoon has more realism - and come to think of it, a Bugs Bunny cartoon has more pathos as well.This is a husk - it isn't a movie. It's downright unadulterated pathetic. Avoid at all costs. For that matter, avoid all movies made by this 'tussle from Brussels' at all costs. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme plays Louis Burke a mounty who goes undercover in a hardcore prison to investigate why people are dying behind bars, and finds out in the process that the cover-up involves the guards who are harvesting organs in this dumb yet mildly diverting prison pic. "},{"Title":"another stinker","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This one sits on the shelf besides Double Impact and gathers dust.  Its a toss up for which film is worst, but I give it to Death Warrant.  A few exciting fight scenes.  He never would have made it out alive, but its a movie.  Reminds me of Tango and Cash, and I did not like that one either. Don't even rent this one, but my dad seems to like this one when he watch it late one night. "}]