[{"Title":"An action movie best played for laughs","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I actually thought this film improved with each viewing - some of the comic lines were lost first time around, with people speaking together, and rotor noise from the aircraft. Air America is probably a little too script-by-numbers, but only if you think about it too much - the key is to just enjoy the action and the comedy. I couldn't tell whether Mel Gibson's character was incredibly laid back, or if the actor just wasn't giving his all - but for me, the more interesting characters were the supporting cast anyway David Marshall Grant as Rob Diehl and Art LaFleur as Jack Niely. There were a few too many pilots to pad all of the cast out, but the collective effort provided much of the humour. Robert Downey, Jnr. was perhaps the best out of the main cast, from cheesy 'eye in the sky' pilot ('the traffic is kinda sad, kinda bumsy-looking'), to Air America rookie, lost in a world of 'bar girls, squiggly writing on signs, and more bar girls'. Neither Gibson or Downey, Jnr. were particularly convincing as pilots, but luckily the planes (such as Pilatus Porters and Caribous) had enough character to pull off the airborne scenes. Downey, Jnr.'s character had a spectacular, if not slightly drawn out, crash-landing scene, slowly dismantling his aircraft as he slid along an old airstrip. The soundtrack was also a bonus, placing the film in time where the main characters were slightly anachronistic. Frank Sinatra's 'Come Fly With Me' saved the cliched ending with the same droll humour that was peppered throughout the rest of the movie. Overall, Air America is a  film best watched with your brain switched to 'idle' - although the subject is serious, the film is best as pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"An interesting little film...","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ... because, whilst it doesn't have anything overly outstanding about it, it manages to be very entertaining. Perhaps it's just because the pairing of Gibson and Downey, Jr. appeals to me. Whatever it is, I found the setup interesting, the comedy funny and the action nicely staged.I'm tempted to say that its lukewarm reception was down to poor marketing, but I'm not sure that's true. Maybe I just have to accept that I quite like a movie that the majority think is bad.I don't know what it is with Gibson and 'non-Lethal-Weapon' action comedies, but Bird on a Wire seems to be regarded as another commercial failure, and I enjoyed that one too. Time to take me off to the funny farm... ? "},{"Title":"Thank God for Mel Gibson to rescue Hollywood from itself!!!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" With Gibson involved; Couldn't wait for the show to hit the screen in Houston so I could take My kids and show them a reasonable representational response to their What did you do in the war, Daddy? - (I was an H-34 Driver, out of Udorn '66 - '68)... Despite Gibson's standard magnificent acting, the writing was a bummer compared to the REAL calibers of wit & humor that took place. It's a damn shame the writer didn't have tapes of the up-country aircraft comm traffic to draw from; you'd be waking-up in the middle of the night, laughing at the one-liners. In 28-years and 13,000+ flight-hours in 7-Nations on 5-Continents; that was the greatest bunch of maniacs I ever had the honor of working with. "},{"Title":"Some pilots are willing to work anywhere to slip the surly bonds of earth ...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film rendition of Christopher Robbin's Air America, the story of CIA's secret airforce in Laos during the Vietnam War has been fluffed up a tad too much.  I would have hoped they would have kept the tone of the book which was a bit edgier; more like the film version of MASH.  This version makes the non-war in Laos seem like a Disney World Ride. However Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr make it worth the price of admission.  After you watch the flick track down the book for the REAL story. "},{"Title":"Propaganda movie may confuse younger viewers.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I picked out this DVD out of the cheepo bin at Walmart because the cover showed one of the planes I flew during Viet-Nam (C-123k). I did not fly for Air America, but knew being a C-123 pilot, I knew a lot who did, including those who flew in my Reserve Unit back home. I am not a movie critic, but wonder about the subliminal motivation of Directors and Writers who make movies like this. The best part of this movie has to go to the cameraman. The flying shots and stunts (although totally cartoon like) are excellent. The movie begins with Hollywood's favorite fall guy in 1969. But the fact is, Nixon did not start Air America, he did not begin the lies. Johnson was responsible for Air America and Nixon inherited the lies, the war, and Air America. Its not fair or accurate to portray Nixon as a liar on the subject of Air America. All President's have inherited the lies of their predecessors. Nobody smart enough to fly a C-123 was dumb enough to not know what they were joining. That makes the Downey character unbelievable. A C-123 was a rugged airplane. It could easily fly on one engine, or the two auxiliary jet engines. The three stooges shooting a duck with one shot is more likely. Pilots who flew with Air America were civilian employees of the CIA, they were not reckless soldiers of fortune. They had a good reason to behave and believe in a future, if they survived their extremely dangerous job. They were given double time towards a retirement pension. They weren't required to sell dope or guns to get a good pension. Dope was legal and a way of life in SEA, as it still is today in Afganistan. If individual pilots tried to make money on the side, it was not CIA policy. The CIA was fighting a war on communism, not drugs. The writer based his story on war stories. Pilots love to BS anybody who will buy them a beer and listen. The writer and Director who had an ax to grind about Viet-Nam and Nixon. See the movie, and remember how it starts - it blames Nixon for what existed for years. Remember, he didn't become President until Jan 20, 1969.My favorite scene is the landing up hill in the jungle. Air America pilots put planes in places the aircraft designers never thought possible. Their were plenty of funny stories that could have been shown. Instead, the Director chose to use the oversize rubber scene to show how dumb the CIA was. This scene shows that the Director and writer fell for some pilot bar talk and the joke is on them. MDS Fort Valley Virginia. "},{"Title":"No Brainer !","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Air America is an easy, fun, not hard to watch movie. I have seen it many times and find it an easy no brain. I can watch the movie and do other stuff at the same time and still catch the jokes and the plot. I like Robert Downey Jnr always and this movie is no exception. He gels really well with Mel Gibson. I am an actor and I would have loved to be cast in this movie. Love the scene where Robert Downey Jnr is asleep, hammered from the previous nights session on the booze when Mel Gibson flying his helicopter hooks him up while still asleep on garden furniture. Fab scene !Give it a go. It now an old movie but a good one that seemed to have slipped through so many peoples viewing when it was released.Great music !! I am a big fan of old soul and motown and this movie has some fab tunes.What this movie on a crappy Wednesday night when there is nothing else on and not much to do and you will have a fun time. "},{"Title":"A fun, leave-your-brains-at-the-door movie","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I regard this as a classic war movie! It's fun, good acting, more fun, and factually correct, well up to a point of course! What I like about it, and what I feel makes it original, is that not many films were made about Laos, and also its a cheerful take on war, pretty original for that too I'd say. A good movie i could watch again and again. Excellent music too! 5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Solid entertainment","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Easily one of my personal favourite light-hearted action movies...Air America takes place in Laos, circa 1969, and follows the exploits of a band of roughneck pilots working for the company of the film's title, flying dangerous cargo drop missions in the unfriendly skies. Billy (Robert Downey Jr) is recruited from his job as a traffic helicopter pilot to join Air America. As he wants to be down in the action, not up above it he takes the job and so meets Gene Ryack (Mel Gibson) the unofficial head of the bunch, who is as he puts it an adrenaline junkie.While the historical accuracy and believability of the story is questionable, that's not why we watch these films, is it? This is a great action movie, with some REAL aerial stuntwork and no bluescreen or CGI, some great one liners, some awesome location photography and some decent humourHow often do you guys go on a bender like this? Oh, this is not a bender. This is just night-time!Roger Spottiswoode has made some remarkably good action films in his time, light, non-gory violence with some humanity and a decent storyline to boot. He did the wonderful Turner and Hooch a year before this, and a year before that did Deadly Pursuit (or Shoot to Kill i think it was called in the US), and later directed Arnie in The 6th Day. I enjoy all those movies, find them tense, exciting and lots of fun as Friday-nite-popcorn-flicks.Finally, two things that I admire about this film are the fact there is no cheesy love story thrown in just for the sake of having a love interest for one of the male leads. And the final message delivered in the films closing scenes when Gene ditches his (very lucrative) weapons cache in favour of taking on refugees fleeing a warzone. Great message. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"sadly misunderstood movie","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time. I find it truly sad that this story was turned into a comedy, and not even recognizably a dark comedy like Catch-22 or M*A*S*H. The premise of the movie is true, and had it been a documentary, one would expect a certain amount of disbelief and horror to be expressed about its subject; this does not seem to be the case. I will watch this movie many more times in my life, so that I will never forget that governments ( of all countries ) really don't care about the people of the world, just about their own bottom line. The next time you watch this movie, please pay attention to the were are they now type section just before the closing credits, and see just how scary and prophetic it was ( the movie was made in 1989 for goodness sake ) and think about someone like Colonel Oliver North and his contribution to the American war effort. "},{"Title":"Cookie cutter Mel Gibson action/comedy.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's like Lethal Weapon without Danny Glover.  More comedic focus than the Lethal Weapons with less action, though there is still enough action to call it an action movie.  Movie focuses on a Vietnam alliance with questionable military officials who are involved in opium smuggling, but never gets terribly deep into any of the real geopolitical issues of the war, choosing instead to paint everyone involved with the war in the same stereotypical light of corruption. "}{"Title":"Ditch the collective-guilt syndrome and give it an unbiased eye.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Here in the UK we have Harold Wilson to thank for refusing to send our soldiers to Vietnam.There are many reasons to consider Wilson,along with Blair both socialists,the worst prime minister of the 20th century,but this single action will prevent him (as opposed to Blair)topping that particular poll.He rightly considered America's south east Asia policy to be none of our concern and propitiously declined to be involved in it. The obvious corollary to that statement you can fill in for yourself. That is not to say that the average Brit in 1969 was anything like anti - American.As usual the lunatic fringe made the most noises,stormed the embassy,threw marbles at police horses and generally alienated the very people they should have been trying to get onside. All of this is perhaps a rather long - winded way of demonstrating that Post - Vietnam guilt is not part of our culture,although heaven knows we understand post - colonial guilt well enough. Therefore we can watch movies about the Vietnam war with far more detachment than the Americans who appear to feel the need to apologise for the miscalculations of long - gone presidents and ignore the traumas of the veterans who were conscripted - many against their will,most against their better judgement - to fight in a desperately hostile and alien environment.These men I salute,the apologists I disdain. Air America is a very fine movie showing how men involved in conflict take what comfort they can,when they can,in any way they can.From the safety of our cinemas and living rooms we can scorn them and the way they live and think ourselves terribly liberal and morally perhaps even intellectually superior to these grunts,but perhaps we should remember that a liberal is just a fascist who hasn't been mugged. There are no starry - eyed idealists in modern war.The last ones perished in the Trenches - the pilots employed by the CIA were pragmatic skilled professionals who took risks only when no other option was open to them.They flew what they were told to fly and carried what they were told to carry.They didn't spend a lot of time agonising over what they were doing.It is this aspect of their lives that the movie concentrates on.Mr M.Gibson as the vet and Mr R.Downey jr. as the FNG are both excellent,particularly the former,who,along with Mr A.LaFleur acts as though he actually knows how to fly a plane. Sometimes strange and ostensibly undesirable alliances are made in war and I have no doubt the CIA dealt with Vietnamese Army officers and other officials using the most viable currency available - and if that turned out to be drugs,well,so be it.No amount of post - conflict hand wringing is going to make an iota of difference. Air America tells it's story straightforwardly and doesn't back away from historical facts,if you want to see history re-written with the benefit of hindsight watch Michael Moore. The soundtrack is entirely aposite and the movie contains the campest version of A horse with no name you could hope for. This is a very under -rated movie and one that future generations freed from tunnel vision will see and recognise accordingly. "},{"Title":"Unorganized action comedy","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" An amalgamation between drama, comedy and war film - it's not a very convincing mix. What a mess the whole thing is. It's not comedy, action, or drama, yet it likes to think it has elements of all of them. Roger Spottiswoode is not exactly a bad director (remember Under fire ? ) but this is not one of his finest movies.The acting is pretty good. Mel Gibson (Lethal weapon) doesn't fail and the same can be said for Robert Downey Jr. (Iron man) . Gibson and Downey have a nice chemistry , maybe not tat great as Gibson and Glover in LW , but still nice. The rest of the cast is not bad too. There is even Michael Dudikoff (American ninja) in small unnoticeable role.There is little action here and it's rather goofy. There is no really emotional or serious moment here I could REALLY relate to. This movie has some great Rock N' Roll classics from CCR, The Stones, Edgar Winter and a few others. There is some humor here , but most of it are light stuff , nothing particularly memorable . Oh , maybe except Take big bag to blue car. That was hilarious.This movie has a really poor script. It doesn't know if it wants to be serious or funny , if it wants to be action movie , comedy or war drama. It tries to be all of that and fails at every level. It won't satisfy action fans , comedy fans or fans or serious movies. It does have some entertaining moments , it's far from terrible , but it's just one big and somewhat entertaining forgettable mess. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"A confused concoction of slapstick comedy and social criticism","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Air America has a pretty interesting soundtrack of period music (during the Vietnam war era), which will keep most viewers watching. I hasten to add that the final Fred Astaire track really comes out of nowhere.I wanted to like this movie. It treats the CIA's drug and gun-running in Laos during the vexed Vietnam conflict. President Nixon is shown on television insisting that there are no combat troops in Laos (No boots on the ground! Sound familiar?). The plot focuses on the role played by the CIA in supporting the production of heroin in exchange for cooperation of the Laotian military. Some attention is given to the nature of covert activities and the types of people (losers and mercenaries) who sign up for such missions.The primary problem is that there is a real cacophony of tones and messages. Air America tries to be smart, but it comes off as rather lame. Not really incisive enough to count as a serious critique of the war or US policy, nor really funny enough to constitute comedy. Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr. are both pretty mediocre in this production, and they are the best of the cast, which abounds in stereotypical caricatures of the usual suspects CIA agents, senators, prostitutes, Asian military figures, among others.It would be great for people to learn about the involvement of the Caustic Incompetence Agency in the drug trade during the US military engagement in Vietnam--especially since many veterans came home addicted to heroin and ended up social outcasts. But it would probably be better to read some books than to watch this middling effort. "},{"Title":"Jumbled Film.","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Mel Gibson & Robert Downey Jr. play two renegade pilots working for a covert CIA project in Laos during the Vietnam war. Downey is the new recruit who is still trying to adjust to the place and crazy missions he must fly. Gibson is the seasoned veteran who tries to teach him the ropes, all the while trying to remain above the increasingly out-of-control escalation of the war they are a part of, but grown cynical over the U.S. involvement, which isn't really legal, and certainly not public...Good lead stars cannot do much with such a jumbled and confusing story, that never leads anywhere, and is mostly a series of comedic vignettes that struggle to say something serious among the bizarre(yet dangerous) happenings.It just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Way, way underrated movie","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yeah, it's an action flick--lots of explosions, tough-guy posturing, bombast--but it also has depth.If you like good writing, good scenario work, fine acting (including minor roles), and realpolitik, you could spend a far worse 90-odd minutes of an evening.And seeing it reminds me of an amazing fact Behind the macho action swagger of Gibson beats the heart of a truly great actor. And, I guess, the same has to be said for Downey; I watched this, in part, as a sort of catch up on his career after seeing Kiss Kiss Bang Bang. Nice to see him in his nubile years, and realize that he has accomplished more *with* his personal issues in tow than some of us accomplish while living within conventional bounds of correctness.And... Why does Downey always get these parts where he's the voice of down-home morality in a sea of squalor? Anyway Check it out. "},{"Title":"Awesome Soundtrack+ Mel and Robert + comedy/war + 30 viewings = bliss","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Okay, there are two films for which I have my earliest memories of. Star Wars, and Air America. Call my parents crazy, but for some reason they let me watch this movie at the age of 3 and I have been watching it ever since (30 or so times). I must admit, this makes my opinion somewhat biased, especially since it has probably shaped me deeply psychologically, which is a sad thought if you consider the topics of drugs, war, and Robert Downey Jr. But thats not really what this movie is about. It is a comedy with some decent action thrown in. The action, like many war movies, acts as a backdrop for the comedy by showing how crazy people become in war and what irony arises. It is about taking life as it comes. It is about life's odd ironies in weird places, and finding those for your own well-being. It is about having fun and flying (which is probably one reason i have always been fascinated by flight). It is about war. It is hilarious. It has an excellent soundtrack, a perfect one in fact. Watch it if your in a mood for having fun. Peace. "},{"Title":"Good for some laughs.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed Air America even though it wasn't the most original story ever told. Mel Gibson is very good in a role that seems written for him. The rest of the cast seem like they are just collecting a paycheck. Some good action scenes spike it up a little but, it's really only good for about one viewing. "},{"Title":"Stupid action/comedy. A Potential dream team in Gibson & Downey is completely wasted","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Despite his controversial and diminishing status in Hollywood, I'm still a big Mel Gibson fan as an actor. I also like Robert Downey Jr. I've heard how mediocre this movie is over the years from people, and put it off. Well. I can now say I've finally watched it. I now know why I put it off for so long. Gibson & Downey lack efficient chemistry with one another. It doesn't have much action to speak of, and the comedy lacks a big ingredient...laughs!. Air America's two major problems are. 1. It doesn't know what it fully wants to be, and fails to find the proper medium. Instead we get an uneasy mixture of laughs & serious action, which doesn't work at all. 2. The lagging pace issues. There was a few times where I looked at the time, to see how much was left. Mel Gibson seems to be on autopilot sometimes. Others he looks really into it. He has charm and swagger to spare, but it's not his best performance. Robert Downey gives one of his worst performances to date. He wasn't convincing at all, that cocky charisma of his nowhere to be found, here. Nancy Travis doesn't have much screen time, and her character is poorly written. Art LaFleur is actually amusing with his phony tough guy act. Final Thoughts Talk about a major misfire. It fails an action/adventure, a comedy, and a drama. It has no idea what it fully wants to be, and the result is a mess. You could do worse, but you could also do much better. There is nothing to gain from seeing this movie4.7/10 "},{"Title":"I give it a 6 for the action.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is not a very good movie. The script is poor, the comedy part of it is weak. The only thing that makes it OK is the acting and the action. The action sequences are nicely done and keep you entertained, but other than that its not very good. I can recommend it for those who are (big) fans of someone in the cast, but other than that its just not worth much. Also there is one thing noteworthy, and that it seems that some of the jokes are sexist. Nothing big, but it was a little offensive and just made the script weaker, but even without those jokes it was still terrible. My rate is 6/10-good for the acting and action, but for the movie as a whole. R-Action Violent Content and Language "},{"Title":"not quite working","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" American military is operating a private airline in Laos during the Vietnam War. Billy Covington (Robert Downey Jr.) is a traffic copter pilot for a Los Angeles radio station. His pilot license gets suspended after he flew low to confront a driver and he gets recruited to join Air America. Veteran pilots Gene Ryack (Mel Gibson) and others show him the ropes. Major Donald Lemond and Rob Diehl from military intelligence run the operation which secretly transports drugs for corrupt General Soong. Idoit Senator Davenport arrives on a tour of the mission.This tries to be MASH but it doesn't have the humor. It tries to look into the ridiculousness of this world. I don't find many laughs. Ryack is a smuggler but it's not some fun wacky schemes. It makes him less lovable. Covington is the irreverent earnest young man. The duo sorta works sometimes. The movie doesn't quite work as a satire and it doesn't work as realism. "}{"Title":"don't think, just enjoy.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Air America is a fun, entertaining film in my opinion. I've read a few user reviews and have noticed people who don't enjoy this movie seem to want to label it to a certain genre. I think you just have to sit back and enjoy it for what it is. There are some good one liners along with some great action. The overall story is solid but nothing spectacular. I grew up with this film and probably watched it 4 times before i fully understood the whole war/heroin corruption storyline. I wouldn't go into this movie thinking you're going to get an Apocalypse Now masterpiece, it's just a light hearted war flick. "},{"Title":"Anything, anywhere, anytime","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  While I realise that the movie has strayed from the complete facts, it doesnt stop it being a bloody good movie.  I  personally would like to see a few more Uhs but that is probally because I really like those helicopters.  The acting my not the best performances of the actors, but I believe the comic undertone makes up for that.  All in all, a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Hollow","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Air America fails as a movie because you don't connect with its story, nor with its characters. It's a movie avoid of meaning, or soul.Our story follows the life of Billy (Robert Downey Jr.), who's forced to take up a job as a pilot in Vietnam War Era Laos since his license in the States gets cancelled after one dangerous stunt too many. There he meets up with Gene (Mel Gibson), who becomes something of a mentor for him. The rest of the film is your average clichéd corruption story. The army bad, family good, lovable rogues great. You know the drill.You'd think that movie with both Gibson and Downey in it would be at least mildly entertaining, but the thing is, this came out at exactly the wrong moment in both of their careers. Downey was still just a kid, nowhere near his later star power, whereas Gibson had just begun his long downward spiral from fame. Though, to be fair, I can't imagine how bad this film would have been without the two of them, because it's really the script which is to blame here. The characters have no depth, the villains are hilariously one-dimensional, and the story fails to raise any stages worth caring about.On the positive side of things, the technical aspects work just fine, some of the flying stunts and action scenes are fun to watch and even the story is merely incompetent and boring, not insultingly stupid. Those few things are not enough to save the film, but at least they kept me from hitting the bottle.So yeah, not really worth seeing, unless you're a die-hard fan of either of the two main leads. And even then I wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Gibson and Downey Jr make for solid entertainment","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" On the back of Lethal Weapon 2 and Bird On A Wire, Gibson was on a role, but didn't quiet make it three in a row. I'm tempted to say that its poor reception was down to poor marketing, but I'm not sure that's entirely accurate, but the poster of a grinning Gibson and Downey Jr make it look like more of a comedy that it actually is. The subject matter is serious with a few funny scenes and clever lines. Although the subject is serious, the film is best as pure entertainment.Give it a go. It now an old movie but a good one that seemed to have slipped through so many peoples viewing when it was released.Great music !! I am a big fan of soul and mowtown and this movie has some fab tunes, even if the the songs used are out of time with when the movie is set "},{"Title":"Right Up There in the First Rank of the Second Rate.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Skilled professionals live it up in an exotic and dangerous location. They get drunk every night. They smuggle opium. They drop pigs in parachutes. They fly under impossibly hazardous conditions. They dress weird and act weirder. They're iconoclastic, outrageous. They violate every rule of command and have contempt for their employers at the CIA. They're irreplaceable.Nope. It's not Only Angels Have Wings and it's not M*A*S*H. It's an uneasy mixture of the two that unfortunately comes across as more silly than funny.It aims at shock, amusement, and education, but doesn't really achieve its goals.As far as its shock value is concerned, well, we're inured by now, aren't we? Does it really shock anyone that a bunch of hard-living pilots flew secret missions in Laos in the 1970s? No, it's not shocking. It's not even educational now, under our current circumstances, when it would be interesting to learn that some paramilitary excursion was NOT buried in a file labeled National Interest, Defense de Toucher. That's okay. So we've been wised up a little and are no longer neither so shockable nor so dumb.The problem in this case is that the film depends on those very qualities for its power to amuse. Without that, the film implodes. A group of shaggy drunken CIA pilots are sitting around in a cat house, goosing the girls, shooting out the lights with a silenced pistol, killing lizards with same. Asks newbie pilot Robert Downey, Jr., When you guys act like this does it mean there's something to celebrate? Replies another, guffawing, No, it means it's night time. That might be funny if we expected renegade pilots to be as upright as the rest of us. If we don't, the gag, like the movie, falls flat.There are action scenes naturally. The shots of airplanes flying, landing, taking off, crashing, are impressive. Everything that can possibly happen in or to an airplane in flight happens in or to an airplane in flight. People fall out of them, baggage is thrown haphazardly out of their hatches, engines fail, they sustain damage from AAA, the are torn apart during crash landings, but we've seen most of this elsewhere, often done better.Some might find this funnier than I did, and the acting is pretty good. Robert Downey Jr. is especially effective as the straight man. I particularly enjoyed Lane Smith as the well-intentioned but thoroughly naiv visiting Senator. Greeted at the Laos airport by CIA officians and the Laotion brass, he hands his luggage to an Asian general and says, Take big bag to blue car. He's always enjoyable. He was my co-star in Weeds, a work of art if there ever was one. Check out the other comments and if they describe a film that you might find appealing, then by all means watch it. There might be some laughs in it that escaped me. "},{"Title":"crazy pilots r us","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  mel gibson and robert downey jr complement each other well in this simple comedy. it's not meant to be serious or tell a story, it's just there to make you feel good. together they bring off some great laughs. "},{"Title":"Watch It for the Cracking Chemistry between Downey & Gibson","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is an adaptation from the book written by Cristopher Robbins. This is a light take on the Vietnam War that speaks of the covert & corrupt American air force that operated in Laos during the war. This movie came at a time when Downey was still at the nascent stages of his career & Mel was riding high on his popularity for his role in Lethal Weapon. Mel Gibson (Gene & Robert Downey Jr. (Billy) make a good pair & have a cracking chemistry. After reading Downey's biography & getting to know him, I find that there is a slight since of detachment in the way Downey looks and acts in the movie. He probably did not have the best of time. The line spoken by Billy resonates this aspect perfectly - 'I'm used to being the weirdest guy in the room and now I'm not even in the running.' Billy gets a gig as a pilot in Vietnam when he loses his licence to fly after a dangerous stunt he pulls while at work. He meets Gene and his team and Gene slips into the role of a mentor for Billy. Billy and Gene find themselves involved in a drug smuggling scheme run by corrupt CIA officials. Billy and Gene work to avoid being framed. The rest of the movie is about how they deal with the situation. What probably kills this movie is the disjointed script and one dimensional characters. In my opinion the director probably was not really sure if this was to be a comedy or drama or a complete action movie. It is definitely not a terrible movie but it fails to go a step ahead to make it memorable for you. "},{"Title":"Air America crash lands.","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr, two mighty box office draw cards which gave Air America a lot of appeal. What could have gone wrong?! The script just did not work and the jokes are too corny. Ultimately it couldn't decide whether it is an action/adventure or a comedy or even a drama. Very disappointing.Set in 1969, Billy Covington (Robert Downey Jr.) has recently been fired from his job as a helicopter traffic reporter for a radio station following a confrontation with a driver in the middle of the streets of Los Angeles. Billy is later recruited by a secret government agency to work for a company named Air America in Laos. Billy is mentored by fellow pilot Gene Ryack (Mel Gibson) who is an arms dealer who is working on a big sale in order to fund his retirement. Billy and Gene find themselves involved in a drug smuggling scheme run by corrupt CIA officials Major Lemond (Ken Jenkins) and Rob Diehl (David Marshall Grant). Billy and Gene work to avoid being framed as drug smugglers following an investigation spearheaded by the hard nosed Senator Davenport (Lane Smith).This movie could have been a hit comedy however the end result was a disappointment. Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr. had the star power to make it work however it just wasn't enough. Director Roger Spottiswoode (Tomorrow Never Dies, Deadly Pursuit) has endured a hit and miss career, and Air America didn't do him any favours.It was no surprise that this was a box office flop in 1990. 25 years later Air America barely rates a mention for disgraced actor Mel Gibson following several controversial incidents which has seen his career come crashing down, and Robert Downey Jr. who has enjoyed a career resurrection following the success of Iron Man (2008).Air America was a disappointing experience which is a total shame because this certainly could have been a lot better.4/10. "},{"Title":"An aviation movie on the edge of war, with action, scenery and history","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" To what extent the different parties were involved in opium smuggling, black market guns, clandestine military operations or anything else in Laos during the Vietnam War, the public likely will never know. Or, at least, we won't know which stories to believe. The bottom line then is that one can't trust any of the claims or defenses. But, the facts about who was there and their purposes are clear, public record, and not refuted. The Internet has sources readily available about Air America. It actually started as far back as 1950. That was in the Truman Administration, so the reviewer who criticized this movie for its implication that Richard Nixon was behind it and tried to cover it up was correct in his assessment. All administrations tried to keep a lid on U.S. activities in Southeast Asia outside of Vietnam. Of course, the information and activities would eventually become known and details made available. Again, Web sites on Air America provide lots of information, some quite fascinating. . That's enough about the background of the subject of this film. The movie itself is based on a book by Christopher Robbins. The characters are fictitious. But, the presence of the civilian pilots that flew a variety of aircraft for Air America was a fact. They did many things, as this movie shows. They flew food and made drops at remote villages. They helped the native Laotian forces against North Vietnamese incursions into their country. They did other clandestine operations ordered by the Air Force or CIA. And, they flew rescue missions for downed American pilots. The movie doesn't show this latter, but it was a very real function for the Air America pilots in Laos. This movie is billed as an action comedy, and it does have some comedy. It's mostly light stuff, or situational scenes. It isn't laced with witty dialog. The humor serves to reduce some of the anxiety and tension there was in real life, and that we might otherwise feel in watching the film. On the other hand, this film has a great deal of action. It's loaded with good scenery shots and some fantastic scenes of flying. The plot is OK, but not particularly strong. The cast are all very good. So, the thin plot and direction and editing aside, Air America is a good film of action that shows a variety of aircraft. And, it does one other thing. It gives us a picture of a real event and time in history that otherwise we would not have. So, it has some added historical value as well. The movie pokes fun at the CIA, the Air Force supervisors, and the Laotian general whose troops were the main buffer against the North Vietnamese entering Laos. The Laotians also were in the drug business. And, it shows a little of the U.S. AID operations to help refugees and the poor people of remote areas. All of that is find and good &#x96; it helps make the movie more interesting and entertaining. Unless someone has no interest in any of these things, cares nothing about aviation or flying, and wants to know nothing about that period of history, I can't imagine one rating this film fewer than five stars. I give it five just for those things, and two more for the acting, light comedy and entertainment. "},{"Title":"I Resent the Lie that War is Fun and Exciting","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This film has all the bells and whistles, but in the end, it is a very obvious and blatant attempt to make light of content that is extremely serious ie war, civilian deaths, covert ops, drug and gun running. In Air America, we see good acting, a cohesive plot and lots of action involving airplanes, but compared to the movie Con Air, we never really are able to relate to any of the characters in Air America (if you do relate with the pilots, I certainly don't want to know you).Frankly, this movie makes me sick in the way that the movie MASH and Good Morning Vietnam did Hollywood's attempts to get some laughs out of the horror that is war. In Air America, moreover, we not only see war, but the seedy underbelly of the U.S. political war machine that is the C.I.A. and U.S.A.I.D. Also mentioned in the film is the corporation Dow Chemical, which produced Agent Orange, which was widely sprayed by cargo aircraft in Vietnam and Laos. This sickened and killed thousands, and maybe hundreds of thousands of people. The music in Air America is the big tip-off that the movie is almost like a psy-op We are led to associate the activity therein with the pop tunes from the 1970's. I really despise the fact that the producers of this movie grotesquely tried to combine the blood-thirsty, amoral pilots and others in this film with the rock and roll songs that were a symbol of resistance to the war at that time. Creedence Clearwater Revival's Run Through The Jungle being the most anti-war and ill-placed of all. Anyone who swallows what this movie is shoveling, thinking it is just entertainment needs to re-consider their priorities and possibly develop some spirituality. This movie could have been a potent warning, helping to prevent the C.I.A drug-running that is happening today in Afghanistan, but alas, the U.S. citizenry is not capable of such integrity to demand this. "}{"Title":"Big star power and talent bogged down by a slow silly story","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I love Mel Gibson and I love Robert Downey Jr. Both have great star quality and are in fact terrific actors so I don't know how Air America stumbled but it does. Its not really a comedy, its definitely not action, and its not drama and it never finds its footing anywhere in those genres. Both Gibson and Downey's characters are rather vapid and empty and the setting for the film never feels quite right. It has its moments of being interesting but then falls apart before it ever becomes anything. Director Roger Spottiswoode has done a lot of films, some good, and some rather corny but this one just feels very rushed. I guess I expected an action comedy and as I said it doesn't fit into any of that. It doesn't know what it is and the audience will feel that because I certainly did. I suppose I had high expectations and those certainly weren't met so this one was passable for me but definitely doesn't fulfill the expectations. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Air America!","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I was 12, and i loved it!Now i am 22 and i still love it! Its one of those movies you can see over and over again, and never get bored. Its packed with flying action and humor.I must however admit that I am one of those people who actually enjoy flying MS flight-simulator, which makes me a plane geek I guess. But if you love to fly flight-simulators you will probably love this movie as much as I do. The story is also good, and Mel Gibson and Robert Downey Jr. does a great job as death defying pilots! All in all, this is great fun! watch it! "},{"Title":"excuse me, is that an Uzi?.....","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Air America was the CIA's private airline operating in Laos during the Vietnam War, running anything and everything from soldiers to foodstuffs for local villagers.After losing his pilot's license, Billy Covington is recruited.He ends up in the middle of a bunch of lunatic pilots, gun-running by his friend Gene Ryack, and opium smuggling by his own superiors...This could have been such a winner. Mel Gibson at the time was one of the biggest stars on the planet, and Vietnam was still quite a hot potato.Twenty years ago, I would have gave it a seven, because I was ignorant to the depth of narrative and connotation, and just loved the stunts.Seeing it again, I realise now what a mess the whole thing is. It's not comedy, action, or drama, yet it likes to think it has elements of all of them. But mixing this the way Spottiswoode had turns it into a pretty depressing, boring experience.The two leads are okay, and they have great chemistry together, but all in all it's just a bunch of okay scenes with planes and stunts, with conspiracy sub plots involving the government in between.Gibson flashes his eyes and makes silly jokes for the ladies so its a movie for everyone, but in the end I very much doubt many liked the film. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly a rejected idea for a Lethal Weapon sequel","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Mel Gibson knows his action. The man is tops in the genre especially in the mega popular Lethal Weapon film series. However, even the best can suffer from an occasional letdown as Gibson has with this 1990 Tristar Pictures release. The time setting is during the Vietnam War and Gibson along with Robert Downey Jr. portrays a pilot who takes on a corrupt CIA and their drug smuggling operation. The film plays like a look into the war service of Martin Riggs (Gibson's character in the Lethal Weapon films) and comedy foil Downey just doesn't cut it as a costarring action hero especially with somebody like Gibson. "},{"Title":"The tandem Gibson-Downey Jr is really amazing !","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  In 1969, in Laos, a young pilot discovers to the side of a fighter the bottoms of an airline company chartered by CIA. In spite of an explosive subject - the role occult played by CIA in the Vietnamese conflict - this rather harmless comedy of adventures is essentially worth by the enthusiasm of the tandem Mel Gibson-Robert Downey Jr. "},{"Title":"air amnesia","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This very boring movie is about a wild man who works as a helicopter pilot for a radio station and his crazy antics get him fired. It's 1969 and a war is going on in Vietnam and Nixon swears nothing is happening in the neighboring country of Laos, yet there is a secret 'no action' mission happening there and they are constantly losing pilots so the young radio station pilot is recruited. He gets there to find guys even crazier than he is and finds the missions aren't exactly safe either. Soon an American senator flies over because he hears rumors of drug trafficking. This new rookie pilot finds this to be true and finds most of the pilots are into illegal things, he isn't going to stand for it, but he's right in the middle and must find away to stop these illegal activities and get home safe.This movie is so boring. I don't know what genre it was. I think it was promoted as a comedy, but there's not one laugh this whole film. There isn't any action so it can't be a war film, so I guess it is pure drama..it was pure boring I know that. The movie just went on and on and on with guys flying planes and stupid dialog and nothing emotional or heartfelt or serious, I kept asking myself what the point to this film was..it was horrible.Direction was so bad, editing was even worse. Actors were okay like Mel Gibson, Robert Downey, Jr., Lane Smith, Art LaFleur, Tim Thimerson and Michael Dudikoff in a small unnoticeable part. The writers must have been stoned or asleep when they wrote this. The score was horrible and whoever supervised the soundtrack was crazy too. This movie had some great Rock N' Roll classics from CCR, The Stones, Edgar Winter and a few other and had tons of covers including some horrible version of a Dr. John classic and Aerosmith doing a cover of the Doors Love Me Two Times' which was out of place for this movie set in 69. The worst thing was some of the songs weren't even out yet, A horrible cover of The Hollies Long Cool Woman can be heard at one time and that song didn't come out until the early 70's I hate flaws like that. Also the shirts Robert Downy Jr wore of Zeppelin and Hendrix, those types of shirts weren't made until the mid-70's, and the Hendrix one I know wasn't made until around 85. I hate flaws like that in film.This movie sucks, avoid it, it's boring has no point. 2/10 stars "},{"Title":"A really mediocre film that suffers from poor direction","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Roger Spottiswoode isn't the worst director, and he did a good job on the underrated sci-fi thriller The Sixth Day (a.k.a. The Box Office Downfall of Mr. Schwarzenegger). However, Air America has to be one of his most inept projects.It comes across as an amalgamation between drama, comedy and war film - it's not a very convincing mix. In fact, I found it to be overbearing.Robert Downey, Jr. (during his heyday) stars as a pilot recruited into a top secret CIA organization operating during Laos in the Vietnam era. Mel Gibson plays his co-pilot and he stumbles upon the knowledge that they're trafficking drugs, and what not.The movie was hyped on release because it starred two famous faces and Aerosmith had re-recorded the Doors classic Love Me Two Times for the soundtrack.The redo of the song is pretty poor, which suits the film. "},{"Title":"Wow, I can't believe...","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  That this movie has been stapled to the wall of a chapel as proof that God is truly dead. Am I the only one that really saw (rather sleptwalked) through this film? This is the only movie I've ever seen in the theater that I regret not walking out on and demanding my money back -- it was just that dull. And I even saw Highlander 2 The Quickening at the local cinema. From beginning to end, Gibson and Downey have absolutely no chemistry as two unlikelies, cast together by circumstance, who eventually work together as best buddies. The action (what little there is) is goofy and as dull as the skullbone of the writer. Thank whatever deity is chortling down at us as it observes our cinema that there's no chance for an Air America 2. "},{"Title":"Air America","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Unfunny, unorganized action-comedy about a wacko pilot who doesn't really do much but be a wacko. Gibson gives his all for the role, but it's all for nothing if the story doesn't make any sense, which is indeed the case here. A mess of film that at times doesn't know where it wants to go, but fans of Gibson will at least be satisfied.  "},{"Title":"Jack Neely observation","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" NEVER GO BACK Art la Fleur Jack Neely Air America excellent advice classic rendition The film has a content that relates more to the 1960s era than perhaps may be understood at date 2005 but the significance is in the acting and the provision of lines apposite to the scheme throughout the work the casting best for the practise of the art and the consequence clearly defined The activity points to the effects that accrued during the later 1980 period and some of the problems recently faced but the issues still remain the same Never Go Back Do you know how to edit text as an able commentator who can derive from film both enjoyment and significant result, or just fill out forms with everybody expected to follow in the set pattern that agrees with your interpretation rather than the content and intent of the film as was set by the producers, relevant to the time and date and life of people who knew about events ? Mike Stagg "}{"Title":"Entertaining no-brainer similar to lethal weapon & police academy","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" That's about it. I've seen this film maybe 3 times now and it's still funny.Edit Didn't have enough lines so I'll have to write more..Well, this is the sort of movie that you should just kick back and eat some popcorn while watching, if you want to see something intelligent or artistic or something then don't' watch this.This isn't maybe quite as good as the first Lethal Weamon or Police Academy movies but IMO this is still a good movie and worth a watch.What's my taste? My voting history can be found herehttp//www.imdb.com/mymovies/list?l=10127200 "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson At His Worst","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm normally a fan of Mel Gibson, but in this case he did a movie with a poor script. The acting for the most part really wasn't that bad, but the story was just pointless with flaws and boring. I thought I would like the movie a little but I didn't like it at all actually. I give it a 1 1/2 out of 5! "},{"Title":"Enough Vietnam Already.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the same old same old when it comes to the comedy and despair being thrown into the Vietnam War.  It was good in the way that we saw Mel Gibson take on a much different role than he usually plays.  But this movie may cause drowsiness, and not a good movie to watch if your hoping for something great. Rating 4 "}]