[{"Title":"Unusually Good","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"60 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wanting to test out my testosterone in boot camp I decided to try out for the boxing team and went to the gym with a friend. Neither of us knew anything about boxing. The coach put us both in the ring and said, Okay, let's see what you can do, or something equally Hemingwayesque. On the first half-hearted swing, Andy dealt me a glancing blow on the upper abdomen with a glove the size and density of a throw pillow. I went down on my knees and grabbed the ropes, thinking I might die from the pain. It had never occurred to me, watching the odd bout on TV, that every time one of those guys got punched -- it hurt! End of boxing career. This is the kind of movie in which, when somebody gets punched in the belly, he goes down and stays down. For several days. It's a movie for grown ups about grifters -- con people -- who work all sorts of games on one another. It's not The Sting, which is funny and which is about the big con, as it's evidently still called, requiring eons of preparation. This film is about people who cheat, artists in their own ways, but not theatrical producers.John Cusack is handsome in a pale way and delivers a decent performance as a young man who plays short cons, clipping people out of nickels, dimes, and dollars, although he's been doing it long enough to put away something of a stash. Annette Bening, his girl friend, is much more into the life, with quite a history. She's very pretty too. She has a gracile figure and minces when she walks. In addition to the sleek clothes she occasionally has on in this film, she wears a big open-lipped smile, speaks in a breathless Marilyn Monroe whisper, and has eyes that sparkle with mischief and deceit. There is murder behind that grin.Angelica Huston is a puzzle. She's excellent here as a woman who works for Bobo, Pat Hinkle, a pudgy sadist, his best role in a generation. But her appearance is disturbing. It's as if, during childhood, her skeleton couldn't quite make up its mind about how mannish to become, how broad the shoulders should be, how high and boney the pelvic girdle. I don't mean that she is in any way unfeminine because she's not. It's simply that, knowing what her Dad looks like, I see the resemblance as so marked that it's kind of embarrassing to find her attractive.J. T. Walsh is perfect as the big con artist with that boyishly naive candor that sucks the marks in because it is nothing more than a psychopath's mask.He has a sympathetic, believable face, though he was stand-offish in person, and it's a shame that he died at such a relatively early age because he's always been a pleasure to watch. The story has some very dark undertones. It isn't just that Bening is trying to rope Cusak into the grifter's way of life, or that Huston and her son Cusak have been estranged for eight years, or that Huston is skimming off the top while working for Bobo the Dangerous, or that Cusak is trying to minimize his cons. These themes are interesting enough in themselves and would add up to something resembling House of Games. But it's a lot more Freudian than that. Of all the forms of incest in the nuclear family, mother-son incest is the rarest. And when it happens, or even when the impulse manifests itself, it's a shocker. Huston and Bening, on first meeting, take an immediate dislike to one another and trade open insults. Bening I'm Roy's friend. Huston I imagine you're a lot of peoples' friend. Bening Oh -- NOW I see. Yes, in the light you look easily old enough to be Roy's mother. The hatred is based on a jealousy that only Bening is able to discern. Some outstanding script writing has gone on here. The lighting and photography are at least up to par, whether out of doors in the sunshine of a race track or indoors, in the dismal dump Roy lives in, the salmon-colored murk of his walls, lamps, and furniture and the clown portraits on black velvet. The score is based on an ironic tinkling oompah tune, although it turns emphatically dramatic when the situation calls for it, and it neatly sidesteps the conventions of the genre.Watch this if you have the chance. You'll think about it for some time afterward, the way I thought about that blow in the ring. "},{"Title":"Great Writing, Acting Make This A Superior 'Noir'","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here is a modern-day film noir, if I ever saw one. You get sleazy characters with no morals, brutal attitudes, some interesting photography and a story that is not exactly a happy one - all the ingredients of a good noir. Since the film is a 1990 one and not the '40s and '50s (in which purists think that's the only period for noirs), you also get nudity and profanity.The best part of the film, to me, is the fact that the three leading characters are so interesting. You never know what these intriguing characters are going to do next. There is an odd mother-son relationship, too - very odd, between John Cusack and Angelica Huston who play Lilly and Roy Dillon. The third person among this trio of grifters (scam artists) is played by Annette Bening, who never looked prettier or demonstrated her lack of morals better than she did here as the wicked Myra Langtry. You can see all of Bening in this movie, and I mean all. Huston, on the other hand, tries to look sexy but is too hard-looking and certainly no competition for Bening, in age or looks. But Angelica is a terrific actress and I thought her character, was easily the most interesting of the three leads. Cusack, meanwhile, gives an underrated performance one of the best in his career.Three supporting guys in here are fantastic Pat Hingle as Bobo Justus, J.T. Walsh as Cole, and Charles Napier as Gloucester Hebbing. Overall, this is a wonderful cast that does full justice to this unusual crime story.The story has a mean edge to it most of the way, but that's the style of writer Jim Thompson, who is a very good crime author who wrote the novel on which this movie is based. He has written several fascinating books. Donald Westlake, who wrote the screenplay, is a prolific crime story writer.There is not a lot of action in this film but when it occurs, it is shocking and brutal. This movie always entertains me every time I view it. "},{"Title":"Three For One Odds","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Most films have one, and only one, protagonist around whom the story is told. But The Grifters has three, all of them petty swindlers, desperate for quick cash or good odds at a long con. And it's the personal relationships among these three criminals, complex, sometimes dark, and almost always motivated by survival, that make this film a pretty good bet.Roy Dillon (John Cusack), is a trickster, a loner, on the grift for the short con, strictly a nickels and dimes man. His mom is Lilly (Anjelica Huston); she's a middle-aged lady with white hair; she's seductive, cold-blooded, and tough as nails; she's been around the block a few times. Roy's love interest is Myra (Annette Bening), a shapely, fun loving babe who uses her charms to con rich businessmen. These three people are highly manipulative and scheming, on-guard, and mistrustful of each other and the rest of the world.The film's tone is bleak and gloomy. There's very little heart in this film. And that's a problem, because I found these characters not very sympathetic. They lead lives of quiet desperation, grimy and tawdry. Still, The Grifters is a crime story in the best tradition of Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, a pulpy melodrama about the underbelly of urban America.The film's structure is conventional, and contains a number of flashbacks. The set-up is tediously long. The second half of the film is better than the first half, in my opinion, because the second half contains more suspense.Dialogue is direct and tough, like when Lilly makes her point to the ambulance driver who takes Roy to the hospital and is skeptical about Roy's chances for survival Says Lilly My son is gonna be alright, if not, I'll have you killed. Later, she explains the facts of life to her son Grifts like anything else Roy, you don't stand still, you either go up or down, usually down, sooner or later. Yes indeed, it's a tough life being a grifter; but Lilly is one tough broad.The film's color cinematography is fine. And the film has a terrific title sequence and a great Elmer Bernstein score at the beginning. Editing, costumes, and production design are all credible.If you're in the mood for a gritty, bleak story of petty criminals in a well made modern film, The Grifters is a good choice. As a bonus, the DVD has an exceptionally good Commentary, with insightful comments from Director Stephen Frears, and actors John Cusack and Anjelica Huston. "},{"Title":"A seedy underbelly of life exposed for all to see","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Years ago, this was one of the films I was quite pleased with myself for seeing. I didn't know much about it, but decided to take a chance on it, with no regrets. From the opening sequence to the end credits I was mesmerized and in awe of events that communicated an entirely alien philosophy. Based on the novel by Jim Thompson, The Grifters tells a tale of a world that lies just under the surface of the one we know of. That is of course, if you count yourself among the squares and suckers who often fall prey to the craftsmen of the grift.With startling precision, intrigue and depth, the story unfolds chronicling the lives of three distinctly different yet intertwined individuals. Their setting and perspective is entirely foreign to the majority of us. The filmmakers portray the grifters' different methods and environments as skilled scam artists. For unless you've had a personal experience having fallen prey or gotten wise to a grifter's ploy, you'll simply have to accept the reality of it. They are out there, waiting for the suckers to be born.This particularly dark tale is very stylishly directed and moves along at a good pace. Each turn offers another sneak peek into the games played and the tricks pulled. The prey are often unaware of their own victimization as they go on about their business.Another aspect the film deals with is trust or the lack thereof. Our protagonists spend most of their time scamming, conning and tricking people so much that their sense of trust and decency breaks down. They alienate themselves from everyone, and ultimately can't even trust each other.And of course, what drama would be complete without a twisted love triangle in the mix with betrayal and murder to keep it interesting. If this doesn't sound like another day at the office, you might just find the workplace of The Grifters intriguing. Seeing it today, I enjoyed it as much as I did years ago, before I opened my eyes for a fresh look at the world.  "},{"Title":"Anjelica steals the show","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stephen Frears directs this amazing adaption of a Jim Thompson book, which deals with three grifters (a person who swindles one by means of deception or fraud) who are tied to each other relationship-wise. Roy Dillion (John Cusack) is a small town grifter recuperating after a punch in the stomach for being found cheating. He finds his loyalties torn between his girlfriend and estranged mother (Annette Benning and Anjelica Huston, respectively), both of which are big time high-stakes grifters. This film is tense, exiting, and well-acted, but make no mistake about it, even though Cusack is more or less the main character, this IS Anjelica Huston's movie through and through. Her acting in this seems to shine so brightly and generally be on a higher plateau than either Cusack or Benning can hope to ascend to in the film. One of my favorite movies.My Grade A DVD Extras Commentary with Director Stephen Frears, Screenwriter Donald Westlake and Actors John Cusack and Angelica Huston; 16 minute Making of featurette; The Jim Thompson Story featurette; Publicity and Production stills); and Trailers for Serendipity, High Fidelity, Grosse Point Blank, & 40 Days And 40 Nights Eye Candy The future Mrs. Warren Beatty shows everything "},{"Title":"Worth it","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Grifters is a quality piece of work that shows you a world you don't often see. It's a seedy little world, but a fun one to spend two hours in.Whenever I pass this film on cable, I always stop to watch a few minutes (and often more) because it contains some fantastic acting. Anjelica Houston, John Cusack and Annete Bening act their little tushies off. Cusack's portrayal of a low-level grifter with an Oedipal complex the size of Texas is some of his best work. Based on American Beauty, everyone knows that Bening can act, but anyone who saw The Grifters knew that long ago. She does a bang-up job as (let's be frank) a con-artist slut.This movie does have a few implausibilities, but nothing that spoils it. Otherwise, nothing but good things to say about this one. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but imperfect","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters sees John Cusack play Roy Dillon, a grifter whose loyalties are split between his con-artist girlfriend (Annette Bening) and his estranged mother (Anjelica Huston) in a tangled web of deceit with bloody consequences.Cusack puts in a good performance as the grifter, playing the short con, making money from people wherever he can, whilst trying to avoid being seduced into the long con by Myra (Bening), while also trying to resolve a bizarre, almost Oedipal relationship with his estranged mother Lilly (Huston). The slightly neurotic anti-hero with a humorous cool streak is the kind of role he can play in his sleep, and from what i hear is similar to his role in Ice Harvest (2005).Bening is different. She's more lively than Cusack and certainly sleazier. Her pretty face, slimline figure, and cheerful willingness to strip off hide the vicious deceiver that lies underneath, and you can't help but feel concerned for Cusack as she tries to reel him into her scam.Huston's performance is however the best of all, and Lilly remains the most complex character in The Grifters. From the moment she's introduced in Cusack's somewhat sparse apartment you can see there's more to this relationship than they let on; there's an obvious sexual tension sustained between the two until the film's climax. The darker side of her comes to light in the film's final third. Threatened on all sides, she becomes an animal fighting for survival, and shows that she will go to any length to get what she needs. Her killing Roy sums this up; while her initial reaction is one of maternal grief, she soon switches back into survival mode and quickly gets out.The cinematography is fantastic. The Grifters really achieves the noir look thanks to some clever camera work, effective lighting, and somewhat austere scenery. The characters, especially Lilly and Myra, look the part, and you can clearly see the influences here. The score, while not used much, also contributes effectively to create a tense and sometimes claustrophobic atmosphere, but isn't afraid to be loud and dramatic when needs be.However, The Grifters is not perfect. Despite solid performances, a decent script, and visual effectiveness, it seems to be missing something, and is unfortunately flawed as all good noir characters are. Perhaps it's a little too long, or the script isn't quite good enough, or the tempo is a tad too low...I couldn't put my finger on it.These small factors don't detract too much from what is otherwise a very good film. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"An unacknowleged classic","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I casually flipped to this film (without even knowing what it was) I at first thought it was an exceptionally good film-noir.  You might say the film snuck up on me- I was utterly unprepared for what I was about to see. I was drawn in closer and closer to the tangled web the three characters are stuck in, and utterly mesmerised by the performances.  I don't think I have ever been so enthralled by a movie.  After the intensely disturbing ending- which is not arbitrary, no matter what some of the reviews complained- I found myself unable to sleep. Rarely does a film have such an effect on me. THE GRIFTERS really does have to be seen to be totally understood; word fail one so easily when discussing great art. "},{"Title":"Play Nice. Don't Fight.","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Frears's 'The Grifters' is a bizarre noir-style disturbing thriller with dark undertones of themes such as despair, greed, incest and murder. Unlike most con thrillers, this one does not focus on tricks. Rather it focuses mainly on the characters. Lilly is in it big and she needs (or wants) money. Roy is frustrated and is in an ambivalent state. Myra, uses her weapon of seduction to have her way...including getting Roy back into the game. Then there's a fourth character, money. Which tangles them into a lethal web resulting in severely extreme consequences. It starts off a little slow as the three lead characters are introduced but the pace picks up in the proceedings. The twists and layers are well done as the viewers move back and forth into hating and liking the characters. The final sequence between Huston and Cusack is among the most unsettling scenes and it was brilliantly executed. Yet, 'The Grifters' is far from my favourite Frears film. I pretty much loved his other movies like 'High Fidelity', 'Dirty Pretty Things', 'Mrs. Hendersen Presents' and so on but I felt this movie lacked something even though I myself am a big sucker for weird movies. The three leads deliver solid performances. Cusack is finely restrained and quite intense. Bening is suitably perky, slutty and malicious. Huston is a knock out as she delivers a chilling performance. The score is quite low key (usually a piano track) except during dramatic sequences. The lighting has been well done. 'The Grifters' is intriguing and quite a departure from the usual con flick. In the end, it leaves an unsettling taste. "},{"Title":"Juicy piece of neo-noir","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE GRIFTERS (1990) ***1/2 John Cusack, Anjelica Huston, Annette Bening, Pat Hingle, J.T. Walsh, Charles Napier. Donald Westlake's slick, serpentine screenplay adaptation of noir author Jim Thompson's novel offers up a juicy, ripe slice of pulp fiction with hip Cusack a slick con artist strictly small time, Huston as his duplicitous, estranged Mobbed up mother on the take and Bening as his slinky gal pal with a few cards up her collective sleeve.Excellently executed in the rhythms of a perfectly coiled con game about to be sprung with slick precision thanks to fine acting all around and a jolting climax thanks to a steady helm by director Stephen Frears. "}{"Title":"Riveting-deserved an academy award","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters, An utterly fascinating film about the world of the Smalltime and Bigtime con, is one of the most riveting films out there.It is a character study of 3 human beings(Cussac,Benning and Huston) who live a life many-most-couldn't even begin to comprehend. This is not just a good film, it easily passes into greatness. It's a film that you need to watch keeping your eyes firmly on the screen at all time as its very easy to miss key points and you won't want to miss a thing.Trying not to give any spoilers here, what can be said is that this movie is not for the faint of heart, there is violence(including 1 vicious scene of torture that I myself had to look away from) and the film is among the darkest I've seen. This doesn't take away from the film at all-this is a lifestyle where violence is constantly bubbling beneath the surface and many emotions are felt while watching this film as the viewer is drawn into the dark world of the grift-as the events unfold and your emotions go from fascination, horror, and a kind of despair and back again you won't be able to take your eyes off the screen-and that is a good thing because every word uttered, every action taken is pivotal to the film.(MINOR SPOILERS?)Benning's character and her complete contempt of the world particularly men is broadcast in every action she takes(she laughs uncontrollably while having sex-the laugh of contempt for her lover)-Amazing performance that should have resulted in an academy award.The relationship between Cusack and Huston is played so well and the two have so much chemistry that it's both fascinating and repelling.The final scene between them is one of the most shocking I've seen in cinema and will have to be watched VERY carefully to fully understand the final outcome which I myself was a bit confused by.To be drawn into a world like what these three inhabit-a world where everything and everyone touched is nothing but a means to an end-another game- is the true heartbreak of these people and the world they live in. If you haven't seen this film, see it. It's a piece of stunning cinema that will leave you with much to think about. "},{"Title":"I want to keep my teeth.","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To me, The Grifters reminded me of a plain cheese sandwich. While you specifically order the sandwich for the cheese element, without the bread there would be no sandwich at all. When you take a bite, the softness and delicate nature of the bread will give you your first impressions of the rest of the sandwich. It is the first and last thing you taste, so it needs to remain consistent, tasty, and fresh. The Grifters was the bread to your average sandwich. The beginning and end of this film was innovative and creative as was the darkly depressing ending, just like a slice of fresh bread, but the center of the film left much to be desired. The center of the film ruined the entire cinematic experience due to its lack of direction, consistently poor filler, and sub-par feeling that this wasn't the best cheese sandwich ever made, but instead just one created for the masses. It was disappointing to see this film implode from the inside, but one cannot shake those breathtaking moments that anchored this film out of their mind. Director Frears did a decent job, but I think that if Scorsese would have helmed this project, it would have been something entirely different &#133; and enjoyable.One of my major concerns with this film was the acting. Here we have this gritty, pulp-ish film that really needed to have some powerhouse actors ensuring that we see this darkness from our couches, but instead it seemed like none of the main cast was giving their full potential. I had trouble with Cusack because of his 80s comedy roots. He was my major issue with the film Eight Men Out, and a big element in this one. He just cannot seem to release that raw emotion that takes you away from Cusack the actor and immerses you deeply into the life of Roy Dillon. For the entire film, I kept seeing Cusack (a la Better off Dead&#133;) instead of the powerful character he was supposed to be. The same can be said for the other actors as well. While I do believe that Huston was the stand out player in this film, she wasn't spectacular. Her character was too underdeveloped for us to really have a handle on her issues. I felt no emotion for her when she was having trouble with the mob because I knew nothing of her history. It was assumed, and that is where Frears tumbled this film. Bening, well, was a naked Bening. She spent more time without clothes than really showing us her intellect behind grifting. I realize that nudity was her superpower, but this was a character driven film, and these characters needed more development, more emotion, and more substance than what was presented.The story seemed choppy to me. While, again, I will state that the beginning segment and ending climax were superbly designed, the rest of the film jumped from one place to another giving us less and less per each jump. It was as if Frears had extra time in his film and needed to fill it with whatever he could to pass the time. I would have loved to see more time with Dillon's mentor, more between Lilly and Bobo, and several more scenes with Myra to fully explain how she fell into this picture. Frears spent too much time filling holes with scenes that were fun, but not poignant. This ultimately hurt the film in the long run because by the end, we didn't care. An apathetic viewer proves that you have lost the battle.Finally, the element that completely caught me off guard was the mother/son combination that Frears did incorporate well into the story. At first, I thought this was going to be a film about a big grift that would tear down our characters one by one with disgust and distrust, but instead Frears changed it to this wild dynamic between Cusack and Huston. Their chemistry together was decent. While some moments felt like reading was difficult for the two, other moments seemed to send electricity through the air. Frears developed the idea that the vicious circle of life does exist and this mother/son combination is living proof. Roy becomes what Lilly tried to leave him out of, and even falls for a girl that is similar to his mother. Roy is so engulfed in his mother that the ending should come as no surprise when Frears changes themes from mother/son to a near Oedipus complex. It is shivering, but in this film it works. This element kept my eyes focused on the film longer than I should have, but I had to see where Frears was going with this.Overall, I wasn't impressed. As I bit into this cinematic cheese sandwich, I thought it was going to bring new flavors into my mouth. I was waiting for that surge of intense flavor (which happened on the first and last bit), but throughout the center I was left with nothing more than a couple of slices of cheese that provided me with no fulfillment. The actors could have been stronger. Cusack is still growing and I think that the early 90s were too early for him to try to develop his drama wings. He needed more time, with smaller roles in independent dramas, to fully grasp what he was getting into. I do not see where the awards were needed for this film, but perhaps it is because I had not read the book that this film was based. Maybe it was the darkness surrounding this film, or Bening's nudity, but it just didn't leave that lasting impression on me. Skip it, you will not be disappointed.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Excellent But Dark As Night","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, fantastic acting, writing and directing. The director also did that little jewel Liam that is a real buried treasure. Everybody in the movie, including a nurse, is an amoral, conniving louse. Just acclimate yourself, because this short little film is a treasure. It sank like a brick in a pool when released mainly for the incest theme between Huston and Cusack. Huston does her best work in the movie, attracted to Roy, and his money she oozes hatred,I'll bet you are lots of peoples' friend, she snarls at Benning. Huston has been scamming Hingle her boss who has her lower the odds on horse races by betting on the other horses to flatten the equation. We see her, even from the start, secreting money away in the trunk that she is ripping off from Hingle. Cusack plays a little change game with switcho chango with a twenty turning into a ten with the wrong bartender who damages him badly. Huston comes to the rescue; that costs her a cigar burn on her hand from Hingle for letting a long shot come in while she was tending to her son Roy. There is sexual tension between these two that is well done, she is still interested, mainly in his hidden money, though she feigns motherly concern for him. The concern is disturbingly sexual and it bothers Roy. You will never see Annette Benning this hot and totally nude in scene after scene. She uses her body like we use a doorknob to not pay rent, to string Roy into the Big Con, that she lusts to return to. In flashback, we see that here earlier partner J.T. Walsh went bonkers from the stress. She has Roy all sized up for her new partner; the trouble is, his mother Huston detests her. Benning begins ratting Huston out to Hingle and following her with intent on killing her. I will not spoil it; a big plot twist happens. Before you watch this, do you mind if every character in the movie is an immoral scum bucket? It is not for kiddies, it features full frontal nudity, extended shots, and incest. The incest is not consummated but Lilly does her best. Like Body Heat, if you take out all the sensational sex and violence this could have been made in the 40s or 50s. I must warn you; I see reviewers who love this movie like I do but have never met one in real life. All my friends and family had the same reaction to this as they did Blue Velvet that is one disgusting, ugly, dark movie. It has such a sense of reality about it and the acting is fantastic. Frear's gets really great performances, I consider this the best of its kind since the 50s. It has a scene with Hingle threatening to beat Lilly with a bag of oranges as punishment he settles for burning her hand with his cigar. It is not a pretty scene; she is terrified, and BoBo is quite a nasty, mean sack of crap. The movie is quite short and moves like lightning. Walsh is great in his little role. Just remember, great movie but dark as midnight. "},{"Title":"My son is going to be all right. If not, I'll have you killed.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters is directed by Stephen Frears and adapted to screenplay by Donald E. Westlake from the novel of the same name written by Jim Thompson. It stars Anjelica Huston, John Cusack and Annette Bening. Music is by Elmer Bernstein and cinematography by Oliver Stapleton.The best reason I can think of is that you scare the hell out of me. I have seen women like you before, baby. You're double-tough and you are sharp as a razor, and you get what you want or else; but you don't make it work forever. Sooner or later the lightning hits, and I'm not gonna be around when it hits you1990 was a grand year for neo-noir, of the dozen + titles that came out that year, The Grifters sits atop of the pile. A superlative film noir that boasts class on the page and on both sides of he camera. Set in modern day Los Angeles, the story follows three cynical and sly con artists through a psychological fog of bluff, double bluff, pain, misery, manipulations and shattering developments. That the trio consists of a boyfriend, girlfriend and an estranged mother only darkens the seamy waters still further.Los Angeles positively bristles with a smouldering atmosphere thanks to the work of Frears, Bernstein and Stapleton. Sexual tension is ripe, Westlake's adaptation doing justice to Thompson's novel, while the three leads &#x96; and Pat Hingle in super support &#x96; are on fire, bringing complex characters vividly to life as they trawl through the devilishly labyrinthine plot, adding biting humour and shallow savagery into the bargain.A top draw neo-noir that doesn't cut corners or pull its punches, from the split screen opening salvo to the pitch black finale, The Grifters delivers high quality for neo-noir fans. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start. The witty dialogues, the intriguing plot, the character study, the superb acting from the three protagonists, they all collaborate for a highly entertaining film who will capture you from beginning to end. One of the best films I've ever seen and I wonder why the rating here is so low. "},{"Title":"From another era.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Man, talk about a slow-burn. Going into The Grifters I was expecting a slick and quick-paced con thriller, but what I got was something much darker and much more absorbing. Director Stephen Frears, working off a script by Donald Westlake (adapted from the Jim Thompson novel) lets these characters get established before they start to bring us into the tangled web they are all weaving.Roy Dillon (John Cusack) is a con man pulling small jobs every day to slowly build up his savings, while his girlfriend Myra Langtry (Annette Bening) is doing anything she can to get by and his mother Lilly (Anjelica Huston) is working on a long play of her own. The tagline of Who's conning who? always makes me roll my eyes, but it's actually an accurate portrayal here, as these three play each other back and forth, while the film itself is pulling the veil over the audience.The Grifters is a brooding noir that throws back a lot to the '40s and it's Hitchcock roots, including some direct homages that feel appropriate for the story rather than cheap rip-offs. The film delves into some potentially melodramatic moments at times, but Frears is able to keep things in tune with it's seething roots as opposed to letting things get too theatrical.All three actors are working at top form here; Cusack was just starting to break out and this role should really be considered more among the best of his career, Huston steals the show in every scene and Bening (someone I've always despised) is seductive and very compelling. I thought that Bening was phoning it in a bit at first, but as more is revealed about the character you realize that she's conning herself as much as she is everyone else. Frears crafts this one with a great tone that the actors play into very well, with some powerful sexual undertones and a dynamite finale. "},{"Title":"Dangerous People With Desperate Lives","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Con artists are a special breed. They need to be very good at what they do to be successful and then have to be equally quick on their feet to avoid their victims' revenge. What also becomes very clear in The Grifters is that these people lead desperate lives. They inhabit a world of treachery and deceit in which no-one can be trusted and the level of danger under which they operate grows in direct proportion to the scale of the scams they're involved in and the length of time that they're in the business. It's also evident that the mindset that they have to adopt in order to prosper makes them unable to change the course of their lives and this in turn determines their ultimate fate.The Grifters is a dark thriller which focuses on the conflict which develops between three con artists who already lead dangerous lives but then start to use their professional skills against each other with tragic consequences.Roy Dillon (John Cusack) pulls short cons with a certain amount of success but things go wrong for him when he ends up in hospital with internal bleeding after having been hit so hard by one of his victims that the injury nearly kills him. At the hospital, his estranged mother Lilly (Anjelica Houston) who advises him to give up the grift and his girlfriend Myra Langtry (Annette Bening) meet and take an immediate dislike to each other.Lilly works for a bookie called Bobo Justus (Pat Hingle) and tactically places bets at racetracks in order to reduce the odds on certain runners and protect her boss from suffering any substantial losses. Unfortunately, when she visited her injured son, it made her late for a race meeting and the result of one of the races led to Bobo losing a great deal of money. At the end of a terrifying meeting with him, Bobo burns her hand with a cigar.Myra is an experienced roper who's previously worked on elaborate corporate scams and when necessary uses sex instead of money to pay her rent. She needs a partner for a long con that she's planning and wants to recruit Roy but he's not interested. He's afraid that she might double cross him and is also reluctant because he'd been advised by his mentor that long cons are too risky and could lead to a jail sentence. Myra blames Roy's mother for his decision and takes revenge by making sure that Bobo gets to know about the money that Lilly's been habitually skimming from him throughout their association. When Lilly's tipped off, she makes a run for it but Myra follows seeking her own violent form of revenge.Donald E Westlake's Oscar nominated screen adaptation of Jim Thompson's novel is one of the film's main strengths. Its tone is just right and the dialogue is often sarcastic and cutting. Its other major asset is the quality of the acting which is of the highest order throughout.Anjelica Houston as Lilly portrays her character's normally tough and ruthless behaviour very convincingly but is also equally adept at conveying her vulnerability when threatened and also the sheer intensity of her distress in a memorably tragic scene near the end of the movie.John Cusack plays Lilly's son as a sympathetic character who knows his own limitations and is also very suspicious of both Lilly and Myra. Annette Bening seems to revel in her role as the completely amoral Myra who is extremely deceitful and dangerous. She'll do anything to achieve her goals and actually derives a mischievous pleasure from her evil actions.When the conflict develops between Lilly and Myra, Roy's appalled by the actions of them both and recognises that as a criminal he's not in the same league. Lilly betrays Bobo and Roy, Myra betrays Lilly and both women show their readiness to kill each other.The Grifters with its sometimes disturbing themes, desperate characters and great moments of tension is a drama which is thoroughly absorbing and also extremely powerful. "},{"Title":"Bleak neo-noir","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Con artists (here referred to as grifters) are a popular character type in films. This is somewhat logical as film-making itself is something of a con like any mark, the viewer has to react a certain way for the scheme/plot to work. The major difference between The Grifters and other films about con artists is the lack of a regular mark every major character in the film is a grifter and each one always seems to have some plan to manipulate the others while simultaneously maintaining a state of hyper-vigilance to avoid becoming a victim himself. This means that the viewer is also hyper-vigilant and always expecting some complicated scheme to suddenly fall into place. The great part of this film is that this never happens the fact is that none of these people really has a big plan. Instead they all just distrust each other and steadily become miserable even though they ought to be comforting each other, especially since two of the three main characters are blood relatives. What we're left with is one of the darkest of all neo-noirs. Ultimately the film manages to shock the viewer because the expected deus ex machina experience that ties everything together in a neatly arranged package of destiny fulfillment and narrative closure isn't only absent but altogether unformed because the world of this film is one ruled by the chaos of chance.The film is also impeccable from a technical standpoint the visuals are carried off really well and the acting is spot on. "},{"Title":"uneven,atmospheric but pointless","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this movie has a dark film noir atmosphere that is somewhat intriguing but there is no plot whatsoever.The 3 main characters are one-dimensional and totally unlikable with various degrees of nastiness.One simply doesn't care what happens to them.One expects for a plot to develop at some point,like a scheme or something but it never does.We just get more of the same nasty attitude until some completely needless and superficial ending.Huston and Benning do the best they can with the material.There are movies about con artists that don't bother very much with character development but the good ones have some plot going and especially concentrate on smart con tactics,this movie does neither.The characters are too dumb to impress anyone and too nasty for anyone to care.Boring and wildly overrated. "},{"Title":"Aloof grift","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Renowned British born director Stephen Frears has created a very different drama here with The Grifters. John Cusack, Anjelica Huston and the gorgeous Annette Bening form an intriguing love triangle and all give good performances.Unfortunately Donald E Westlake's plot (from Jim Thompson's novel) never quite manages to pull you in and you find yourself watching 'from a distance'. Although The Grifters did win critical acclaim, it was obviously too off beat to pull a general audience of any considerable size.Saturday, October 5, 1991 - Video "}{"Title":"Triple Braid","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Yes, you already know that the presentation values, the acting and such, is superb in this  project. But that is _never_ enough. What we need is some engagement with the story  modifying the distance between the screen and your mind. It has to play with that  relationship in some way.The con is the technique of first resort. And there are an amazing variety of ways that the  con can be used to confabulate the story who is defining and telling the story.The people involved claim that they focus only on the `Greek tragedy for the underclass.'  They mention it constantly in the DVD commentary and Scorsese deeply believes it as  well.But they clearly are interested in the metanarrative (as they were in `High Fidelity'). Each  of these two women fight for control over what we see. Cusak is only the surrogate.Only the simplest part of the game is the guessing and the revealed twists.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing Neo-Noir","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an interesting, yet disturbing, piece of neo-noir from director Stephen Frears. Like any good noir film, it starts of slow and rather confusing, but wait for it. The story becomes as fascinating as anything Frears has directed in the past. The multiple cons and twists in the film allowed the actors to fully explore the nuances of their characters. Just when you think you think you like a character, they turn on you, like they do to each other, but before you know it, you're on their side again. This is a fascinating look at desperate people who resort to evil acts and make it look really necessary. See it! "},{"Title":"The things one does for money...unimagineable","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting film.  It depicts a lifestyle I have never been aware of. The sexual tension between John Cusack and Angelica Houston was amazing. The ending is indeed surprising and Houston does a good job of displaying her mixed emotions.  The criminal element is cold and calculating. It shows you how one can be very detatched if need be for his or her own survival. "},{"Title":"Original Film-Noir","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Los Angeles, the smalltime crook Roy Dillon (John Cusack) is hit by a baseball bat in the stomach when he tries to swindle a bar attendant. His mother Lilly Dillon (Anjelica Huston) works in La Jolla for the powerful bookmaker Bobo Justus (Pat Hingle), who owns the Justus Amusement Company in Baltimore, placing bets to change the odds at the track but also stealing some money for her that she stashes in her Cadillac. When Lilly comes to Los Angeles to a horse race, she pays a visit to Roy after eight years without seeing each other, and she finds that he has an internal hemorrhage and sends him to the hospital, saving his life. When the experienced Lilly sees Roy's girlfriend, the slut and con artist Myra Langtry (Annette Bening), she immediately finds that Myra is a roper. But the grieved Roy does not pay attention to his absent mother and decides to travel with Myra to La Jolla to spend a couple of days resting. Myra sooner finds that Roy lives of short-con grift and proposes him a great plan to rope tycoons; further she unravels Lilly's scheme with Bobo's money. When Roy turns Myra and her offer down, the greedy women set in motion a betrayal that brings tragic consequences to each player.The Grifters is an original and sexy film-noir of the 90's. The sordid story presents very well-developed amoral and cynical characters Roy Dillon that left home when he was seventeen years old feeling that he was an inconvenient to his mother Lilly that delivered him when she was only fourteen years old. There is some never totally clear incestuous relationship between them and in common they are con-artists &#x96; Roy a smalltime and Lilly a shark swindler. In conflict with their tortuous relationship is the tramp Myra Langtry, one of the most promiscuous and amoral characters that I have seen in contemporary movies. The performances of Anjelica Huston, John Cusack and Annette Bening have awesome performances and I do not recall seeing the body of Annette Bening so exposed in another movie. The story is totally unpredictable and the end shows what Lilly is capable of doing to survive. This is the third time that I watch this great movie that still surprises me. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Os Imorais (The Immoral) "},{"Title":"One mean neo-noir (2 minute review)","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one mean movie. It seduces, wraps your arms around you, and they guts you and leaves you stunned. Directed with striking precision and focus by Stephen Frears (Philomena, The Queen), and written by Donald E. Westlake, one of the literary princes of crime fiction, and based off pulp author Jim Thompson's pulpy novel, in a manner so intricate with detail, so hardboiled that it cracks under the weight of each step it takes, one twist of the knife after another.It's all too good to be true for this neo-noir, even when Martin Scorsese's producing it. Then comes the actors &#x96; and my word, are they fantastic in their roles &#x96; John Cusack is sly yet undeterred in a role that is a slightly more edgier variation on Humphrey Bogart, with a cross of Lee Marvin, to boot; Annette Bening is simply drop-dead sexy as the woman who thinks she knows it all, yet is a timebomb waiting to explode. The real star of the show is Angelica Huston in a well-deserved Oscar nominated performance, perfectly balancing the ruthless, desperate act with a honest, focused, motherly concern that doesn't feel cliché at all.Who knew modern day, sunny Los Angeles and Phoenix can be the backdrop of so seedy a neo-noir, perhaps the best since Chinatown? Frears, Huston, Cusack, Bening, Westlake, cinematographer Oliver Stapleton and composer Elmer Bernstein deserve all the praise they can get for creating something so seedy yet starkly beautiful in retrospect. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film That Deserves its Status as one of the Best Adaptations Ever Made","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE GRIFTERS is quite simply brilliant. The basic premise is straightforward small-time conperson Roy (John Cusack) tries to prosper while trying to sustain his relationships with mother Lily (Anjelica Huston) and girlfriend Myra (Annette Bening). However the love-triangle gets complicated when Lily and Myra try to rival one another for Roy's affections, leading to death and destruction. But what makes this film so brilliant is its precise delineation of the conperson's life all three protagonists are engaged in the same trade. Sometimes they are outstandingly successful; for the most part, however, they lead hand-to- mouth existences, either wondering about where their next buck will come from, or working for sadistic gangland bosses such as Bobo Justus (Pat Hingle). Director Stephen Frears vividly captures the seedy ambiance in which the three protagonists operate - dilapidated motels, racetracks, darkly lit rooms and the inevitable automobiles. One of the film's main subplots concentrates on the characters' search for personal stability Lily tries to be a mother to Roy, while Myra acts as a surrogate mother. This produces one of the film's most fascinating plot-twists. Add to the mix the wonderful cinematography in a series of iconic locations, both urban and rural(by Oliver Stapleton), and you have an almost perfect piece. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and very riveting","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From Stephen Frears comes The Grifters, a highly colourful and riveting film noir. Frears' direction is superb, with smooth shifts between the audacious scams, the sudden violence and the intense rivalry between the characters. The film looks very stylish not just in the cinematography but also in the scenery, editing and costumes. The Grifters also benefits from a cracking, well-paced story and superb writing that is both witty and intense. When it comes to the film's acting, it is very good. Except that John Cusack comes across as rather bland and lightweight. Cusack aside, both Anjelica Huston and Annette Bening deliver power-house performances, and out of a terrific supporting cast JT Walsh and Charles Napier particularly impress. All in all, a wonderful film that succeeds in pretty much all areas. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Women desire","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To me, this movie is about the fear of women, like many of the Hollywood dark movies, only this one is darker then most of them.Women are creatures of desire, desire makes women dangerous. When women want, you better give. Roy refused to satisfy them, twice, bad things happened each time, both times it gives you a big shock. Although there are other bad things that scare you in this movie, the most scary things are to think what women are capable of when they are denied of their satisfactions. Imaging this is what your girlfriend and your mother are capable of, potentially, what a terror! You can understand Lily, in some way, why she is so desperate. You can feel sympathy for her when how she cried after Roy's death but this is still one of the most shocking moments of mother-son relationship in Hollywood history, it still thrills you, and hope you haven't seen this movie. You can't help to ask does it have to happen? Myra seems such a sweet girlfriend at times that you hope to see some happy ending of these two, when she failed Roy, you kind of hope Lilly and Roy can finally get along, because you can really see they do care about each other, but no, none of these happened, everything turned as bad as it can get, all because of women desire. "},{"Title":"He was so crooked he ate soup with a corkscrew...","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From Jim Thompson's pulp novel, a deliciously unsavory mix of immorality, fear, and contempt. Three con-artists cross paths in Los Angeles John Cusack is a small-time grifter waiting for his chance to cross into the big time; Anjelica Huston is Cusack's estranged mother, a cool-as-ice platinum-blonde who bets on horses for an underworld kingpin to change their odds; and Annette Bening is Cusack's sex-kitten neighbor who had a successful ten-year run working a brokerage scam. The film isn't really about double-crosses (though that does ultimately happen); it has much more of a dangerous, crackling undercurrent than your typical revenge melodrama. However, in the film's unpredictable, high-wire final third, it skitters through some major plot developments with too blasé a shrug, and the audience is ultimately let down. One can forgive the lack of exposition in some of the minor scams (such as a group of happy sailors being rolled by Cusack and his 'found' dice on the train), but the bigger occurrences needed more of a thoughtful hand from the filmmakers. Director Stephen Frears comes on loaded for bear, and his picture is fast and loose, but perhaps he didn't anticipate how locked-in these characters would become to the viewer, and as such the tag at the end is hollow (it seems like a prank). Incredible performances, particularly by Huston and Bening, make it worth-seeing. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Cusack is so bad","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this the 1st time I saw it. My main concern was about Cusack whose performance doesn't even register. It's the acting version of absolute zero. I just watched it again and came away with an even lower opinion of it, because Cusack torpedos the movie. Angelica Huston is fierce and amazing, but Cusack doesn't hold up his end. It's like watching a lion attack cotton candy. When Huston underplays her role she still has your undivided attention. When Cusack underplays, he might as well be invisible.As Myra, Annette Bening is supposed to be annoying. But some actors find a way to portray annoying without being annoying (Jason Scwartzman).This should have been a breakout role for Cusack. But his career after this was more of the same because he's so adrift here.The goofy reviewers over at the Out of the Past noir website, have deemed this the best neo-noir. I beg to differ. "}{"Title":"For the perfect neo-noir, look no further.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film in the theater because Green Card was sold out. As compensation, I got to see a top-notch thriller instead of a run-of-the-mill romantic comedy. I have since seen the film two or three times on video, and I my appreciation for it grows each and every time. First of all, this is the definitive Anjelica Huston performance (in a career full of great ones). Her take-no-prisoners approach as Lilly pulls out all the stops. If I were an Oscar voter in 1990, I would have had a horrible time deciding between her and Kathy Bates (for Misery). I think only the fact that she had won once already tipped the scale in favor of Kathy. Pity.The fact that John Cusack stands out at all next to Huston is amazing, but he is perfectly cast as a small-time con artist. I, for one, admit that I could easily be taken in by his aw-shucks demeanor, which masks a bitter distrusting survivalist. In the fifteen years since, he has not had nearly as great a role (though Being John Malkovich and High-Fideliy were a great one-two punch about five years ago). As for Annette Bening, everyone knows that this is the role that put her on the map, and led to her fateful casting opposite Warren Beatty in Bugsy. It still packs a wallop with every viewing (as does her wardrobe, a true sign of the end of the 'eighties).I love introducing this film to people who haven't yet seen it. It is a great discussion stimulator--your head starts spinning with all kinds of alternative scenarios of what would have happened if the characters had made other choices. (There's also some faulty logic or math with regard to the racetrack betting scam, and an unresolved stash of money later in the film, but these are minor quibbles.) My friend summed it up in one word INTENSE. From the bitterly comic moments to the truly squeamish ones, you're riveted from start to finish. Grade A+ "},{"Title":"the Best of all time","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is in my opinion one of the best acted, best directed and best filmed movies ever made. You have to see it to know what I mean. Cusack is in his best role. A must see. "},{"Title":"Pointless and filled with unsympathetic characters","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Critics invented new words to over-praise this melodrama set in the world of con artists. It tries hard to be a modern day film noir, but has neither the depth nor the range to be considered a success.John Cusack is a small time con artist (or grifter). He has a rocky relationship with his big-time grifter mother Anjelica Huston, who has taken an instant dislike to his floozy girlfriend Annette Bening. Bening is also a grifter and has been prodding Cusack to trade in his small time ways for more big time cons. When the women start a war with each other, Cusack finds himself in the middle.There are so many things that do not work in this film it is hard to know where to begin. First and foremost, would probably be the depiction of the cons. None of them are especially imaginative or convincing - that is when we can follow them. Huston is depicted as a seasoned con artist and her scams - as well as we can follow it - are at least semi-possible. What is not credible is that an old pro like herself would in turn be scamming her boss - organized crime - in such a stupid way that is so easy to uncover. Given that this development sets the action of the latter part of the film in motion, we need to believe that Huston is capable of this degree of stupidity and it just does not fit right with her icy, manipulative character. Cusack's cons are neither entertaining or especially memorable. And Bening's cons basically revolve around her stripping and having sex with anything that moves...that's it. We are supposed to believe that beneath her squeaky voice and dumb blond demeanor that she is really a smart cookie, but her cons require no intelligence and basically require her to act like a tart - end of story. For a film centering on cons, one would think the film could do better.We need some reason to be embroiled in these people. None of them are especially interesting in themselves. Huston is all tough bravado as some kind of insidious dark Madonna, but she is not particularly compelling and never sympathetic. When her boss threatens to beat her to death, Huston's odd choice to suddenly give her character a stutter to indicate fright seems a showy affectation applied by an actress rather than genuine fear experienced by someone afraid to die. Bening never progresses her character beyond that of a rather dim bimbo, who throws a hissy fit when she doesn't get her way. She tries to instigate Huston's death and then tries to assassinate her herself based almost solely on the fact that Huston indicated her disdain of her dating her son. Her reactions seem just a bit out of proportion, even within the parameters of film noir, where emotions are allowed to be a bit heightened.Also, the casting of Cusack is a misfire. He comes off as such a lightweight here. He is not convincing as a con artist and he never seems a match for the women in the film. His romantic pairing with Bening elicits no sparks - acting-wise or sexually. The extended sequence where the fully clothed Cusack hungrily chases a fully naked Bening around the room saying naughty things to her before throwing her over his shoulder so that her bare butt gets the kind of camera treatment that actresses used to demand for their good sides generates more derisive titters than heat. Additionally, some of the latter moments in the film try to exploit some latent incestuous notes that are supposed to be present between Cusack and Huston. The problem is that we sense no such thing before the film pulls such a suggestion out of its butt crack. Worse, when the film explicitly directs us to look for these hints, Cusack's performance still doesn't convey them. Cusack seems completely incapable of generating chemistry with either actress and lacks the hard edge required for a career con artist.The final confrontation in the film does feature a moment of unexpected, shocking violence. Unfortunately, while I was momentarily surprised, it had no lasting emotional impact on me whatsoever. This is probably due to the fact that the characters in this melodrama seem more like plot contrivances that are moved around at the behest of scene directions than actual living beings that interact organically. I would also be remiss in not noting that the final shots in the film of a character descending in an elevator seem a direct rip-off of the final moments from The Maltese Falcon - a far better production that this film will never be confused with. "},{"Title":"This is pitch black portrayal of the human heart as thrown into the molten lava consistency of hell","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters is an ultra slick, ultra dark Neo Noir set in an ambiguous time zone of a fifties stylised nineties. It portrays a world of con artists and narcissistic low life hell bent on unconscious tide into self annihilation. John Cusack plays Roy Dillon a Grifter who plays small time tricks with the various 'marks' who he discovers in various dives and race tracks. Psychological analysis of confidence-men says that they display an arrogance only else where displayed by psychopaths, Cusack plays this out well his ice cool facade dressed in suits that melt him amongst the crowd. Unfortunately for him (both as a character and possibly as an actor) he's got dealings with two incredibly powerful women. Being his main squeeze Myra (played by the always awesome Annette Benning) a lady whose sexual mesmerism and bimbo smokescreen conceals a razor sharp mind of chess master par excellence. Roy's mother (Angelica Huston),Lilly could be Myra's older twin, thus exploring a certain taboo subject that goes all the way back to Greek Tragedy. Stephen Frears (possibly at the height of his power) directs, so you know what your getting is quality. Adapted from a novel by Jim Thomson, a writer whom could out dark James Ellroy or any other devil dog of the hardboiled you care to fling. This is pitch black portrayal of the human heart as thrown into the molten lava consistency of hell. "},{"Title":"Chinatown part deux","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters is not really a movie, it's a language with verbs only about life and debt. It is an almost comic rhyme about punches to the gut and the moral ambiguities of being on the slide. Even for the con, life ain't free.The actors in this odyssey largely speak in physical grammar and the slick, witty and hard boiled dialog is largely muzak. Anjelica Houston's Lilly postures in brash suits like a school girl far beyond her years - even though she seen a few already. That's not to say Lilly doesn't utter a few daggers now and then - My son will be all right, if not I'll have you killed.Cusack's Roy barely utters every meager syllable while clenching his gut with a half open stare. Roy sells self confidence and wants to be a real con, but never listens enough to mom, even though she wrote the book. Roy frequently brushes with dangers and somehow mom is always there to save his life. Second time I gave it to you. Then there is Annette Bennign's Myra, Roy's giggle Friend, trotting around like a bobble head fixture on a taxi dashboard with clip on earrings but garnering enough attention to slice you from behind for a dollar. You can well imagine she is a lot of people's friend. Just ask the landlord.Each of these performers puts in what well may be the best performance of their careers. Director Stephen Frears uses a restrained hand on Donald E. Westlake's literal script and largely lets the actors play this out on their own.So greed is good? Maybe for Myra. Ultimately The Grifters is about survival and the illusion of getting something for nothing. But even somewhere inside Roy knows not everything is a free ride, Lilly, I guess I owe you my life.You always did. "},{"Title":"As Original as They Come","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you thought you've seen them all, then I'm sure The Grifters will have you think twice. For all the noir film fanatics, this movie pays homage to the great noir films from the 1950's in both style and substance, making you feel like Humphrey Bogart will at any second jump to the screen and make a cameo appearance. For those who don't know what a grifter is, it's when a person manipulates another individual to give them money leaving you high and dry. The concept is not new per say, but its tricky nature jumps over several hurdles and has the guts to deliver the cold nature that this movie strongly possesses. The three leads embark you on an exhibition to show you the art of being a grifter and to convince the audience that the Darwinian theory that survival of the fittest is indeed a valid one. From the opening scenes, we see the dynamic threesome (Anjelica Huston, John Cusack and Annette Benning) donning their smooth-talking schemes as a ploy to make an easy sum of cash. Roy Dillon (Cusack) in middle of his job gets the crap beaten out of him, and we see the two leading ladies, his mother Lilly (Huston) and his seductive girlfriend Myra (Benning) visit him in the hospital. Through a blind eye, Roy doesn't know that these ladies have little interest in Roy and are more fixated on winning and scheming. From then on, a plethora of daring and unique events catapult its way to the screen keeping you glued as watch how one event leads to another. Myra can pretty well write a book on the art of seduction to get whatever she wants, and often hires a second person to pull the scheme successfully. Lilly, Roy's biological but distant mother, is always accompanied by a bookkeeper to make sure his payment never usurps hers. Though we the audience may not be there physically with these schemers, but for some reason, they're manipulative ways invites to part of their lives during the near two hour duration of the movie where everyone is a target and trust is irrelevant as the movie progresses. But the three principals provide you with scintillating performances that will leave you with a satisfying aftertaste. Anjelica Huston who is capable at playing anything thrown at her is lean mean and nothing in between. She even possesses a love interest for Roy that may go beyond maternal bliss. Myra makes a formidable adversary to Lilly as she'll advance to greater lengths to get her payoff, even stepping over the lines at times. And poor Roy, who was literally born in this business can't abandon ship in this business knows he's in a battle with these two ladies that he can't lose. Plus kudos goes out to Pat Hingle as a cold-blooded thug with an evil grin that stretches 10 feet long. Based on a novel by Jim Thompson and scripted by Donald Westlake, this film proves that not all adaptations are bad, if executed properly and The Grifters can brag that right. Director Stephen Frears makes sure the audience gets a film grip on the scenes and the action that will make his audience begging for more. Other notable contributors who made this movie possible include Martin Scorcese who served as a producer and the music was conducted by Elmer Bernstein who has acclaimed to providing music to other notable classics. For a DVD bonus, keep a steady eye and ear on riveting interviews by the folks who made this movie possible. "},{"Title":"Easily A Match For Tarantino's Work","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jim Thompson's original novel of 1963 is brought to the screen with a make-over and a 1990 setting.It was, and is, an understated no-holds-barred insight into a world that most people scarcely know about that of the professional con-artist. We come upon a group of ruthless people struggling through lives that are as barren as can be. You simply could not trust them an inch.A 25-year-old Roy Dillon tries a routine hustle on some stooge in a store and it backfires spectacularly. He is almost killed by a belly-blow from a baseball-bat. He only survives because his mother is in town and chances to visit him. She gets things done right away. She can - she's working for a mobster with the fairy-bookish name of Bobo Justus. Mom Lily only has to mention his name. She had Roy when she was a teenage hick way back when, and could easily pass for his sister. Her dress code is anything but matronly. But she's moved on up. She makes a decent take for Bobo. She's very good at what she does, rigging bets at the horse-track. But she's hardly safer than her son - in fact, less so. Bobo is a man you cross once. Even if it's a mistake. Lily does this in just 20 years service and he makes her suffer. But for her otherwise long reliability and the fact that he likes her; she'd be dead.Roy has a girlfriend called Moira. He is slow to discover that she's as much a grifter as himself and his mother. There is a typical bitchy animosity between they two. Moira means to get even. Roy and Lily's relationship harbours a slightly incestuous overtone that is never fully explored. We are left simply wondering.The movie, like the story, devolves around a small, tight group of characters and the bitter, cynical intensity of their lives. I believe the movie is actually superior to the book, which itself is a deft piece of work. John Cusack is Roy fully realised. Not only does he physically answer the character's description, but there is a slightly waxen smugness to his face (I don't mean that unkindly) that excites one's natural doubts. His complexion is a bit too perfect, like a tailor's mannequin. Angelica Houston brings a blazing talent to any part she is offered, and plays Lily - the constantly terrified but determined professional trickster - to a tee. The other players are all good for their paycheques.It's an intense and minutely observed piece of theatre that is extremely unsettling at times. There are no good people here. As to the ending; you'd best see that for yourselves. It's a terrific and unexpected shock.Highly recommended and collectible. It's Tarantino stripped of all his ironic humour. "},{"Title":"If This Wasn't a Graphic Novel...","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...It should have been.Anjelica Huston, Annette Bening, and John Cusack star in this tightly-woven drama of estrangement and betrayal. The film is set in the late 1980's.Roy (Cusack) loves Myra (Bening), but Lilly (Huston) isn't so sure they are right together. All three are on the grift, but everyone has their own objective.Who is conning whom? Lilly works for Bobo Justice by evening out the odds at the horse-racing track. Myra is a long-con roper in need of a partner. Roy is strictly short-con flipping $20's for $10's in bars and conning players in dice games.Everyone is playing the game to the best advantage he or she can muster. When the three of them come together, there are bound to be problems. Through several plot twists, you find out why Myra wants Roy, why Lilly objects to Myra, why Lilly wants to hold on to Roy for herself, and the tragic ending all of them face.Huston, Bening, and Cusack all provide stunning performances in this film. "},{"Title":"Huston and Bening Put the Femme in Fatale","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A devilish, twisted modern day noir with style to spare.Director Stephen Frears handles the morbid material expertly -- it walks a razor thin line between dark comedy and too disturbing to enjoy. John Cusack plays the con-man at the film's center, torn between the affections of his mother and his lover. Anjelica Huston and Annette Bening, playing the two women, tear up the screen. Both of them are like femmes fatale who wandered out of the 1940s and ended up here. We can be grateful that they got lost.A good, good movie.Grade A "},{"Title":"An irresistible urge to be the guy who's wise ...","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As it tends to do with most things, Hollywood casually glorifies the life of the criminal, and perhaps even more so the life of the con artist. Maybe filmmakers just simply admire the Big Con; creating elaborate illusions of reality, taking on fake identities, making promises designed to lure unsuspecting people into a trusting mood so that they will part with their money. What is Hollywood, but a traveling medicine show, which more often then not puts on a big display, but seldom returns anything of great substance? If nothing else, THE GRIFTERS deserves credit for not playing into the scam. Indeed, the film doesn't build to a big con, either to fool one of the characters or the viewers. It's not about the good bad guys getting the better of the bad bad guys, but rather it is an unsympathetic portrayal of scam artists as low-lifes. There is nothing glamorous or cool about these grifters; and the film doesn't buy into the Hollywood myth that confidence men only target the rich and the foolish (DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS) or the already corrupt and criminal (THE STING), or that swindling people is just harmless good fun (THE FLlM-FLAM MAN). The cynical world view of THE GRIFTERS is a landscape of race tracks, bars and seedy hotels and motels, all settings for two-bit con games that, even if they succeed, only pave the way for the next two-bit con -- it's just another version of living paycheck to paycheck.Being less about the crime than the criminals, THE GRIFTERS is more of a character study, by way of a decidedly unromantic triangle. At the center of the story is John Cusack as Roy Dillon, a small-time con artist who makes a tidy enough living by scamming bartenders and cheating drunken sailors with loaded dice. It is a profitable, if empty existence, but he seems content, squirreling away his ill-gotten loot for rainy days -- such as a hospital stay should a mark catch on and almost kill him.Roy's colorless little life is disrupted by two women. One is Myra Langtry (Annette Bening), a small-timer whose brush with big time operators has left her hungry for masterminding her own big con, though her real talent is using her body as a bargaining chip to pay the rent. It is never clear how the ambitious and ruthless Myra hooked up with the pragmatic and wary Roy, or if she's in it for the sex or his money. The other woman, in both senses of the phrase, is Lilly Dillon (Anjelica Huston), Roy's estranged mother. She never lets him forget that she gave him his life, which apparently means opting to not have an abortion at age 14. Lilly is a small cog in a mob racket that fixes betting odds at race tracks; she has a nomadic existence, living out of her black and gold Cadillac, with its trunk full of skimmed cash.In a perverse way, Lilly really does care about her son, but not nearly as much as she cares for herself. She doesn't think Roy is strong enough for grifting and she urges him to go straight because he could do so much better. Myra also thinks he could do better, but by joining her in bigger cons. Roy is torn between the two professionally -- and, it seems, sexually as well. That is the twist in THE GRIFTERS the clear implication is that Roy and Lilly had had an incestuous relationship, which probably compelled him to run away from home at age 17. As the story evolves, it becomes clear that Lilly and Myra aren't two side of the same coin, so much as the same side played at a different angles. The hapless Roy, despite being a low-level thief, is a relatively decent guy, who just wants to be left alone with his penny-ante dreams; he's on to the games that Lilly and Myra play, but he nonetheless proves to be easy prey.However, the only truly successful con any of them seem to playing is in fooling themselves into believing they are leading anything but pointless, desperate lives.Yet, as bleak as it sounds, THE GRIFTERS is not a grim or depressing film. The characters, through Donald E. Westlake's punchy dialogue, has a sardonic sense of humor and the actors play their roles with cunning intelligence. Despite their base greed and amoral posturing, it is difficult to dislike theses characters -- even Huston's Lilly, whose feral sense of survival seems to make her immune from any sort of motherly sentimentality or compassion. At first glance, Bening's Myra may seem to be too flighty and giggly to be convincing as a cutthroat predator, but, then, what better disguise to have. Cusack underplays with such bemused skill that he might be the most convincing as a con artist And quietly stealing moments with humor, credit must go to the always reliable Henry Jones, as a hotel manager whose proffered wisdom about life illustrate just why some people are so easily scammed.Though set in 1990, the film avoids any sense of timeliness, and clearly it evokes references to similar films from the 40s and 50s. And curiously, its themes of incest, hidden identities and unexpected violence, bring to mind Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO. As such, THE GRIFTERS' one failing is that it is in color. Though director Stephen Frears does an admirable job of filming everything in muted, bland images (with the notable exception of the incongruently flashy/trashy wardrobes of Lilly and Myra), the film's looks and feels so much truer to its film noir heritage with the color turned off. These are characters who really don't deserve to be in a world with color, and wouldn't appreciate any shade other than green anyway. "}{"Title":"A sack of oranges..","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie provides an unflinching and relentless window into a world most of us would rather pretend didn't exist. The characters are subtle and believable; wicked souls, like dogs that are repeatedly kicked, and carry no redeeming value or morals--no conscience.Angelica Houston plays a woman (Lily) who shows no motherly feelings for her own kid--the only relationship they have surrounds their variant tastes in petty crime. It seems the two would sell one another if it would bring in another $20--at least until Roy gets into trouble. I felt like someone kicked me in the stomach when I watched the scene between Lily and the bookie when he reveals that he knows she has been scraping a little off the top. You realize that no matter how evil one person is, there is always someone pulling their strings who is even colder.If you liked this movie, you'll probably enjoy Blue Velvet and Woody Allen's Crimes and Misdemeanors. Remember vile and evil are anagrams. "},{"Title":"An original, for a change!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's sad that it's so unusual to see a movie that's original, and that doesn't have to rely on special effects to hold an audience. THE GRIFTERS was original, well-written and superbly acted. I was very uncomfortable several times when it looked like John Cusack was going to be seduced by his mother, and there were a couple of rather grisly scenes that disturbed me, but I liked the film enough to see it on three separate occasions (I seldom see a film more than once). I ordinarily don't like John Cusack (he's a whiner - I just want to slap him!) - but was impressed with his interpretation of his character in this film. The film may be a bit too shocking for some, but it's well worth a rental. "},{"Title":"A great film noir","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anjelica Huston is one of the most underappreciated actresses of our time and her talent has never been more evident than it is in Stephen Frears' bold, sexy, surprising The Grifters. Huston is dynamite as a cold-hearted con-artist who gets involved in a juicy triangle with her grown son (John Cusack) and his sexy girlfriend (Annette Bening). Whether slinging razor-sharp one-liners across the screen, subtly suggesting her feelings as a mother, or fearlessly conveying greed and ruthlessness, Huston never goes wrong. Cusack is terrific too as is the enormously talented Bening, who expertly suggests that her dim-bulb character isn't all she's cracked up to be (Both she and Huston received Oscar nods as did Frears for director and Donald Westlake for his screenplay). All-in-all, The Grifters is an enormously droll, dark, and satifying crime pic with an unforgettable ending and classic performances.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anjelica Huston and Annette Bening give the performances of their careers in this film (both scored Oscar noms, BTW).  Tough, gorgeous, and funny -- this movie definitely belongs to the ladies.  I haven't seen performances of this kind of power from either one since.  Bening in particular seems to have taken lots of saint roles recently; it's a hoot watching her at her bad girl best. "},{"Title":"useless con artists","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"     The Grifters is a useless movie about con artists. Every movie has its own spirit. You walk through the looking glass when you sit and watch it. You become roped in to the concept of the world, as painted by the producer, the director, the writers and the actors.   In this case it is a weird, bleak world where everyone is either a corrupt mobster, or a flaky con artist working for one.    Lilly is the supposedly hot older woman scam artist who also happens to be the mother of John Cusak, the hot young scam artist, who is getting it on with Annette Bening, a scam artist in search of a new partner. Its all vague and uninteresting, all within a certain creative mist; But a grim and useless one.    An early scene shows Cusak flashing a twenty at a bartender and ordering a drink. When the bartender returns to gives him the beer, Cusak hands him a ten instead. The bartender returns with change for a twenty. Doyeeee! No one would ever fall for this stupid trick. That is an asinine piece of writing.   There's violence and sex and crime. The characters are all unlikable. Bening shows a lot of breast and there is a tasteless Oedipus undertone to the relationship between Cusak and his mother.   Lilly has a con game going for the mob at the track where she makes large bets on long shot horses and makes the odds go down. It is entirely unclear how this pays off for her or her mob boss, a cruel sadist who burns a huge scar into her hand with a fat cigar.    GRIFTERS is a very, very useless movie.     "},{"Title":"The Literarlly Cut-Throat World of Con Artists","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In most films about grifters, or con artists, they are almost always the ones the audiences root for, such as the lovable characters in The Sting, Gondorff and Hooker (Paul Newman and Robert Redford) whose only marks are those who deserve it. In reality, grifters mark anyone they think they can take. And the more the mark has, the more the grifter thinks he or she can take from them. A con artist (aka confidence man or woman) uses camaraderie and deception to convince a potential victim to willfully give them money. In the best con games, the mark doesn't realize he or she has been taken.Roy Dillon (John Cusack) is a small-con grifter who was taught by an older con artist and magician. He perpetrates small-time tricks, like switching bills at bars, and getting in with strangers to play rigged games of chance. But he's never enacted bigger cons. His mother Lilly Dillion is also a grifter who works for the mobs which own many of horse racing tracks in California. She's paid to bet on long shots to decrease the pay offs in case the long shot wins, using the mob's own money, even though the track itself doesn't know the mob is actually paying into its own betting pool. For example, if a horse had 50-1 odds to win, and Lilly adds money into the betting pool making the odds 40-1, if the horse wins, the mob only has to pay off $40 to every $1 bet instead of $50. But there's a small hitch. Lilly is skimming off the top, betting less money than the mob has given her, and she hides the extra in the trunk of her car.The wild card is a young female grifter name of Myra Langtry (Annette Bening) who was once in a big con game with a man name of Cole (J.T. Walsh). At the film's beginning we learn Roy is going with Myra, but he's not sure about her, and he doesn't know she's a grifter. After Roy unsuccessfully pulls one of his bate and switch the bills games on the wrong bartender which lands him a slug into the stomach, Lilly and Myra meet at hospital. From the get-go we know that Lilly and Myra are adversaries, both vying for the affections of Roy. Eventually, Roy and Myra leave on a road trip.During the trip, Myra recounts her days with Cole and how they swindled Texas millionaires out of thousands in cash. They set up a phony office when oil prices were down and convinced Texas magnates to invest thousands of dollars into a scheme. Cole and Myra would convince the mark they could defraud the stock or bonds market by placing orders depending upon a shift in the market, such as a stock, bond or currency, and then cash in on the profits. The trick was a 7-second delay in which if there was a significant move of a stock and/or commodity up or down on the Tokyo exchange, they could either buy or sell before the information reached New York. When the mark brought the money, and all that was needed was to make the actual transaction, a phony scenario was presented to the mark involving authorities, and the mark and his money would soon part company.But Roy has never tried anything so big before. And his mother Lilly wants Roy out of the con game, before he becomes like her, a loser who has sold her soul to the mob. She is physically punished by one of the mobsters for missing one of the high-stakes races when she takes Roy to hospital, and as luck would have it, one of the long-shots wins, forcing the mob to pay 70-1 odds. We know that this is a tug of war between these two women, the sexy upstart grifter Myra and the lonely loser old grifter Lilly.An excellent film which probably more accurately portrays the cut-throat world of con artists. In reality, some con artists are playing deadly games, not like the characters portrayed in The Sting, The Film-Flam Man and House of Games. A French nobleman who had invested with Bernie Madoff committed suicide when the fraud was revealed, and others have been killed by con artists. The world of Roy, Lilly and Myra portrays a much deadlier world. While a great and compelling film, I would have liked Myra and Roy to engage the big con which in the end they avoid. "},{"Title":"Stephen Frears Directs a Scorsese-Produced Crime","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A small-time conman (John Cusack) has torn loyalties between his estranged mother (Anjelica Huston) and new girlfriend (Annette Bening) -- both of whom are high-stakes grifters with their own angles to play.This is an interesting part of John Cusack's career. Not quite an adult, but not quite a kid. He fluctuates between both rather well. He could be 18 or 30, but which is it? He had wanted to make this film since high school, but when was that? Nothing better than a story of three confidence artists all trying to scam each other. Especially if their motives do not really become clear until we start seeing all the pieces. Not sure the $20 Miller trick really works, though. You would think a cashier / bartender would look before making change. "},{"Title":"Classic storytelling","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters is a clever and entertaining film with a dark edge. The three protagonists are con-artists who work on different types of con. Their stories eventually intertwine leading to a shocking confrontation.Angelica Huston works for the mob, rigging the odds on horse racing. John Cusack pulls small time cons in bars using sleight of hand. Annette Bening is Cusack's girlfriend and is working her way back up to a con of her own.The film is shot in an authentic 1940's film noir style and the story is a classic piece of thriller writing. Overall I give The Grifters an 8 out of 10. I love this film and I would highly recommend it to lovers of crime movies. "},{"Title":"The Grifters","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An indie crime-drama fixes on a veiled Oedipus complex relationship between a mother and his son, which also involves another pivotal figure, the son's femme fatale girlfriend. One background consensus is that they are all grifters, while the mother is an old-hander, the girlfriend is a slutty self-seeker, they are pros, bar the son is just a small-time crook and being too righteous to go down with the swindle business, what's worse is that he has no sway in juggle with these two women, after the mother hoodwinks a handsome amount of cash from her ferocious boss, which ignites a series of cutthroat happenings which ends in a quite blatantly bold epilogue. The film was an Oscar dark horse in 1991, amassed 4 nominations including BEST DIRECTOR for Frears and BEST ACTRESS for Angelica Huston and BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS for Anette Bening (although I don't consider its script an ace one since there are many marked plot-holes buried inside despite of its Oscar nomination). These two ladies at the most time share an analog aspect (have been mistaken at least twice in the film), Anjelica holds a glaringly formidable aura and her and Cusack's near-incest impulse pushes the film to its culmination of wallowing in a state of indie-charisma. Bening, whose vixen seductiveness has been laid bare unreservedly, pre-empts that the future Ms. Beatty would not earn that title without any man- conquering expertise. John Cusack, top-billed in the film and delivers a marvelous performance as well, whose repeatedly undervalued acting career showed his dexterous prowness at the beginning, sadly, it never kick-started. (All the three performances and the director are among my top 10 ranking, the film barely missed my top 10 though). For director Stephen Frears, the film differs from his more prestigious works, say THE QUEEN (2006), it certainly has a more noir-ish tone in assembling the intensified thrills with an uneven script (just take one example, it never quite explained how the money being left in the car after the accident, so Lilly, Huston's character, has to steal the money from her son). But thanks to Frears, the film at the very least establishes itself as a progenitor of the crime genre in the 90s, where violence is always hidden somewhere and executed where you are unprepared. "},{"Title":"So good, one of the characters can be named Bobo Justice and you won't even mind.","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm no expert, but I think The Grifters may be the only movie about con artists where the story isn't all about whether they can pull off the big con&#x85;and it's all the better for it.Instead, the story focuses on what sort of people want to make a living trying to cheat other people out of their money, what that life entails and how it ends. Roy Dillon (John Cusack) is a small-time hustler who goes through his days scamming a few bucks here and a few bucks there off unsuspecting marks. Myra Langtree (Annette Bening) is Roy's deliberately disarmingly ditzy girlfriend. She's a different sort of grifter, one who doesn't rely on deceit but on her own sexuality. Lilly Dillon (Angelica Huston) is Roy's mother, who has seemingly run the course of the confidence game life and has ended up working for a mobbed up bookie named Bobo Justice (Pat Hingle), betting down the odds at racetracks and limiting Bobo's losses when gamblers get lucky on the right horse.Sent to the West Coast by her boss, Lilly drops in on the son she hasn't seen or spoken to in years and Roy finds himself caught between a mother who wants him off the grift and a girlfriend who wants Roy to join her in the world of big time, big league, big money con games she once knew. Myra used to be the sex appeal in a complicated scam that took rich Texas oil men for hundreds of thousands of dollars and wants to recreate all that with Roy. For himself, Roy just wants to be left alone to his small-time scams, even though he's grown somewhat sick and jaded with the business.The performances in this film are all quite good. Cusack and Huston create a believably damaged family where the bonds of affection are still there, just twisted into a Gordian Knot of anger, fear and desire. You can feel that Lilly knows her great days are behind her and she's accepted that, but wants her son to have more of a future. You can see Roy's exhaustion with the only life he's ever wanted, the life that defines his entire sense of self. A nd Myra is like a giggling shark, completely unconflicted about who she is and what she wants. Pat Hingle even rises to the occasion, turning Bobo Justice into the sort of charismatic thug that movie crime stories live and die by, without ever letting the character lapse into caricature.The Grifters is also one of the least contrived movies I've ever seen. A lot of movies are very plot driven. They may throw a few twists at you, but what the movie's about and where it's going are pretty obvious. Other movies throw the plot out the window and focus all the attention on the characters' individual emoting and the relationships between them. Plot driven movies, even decent ones, can be predictable and trite. Character-centric films can be self-indulgently pointless and boring. The Grifters finds a way to combine the best of both approaches to storytelling, crafting an extremely naturalistic plot that remains true to the characters even as it takes them places you never expect and to an ending that, while somewhat arbitrary, is shocking in its inevitability.When The Grifters was over, I wanted to keep watching the characters. I wanted to know more of their stories. I wish every movie was like that. "}{"Title":"Renting This Is No Con","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The inherent problem with movies about con artists is that you're always looking for the con and you know you can't trust anybody. This doesn't exactly make it a pleasurable viewing experience, and even when the big twistaroo at the end is revealed, it isn't surprising because you were expecting something like that to happen for the past two hours. That being said, the twists and turns throughout The Grifters are fairly predictable. Thankfully, a convoluted storyline is not this movie's reason for being. It isn't about the score, it's about the people who can't live without the score.Three characters, each with a different type of grift. There's Lily (Angelica Huston) who works racetrack odds for the mob like most people have a regular job, her son Roy (John Huston) who sticks to smaller fish like switching a $20 bill with a ten a few times a day, then there's Myra (Annette Bening), Roy's girl, who likes long cons with big payoffs in the Mametian sense. They're all addicted to stealing money. Maybe it's the lifestyle it can afford (though Myra has trouble paying her rent), maybe it's the thrill. Either way, none of them know when to stop and it costs them more than most would care to risk. Like a roulette player with a system, these people fail to remember that the house always wins in the end.The film is shot as a sort of slick, neo-noir in the seedy underbelly of modern Los Angeles. Lots of references to film noirs of the 40's, plenty of shadows cast from venetian blinds, you know the drill. It excels most when it is showing the audience how some of the scams work. Some depend on slight of hand and others demand theatrical acting abilities to make the score. It's a window into a forbidden world, like Mamet's House of Games. Performances all around are quite good, showing subtleties of character that take on more meaning as the story progresses. Everybody wants something from someone else in this movie, and even if they're all holding those cards the closest, we can see if they've got a full house or a pair of nothing. It's money that makes the world go round in The Grifters and here we get to see what lengths some folks will go to in order to get it. It's depressing to watch people with such singular, sad lives, but ultimately informative. Not just about how to avoid some scams, but also as a reminder that nothing good ever comes from something as easy as stealing a sucker's money.http//www.movieswithmark.com "},{"Title":"Brilliant, gritty film noir of the '90s, as good as any from the '40s...","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ANGELICA HUSTON is the mother from hell whose complex relationship with her crooked son (JOHN CUSACK) is the grist for some superb story-telling of crime and manipulation--rendered even more disturbing when you realize it resembles the real life mother-son grifters who killed several people in their quest for riches and are now serving life sentences in prison. The complex mother-son relationship is really the most fascinating and effective element of this crime drama.ANNETTE BENING figures prominently as Cusack's floozy girlfriend who wishes he would free himself from petty crime and his overbearing mother. The story is completely engrossing from beginning to end, never letting up the pace, with suspenseful twists and turns occurring one after another so that nothing is the least bit predictable--let alone, the stunning ending.All concerned have done an excellent job, a film noir for the '90s that is every bit as gritty and satisfying as any of the best noirs from the '40s.Summing up ANGELICA HUSTON's Oscar-nominated performance is spellbinding and ANNETTE BENING is excellent in an interesting supporting role. "},{"Title":"A superb modern film noir, in color.","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Grifters - traveling con artists.I recently saw The Grifters on DVD, over 10 years after my first viewing. I had forgotten what a superb movie it is. There are three main characters, and the story focuses on each almost equally. This is not an everyone lives happily ever after movie. In fact, no one comes out happy. It explores the relationships of these con artists.We first meet Roy Dillon (John Cusack) who as a teen takes an interest in a street hustler's techniques. Roy grows into a 20-something small stakes grifter, one of his favorite appears to be holding up a $20 bill to buy a beer in a dark and crowded bar, only to switch it to a $10 bill. One time we see him getting caught, and a hard blow to the abdomen eventually lands him in the hospital with internal bleeding.Then we meet his girl Myra Langtry (Annette Bening) who is often referred to as Mrs. Langtry, but we never see a Mr. Langtry. Myra appears to be a bit ditzy, but she turns out to be a bigger grifter, more ruthless than Roy ever could be.And finally we meet Lilly Dillon (Anjelica Huston), Roy's estranged mom who had him when she was only 15. A big-time grifter, she worked for a bookie who paid her to go to race tracks and lower the odds of certain horses by placing big, last-minute bets on them. But not all of her expense statements are accurate and she travels with a very large stash of cash in the trunk of her car. She will die if her boss finds out about it.MAJOR SPOILERS. Myra sees Lilly as competition for Roy's attention. Myra has much bigger stakes in mind but she needs Roy. She spies on Lilly and reports her skimming habits, which puts Lilly on the run. Myra follows her, late night at a remote motel sneaks into Lilly's room to strangle her but Lilly's bedside gun gets the upper hand. Roy has to go to identify his mother, and does, but secretly knows it is Myra. Getting back home, he finds Lilly cleaning out his stash hidden behind two pictures in his place, tells Lilly she can't take it. While he was drinking from a glass, Lilly swings a case at him, the glass breaks and severs an artery in Roy's neck, he dies right in front of his mom, in tears she gathers up the scattered money and hits the road again. "},{"Title":"Grade A B-movie!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stephen Frears, admittedly a B-movie fanatic, is a top class director and I believe the only director that could have pulled this off.  The Grifters, adapted from Jim Thompson's unforgettable novel BRILLIANTLY by Donald Westlake, is by far the best film noire I've seen in at least 20 years...maybe even 30 years.In late 1990 I stood in line for my ticket with my John Cusack crazed best friend having no idea that I was about to be completely blown away.  Up until The Grifters I thought Cusack was just a cute teenage movie actor and that Say Anything (great movie btw) was his fantastic grand finale.  Too old play a high schooler, not enough of a man to do dramatic roles was my opinion.  As such, I was rather annoyed that I was being dragged to see what was sure to be an embarrassing and awkward performance by young Cusack.I could not have been more wrong.  Caught in the middle between two powerhouse actresses (Angelica Huston, Annette Bening) he could have easily been completely smoked and left in the dust.  Not Johnny.  He holds his own, let me tell you.  I became the unofficial president of the John Cusack fan club that day and he continues to blow me away with great performances (i.e. Being John Malkovich, High Fidelity, Max), but the Grifters will always be remembered as the day everybody found out that little Johnny was all grown up and SURPRISE, he can act his a** off.I urge everybody who hasn't seen this movie, to just go buy the DVD.  No need to waste your money on a rental as you will want to own it once you've seen this powerful work of cinematic art.  It is intelligent, intense, brave, and don't even get me started on the casting.  Every role is cast perfectly and every performance is delivered with...well for lack of a better word GUSTO as they suck you up in their world of the long con, the short con, bookmakers, she devils, and much more but I don't want to spoil. If I had to sum this complicated (yet oddly simple) story into one phrase, I'd have to say  survival of the fittest.  How and if they survive will keep you glued to your seat, mouth hung open, eyes dryer than dry from forgetting to blink, from beginning to end.  Even the opening credits are captivating.  Stephen Frears, I salute you! "},{"Title":"First class noir","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have recently rented the DVD of this longtime favorite, and listened to the feature commentary.  The input of actors, writer and director illuminate the collaborative effort that created this classic.  It is an extremely intelligent, stunningly beautiful film.Roy, Lily, and Myra are three con artists, living on the grift in various forms.  Lily is hard, with strength that has kept her alive through years of such a lifestyle.  Roy is her son, young and softer-hearted, though he is determined to continue in his mother's footsteps.  Their relationship is complex and heartrending.  Myra is headed toward a life like Lily's, though she is young enough to still enjoy the glamour of what she does.  The three lives intertwine with gripping and terrible consequences.Some other imdb reviewers have grossly misunderstood elements of the film. (partial spoiler...) It is not a murder mystery, nor are there holes in the climactic death scenes (the murder weapon in question is not a gun, but a tragically placed glass cup of water).  The climax of the film is stunning, tragic (it is a noir film) and depicts the character of Lily and the character of life on the grift as nothing else can.  The viewer is left to struggle with the price of survival for those who make such decisions in their lives. "},{"Title":"Annette Bening or the rent money...which would you take?","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another early gem from the good folks at Miramax.  I recently checked this out again after having the tape sit on my shelf for a decade, and it was just fine.  All three leads are at the top of their respective games.  And the supporting actors were all fine as well (anytime J.T. Walsh RIP shows up, it's always good).Thanks to Dennis Littrell's comments below, I was able to get a better grasp of just what Ms. Huston's character was up to.  The plot flaws were there (again, read Mr. Littrell's synopsis of several implausibilities), but just go along for the ride.  Just remember to stay close to your money at all times! "},{"Title":"It's A Mystery!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  They say that in Hollywood, virtually everyone is a screen writer.  One of the things a professional reader will look for when they read scripts is to see if they can guess what's going to happen next.  When they can, they may write ROTC, for Right On The Chin.Essentially, the screen writer gave you all the clues so you could easily follow the story.The Grifters was one of those films where I was surprised by the ending.  I never would have guessed.In novels, one strength is that the author may devote an entire page to what the character is thinking.  This answers the rhetorical question, Why?  What was the motive of each character?As far as movies go, now that we have the bonus features on DVD, a character's motivation can be explored.  For example, in The Grifters we can examine the ending from the point of view of the actors, writers, the director, the audience, and others.If you enjoy a detective story, try looking at this film from the point of view of someone who was trying to determine who committed what crime. "},{"Title":"Very well made Noir","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well made and well acted noir. I thought Angelica Huston was well cast although she is older than what Thompson had probably intended her to be. Her acting more than makes up for it.Movie seems to keep a seedy 40's style in a modern environment. Huston and Cusack could be cut out and pasted into a Wilder film and not look out of place. Bening looks more modern but plays and looks her part well. If it wasn't for the cars and the extras it would be tough to determine what year it was set in. Love the train scenes as it added immensly to the Noir atmosphere as did the big American cars. No true Grifter would be driving an import.Explanation for the reviewer below about Huston's racetrack grift. The bookie makes his money off the vig. The vig is what the bookie charges the gambler to make the bet. The bookies goal is to have even amounts of money on both sides of the bets so he'll be paying the winner with the losers money while keeping the vig for himself. Huston's job was to lay money on the longshots to decrease the payoff odds so the bookie didn't get slammed on a 70-1 shot since he paid winners off at track odds. Bobo states he knew no big bets went down on the horse.In reality it would be hard for a single bookie to keep up with that many tracks but it appears that Bobo was big-time. "},{"Title":"Dark and chilling, will leave you feeling uncomfortable...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Grifters is a harsh and gritty film.  The acting is excellent from the three leads to the characters on the fringe of their world. It's about scavenging decent hard working people without blinking an eye.  There is a sad, wry humor watching Roy caught between two cold hearted, money hungry, self-centered creatures.  Poor Roy didn't have a chance. "},{"Title":"Total Bliss","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For a movielover, it rarely gets better than this. This movie is fast-moving, funny, intense, shocking and ultimately very satisfying. Most of it is so beautifully photographed that it looks like a series of postcards at times. The acting is the best thing about the movie - the three leads are perfection and I also appreciated the character actors aboard - Frances Bay, Henry Jones, J.T. Walsh, and the great Pat Hingle. All in all, see the movie, but not with your mom and not with a drink! "}{"Title":"Hardboiled","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Grifter's is one of the best examples of film noir to be made in the last 15 years.  Great acting throughout, the plot closely follows the 1962 novel of the same name by Jim Thompson.  If I had any complaint at all, it's that an important repetitive line of dialogue by Lily (the mother) in the novel was ignored in the film.  Frankly, it may be for the best.  If you think the ending in the film is hardboiled, read the book...you'll see what I mean.   "},{"Title":"three great actors in one helluva great movie","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is just such a good movie. John Cusack really comes into his own. Angelica Huston reminds us how good she can be when she tries. Especially check out her tangible fear and dread in the famous scene in the bosses office, with the cigar. And Annette Bening is just hot hot hot. she is so damn sexy in this movie and she looks so good naked. At the same time, she plays mischevious, sad, scared, angry, and evil with equal ability.Mainly, I just wish she'd make another movie with these kinds of nude scenes. But even if the movie didn't show the future Mrs. Beatty's beautiful naked body, I'd still watch it. Hard to believe, isn't it? "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of all-time","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Grifters is a fabulous movie, a taut, involving film noir. Unlike many others, it has a very believable plot and mature, emotional themes that don't degenerate into cheap melodrama. The view of the world of small-time con artists, Grifters, is fascinating but doesn't distract from the characters themselves. All 3 principal actors are superb, as are many of the supporting actors.  "},{"Title":"Above average, kind of flat, meh","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An above average film noir but strangely flat and unengaging. All the ingredients are there for a really great movie but it never quite hits the mark. John Cusack is alright but not amazing, Annette Benning is frankly irritating, Angelica Huston is very good, given the dialogue she had to work with.The story beats aren't very well executed, especially the ending and the dialogue is sketchy in places. Worth a watch for fans of the genre but I wouldn't watch it again. The film simply isn't much fun or particularly stimulating to watch. I'm a little mystified as to why it got 90% on Rotten Tomatoes. "},{"Title":"Drive off","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roy smirks well in this one in his various attempts to shake the dew off of his Lilly.Speaking of Lilly; in the last shot; I thought that the camera came through without uttering a word; faithfully offering up opportunity as if both were bred to do so. What a relationship.I don't know what else to say about this film. Of course the casting was superb. Sanguine aspect was breathtaking. The tempo of picture was good to keep everyone focused. Hair color worked well. Nail biting was good. Cigar looked fake; like a pocket flashlight wrapped in brown paper; but actor was ontop of the scene. I didn't know Lilly liked K cars. "},{"Title":"John Cusack is annoying, except in this movie","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" So first Cusack, then the film. Halfway through High Fidelity, I wanted to put myself out of my misery. Cusack plays a self-absorbed loser-type, or to put it another way, he is what happens when an asshole loses all hope/energy, and just pities himself constantly (for not having a girl) instead of criticizing himself. Turns out this is the guy he plays in almost every film. (Sure Thing comes to mind, though that movie got the Hollywood ending so he actually ends up with a girl.) I hate that guy! So naturally I was expecting more of the same from The Grifters, but to tell you the truth, I was pleasantly surprised. His character was definitely a down guy (grifter means con artist), with lots of troubles, but he didn't seem to harp on anything too much--he actually seemed to have a little determination to clean up his mess. I still was slightly annoyed though. So there it is, take a picture, I doubt it will ever happen again.Now the film. I'm 23 so I figure I get to be both serious and sophomoricSerious-- The movie achieves that cool aura. To put it in a nut shell, the colors and camera angles convey well the style of a noir, and a thriller. Bernstein's score is enough 80's to be cool in that 80's way, but not enough to be too dated. It really supports the thriller aspect of the film and shows that he truly is heir apparent to Bernard Herrmann (Psycho, 1960). And aside from Cusack, I really like the other two main characters. Huston has something about her, and she plays those eery scenes (not going to spoil it) really well. And Benning gives us a lot in this movie in terms of character.Sophomoric-- Benning really gives us a lot in the form of, well, getting naked A LOT. Sorry to alienate you folks who thought I had a brain only. Anyway to continue, Cusack's misfortunes seem almost fun to watch--Ha. And even the veteran Angelica Huston turned my head a few times. Not nearly as much as Benning!!!Weighing all the good stuff against Cusack, it gets a 7/10. "},{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this film, I was awestruck by its gripping film noir plot, memorable dialogue such as 'I gave you your life twice&#x85;', vivid characters, and an excellent music score by Elmer Bernstein. It's a throwback to the great noirs of the past whilst remaining fresh & original.This is a great movie about deception on a number of levels. On the one hand, it's about confidence tricksters, on the other it's about emotional mind games & feelings. Roy (Cusack) acts diffidently towards his mother, but we are left wondering, somewhat ambiguously, about his true feelings. The final, disturbing scenes, where Lilly tries to seduce him and Roy is desperately confused, are amongst the most dramatic that I have seen in a film. This is a wonderfully acted film, with Huston never better in her role as the tough but vulnerable Lilly, whose barely concealed jealousy of Myra (Bening) &#x96; is it maternal or more disturbing than that? &#x96; creates a great frisson when these two characters encounter one another. I also loved the way Huston's tone of voice changed into something seductive when Roy telephones her after his bust-up with Myra. Cusack, an actor I normally find irritating, is excellent in his role as the apparently independent con-artist who proves to be no match for his mother. Bening is cracking in her role as the 'slut' confidence trickster Myra.I also liked the mordant humour of this film especially the garrulous concierge 'That man could be a congressman!' The ending is brutal, hard to take and not for all tastes, but its grittiness makes a refreshing change from the cloying sentimentality that bedevils a lot of cinema. "},{"Title":"Good in parts, but just what is Lilly's scam?","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For me this is a patchy film, and not the modern noir masterpiece some people think. Its good points include the truly noir title sequence, Elmer Bernstein's urgent music, the opening cutting between the three protagonists, and the bare outline of the plot. I'm not too sure, however, about some of the plot details, nor about the characterisations of John Cusack, Angelica Huston and Annette Bening. Each of them is about 10 years too old for their part, but Cusack and Bening are more successful than Huston in shedding those years, which undermines a couple of crucial aspects of the story.But there are other holes and flaws in the plot, especially as regards Lilly's (Huston's) racetrack activities. For a start, what she is supposed to be doing - backing outsiders to bring their odds down - makes very little sense, since it will also put the prices of the favourites up, and they're far more likely to win.  (There's no suggestion that she's told which horses to bet on, and/or that the races are fixed.) Then she claims 10,000 dollars from her bookmaker employer for money she says she's put on an outsider, Troubador, though she was stuck in traffic at the time. Her boss is understandably upset, but since we see and hear Troubador win at seventy-to-one he should be asking her for the 700,000 winnings, rather than just objecting about the 10,000! In a film about grifting, surely the scams should be plausible. (If anyone reads this who thinks I've got it all wrong, don't hesitate to email me.)     "},{"Title":"Gritty tale of the con world","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Benning,  Huston, and Cusack are con artists who struggle to keep on top of their violence - ridden, lust- filled, money - driven lives.A well made, spectacular film which will keep you riveted and guessing throughout.. 9 of 10  "},{"Title":"Good portrayals of unusual lives.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Grifters, scam artists, con men. The three main roles were played very well by Anjelica Huston, Annette Bening, and John Cusack. Cusack plays Roy, an unambitious small-time con man, who is the son (sort of) of Lily. (Anjelica Huston) Lily was 14 when Roy was born, and was raised as her brother. The film is seething with Oedipal tensions from this. Roy's girlfriend, Myra, is another crook, compulsively slutty, infinitely devious, and is played with glee by Annette Bening. This film, by the way, contains her only real nude scenes. None of the three are ultimately likeable, and the basic amorality they all share makes you wonder whether this is supposed to be a cause or effect of their chosen careers. The film doesn't say.  "}{"Title":"Extremely Disagreeable Movie","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite all the talent involved -- Huston, Cusack, Bening, Frears and Scorcese -- I was neither engaged nor satisfied with The Grifters. My wife and I have regularly enjoyed movies about elaborate con jobs. But there's nothing terribly clever about the ways that Huston, Cusak and Bening ply their cheating. Their characters are disagreeable individuals and what happens to them is off-putting and ultimately very bloody. Bening and, especially, Huston turn in pretty good performances but I've never much liked Cusack, and there's nothing in this film to improve his standing as far as I'm concerned. The three of us watching the film on streaming video uttered a collective yccch when it ended. "},{"Title":"Great cast amid some plot contrivances","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What Lilly Dillon (Anjelica Huston in a long tight dress) is doing in this movie is laying off a bookie's bets. But, like a lot else in this plot-challenged movie, it's not really realistic. The way it's suppose to work is this the bookie takes in some big time money on a long shot. This understandably scares the bookie since the fix may be on (or the nag might win legitimately) and if so, he's out a whole lot of money. So to protect himself, HE bets on the nag (using a confederate at the track).This is called hedging. Hedging, whether in sports betting or in the stock or commodities markets works like an insurance policy. But it comes at a price. Take a simpler case. The Yankees are entertaining the Dodgers at Yankee Stadium. The line on the game is Yankees -200, that is, the Yankees are about a two to one favorite. If you want to bet on the Yankees you've got to put up $200 to win $100. If you bet on the Dodgers you put up $100 to win $200. (Actually, the spread or vig reduces that to $180.) Now suppose the bookie gets a couple of $10,000 bets on the Dodgers. Since his daily handle is usually about half that, he begins to sweat. Sure, he'll have a $20,000-day if the Yankees win, but what if the Dodgers win? Then he's out $36,000 dollars and maybe out of business. So what does he do? He hedges; that is he goes to a bigger bookie or to his Lilly in Las Vegas and lays off the action with a $20,000 bet on the Dodgers. Now if the Dodgers win he breaks even and lives to book another day. If the Yankees win, he still breaks even (instead of winning $20,000). But that's the price he pays for laying off, for hedging. Call it insurance.Now the problem with all this in the movie is that Lilly cannot be at every race track in the country. So for Director Stephen Frears to make the action plausible he needs to show that Lilly's regular job is to hang out in California (by the phone!) to cover the West Coast tracks in case a lot of strange money comes in that the bookie needs to lay off. Presumably this is what Lilly is doing in the movie. For more realism, Frears could have shown Lilly hanging by the phone, working for several bookies.Frears has a great cast and they do a fine job. But the plot contrivances keep this from being a really top notch noir flick. Worse stupidity is the scene in which Myra (Annette Bening) finds a motel key on her 100-plus key ring to open Lilly's motel door. Even though Lilly is on the run, apparently she doesn't bother with a second lock, or the chain lock. (Sure.) Second worse stupidity is Lilly sitting in the track's parking lot in full view of the grandstand overhead (although admittedly many feet away) with the trunk of her car open and a drawer full of money exposed for all the world to see. She doesn't have to play with her money in the parking lot. She can wait until she gets to her motel. But this contrivance allows Myra to see the money with binoculars. And as for Roy Dillon (John Cusack) hiding his money inside some strangely thick clown paintings in his living room...I don't think so. And Dillon finding one die on the floor of the dining room car of the train doesn't work either because later he has to find the other one (an action we don't see) so he can fleece the sailors with his loaded dice.Not all the action is unrealistic however. Roy Dillon's little hustle with the flashing of the twenty and the switch to the ten is an actual con done innumerable times; and the reaction of bar keep who catches Dillon in the act is perfect, illustrating how people who work at cash registers feel about people who work little cons on them. And the business beginning when Lilly doesn't lay off the money on Troubadour, and hears the very sad news on the radio that the horse actually wins the race, and then gets punished by her boss, is realistic because he is out some serious money. By the way, a person in Lilly's position, in effect becomes a bookie herself, if she wants to. She can bet a little less on the nag and pocket the change when the nag loses, as the nag usually will. Of course if she bets nothing, the tote board odds don't go down and so the bookie will know. Worse is when she doesn't bet and the nag comes in. Now she has to pay the bookie out of her own money. In the case of Troubadour, a 70 to one shot, obviously she couldn't afford to pay off and so had to take a beating, literary. The dialogue between her and Bobo (Pat Hingle) is perfect if you understand that he knows that she steals a little, here and there.Be forewarned that the subplot is Oedipal and spicily played in parts. I'm sure Huston and Cusack had a few laughs off camera, but we are left not really knowing whether Lilly really is his mother or not. (Perhaps that's a good thing.)All in all there's some nice grifter atmosphere in the movie and Cusack is interesting as a baby-faced little hustler, and Bening is sleazy, sexy and desperate, while Huston is both fawning and cowardly, and sneaky strong. But see this for Huston who makes a complex character real.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Pointless Garbage","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Knowing that this film received several academy award nominations, it should have been good, but instead we have a pointless, uninvolving piece of trash. Its about a woman who works for the mob(Huston), who somehow meets back up with her son(Cusack) and his girlfriend(Benning), it goes absolutely nowhere from this point on.  How the hell did this get a 7.3, its not a good movie, and all of the movie review sites such as TV Guide and All Movie Guide seem to always give it **1/2 out of *****, which is still very generous.  I wouldnt waste my time on this boring trash. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A cinematic experience revolving around characters that are universally unlikable requires director prowess to bring us into a world which we either don't know very well or are curious about enough to buy into what little we know. What we find out leads us to have a new affinity for those able to survive in such a world (bevause grifting is all about survival) or at least a better understanding of the survival mind set. After watching The Grifters I have very little of either. This is a direct knock on Director Stephen Frears, whose other movie I've seen, Dirty Pretty Things taught us a bit of the survival mindset but didn't take us anywhere worthwhile as well. The premise that people want to experience something outside f their lives so they go to the theater t o be transplanted elsewhere is generally missed in this confusing personality crisis of three connected con artists, the worst played by Annette Bening. Love her elsewhere, but her character in never straight with us, we're not sure of her intentions, and when she gets naked, becomes some playfully doll thing that v=can't stop making up lines that other people would say when not naked and offering their body for some alternative form of payment. She was a very cute but naked mess. John Cusack falls short with his dialog out of a book and not able to inject either affection or sympathy. Why should we care for him and how did he get all that money? His bar scams were so small time they were laughably unbelievable that he was a small time con man. He was below that self described minimal success level of a con artist. That leaves us with Anjelica Huston, who was very believable but that white hair-do took away her power to be approaching middle age sexy. We hear of the big bad wolf, Bobo, and even meet him, but he's a bad guy for a comedy only, not a noir film. Same could be said about the grifting teacher from Roys' (John Cusack) past. It's hard not to like a crime story, but it was impossible to like The Grifters. "},{"Title":"The Grifters &#x97; What is the best con? Who's getting conned?","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters will twist your head around until you're unable to tell who's conning who. The uncertainty is very entertaining and will keep you guessing until the end.However, there's a few problem with the movie. First off, the score. Instead of being invisible and underlining the visual, it can at time jar you into reality. Second, the two main actresses are inferior to what John Cusack is doing. Actually, most other actors are pretty average if not below. Third, the mob felt cartoony. Fourth, the blood and injuries are so fake, I think I could do better. Finally, it's old enough to look like a period piece out of the eighties, but was made to seem current. That felt odd.All in all, it's entertaining, just don't mind the odd things lying about. "},{"Title":"modest neo-noir","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This 1990 adaptation of yet another Jim Thompson potboiler never loses sight of what gave film noir its name in the first place not the cosmetic gloss so overused in other, recent neo-noirs, but the dark, ambivalent underbelly of each character. Deceit and greed are the only motivations driving the trio of con artists whose lives become tragically linked when an overprotective Angelica Huston tries to force her wayward, independent son (John Cusack) to go straight. Annette Bening, playing Cusack's girlfriend and Huston's rival, is the weak link in the scenario, and the plot takes forever to reach cruising speed, but once it does don't take anything for granted. Like many Stephen Frears movies it can sometimes be a little too self-absorbed and smug (and even sloppy a microphone boom is clearly visible in one scene), but the claustrophobic setting and disturbing climax offer a measure of relief from the relentlessly upbeat overkill of commercial movies these days. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a film about three con people including John Cusack, his mother, and girlfriend. We actually fell asleep while watching this on DVD. Because we liked all three main actors we decided to watch it again next day. There must be a lot of con men and women in the world but we don't think we could fall for any of the silliness that's performed here. John isn't even funny as he always is. Anjelica Huston is so unfeminine here it's hard to watch her. Annette Bening stands out if you can suspend your sense of reality. Wasting two hours on this film clearly shows us that with the many thousand film choices we need a lot more preparation in picking the next film we watch. "},{"Title":"Greek Tragedy brought to the underworld","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Grifters is a brilliant, albeit disheartening, expose into the degenerate world of three con artists, struggling to survive in a world in which they don't belong. The story centers around Roy Dillon (John Cusack), a small-time con who can walk away from it any time he wants. He's simply grifting to get enough money so that he doesn't have to grift (if that makes any sense). As the story unfolds, Roy finds himself caught in the middle of a three-way, sexually charged power struggle involving his scrappy, sexy, and somewhat doting mother Lily (Anjelica Huston), and his part-time, promiscuous girlfriend Myra (Annette Bening). The catty, unscrupulous Myra tries luring Roy into the high-stakes world of the long-con, while Lily, herself a con artist bookmaker for the Mob, advises Roy to abandon his life of crime. As Roy deals with these bipolar pressures, the story careens at break-neck speed towards its inevitably tragic conclusion.That which separates The Grifters from your typical crime film is the nuanced, underlying humanity that the actors, as well as director Stephen Frears, bring to these low-life characters. John Cusack's understated, controlled performance suggests that Roy doesn't even really understand his own motives. He is stoically trying to create some semblance of normalcy, but fate has other plans. Anjelica Huston brilliantly brings to Lily a concerned frustration over the choices of her son. Her concern, however, has been overshadowed by her own struggle to survive. The complex, Oedipal relationship between Roy and his mother is the majority of the meat on The Grifters' bone.Much like Bonnie and Clyde and The Wild Bunch, these are criminals whom we sympathize with and care about. In the tradition of a Greek tragedy, we are cognizant of the fates of the characters long before they are, but the film's power lies in its tragic examination of people who want to do good, but are inexplicably drawn to crime.Although The Grifters is a con artist film, don't expect The Sting. Do not expect that film's cheerful malevolence and superbly executed genre moments. The Grifters' success lies not it its devotion to crime film formulas or genre moments, but in its heartbreakingly candid examination of ill-fated individuals imprisoned by their own ennui. "},{"Title":"A must see for the desolate and deranged.","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The ominous music of Elmer Bernstein, starts this film noir The Grifters directed by Stephan Frears, off in a suspenseful tone.  For lovers of the dark and twisted world of con artists this genre has plenty of betrayal, drama and `who done it.'  While not a big fan of crime films, Frear's characters do portray perfectly how the life of a grifter can be filled with cynicism and despair.  Constantly living in fear, never trusting anyone and always looking for the next unsuspecting dupe to be taken in by the Grift. All the while searching for that one person they can love who will truly love them back.   As the lives of three grifters intertwine, they head toward a downward spiral, proving a life of crime doesn't' pay. The opening scenes of the movie show which angle of the grift each one is playing.Lilly Dillon, played by the elegant Anjelica Houston is a sexy, seductive horse track gambler, working for the crooked bookie Bobo, placing last minute bets to up the odds in her bosses favor.  Houston brings power to her performance as the contemptible Lilly, showing just how loathsome an unworthy mother can be.  Having never been part of her son's life before, can she redeem her love or will she stay true to her pathetic existence in the underworld of the grifter?John Cusak plays a sympathetic Roy Dillon, a slight of hand con man, working the small side of the grift.   Not really cut out for the dark world of the grift, Roy uses the `trick up his sleeve' approach to deceive his unsuspecting out of small change. Cusak flashing a twenty at a bartender and ordering a drink. When the bartender returns to gives him the beer, Cusak hands him a ten instead. The bartender returns with change for a twenty. Cusak is excellent as pulling his viewers in with a naïve charm that makes you hope there is at least one good guy in this story.While Roy's girlfriend Myra, played by an enchantingly devious Annette Bening, uses her alluring sex appeal to get what she wants, you know there is an even more sinister side to her character.  Depicting an innocent and devoted lover, Myra, who's been playing the game a lot longer than anyone really knows, will try to manipulate Roy's feeble heart to her advantage. As Bening bring this love to hate character to life, Roy desperate to find love, might end up trusting the wrong person.When Roy gets punched in a grift gone wrong, his mother Lilly suddenly reappears, giving him life again when she rushes him to the hospital for internal bleeding.  It is here that Lilly and Myra meet for the first time as power struggle begins between the two women competing for Roy's attention.  But who will win . . . a mother's love that of his mysterious lover?  After Roy recoups, he retreats with Myra for some rest and relaxation gibing Myra a chance to hit Roy up for a deal in `the big grift', looking for high stakes money.  Rou is ever suspicious, fearful of going beyond the short con, he knows he would be the one getting conned in the end.  When Myra is denied she believes it is because of Lilly's domineering presence in her sons life and turns her rage into revenge.  What happens next depends on the better man or conman, prevailing above the rest.The suspense of watching the intense competition between these characters as they fight to earn love, respect, trust and most importantly, money, keeps you tied to your seat waiting for whatever cruel and vindictive thing they'll do next.  Watch as the two women snarl vicious comments back and forth, as Myra seduces Roy to get him in on her con, down to the last bitter moments of the movie as Lilly works Roy over using every angle she knows. Just how low will each of them go, from sympathy to seduction, from pleading to thieving, bit in the end, the ultimate punishment will simply prove to be, a lack of a better life.So whether you like witnessing the consequences of working for an angry bookie or rooting for the character's to give up their illicit life for the straight and narrow, this crash and burn film has is it all.  The good, the bad and the deadly.  While the editing by --- scene jumping from one character to another can make this films sequencing a little hard to follow and the hands on violence and brutality can be a little over the top for the squeamish at heart, overall this film is bewitching and riveting.  A must see for the desolate and deranged.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best con movies I've seen since The Sting. "}{"Title":"Where's the grift?","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I understand this was a character study of people normally invisible to most of us, but I was expecting so much more.  Sure the acting was fine, but the entire film I was waiting for the sting to occur, or something, indeed anything to occur.Instead we get stuck in this silly (and weird) little love triangle where the grifters are more intent on screwing (Hoohoo, I got a million of em) each other than anyone else.And the ending was just out there.  I can see the reason for it, to plumb the depths of Lily's greed, but the way they get there was just too implausible and didn't fit.  "},{"Title":"Good adaptation, just a little off.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would have liked this better if I hadn't read the book.  The screenplay was generally spot-on and the acting was good, but I think the casting and approach were a bit off.John Cusack is a fine actor, but the Roy Dillon I read about seemed to have fun playing his tricks.  Cusack is too dour and doesn't seem to get the adrenaline rush and the silly smile I always pictured after completing a successful con.Anjelica Huston gives a fine performance, but she doesn't look the part. Lilly Dillon should look like she's a hot 30, not like she's 39 dressing like she's 22.  All of the comments about how young she looks seemed off-kilter.  She DOESN'T look young.Annette Bening is terrific.  I wish the part had been written with a bit more subtlety (again, like the book) but given how the script read, she plays the part fantastically.A very good movie that a few changes might have propelled to classic status. Well worth seeing anyway, 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Jim Thompson's crime classic brought to life by Frears, Cusack and Westlake.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I only have two problems with 'The Grifters', one minor, the other a bit more serious. The first is that I don't think updating the action to the late 80s from the early 60s of Jim Thompson's original book isn't entirely successful. It just doesn't ring true for me. Still, I can overlook that if I have to. Harder to ignore is the serious miscasting of Anjelica Huston. Lily Dillon is supposed to be a gorgeous sex bomb and while only 39 able to pass for much younger. Now I'm sorry Houston is no great shakes in the looks department, and while in real life she was probably about the same age as the character she was playing she looks MUCH older. Annette Bening is not my kinda thing but I can see how she's appealing to many people and she and Lily are supposed to be so similar they get confused for each other. This is just ridiculous! John Cusack however is well cast, and gives a strong performance. He and Bening save the movie from falling apart every time Huston is on screen. They are also helped by a wonderful supporting cast of character actors (J.T. Walsh, Pat Hingle, Stephen Tobolowsky, Charles Napier, Henry Jones, Xander Berkeley,etc.)  The script by Donald E. Westlake (a.k.a. Richard Stark) is faithful to the book and even recycles large chunks of Thompson's dialogue. He all but writes the character of Carol the nurse out and changes bits and pieces, but that is to be expected, and it doesn't matter in the long run.  Director Stephen Frears was probably best known at the time for his sex dramas like 'My Beautiful Laundrette' and 'Dangerous Liaisons', but he had also made the extremely underrated Brit crime film 'The Hit'. In 'The Grifters' he gets to combine a bit of both. Frears is a very versatile director, and 'The Grifters', despite my serious misgivings about Anjelica Huston, is one of his very best movies. Recommended viewing if you like classic Film Noir. "},{"Title":"Had a chance to be very good","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  But Hollywoodized the last 1/2 hour. Bening is just fine and gorgeous too, the marks are too stupid and not coarse enough but still satisfactory. I have to wonder why the creators had to make the ending a die-fest? Why not just show these people in their empty lives going their empty ways? That is real tragedy.  "},{"Title":"Annette Bening's full frontal nude scene is the only good thing in this movie.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a fan of the genre so I found most of the film ho-hum.  I liked seeing Annette Bening do full frontal nudity on film.  She looked really good and it's a shame she's not naked in all of her films.  She's not a very good actress but it's quite easy to see what Warren Beatty sees in her (namely, she looks good naked).  If she enjoys cavorting in all her natural splendor for all of us to admire I say let her do it in every scene and make the film worthwhile.  Angelica Huston is mis-cast as a young (HA!), beautiful (HA! HA!), sexy (HO! HA! HA! HA! HO!) mom to John Cusack.  The only good thing about her performance is that she didn't get naked (okay she's thin and probably has an good body but in the morning I would have thrown up).  John Cusack, the former not-quite-a-brat-packer hasn't improved (or aged) much since The Journey of Natty Gann.  The producers should have gotten his sister Joan to do the role instead.  I find her lisp sort of sexy and would have enjoyed her scenes with Annette Bening.  In conclusion, the best reason to rent this film is to see Annette Bening naked below the belt (the rest of her is pretty good too!).  The scene is short but that's why they invented the pause button.    "},{"Title":"Gritty Crime Noir - SPOILERS","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While it is true most murder mysteries leave some holes in their plots, Jim Thompson's The Grifters, to be fair, is no exception.In the climactic murder scene, Director Frears deliberately manipulates the original sequence to make the viewer think that Lily, the mother character, is killed.  Then, on later flashback, the camera reveals the true nature of the murder, being instead Myra . . . a case of batant directoral manipulation -- which is nothing for Frears to be proud of.What are we to think of Lily's checking out of the motel?  Both women checked in; what does the motel clerk (and the police) think happened to the other woman?  Are we to believe Lily slipped her wig (assuming there was one) on Myra's corpse?  And if so, are we to believe the police investigators are so inept as to identify Myra's young corpse as Roy's mother? Then, when Roy is shot, the bullet trajectory is faulty, the police investigation is faulty, and the gun firing at the same time as the money being dispersed over the room is faulty.  How can a gun be fired accidentally in this manner, assuming the safety was off, simultanelusly to the case with/and all the money exploding?  This was certainly a physical improbability, and a gigantic mark against Frears whose responsibility it was, with proper preparation, to clear up every detail before shooting . . .  even if Thompson's source material may have been technically amiss.All this makes one appreciate the ingenious craftsmanship of Agatha Christe who, in her many mystery novels, nary left a hole.  In Christe, every thread was tightly sewn, leaving a fool-proof veneer, polished and perfect. A pity, this The Grifters, for actors Cusak, Huston, and Bening perform with exceptional ability, and Elmer Bernstein's score wraps up the production with driving tension and gritty atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"If you like film noir you will like this film...","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Grifters is the epitomy of the film noir, or everybody dies in the end genre.  There are violent scenes, albiet without the major blood spillage often found in todays films.  The plot is a decent one, weaving in and out of three seperate lives as they head on a collision course towards each other.  I won't give away the ending, which if you know ahead of time will ruin it for you, so don't ask your friends about it.  Just discuss it after.  I was put off by the abuse of women in this picture.  I immediately down grade any movie where women are struck.  My recommendation is if you enjoy film noir, this is the movie for you.  If you are at all skeptical of the genre, stay away, you'll be happy you did. "},{"Title":"sucks","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" never seen a worse movie. three grifters and not a single con shown properly. Roy (john cusack) displays one con by passing a 10 dollar bill as a 20, but that's it!! the movie is titled grifters! aren't we entitled some good tricks! all I have to say is that don't waste your time watching this piece of crap!moreover, lilly dillon - mother of Roy, ends up killing both Roy and his girlfriend. what kind of ending is that! is this a lesson that some elderly is trying to teach - dear, don't be a grifter! their life sucks. see two of them ended up dead and the one who survived will have to live her life with the burden of being the one to kill her own son!this review is just so that you can save a couple of hours!! "},{"Title":"No, no, and NO!!!","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I picked out a DVD for me and my girlfriend to watch on her 21st birthday that i thought we would both like. We both love John Cusack and all of his works, but i must be frank in saying that The Grifters sucked. i was expecting an awesome thriller due the casting of the coolest cat of an actor, Mr. John Cusack, along with Anjelica Huston, who always puts on a stunning performance, but no...i was really let down, and more than once. First off, the movie is way too long and drags on forever. 2nd, the dialog and character attitude is so vague that the story is hard to believe...and finally, JOHN CUSACK DIES...?!?!?! What the hell?!? He is a movie hero, a true good-guy if you will, John Cusack does not die in his movies, therefore The Grifters sucked. I will still with Taxi Driver on the Scorcese side, and High Fidelity on Frears' side. "}]