[{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This movie should be shown to every White person over the age of 16!  The reason I say that is because it tells the cold, hard truth of what Blacks had to go through back in the 60's and it's not sugarcoated at all.  It's not being said to make people feel guilty over something that they probably never took part in, but to educate people in what most public school systems DON'T teach about.  As someone of primarily Native American descent who considers themselves pretty educated about Black history, I myself was very shocked and saddened at the brutality that Black Americans had to face (and still do at times).  A picture (or movie) is worth a thousand words.  This movie would be educational to everyone who views it.  I would definitely recommend this movie to others. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this film by chance, was flipping through the movie channels one day and the description of it appealed to me. Goldberg is absolutely superb in this powerful film showing what it was like for black people at that time in Montgomery, Alabama. A good lesson to young people, or any person that does not fully know what black people had to put up with. "},{"Title":"We're Marching To Zion","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The real life, 1955, bus boycott in Montgomery, Alabama provides the backdrop for this fictional story about an upper middle class white homemaker named Miriam Thompson (Sissy Spacek) who gradually becomes disenchanted with racial segregation. Her changed attitude comes about as a direct result of her Black maid, a woman of deep moral principles named Odessa Cotter (Whoopi Goldberg).Odessa normally would take the bus to work. But she supports the boycott, and therefore chooses to walk the long distance from her shabby house to the manicured, suburban Thompson home. Yet, despite several incidences wherein Southern whites display their hatred of the boycott and of Blacks in general, Odessa, with the support of her own family and her religious faith, maintains a respectful and thoughtful attitude toward Miriam and the Thompson family. The story is told in retrospect, from the viewpoint of Miriam's daughter, Mary Catherine (Lexi Randall), who was seven years old at the time.There is nothing subtle about this slow paced story. It is forceful and frank. The overt hatred by Southern whites toward Blacks is palpable. In no character is this odious racial superiority more evident than in Miriam's cigar chomping brother-in-law, Tunker (well played by Dylan Baker).But Miriam and Odessa relate to each other as individuals, not as members of some group. Perceptive and sensitive, Miriam comes to understand that Southern racist attitudes, those feelings and emotions she grew up with, are passed down through generations. You just don't question it, she tells Odessa, apologetically.Both Miriam and Odessa are multi-dimensional and sufficiently unique to give the story depth of characterization. The acting is fine. Whoopi Goldberg in particular gives a great performance, along with the always reliable Sissy Spacek. The film's production design and period costumes are credible. Lighting is subdued. I liked the background gospel music, but I could have wished for even more. We're Marching To Zion not only is a great gospel hymn; it's also the film's theme.Technically well made, The Long Walk Home has value mostly as historical perspective on an important contemporary social issue. As such, the film's message is just as relevant now as it was fifty years ago. "},{"Title":"Worth a lot","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I forget when I saw the film or where, but it stayed with me. I really feel the film never got its appropriate praise or fan fair, but maybe some films are meant to be discovered by people as hidden gems and aren't meant to be touted as classics. Though I feel this one is.I felt that Whoopi Goldberg and Sissy Spacek were the cornerstones of the film and deepened the work by providing three dimensional characters that had more to do than just worry about a cause. They had lives to lead and families to raise and the film focuses on their daily living and how they lived it with this larger situation going on around them.This choice of direction brings us into the story much quicker because it focuses on the people and the impact the situation has on them.What stays with me is the subtlety and how small gestures can have a great impact.My favorite movies are about people. Real people interest me more than perfect people. This movie kept me interested.I bought this film on clearance and when I saw the $7.99 price tag I thought to myself - 'This is worth so much more' And it is! "},{"Title":"A great movie, for home or even the classroom.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I'm a freshman in high school, and at the moment, we're studying the chronicles of civil rights in my history class. My teacher showed this film to us, and it excited me at first, 'cause I've always thought Whoopi Goldberg was awesome and I've always enjoyed her films. This was no exception. Movies shown in school tend to be boring, bland and uninteresting. So most of the time, when movies are shown, we take it as an opportunity to catch up on sleep. This movie however, kept our heads up the entire time. We were interested, intrigued, and dying to know what would happen next. It was both thought provoking, entertaining, awe inspiring, and it's even to safe to say, highly addictive. My teacher showed the film in 40 minutes intervals, as this how long each class period is and we were always stuck in our seats after the bell rang, wanting to watch more. It made us look forward to coming to class. It's an excellent, excellent movie, that I enjoyed and learned a lot from.* * * * "},{"Title":"Excellent way to introduce the Civil Right Movement to people to young to remember those days.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  My mother grew up in the south so I remember going to visit Grandmother and wondering about the cook, Callie.  She was silent and frowned at us and we were told to stay away from the kitchen.  I think she was at the point of resentment and though my parents didn't like segregation my cousins and aunts and uncles thought it was the only acceptable way.  I find in sharing this movie with younger people today they are shocked at the behavior at the party and in the park.  They don't realize that life was really like that in some places.  I like to improve sensitivity by showing the film and discussing it as groups when we can. "},{"Title":"This is an oft overlooked gem !!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Whoopie Goldberg got gypped in 1990, when she was nominated for, and won Best SUPPORTING actress for the movie Ghost.  THIS was the movie she should have been nominated for; in the BEST ACTRESS category.  This was one of the finest performances of the year, and definitely of Ms. Goldberg's career.  Regrettably, she is too well remembered as a comedienne.  People forget how well she handles drama.  This is a performance worth seeing. Sissy Spacek is fresh and forthright; and the story manages to be didactic without being heavy handed.   "},{"Title":"Powerful and Chilling","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is a very detailed description of the Black Experience living in the segregation-era South. I don't how people could tolerate such brutality and quasi-fascism like Whoopi Goldberg's character had done in the movie. Nothing is neither sugar-coated nor pious and romanticized for your viewing pleasure. In the Long Walk Home, you can feel the hell of the Black residents especially the maids and midwives right down to their aching feet. You can feel the anger and hurt and fear of Cotter's children when they were encountered and attacked by three racist youths in a city park. You sense the burning hatred of white community ready to counteract the issue of Civil Rights and the bus boycott during Christmas dinner where the senior Mrs. Thompson clearly spewed her bigoted opinion at the table and at the very end of film not only that you felt like you were one of the protesters there on the scene, being taunted and insulted. Spacek's character shows a glimmering sense of naiveté, intelligence, a sense of hope and influence that the resistance to segregation had on a growing number of whites at that time. However, it seems to me that she is the token white sympathizer that most of these films have, although necessary. It's sad to see only the younger Mrs. Thompson and her daughter the only non-racist white people in the entire movie who bothered to question the segregationists. Sometimes movies like these are too brutal for the senses. It makes you ashamed that you live in America. It could be a little too overpowering. Therefore, why couldn't the director add a little sour cream into this 7-alarm chili by adding a scene in which Mrs. Thompson is not the only non-racist by have other women and children explain why they do the racist taunts and bullying because they if they don't join in the bullying festivities then they'll become targets/victims just like Mrs. Thompson and the Cotters.The characters for the most part were very convincing three-dimensional people, not stereotypes, clichés, thrown into the mix to inform the audience You are in 1950's Alabama! The dialog has a tendency to punch your face and grab hold while doing so, refusing to be politically correct and soothing. This movie makes shocks you, intrigues, and makes you angry at all almost every other white person in the film. And it will! Trust me! LWH has the power and the punch and accuracy that the rather corporate -sponsored high school history lesson with a Disney Channel heart Ghosts of Mississippi seemed to be lacking. "},{"Title":"A Great Film That Went To  'Cheap Theaters' Too Soon","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I've never quite understood why this movie was never a success. It has all the great qualities and ingredients that one looks for in a good drama. Historical or not. Aside from The Color Purple,this is one of Whoopi Goldbergs finest movies.She certainly should have gotten an Oscar for this role (which would have made more sense to me than winning from her smaller role in Ghost). The movie did moderate to lesser business at the main box office and in no time at all,was in the cheap theater's. That is where I saw this in 1991 and it was the best movie I saw in that kind of theatre (until Ray in Feb. 2005).The story of how Goldberg's character has to walk many miles from her home to her housekeeper's job across town,speaks volumes on how the times were in 1950s south. Nearly 100 years after the civil-war had liberated them,blacks were still treated as second or third rate citizens.I agree this is a great movie for kids learning about the downsides in our country's history,as well as the positives. As seen above ten stars is my vote and I hope this movie is your vote for renting,buying or checking out from a library. It's a simply,honest look at prejudice and the ways man can be so unkind to each-other. It's a great film,period. (END) "},{"Title":"underappreciated","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  whoopi goldberg shines in this gripping and moving racial drama! she won the oscar for ghost (released the same year), but better deserved it for this film. i think that just goes to demonstrate underlying racism in hollywood (giving the award for a comedic performance by a black performer), which as of the academy awards 2002 has seemingly begun to crack. the film is a triumph of spirit and emotionally challenging to watch at times. it just makes me shake my head at how slow understanding between people who are different can be. this is one film all involved should be very proud of!! "}{"Title":"Good characters provide for a solid story even with a disappointing climax.","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Despite being one of a hundred or so black civil rights movements movies, I think this one did well in a few points that others like it have not. I watched this in U.S. History class and I wasn't expecting much from it. The true story civil rights movement genre is prone to a lot of problems with being biased, unrealistic, and overly dramatic. Also, the movie of this genre I'd seen most recently was Selma Lord Selma (the Disney one, not the one that came out this past winter) and it delivers one the worst possible versions of the civil rights movement. However, The Long Walk Home gave me a pleasant surprise by cutting down on the genre clichés for the most part. It isn't perfect, but there isn't too much to improve on.The primary thing that sets this apart from other black history movies is that it's character driven rather than event driven. Usually the story is weakened by the less cinematically pleasing sequence of historical events that the movie is based on. Here the story was more concentrated onto a few individuals and was driven by their interactions. The only real historical event depicted was the climax with the white mob. This was main thing that made this movie good instead of great for me, because the whole climatic scene felt pretty clichéd. I know that it would have been a big deal and involved a lot of courage, but it still turned me off a bit.The two main characters are Odessa Cotter, the black maid, and her white employer Miriam Thompson. Miriam is probably the more prominent character because of her arc from indifference to support of the boycott. Odessa joins the boycott by walking to work every day and doesn't go through any change, but remains a solid and believable character. Miriam's husband Norman and his brother Tunker are the antagonists of sorts since they oppose the boycott. The other minor characters consist of Miriam's daughter, who is also the narrator, and Odessa's husband and three kids. The way Miriam and Norman are written are what really set this movie apart for me. I had kind of been thinking that the southern white population of the time would have a bigger reason for segregation than blind racism, and Miriam and Norman provided the answer. Neither of them are really racist, but Norman's fear of the general white population pressures him into joining the anti-black movement. Similarly, Miriam's fear of Norman leads her to remain neutral, and therefore safe, in matters of race. I thought that was great, not only because it made for better characters, but also because it showed the white population's faults without completely demonizing them. That's not to say that racism isn't wrong, but it does show true racial equality.The script was pretty well written in terms of having a good story structure, B+ dialogue, and not going overboard or holding back too much with the discrimination scenes. The acting was fair, and might even be disappointing since you have a couple of bigger name actors. I don't know how historically accurate it was, but I doubt there are any inaccuracies that will make people mad.The movie doesn't make any huge anti-racism statements. Racism isn't completely gone in America in the sense that blacks are still generally associated, whether justly or not, with the more run down and dangerous neighborhoods. That said, I think most American's can agree that racial equality has and is becoming more prevalent.So if you want a civil rights movie, I would recommend this more highly than most. There's a lot of dialogue, which might be something to be conscious of. It's not bad as a family movie. There's a little violence and obviously a bit of racial profanity, but nothing you can't let your fourth or fifth grader watch. So give it a shot unless you absolutely hate historical movies. Overall Rating 7.4/10. "},{"Title":"I have a dream","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Martin Luther King is infused into this movie, a voice over a microphone. The tensions between black and white are palpable. Yet two women, one black and one white find humanity in the chaos of tensions between the races. Two people living Martin Luther Kings dream of being color blind. The risks are many, the violence can escalate easily yet these women are strong in their convictions.I found the tension to be reminiscent of the actual time. I was born in the fifties and I was a few years younger than Mary Catherine, but I remember vividly the hatred directed at black people. I felt sadness, fear, confusion and empathy for the plight of black people. I thought this movie accurately portrayed the irrational hatred toward the black race.The acting was superb. I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"The long walk home","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This movie is truly inspirational and gives African Americans a sense of pride over how much people are willing to fight for their rights.the movie is played by actress Whoopi Goldberg but throughout the movie is known as Odessa carter she played the role with not only talent but is an icon to all those who can't stand up for themselves.this movie creates a sense of reality on the cold hard truth during this time and how serve African Americans were treated. This movie makes people see how tough life was and instead of sugarcoat ting it or trying to play off such a controversial issue they display it for the world to see which is why I liked this movie so much. "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg are always good to watch, together awesome.","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Long Walk Home is a movie principally geared for those who want to see a perspective of US history in the mid 19950s whereby Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat. School children, 9 years and up, should see it with an adult. The movie's pace is slow and deliberate. Yet, it takes the time to work out the characters' thoughts and feeling about the bus issue. Rosa Parks in my mind has always been a hero for this action. For a woman of her age to perform a righteous act in lieu of an unrighteous law is something to admire. We are all equal in the eyes of God and the law. This is what Rosa Parks was trying to establish in her own way. The movie held my attention and truly discusses differing viewpoints of the time. Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg are always good to watch, together awesome. This is a movie best watched in the afternoons or late at night. Primetime movies are better for non-serious entertainment. No popcorn here. Serious attention and thought for this movie only. "},{"Title":"The carpool is the message....","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is the kind of movie that makes you want to cry&#x97;not because you watched the movie, but because what you're watching really happened. I didn't live in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1955&#x85;.didn't know about the bus boycott at the time. Shame on most of the white folks who are accurately portrayed in The Long Walk Home, the racist citizens who complained at their dinner parties that the ni__ers don't want to work while their black maids were serving dinner. And much too tardy and much too inadequate praise for the other white folks who are accurately portrayed, the ones who felt the injustice, a little bit or a lot, that framed their everyday lives, living with their black neighbors in Montgomery. This is a message movie, plain and simple. Sissy and Whoopi are the messengers, plain and simple. They know what they're doing and they send the message to the viewer, straight from the shoulder, right between the eyes. It all seems very calm, except for the one, not-too-violent crowd violence scene at the carpool intersection&#x97;frankly, it's a bit awkwardly choreographed, but the denouement is satisfying. Sissy, rather incredibly, tells her domineering, bigoted, abusive husband to stuff himself at the very end. Good message, but not too realistic from a white 1950s housewife in Montgomery, Alabama. But Sissy is the other strong character&#x97;Sissy is on the right side of the bus boycott, and she sticks her neck out a lot more than Whoopi's maid character does. There is dreadful truth, and heroism, in The Long Walk Home. Read more on my blog Barley Literate "},{"Title":"Great movie to watch in light of the Paula Deen scandal!","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The use of the n-word is so common today that it's almost mundane. Blacks use it, whites, Asians, Latinos, etc. Have we forgotten that it is one of the most heinous words in the English language? Watch this great movie in order to see how the word is so hurtful and scathing. Both Whoopi Goldberg and Sissy Spacek are beautiful in this film. They are outstanding actors! The bond between their characters predates the bond between Minny Jackson and Celia Foote in The Help. Everyone should see this. Stop using the n-word, no matter what colour your skin is. The circumstances of this film happened not that long ago; but so many of us don't realize what it's like to not be able to sit where you want on the bus, or to drink from whatever fountain you please (fountains are dirty anyway! I once saw a man in the park let his dog drink from it lol). Please watch this movie so that you can have more compassion for people, no matter what their background! "},{"Title":"A Powerful and Worthwhile Film","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is a powerful movie. Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg both give excellent performances - especially Sissy. I lived in those times, though I was little. I remember very well the water fountains in the grocery store marked White and Colored. I remember drinking from the Colored fountain just in protest at the stupidity of it. I couldn't watch the violent scenes and turned the channel (it was shown on TV today) when they got to be too much. People can be so evil, and I lived through some of those times, though kind of the tail end. I attended a recreation center growing up, and though the colored part of town began on its far side, they were not allowed to play there. I remember how absurd I thought that was, too. I was shocked at the facts displayed at the end of the movie, though I do remember reading of or watching the news about such things occurring a few years later. Why the South was so proud of being ignorant is hard for us to understand today, but it had to do with money, as does most things, and the loss of money - especially when it brings hardship with it - runs deep. A very good film and worth watching. "},{"Title":"Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg are excellent in The Long Walk Home","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Just rewatched this movie on YouTube. Taking place during the bus boycott of 1955 in Montgomery, Alabama, maid Odessa Cotter (Whoopi Goldberg) resolves to walk but her employer Miriam Thompson (Sissy Spacek) decides to drive her for at least a couple of days of the week to her house. I'll stop there and just say this was quite an inspiring, if intense, drama about how oppressive it could be during that time if you were not only the wrong color but also the wrong gender, that is, if you weren't a white male. I mean, the way Miriam's husband Norman (Dwight Schultz) and his younger brother Tunker (Dylan Baker) felt threatened by the whole thing makes one wonder. And the way Odessa's teen kids, Selma (Erika Alexander) and Theodore (Richard Habersham) were almost completely defeated by those white teen boys definitely gave me a pause. Not to mention how openly bigoted Miriam's mother (Gleaves Azar) said her opinion in front of the help was so blatantly appalling to see. What gives one hope is not only the way Miriam and Odessa communicate with each other, but also the way the narration of the grown Thompson daughter Mary Catherine (voice of Mary Steenburgen, Lexi Randall as a child) assures us how poignantly inspiring the whole time was. So on that note, The Long Walk Home gets a high recommendation from me. P.S. Ving Rhames-several years before his star-making turn in Pulp Fiction-portrays Odessa's husband Herbert with hair. Richard Habersham was Eddie in Do the Right Thing the year before. Younger brother Franklin was played by Jason Weaver who would later be the singing voice of Young Simba in The Lion King. He's also, like me, a Chicago native. And Erika Alexander would become Cousin Pam on The Cosby Show after making this. "},{"Title":"The birth of the civil rights movement...and we are there","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I first saw this movie in the early 1990s right after it came out on video. My then wife worked in a video store and brought new releases home for my second opinion. This movie is riveting...it is a classic docudrama (fiction mixed with fact) and, as I titled my commentary, we are there. First there are two Oscar-winning actresses (Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg) and a versatile actor (Dwight Schultz of The A-Team proving there's life after that cult series). The gradual mixture of fact (Rosa Parks, Dr. Martin Luther King, the boycott, etc.) mixed with fiction (the bonding between the two women, the way the wife stands up to the husband, etc.) makes this the quintessential docudrama...recommended (required?) viewing for anyone who went through that era!! In some ways it's not just the birth of the civil rights movement, it's the birth of Southern feminism (the daughter could have very well grown up to be any of the women on Designing Women)!! Again, this movie packs a big wallop to anyone who views it...we, the audience are given a fly on the wall viewpoint...we are there!!! "},{"Title":"Children learn from watching","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Long Walk Home (1990) Sissy Spacek, Whoopi Goldberg, Dwight Schultz, Ving Rhames, and Dylan Baker star in this story about the 1955 Montgomery Alabama bus strike. It had to happen, but it wouldn't happen overnight, and not without serious new problems. The back of the bus rule was no longer acceptable to some citizens. This is a serious and insightful look at two fictional women, existing at opposite ends of the Montgomery social structure, who, while having accepted their current relationship, find themselves hesitant participants in the larger world. The Long Walk Home brings history back to life in reasonable and wonderfully detailed way. The acting is strong, dialog good, the sets and costuming some of the most thorough I've ever seen. Women have to take off their clip earring before speaking on the telephone. They leave lipstick on the edge of their Russel Wright coffee cup. Children stand in fear of adults doing things they don't understand, and often do NOT get explanations. THEY learn from behaviors. "}{"Title":"marching (and walking) to freedom","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Sissy Spacek and Whoopi Goldberg put on spectacular performances in this story of the relationship between an affluent woman and her maid in Montgomery, Alabama, during the bus boycott. The movie shows how both women start out filling the roles that society expects of them - a housewife and a servant - but both slowly realize that they have to be more than this. There's no glossing over the rabid racism of many of the people in Montgomery, some of whom believe the Civil Rights Movement to be a commie plot.There's a scene where we hear a suggestion that there might one day be a black person in a position of power. Obviously that's now the case, but racism persists, as do police killings of unarmed blacks. Movies like The Long Walk Home will remain relevant as long as these problems continue. I recommend the movie both as a look at the events of the era, and as a look at how these women of different socioeconomic backgrounds turned out to have more in common than they realized.Definitely worth seeing. Watch for an early appearance by Ving Rhames (Marcellus in Pulp Fiction) as Whoopi Goldberg's husband. "},{"Title":"long walk home again","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I was in the final crowd scene of this film and made the big mistake of repeating my line of dialogue the next day at work. Since it contained the n word, not something I would normally say. I thought the director at the end was John Frankenheimer, father of Michael Bey but maybe not? I was perceived to be a friend of John's, screenwriter John Cork who did not and don't know. I remember thinking Ms Spacek looked every inch a star, even at 40, and led the applause as she departed the set. She had almost no interaction with Whoopi Goldberg that night until they held hands at the end. I think the film holds up pretty well, as I doubt my hometown of Montgomery has changed in the years since. Couple of things I notice, when her family gifts Odessa with a coat, it looks a lot like her old one and when the Cosby Show's Erika Alexander tries to escape rape in a park, she's taller than they are and maybe even than the black man who saves her. RIP my uncle Carl Stephens who does 2 WSFA TV broadcasts, on bus boycott and on the whereabouts of Santa Claus Christmas eve on radar. "},{"Title":"Dignified and solemn, with somber performances...","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Blacks in the South during the 1950s start a strife-riddled boycott against the transit system after Rosa Parks is disciplined for not giving up her seat to a white person on the bus. Subject matter is well worth exploring, but director Richard Pearce approaches this story too dutifully, as if he were teaching a course in towing the line. The white folk are all nasty bigots, except maid Whoopi Goldberg's proprietress--a saintly Sissy Spacek--who takes up the black community's cause. It's Convenient Script-Writing 101, and without much of an edge it never has a chance to accumulate any heart--or any vitality. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The Long Walk Home","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I teach in a small town where the majority of the students are Caucasian. After watching the Long Walk Home for the first time, I began a search to buy it for my personal collection. I use this movie every year after the unit on the Civil Rights Movement. This movie shows students what can be accomplished if everyone is willing to make the necessary sacrifices and work together.It also shows them that this was not an easy task. It was more than just giving a speech or refusing to sit in the back of the bus. It was making the commitment to walk to work, the store, everywhere.. regardless of the number of blisters on the feet or how early the walk had to begin.I am a big fan of Whoopi's, and while they did not seem to be two of her more popular movies, The Long Walk Home and Sarafina were two of her best. While I was out on disability, my movie, The Long Walk Home, disappeared. If anyone knows where I can get a replacement of her movie, I would definitely appreciate hearing from them. "},{"Title":"I Think Everyone Should Watch this Movie","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I loved this movie. The acting was spectacular but what I really liked was the understated tone. So many movies about the history of civil rights make everything so big and dramatic. It was big and dramatic but most people were still working and living their lives. This movie shows how a person can wake up to the world around them and change. It is not a huge shift but once she sees clearly, she can not go back. Her life will be changed forever. It is really beautifully done.I found myself wanting to know more about the characters in the story. What happened the next day? Did the husband join his wife or did they divorce? Did the two women remain friends? Anyway, it was great! "},{"Title":"Touching.","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I watched the movie The Long Walk Home in a class of mine. At first I thought how boring this movie was going to be, but as I watched I found myself getting quite disgusted with how people acted. After watching this movie I give more respect to African Americans then I had before. I knew that they had gone through some hard times but I never actually knew just how bad it was. I believe that everyone should see this movie, you'll be surprised how deeply it touches you. I hope that this movie can teach some of us to respect everyone in the world, no matter what religion they are or by the color of their skin ... I don't understand how some people are still racist ... but I guess its the way they were raised. "},{"Title":"moving and eloquent","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" While slightly outdated by today's movie terms, the film was well put together and gathered a plethora of feelings and issues that surrounded the black community during the time period. The actors chosen (especially Goldberg and Spacek) did their jobs extremely well, and the movie contained the subtle comparison of black families to white ones.The film's plot, set during a Montgomery bus boycott led by none other then Martin Luther King Jr himself, is historically accurate and emotionally involving--at the end of the film the audience find themselves angry and confused and relieved all at the same time. Overall, the movie, though not merited much by action scenes or intensely dramatic turbulence, is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  In eighth grade, my history teacher showed us a movie called The Long Walk Home.  Usually, movies in history class could put you right to sleep. However, this one was much, much different.  For the first time, everyone in class was awake and watching the television screen.  It was an amazing movie that really helped us better understand what life was like during the bus boycott.  I had never thought that blacks would have trouble getting rides then--I just never thought about it from someone else's angle before.  This movie really helped me understand a different time period.  When the bell rang to go to next period, most of the class stayed and lingered a few minutes to catch the end of the movie.  A few of us even had tears in our eyes.  Don't miss this movie--it is fantastic. "},{"Title":"Interesting Insight","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Whoopi Goldberg pulls off another amazing character with this film, she keeps you in full cycle of her role all the way through.I saw this movie on a movie channel today after been sick off work, it really got me hooked and gave me a good insight of what life was like back then and the big difference of white/black people. I have always been bought up in mixed society and looked at everyone the same but to see this movie and see how people were treated was a real shock to the system.Direction/acting was all spot on and you really do feel for the cast in a lot of the scenes.Probably would not recommend this film to everyone, however i would class it as a worth see if you flick past it on the TV. "},{"Title":"Bigotry In Alabama","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Sissy Spacek played a good role. It wasn't right for black people, to be treated, because they're different. They should have the same rights, to ride the bus, vote and attend school. The 1960's were when the civil rights took place. The country was changing. Blacks have always voted here in Arkansas, even before my time. I didn't like Sissy's husband's brother, who was a bigot. I'm glad he slugged him, for slapping his wife. "}]