[{"Title":"Spellbinding","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film one night on my local PBS station not knowing what it was about. When the film opens on a crowded disco soundtracked Fire Island (1980) and I realized it was a gay themed film I was about to turn it off being a hetero male, I figured nothing here to relate too. WRONG. I stuck with the film and probably have to rate this as one of my top 10 movies ever. WOW did this film floor me! It follows a group of gay friends and lovers (and a hetero gal pal)through the AIDS plagued 80's decade. This film is truly written with insight and compassion. I found all the characters interesting and realistic with the actors portraying them excellently as well (especially Campbell Scott and Bruce Davidson). The scene with Davidson bringing his lover to his death is heartfelt and emotional but the scene at the end with the 3 survivors walking now on a silent deserted Fire Island beach as all their friends(and others) who died from AIDS milling about as they remembered them brought a lot of tears to my eyes. It is how all of us as humans try to remember those we love who have passed. I recommend this movie to all people both gay and straight because it is a film that transcends these labels and speaks to us as just humans,all in this mystery called life, as one. "},{"Title":"Still very, very good","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was a physician in New York City from 1989 until 1992, and saw a tremendous number of people with AIDS.  I feel that this movie, although it may appear to be dated, is an excellent portrayl of events that were all too common at that time.  It gives a good sense of the confusion, misinformation, sense of being lost, and of not knowing what to do for those suffering and for their friends and companions.  The actors did an excellent job in showing this.  I believe that this movie is still important and merits being shown often.  "},{"Title":"still packs a punch","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i bought the DVD and watched it the other night. cried like a baby. i remember the fairly gay crowd i saw it with originally in the movie theater. two scenes are especially going to stay in my mind forever. the ICU scene and the bedroom scene with Bruce Davison telling someone that its okay and let go. i can believe why he was nominated for an Oscar, i am amazed that he didn't win. does anyone remember who did??The film faithfully depicts an era of gay life that shocked some people and was applauded by others. its frankness was one of its best features. it was not a soap opera but a slice of real life, both joyous and tragic. as thousands still die every year, apparently a lot of people missed the point. it had no apologies and its many relationships brother and sister, partner and partner, friend and friend are as vital today as then. gay in those days was based on sexual experimentation, it is unfortunate that the results were/are so deadly. i really suggest young people today find this film and pay attention. and if you haven't seen this, rent it/buy it/watch it. you won't soon forget it. "},{"Title":"The Human Face of AIDS","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Longtime Companion chronicles the lives of a group of gay men during the 1980s. The focus of the film is AIDS, unknown to the men when the film opens in 1981, but by the end of the story in 1989, it has become the central defining event in the lives of the survivors. Shot in almost documentary style the story is told almost matter-of-factly. But the reality of the lives of the men in the story is not matter-of-fact; they are dying and dying in the prime of their lives. It's heart-rending.  In this, the movie succeeds very well, raising awareness of the effects of AIDS, and putting a human face to its victims.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Look At Gay Life During The AIDS Crisis","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a brilliant look at a group of people who band together to get through the crisis of AIDS in the 1980's. I was touched with the drama shown as members of the group die, the riveting emotion shown as lovers and friends suffer from the effects of the disease.This film is truely an excellent portrayal of companionship, and love.Showing the world, that gay men are equal to straight as ever, and that everyone is exposed to life ending diseases. We learn that its important to love life every day, because there may not be a tomorrow. These are great rules to live by. Well Done! "},{"Title":"A milestone of gay cinema","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A landmark film, not only in that it is the first film to deal with the AIDS crisis, but also in its portrayal of gay men and their friends. Sitting on the cusp between earlier depictions of gays as murderous or suicidal and later caricatures of funny, sexless best friends, the men shown here are very real and very honest in their decade long struggle with death and illness. I defy you to watch Bruce Davison's heartbreaking farewell speech and not be choked up on some level of emotion. And Mary Louise Parker add a special touche. This movie has arguably the greatest final scene in gay cinema. "},{"Title":"Bring out your hankies...","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Longtime Companion for the umpteenth time. It still makes me weep. To watch the well knit group of friends at the genesis of AIDS is heartbreaking. Best performance is Bruce Davidson's portrayal of a man that, at first denies the disease, then has to deal with it on a personal level. In a way, this film pretty much describe the general feeling of many individuals that, at first, denied that AIDS would affect them, then have to face it head on. The issues of the film reflect society's views on the disease and the backlash that followed due to the lack of knowledge of how the disease spreads (One character's hospital visit is a perfect example).***SPOILER ALERT!!!*** (If you haven't seen this film yet, don't go further!!!)People talk about the ending, when the 3 remaining friends (Campbell Scott, Mary Louise Parker and Stephen Caffrey)are on the beach, you can't help but cry, because their friends had died from AIDS. In a way, it reflects what anyone that has lost someone close to them If only the disease never existed, my friend would still be here. Poignant, touching and heartbreaking film. Bruce Davidson was robbed of a richly deserved Oscar. "},{"Title":"A heartbreaking film","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly heartbreaking film about how a group of friends is affected by the onset of AIDS.  It takes us from the belief that AIDS is a gay cancer to present day (meaning early 90s), when gay activism for increased research is becoming common.  This film will anger you at the fact that Reagan denied the existence of AIDS for so long, refusing to even mention it, and that that omission may have furthered the spread of this disease.This is a brave film, one that doesn't flinch from eroticizing the relationships or from the horrors of dying from AIDS.  ***Spoiler***Watch in particular for the almost wordless scene in which Bruce Davison (rightly nominated for an Oscar) sits by the bedside of his dying companion.The cast is nearly pitch-perfect, including Campbell Scott, whose own relationships with his lover and friends are challenged by his own fear and misunderstanding of AIDS.  The scene where he visits one of his friends in the hospital but is afraid to use his friend's bathroom speaks volumes about the misperceptions of AIDS in the 1980s.The movie ends with an epilogue that has been criticized as too hopeful, almost tacked on.  I would disagree with that.  The ending doesn't minimize what came before it, but holds out hope that with activism and attention to and funding for research, a solution may yet be found. "},{"Title":"Well acted film on A.I.D.S.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Following in the footsteps of AN EARLY FROST, here is yet another film with an AIDS theme to reckon with.  Unlike FORST which actually dealt with a gay couple and their parents this deals with the gay community and several lover relationships.   What I like about this film, and I did like FROST, was the honesty in telling the story of relationships. We are introduced to a group of gay friends and their mates, who spend much time together in vacationing on Fire Island, the gay resort, and in the hospital visitng each other when stricken with the unknown disease that has become a plague amongst us today.  The actors brought their own individual depth to each character.  I couldn't find a bad performance in the lot.  Notably Bruce Davison stands out.  He brings such an understanding and compassion to his work.  You really believe him as he becomes his partner's companion in the last days of his life. The scene when he tells him it's okay to leave, was awesome.  How can you separate the good actors from acknowledgement.  Campbell Scott and Stephen Caffrey, Patrick Cassidy and that famous kissing scene on the soap he was acting in gave such a wonderful scene when he's in his lover's hospital room and begins to break down.  The face of his lover as he listens to him cry broke my heart.  John Dossett, Mark Lamos and Dermot Mulroney and I'm not sure what actor played what role all gave so much honesty to their work.  A great ensemble of players, a delicate and honest script about a controversial disease that has by this time taken the lives of millions of young people gay and straight, excellent direction and well photographed, I highly recommend this to everybody to see.  You'll come away with a different attitude about not only gay life, but the killing disease. "},{"Title":"...touchingly real...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as I know, Longtime Companion, released in 1990, is the first American motion picture to deal head on with AIDS (whereas Philadelphia (1993), staring Tom Hanks, receives the honor of the first STUDIO film about AIDS).  Made on an obviously minuscule budget, this film nevertheless captures an honesty about AIDS and its effects through touchingly real vignettes of a the lives of a group of friends.  Some of these mini-stories fall a bit flat, and the film's politics at times seems overly optimistic -- we're supposed to believe that on a TV soap opera a full and deep man-on-man kiss would have happened in 1984.The unfettered filmmaking and straightforward acting (especially by the subsequently Oscar nominated Bruce Davison), however, keep both the story and the audience grounded -- there are several scenes that seemed so very real that my heart truly ached for these characters.  In today's age of expanded understanding of the homosexual heart (that it is, in fact, in no way different from any other heart), the Longtime of Longtime Companion may not seem too terribly extraordinary; within the context of American cinema, however, I have a feeling that history will see this film for the landmark it truly is.  "}{"Title":"thankfully avoids the pitfalls of melodrama","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The title is the newspaper obituary euphemism for a gay lover, and yet another discreet but frustrating reminder of how mainstream heterosexual society avoids confronting the AIDS epidemic. In an effort perhaps to offset public ignorance, Norman René's film of the same name almost resembles an AIDS awareness primer, dramatizing the deadly progress of the disease through the gay community since the summer of 1981, when 'safe sex' merely meant anything goes, but don't get caught. Like other American Playhouse productions the film is simple, unpretentious, and no less rewarding for being so straightforward. René and writer Craig Lucas have wisely resisted the temptation to make a 'Love Story'-style terminal illness melodrama, concentrating instead on the bittersweet pain and bravery of awkward hospital visitations and quiet deathbed encounters. Only the forced optimism of the final daydream rings false, unavoidably since the epidemic itself (still) has yet to be resolved by anything resembling a cure. The balance of the film is simply too honest to support such sentimental wish-fulfillment fantasies. "},{"Title":"A well written and acted movie about Aids and it's impact on a group of friends in the beginning of public awareness of this disease...","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I watched this for the first time, I like many that went through this time period, identified with most of the characters in this movie at one time or another. I had my sister watch this movie (a devoted Pentecostal) she said it was the sadist thing she had ever seen. I felt that she got the message, Gay or Straight, this was a tragedy that had happened to everyday people, and still is happening, and not just to those people. She, like many, never wanted to see past the homosexual thing. With this film she saw a clip of life, albeit a condensed version, of how something so out of control entered, affected and was handled by people like herself both gay and straight. I told her that was the way it I felt it was for many of us dealing with this disease that had taken so many of my friends and colleagues. I also liked how this movie didn't victimize, or make a villain out of any of the characters nor did it make anyone a saint either. I felt the topic was handled with good taste, considering how it was something most people didn't want to think about. With the majority of the audience being straight and secure in the fact that this only happened to other people who were deserving of what they got. I also felt that this movie showed the truth although a bit Hollywood and too polished (not a docudrama, definitely a movie) it did a good job of making a difficult subject much more palatable and sympathetic to folks that had never had it happen to them or to those they love. The progression of the movie conveyed the feeling most had in regards to how fast things happened. One day someone was here the next they were gone. I also felt that the actors, many non gay, did brilliant performances not playing stereotype's but keeping it real as it should be. Since most gay men and women I know don't act all that different from everyone else. I for one am tired of gays being portrayed as only hair stylist and drag queens, much as I am sure African-Americans were tired of their stereotypes of only being the hired help or as ignorant simpletons. This was not the best movie I have ever seen, but I feel it is one of the best dealing with this subject matter. The end of this movie still gets to me, every time I see it, if only that could happen like that, I too just want to be there "},{"Title":"Beautiful, intelligent, impressive movie","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is difficult to definite this movie. At first sight it is a movie about AIDS and the impact of illness in gay community. In fact it is only a chronicle of a time of hope and fear, jokes and firelight. Long time companion is slice of Reagan era but a definition of the special vision about life. Small existences are parts of powerful chains of friendship and love. A newspaper's article shatters the peace of a community. Rumurs,anxiety, confusion. And a huge waiting. The shadow of homosexual cancer is present like ambiguous threat. The firs victims and the glamor of film  the compassion is form of fear but this status is source of resistance. A realistic touching way to describe the relation with illness and with others. I saw this film like the root of Angels in America. Like a pleading not for tolerance (is it no a subtle form of hypocrisy?) but for the way of empathy. And the great merit of Norman Rene is the art to create a gorgeous gallery of winsome portraits, to present their everyday existence, the enjoys, sorrows, emotions, fight, mutual assistance. A very beautiful, intelligent and impressive movie. "},{"Title":"the tide is high ...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blondie's hit record opens this early AIDS film, a kneejerk reaction to the hysteria that was happening in the world in the wake of so many deaths from what was still viewed as 'the gay plague'.'Longtime Companion' centres on a group of friends who are affected by AIDS in various different ways - two are victims of the disease, while others survive to remember their friends with affection.  There are one or two stereotypes here (the camp Fuzzy, who mimes to disco records), but in the main the characters are played with sensitivity (and a degree of humour) Bruce Davison, Mark Lamos, and Campbell Scott stand out from a good cast.I particularly liked the moving and celebratory ending, a surreal segue which brings everyone together in a huge, joyous beach party where everyone is alive, in love, and together.  This single scene says more about the effects of the AIDS epidemic than many other right-on scenes from more traditional films. "},{"Title":"The best film about AIDS","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is more than 20 years ago that I saw this film for the first time. Yesterday I have seen it for the second time and again I was deeply moved by it. For a part it is because of my personal memories of the beginning of AIDS. I had my coming out in 1981, but it was in 1984 that I first heard about the new disease &#x96; Europe was a few years behind in this respect. Like the people in the film at first I didn't take it seriously, but then I was struck by insecurity. Is it risky to kiss somebody, because HIV is found in saliva too? Looking back I have to be glad that my coming out was not ten years earlier. Otherwise Longtime Companion might have been my story too. Although I knew some people who have died of AIDS, none of them was a close friend of mine.But apart from this personal aspect I think Longtime Companion is a wonderful film, probably the best about AIDS. Like the first time there were two scenes that moved me to tears the final scene with the fantasy, where the survivors meet those who have gone. And of course the scene, where David tells his dying love to let it go. I didn't know that Bruce Davison got an Oscar nomination for this role, but he had deserved to win. "},{"Title":"A film for the ages that has aged well","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Longtime Companion is a remarkable film that has aged extremely well in the 25 years since it was made. Shot in 35 days with a million and half dollars and a handful of unknown actors (most of which went on to stardom or at least to known actor status), Longtime Companion tells the story of discrimination and disease - the AIDS crisis during the 1980s and its most affected demographic - gay men. The most important character in the film is the disease itself, as the story follows how it gains power to change attitudes and end lives.Like the characters in the film, I was there from the beginning and remember reading that first news snippet about 'gay cancer' in 1981. EVERYTHING that happened in this film is spot on - the blame, fear, hope and even humour of dying young from a fatal std. What makes the movie so good is how tight and intimate it is, remaining focused on a group of people who know each other or are connected in some way, and the many ways that AIDS enters their lives.My only complaint about the film is the final scene when there is a preachy 'movie of the week' wrap-up moment by three characters reflecting and wishing for an end to the disease. It is unsubtle in the wake of an otherwise effortless story of real dialogue and emotions. That, and knee-length board shorts as worn by fuzzy in 1981 were inaccurate. I recall they came in about 1984&#x85; "},{"Title":"Life And The Tide","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As the famous Blondie ballad The Tide Is High opens Longtime Companions the song got me thinking. The Tide was high for LGBT people in 1981 as we began winning more and more battles for civil rights ordinances in various municipalities across the country. Then life and the tide ebbed radically as a bisexual man brought a virus over from Africa that had been decimating population on that continent and it spread like a prairie fire amongst us. Longtime Companions focuses on the intertwining lives of several gay men and how the plague virus affected both the infected and those around them.I lost so many people in the next 15 or so years I feel like an Ishmael at times, left alive to tell the tale. That's what Longtime Companions does, it tells the tale of the loss of so much from the most famous names of all like Rock Hudson to the most insignificant in the cosmic scheme of things. How much art, music, science, human freedom, name the field could have advanced if these people had lived their allotted normal lifespan. Those who survived and especially those who worked in the field have a responsibility to be Ishmaels.Longtime Companions boasts a great ensemble cast that functions like a well tuned Rolex watch. Some of my favorites are Patrick Cassidy the soap opera hunk who loses his job and eventually his fight for life. Campbell Scott who throws himself into the fight after losing his Longtime Companion. Most of all lovers Bruce Davison and Mark Lamos and there will be no dry eyes as you see Davison guide Lamos from one world to the next.Two things standout for me in the Eighties which decade this film covers about AIDS. The first was in 1983 and my first exposure to someone with the virus. In my working life with New York State Crime Victims Board and after I had come out at work, I got a call from a bedridden man in Tribeca whose home health attendant had just robbed him blind of everything and he called us because the cops at New York's 1st precinct refused to go to even take the report. As our office was downtown and my dear friend Ermano Stingo lived there as well, we both went to this man's flat, a rather dingy place overlooking the Hudson River that was pretty well emptied of most of what was there save this bedridden man with lesions going into his last stage of life. Sad to say both of us saw that sight a lot more over the next decade. I filled out my paper work for a claim, witnessed his signature and Ermano went to the 1st precinct to file the report on the victim's behalf. To this day I wish I could recall his name, but Ermano is also now in another world.The second thing was the hearings for the New York City gay civil rights law. At the many forums the City Council gave us and our opposition to testify for the bill, I remember a lot of the homophobes walking in with surgical masks covering their faces as if that would prevent them from catching the disease from the opposition which they all assumed were sufferers or carriers. How ignorant they were and still are and worse how they did not want to be dissuaded from their firmly held beliefs. A frightening time for all.To understand AIDS and its impact on LGBT people and society as well you have to see Longtime Companions. And this review is dedicated to both my claimant in the Tribeca flat and to the first person that I knew that died of AIDS, a bartender named Bobby Lynn who worked in a long since gone gay bar in Brooklyn Heights. "},{"Title":"One of the first films to give a perspective on the looming AIDS epidemic.","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Longtime Companion, the title of which is derived from the term used in the obituary columns by man men to describe their relationship with their partners who died of an HIV related illness back in the 1980s. The term many were forced to use as either they didn't want it to be known they were gay or that their relationship simply wasn't recognised in any other way.The story revolves around a group of gay men from inter-connecting social circles who frequent Fire Island in New York on the weekends and socialise together. Some of them are in secure relationships, others are more promiscuous, while others are single and looking for love. When you consider it, really no different from your average social group of heterosexuals. In the 1980s of course HIV struck initially very much in the gay community and that's how its effects are felt here, as various characters become ill or realise they have friends who are in the same boat. Some handle it better than others, offering their friends the love and support they need to get through it, while some find the issue harder to cope with.This film is very much the impact of HIV seen through a microscope on just one group of people, it doesn't have the scale of And The Band Played On, but it's not covering those issues. It concerns itself with the direct impact on the gay community and one group of friends. It's hard not to feel their pain and helplessness and the shadow is cast over them while they struggle to cope with events and an illness they don't understand. In many ways, its also a love story among the events that are going on - Campbell Scott starts a relationship with Fuzzy, (Stephen Caffrey) while their community is unravelling. The patriarchs of their group David and Shaun played by Bruce Davidson and Mark Lamos try to make sense of it and reassure their friends only to realise they too may have been at risk. The film quickly jumps into 1982 demonstrating how ineffectual the confusing and limited information was for the gay community at the time. As they story develops some people die, others get involved and others try and effect change by speaking out, but at its heart, its still a drama about a group of friends trying to deal with something they cannot comprehend or understand.Acting plaudits should be levelled all round, but special mention goes to Bruce Davidson, this being the first film I ever saw him in. Dermot Mulroney makes appropriate impact as John one of the first to fall while Michael Schoeffling, an actor who was always underrated, is in his prime here.As one of the first films to deal with HIV, remembering it was made in 1989, this film holds up remarkably well now with a few exceptions a side. Its brave and effecting and is the companion piece to And The Band Played On, which gives the wider perspective on the epidemic. In many ways, Longtime, is the East Coast section that And The Band didn't have the running time for.It shouldn't be viewed as a 'Gay' film, even though its about a gay circle of friends (And their heterosexual friends) because this is as Roger Gail Lyon said - a human issue, not a gay issue. An issue that everyone should have knowledge of. "},{"Title":"We owe them so much!","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A historical film from the time when AIDS struck New York City right in the core of the big apple, its artistic community. It follows the plague from July 3, 1981 to July 19, 1889 and it shows how the community was disoriented and panicked by this unknown and unheard of disease.It took two years for the word AIDS to become common and to have the first gay kiss on a TV soap opera. They came out on the TV screen and caused more fear than surprise. Surprise would have been good in a way since people would have woken up without a hangover, but fear was the hangover.The film concentrates on the gay community and people close to it not on the people around, the rest of the society that did not behold but stigmatized. So we do not get the horrible rejection that the gay community lived through at the time. We only follow it from behind gay eyelids.Compassion at first meant there was some hope it could be stopped or cured with antibiotics or something. Then paranoia started settling in the minds like a real cancer in the psyche. It ate the souls and the thinking ability of everyone or nearly because it no longer was a disease but a disease that killed with certainty.The next stop was hypochondria. Gay men started checking themselves and believing they were every single one of them the next victims. They were the hosts of a morbid fascination that injected the death process of their friends into themselves. Morbid empathy that could kill the living spirit of anyone in no time. And yet little by little the tools of some resistance came up from the minds and hands of some volunteers. And It was needed because people with AIDS started being fired because they had no insurance and they found themselves in overcrowded hospitals that did not know how to cope with the problem and only checked more or less the insurance coverage every patient had or did not have and Medicaid was by far not enough even to accompany the beneficiaries to the end.And the absolute blank in which the gay community was for several years made most people unable to see how it was propagated, made them believe it was some kind of punishment or curse on the gay community from &#x85; What did he say Ronald Reagan at the time? It is not quoted in the film. So they punished themselves with No sex please we may have AIDS. Or even worse No kiss please, we may have the virus in our saliva. At this point the film goes down to rock bottom and touches it with the death of Sean slowly hypnotized into letting everything go and dying in peace, with no cry, without resisting, though not without tears and suffering at the loss this death meant for him and for the one he left behind. And David who accompanied him through his last night is buried in his turn fifteen months later and his friends tell him good bye in the church of his affiliation. And we are in June 1987. What the friends say from the pulpit is the first step out of the quagmire, the first step forward in the minds of the gay members of this gay community. And now they can start resisting and fighting back and requiring the treatment, health care, and that is necessary for the still living ones to be able to learn how to live with AIDS.Shows are organized to gather support for the sick people and the community, demonstrations are set up targeting the health services and the city hall of New York, the Mayor in particular. And they clash with the police, and they demonstrate again. It seems inconceivable, does it? That there was ever a time before all this. When you start forgetting what the past was you start becoming able to look at the future and they did. Remembering is important but certainly not to nostalgically regret what it was.Three survivors are on the Atlantic beach and they get ready for the next demonstration and they speak of a cure and they want to be there when it happens. Then a vision of the whole crowd they used to be runs down onto the beach and they are all there, here, with the three survivors. The ghosts of course of those who have gone away, or maybe the three survivors are already ghosts meeting with those who went before them? A last shot comes back to the three survivors. They want to be there when a cure is found, and 25 years later a cure is still not found but you can live with AIDS, and rather quite many years now. Thanks to that first generation of pioneers.The film is from 1989. It was sad but also full of hope then and today it is still sad and still full of hope but we are convinced that even in catastrophic situations death is not the only one to win and it can even be defeated.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"I cried my eyes out.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was made near enough on 20 years ago... And it is all the more powerful for it. It gives a glimpse into the early days when no one knew much about it or where it came from, or why some gay people got it and others didn't. And now it circles the globe... We know so much more, but the disease is there and the bodies continue to pile up, leaving behind those people who love and mourn for them. And that's really the crux of the movie. A family of friends who one by one dies, leaving behind loved ones, who themselves die. When all is said and done, only a handful are left, talking about wanting to be there when it ends... For a moment they envision the great party, where all the loved ones are returned to them and they celebrate and catch up. And for a second it makes you wonder are they dead too...? It was just one of a few heart wrenching scenes. Try not to cry when Bruce Davison (always fantastic) tells his years sick lover to let go. Oof! I rate any movie by its ability to make me cry. I don't cry easily, and so when I do it was some damn fine story telling. No one directly in my life has ever suffered from or died of AIDS. And yet I felt like it was all happening to me. If that isn't the mark of good story telling... well then I don't know what is. Give it a try, I don't think you'll be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Bruce Davison always makes an impression","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" and this film should continue to make an impression over time as well. The performances by Campbell Scott, Mr. Davison and Mark Lamos deserve special mention. There is also a pivotal role with Dermot Mulroney, before he was big box-office.Many reviewers have mentioned the theme, so I will not belabor the point. I will mention that, other than the film The Band Played On, this film addresses the human issues involved with AIDS, or any illness. It has a message without being trite or preachy, or melodramatic. This is difficult to pull off, if you watch other movies of this genre they often do not ring true, or the performances are over the top. This movie makes the audience feel part of it, those of us who grew up in the 80's remember the Reagan jokes, the first Dynasty episode to address the AIDS issue, and so on. There was a lot of denial at this time, and I am not so sure there still isn't, in some sectors of society.At any rate, you should rent or buy this movie if you haven't been able to catch it on cable. I am hard pressed to think of other movies which have addressed this issue in a sensitive, realistic way; Torch Song Trilogy with Harvey Fierstein and Matthew Broderick was an excellent film, but did not address the AIDS issue directly. If anyone can think of any please recommend them!. "},{"Title":"A Nice ensemble piece","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just viewed this film on The Sundance Channel and I feel I have to comment on it. I also did something I never do before making a comment about a film, but I read other comments first. Then I knew I had to add my two cents.I barely paid attention to the film when it came out, I am a big fan of Bruce Davidson and his work is just wonderful and grows even better with every year's performance. What I do remember back in 1990 was that Bruce was on a talk show regarding another film and he had mentioned that he had just finished filming Longtime Companion when he got word that an actor friend of his died of AIDS. Bruce was in tears. So was I because I knew the man he was speaking of and I had no idea he had AIDS or passed either. Imagine this film, and the news of his friend. Sad.I didn't understand what this film Longtime Companion was about, until today when I happened to stumble across it. As a heterosexual female, I have seen alot of films and I noticed many posters referred to this as Gay Cinema. I don't know exactly what that is, but I thought this film is for everyone. It's thought provoking and good because it centered on a group of affluent New Yorkers and how this disease of AIDS was effecting their lives, misinformation and all. Campbell Scott was wonderful, and I can attest that in the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, many folks did what Campbell's character did when touching them. 12 years later, I'm sure many still do.There was alot of uninformed information such as AIDS in saliva, but we know more now. But its Bruce Davidson's performance that made me watch. It was very heart wrenching, sad and believable. I've experienced alot of friends, co-workers, childhood friends, etc., who have died of AIDS from 1986 to date so I do take a pause and look a films that have this theme from time to time. I must say that 12 years later, we still haven't found a cure, but I agree with the characters who claim, when a cure is found  we will celebrate it like we did of the end of World War II. And this is from a heterosexual point a view. I recommend everyone to take a look at this film. Its got a few holes, but don't let that stop you. Ya might gain some understanding. "},{"Title":"Compact, straightforward drama with an extremely rich and emotional finale","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Craig Lucas adapted his own play about the confusion and panic over the on-set of the AIDS disease in the early 1980s, as seen through the lives of a circle of gay men in New York. Lucas dives headfirst into the story with minimal introductions, pinpointing the initial awareness of AIDS and the different reactions to personal crises; he doesn't get into the anger--the rage--of the illness, but instead focuses on the quiet sorrow, giving the film a somewhat soft, blurry edge (it isn't a preachy film, which is good, but neither it is gripping). The wonderful cast of actors (with kudos to Mary-Louise Parker as the proverbial indefatigable gal-pal) provides warmth and emotion even as Lucas' screenplay takes curious short-cuts. The early scenes aren't shaped, and much of the handling seems static. However, as we come to know these men, the picture's obvious good-intentions give way to moving human drama, leading to a conclusion which transcends sentiment. It's a sure-footed sequence, exceptionally well done. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A multiple watcher that doesn't cater to the stereotypes.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every once in a while, I'm struck with the mood to watch Longtime Companion yet again.  One of the best gay-oriented/gay-theme films ever made.  I originally saw the film on PBS before the right-winged-*bleeps* started lobbying for PBS to tone down all gay content, and fell in love with this tale of a group of men, who just happen to be gay, and how they deal with the threat of a new disease.  Filled with some Hollywood actors that I never would have expected to see in a film that could perceivably put a bad mark on their careers, this warm, touching, very funny, dramatic, sad, loving movie... is one I will never tire of seeing.  A MUST for the Gay-Movie Collector. "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving, MUST SEE!  Bring your hanky, this is a tearjerker!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone that has seen the beginning of the AIDS crisis can appreciate the poignancy of this movie.After seeing the movie no less than a dozen times, it still brings me to tears.Having lost more than 25 REALLY close friends, and no less than another 30 close friends and can count many more that 100 who's memorial services I've attended, it is easy to imagine the same beach scene (I won't give away that part) taking place here at Ocean Beach, San Francisco.Powerful, moving a MUST SEE!  "},{"Title":"Very real and touching","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie hits close to home on what it must have been like at the beginning of the AIDS epidemic. A very real and touching film, it deals less with the homosexual lifestyle, but more with the devastation AIDS brings to a group of friends, and how it effects their relationships. Bruce Davidson is nothing less than superb as the caring partner. "},{"Title":"may contain spoilers","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It amazes me that so many people gush and rhapsodize over this movie. There have been enough good gay-themed movies (Parting Glances, To Forget Venice, My Beautiful Laundrette, Maurice, Alive and Kicking, to name only a few) in the past twenty-five years; by comparison, how is it that people are able to project all sorts of virtues and emotions onto a thin, tiresome, badly acted (save Bruce Davison) problem play which has no subject other than AIDS IS BAD?! The interminable Fire Island scenes are not only shallow, stereotypical, and embarrassing, both in script and execution, they are unwatchably dated. The 'characters'--if one could refer to one-dimensional, wooden, solipsistic, Yuppie brats as 'characters'--have no inner lives or any genuine concerns beyond dick, dunes, and dish, and the attempt to gin up emotion later in the movie, and to have the Yuppie fags suddenly develop 'consciences' and 'feeling', is utterly EMETIC. I use the word 'fags' advisedly; I am a gay man myself, and this rehash of the most unattractive and boring NYC/Fire Island stereotypes leaves no other appropriate word to describe it. Bruce Davison gives a good performance, very fine at the end; what a waste of a fine actor and his skill. "},{"Title":"Ground breaking in its time, now an education of times past.","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Longtime Companion was perhaps one of the very first movies to put a face, heart and soul to the epidemic of HIV/AIDS at a time when movie makers as well as society as a whole, ran as fast as they could away from not only the disease itself, but also those that had it. For that, alone it should be congratulated and celebrated. Head on it tackled the issues without glitz or glamour and with an authentic honesty of emotion and interaction that is quite breath taking.Essentially, Longtime Companion is the story of how life takes a sudden change for a group of gay friends from the very onset of the whole HIV/AIDS crisis in 1981. Back then the New York Times carried an article that mentioned an outbreak of a 'rare cancer' in the gay community, often termed 'gay cancer' which was tragedy in itself as it shielded the actual method of transmission of the illness that was spreading with alarming speed. During the film we travel with the group of friends from the streets of New York to the hedonistic freedoms of Fire Island where the mentality of 'it couldn't happen to me' 'you can't catch a cancer' ruled the heads of many.Nobody was invincible and nobody was immune to the onslaught of this new horrific disease, which is exposed to the full in this highly charged and emotive film. Coming as it did in 1989/90 it was the first time that a vast majority of its audience had seen beyond the all too often misleading newspaper headlines, it was especially heart wrenching. There is not a particular plot line to follow, except watching with tear festooned eyes the lives of a whole circle of friends crumble and falter in the face of illness and death. There are few punches held back, nor emotions left unstirred as the action takes place at a reasonably fast pace. Many critics at the time had issues with the clinical approach of the piece, but those issues are unfounded and groundless. Longtime Companion gives a wonderful vent to the sense of confusion, misinformation and huge sense of loss that existed at the time. It is only with the benefit of hindsight that we see how tragically accurate this was. I firmly believe this should have been mandatory viewing in secondary schools during the early nineties for the way in which it dealt with homosexuality, relationships, and the whole HIV/AIDS crisis from its early beginnings. It would have done so very much more than a pathetic iceberg and a strap-line of 'Don't die of ignorance' that was pretty much all the UK got in the way of warning and advice, One of the amazingly beneficial aspects of Longtime Companion is the matter of fact style of presentation was see the story unfold, some have even said it a shadow of 'documentary' which is no bad thing. We see the lives of men cut down in their prime, of devastated lovers and partners, of a whole community decimated and challenged, which was exactly the reality of the times. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"The end of the war","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have heard about this movie, and i really wanted to see it. Today, i found it without any advice. And i watched. Longtime Companion is just amazing. Is beautiful strong enough drama. Real and well done.Longtime Companion was one, for not called it the first, film that talk about AIDS and its terrible social impact. We have seen now works like Philadelphia and incredible Angels in America, but what Longtime Companion do is totally different... and amazing. Longtime Companion is a drama that have you to see to believe it. Is seems that is totally calm, at first sight you think that. Then you feel a kind of pressure. And then you understand how hard is this topic.Longtime Companion is about how big was the AIDS impact, and how terrible was the situation then. The movie introduce to us each character. Character which at first sight, you think that don't have any to each other... but you release minute by minute how important are each to other. Much gay films treat the AIDS as a central topic, but not much do it with certain real sense. Longtime Companion treat the AIDS topic for portrait a kind of new war, that we see that is not finished yet. But, its not only about that. The film talk about how important is the people that you love and loves you too. How difficult is support a kind of impact. Is a story about acceptation and friendship.The performances are incredible (Specially of Mary-Louise Parker... God, i love that women! ) and the direction is totally great. Longtime Companion is spectacular, because, after a definitely a sad story.... it gives a bitter hope. They said Is like the ending of the war ... then imagine if nothing have happen, all the victims are fine... they release then that is happen... then one of them said I hope be there . And that is the feeling. All want to be in the end of that damn war.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Love Taken to its Furthest Limits","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time of its release, the term longtime companion had a different meaning than the one displayed in this film's title it did not have the connotation that it does now, but was the equivalent to what significant other is in our times nearly twenty years later. It certainly carried an aura of gravitas as it defined a romantic but very serious notion that two people were bound together by ties stronger than the sexual and were, truthfully, partners for life, for better or worse.Norman Rene's groundbreaking film LONGTIME COMPANION is that rare act that takes hold of a term, gives it life and new meaning, and is one that has not aged since its premiere in 1990, when queer cinema was barely a blip in the arena and the themes still being explored were the conflicts of coming out (to one's self, to the world), usually with a sordid, semi-exploitative tone. Up until then the only other film that treated homosexuality as a natural occurrence -- complete with a view of the horrors of gay bashing -- was TORCH SONG TRILOGY, which also remains rather contemporary with the times.Like a trip down memory lane, it divides itself in chapters, focusing on the appearance of what was (then) known as the gay cancer and crept its way into social consciousness as a fearsome, four letter word we now acknowledge as AIDS. We're introduced to a variety of characters, all realistic in nature, and confront their issues that are commonplace. Friendships are formed, love is exchanged, and all the while bonds are tested as this thing, this invisible character, becomes almost omnipresent in every sense of the word. A very grim, yet real scene early in the film is one that can't be denied at a hospital visit, one character (played by Campbell Scott) immediately washes his hands in restrained disgust after greeting a sick friend (Dermot Mulroney) because of the fear of contagion. Counterpointed is a much later, extremely emotional scene involving Bruce Davidson as he says goodbye to his lover and allows him to let go.It's two sides of the coin, but Norman Rene creates a haunting experience that remains indelible to anyone who has been in those situations. It's in my own opinion one of the finest films about gay men ever done, and it's a must for anyone getting into queer cinema. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made...","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with most that has been said here about this touching film. I'm old enough to remember the silence that came from the White House as gay men were dying of AIDS while family and friends were grieving. Still, silence from President Ronald Reagan. We know that if this had been any OTHER group that was afflicted with a communicative ailment, he would have been on that TV pronto. Can you imagine President Bill Clinton NOT making several nationally televised speeches about this epidemic? I lost many friends, who couldn't believe that there could be a disease that could only affect gay people...they knew that THEY were people too, no different than their hetero counterparts. Where was the leadership from the White House? I won't talk about the film, it speaks for itself. The last scene on the beach at Fire Island gives us hope that we will see our friends again. It broke my heart and made me wonder what we'd say if something like that was possible. Unashamedly, I cry every time I see this scene, for I remember people who died needlessly in an atmosphere in which Washington, D.C. showed it's ignorance and bias against a PARTICULAR group of American-born, taxpaying citizens. "},{"Title":"No one CAN NOT cry while watching this movie.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Longtime Companion draws you into the personal lives of young gay men. We feel what it is like to be held in the grip of fear, to watch friends and lovers die, to experience the prejudice and indifference of the Hetrosexual world, and to comfort the sick and the dying with compassion.By being invited briefly into our community, you'll gain a much needed perspective on what AIDS has meant to gay community and from them you'll learn of the challenges the disease poses to the rest of the world.Longtime Companion lingers in our mind far after the closing credits have appeared on the screen. With its remarkable humor and humanity, this film about love and loss proclaims that caring and compassion are what make us human. It is about all the things that should make us what we are, as a race. "},{"Title":"Its spelled Davison!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie many years ago and it made me very aware of the AIDS epidemic. It also gave me an understanding that there is more emotion amongst gays than I had thought. A really good movie, and mostly good acting, can make you feel like it really just happened and that is what this movie made me feel. Shortly after seeing this movie, I was surprised when I actually met Davison in person. I was a computer technician and was called to his house to fix his computer. He definitely deserved the Oscar for that performance. Maybe the reason he did not get the Oscar is the taboo nature of his role or maybe it was simply that everyone voting misspelled his name!  "},{"Title":"Heart warming and true to life.","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this movies several times.  A great portrayal of what was happening in the early days with AIDS when little to nothing was known about it and even less could be done.  Love is blind, and the loss of a close friend and/or loved one can be tragic.  If you are homophobic forget that aspect and concentrate on what was happening to the people affect with the illness.  The movie did a great job in depicting what was happening as well as showing the personal suffering experienced by many.  A definite must see.  "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some say this movie may be malinformed, but the misinformation contained in the movie were things that people really thought or feared when AIDS first became a public threat.  No one really understood what it was or how it was transferred, and the movie does an outstanding job of portraying that.Secondly, someone mentioned that it is too sweet and corny in the way it deals with the gay couples.  The point is this--if you saw a movie full of married heterosexual couples who were all dealing with something like, say, miscarriage, would you have reacted in the same way?  I am so tired sometimes with the way movies recently like to portray gay couples as hedonistic party animals who are never faithful to one another and run at the first sign of conflict.  The couples in this movie were what made me LOVE it.  It doesn't really matter what gender/sexuality/race/creed/etc. people are . . .what matters is the way they show love to one another, and this movie was truly a beautiful example of that.  I thought every relationship was realistic, and watching the movie made me feel so proud of all the actors, cast, crew, writing, directing . . .proud of EVERYONE who worked on this film, because it is truly an amazing testament to human love and sacrifice.  10/10 "},{"Title":"JOE PESCI???","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am just in shock . . .I know I have already commented on this film, but I just happened to look up the 1991 Oscars and realize that Bruce Davidson was beaten by JOE PESCI.  What were they thinking?????? What a joke!  Watch this movie . . .Bruce Davidson is amazing.  "},{"Title":"Pedestrian but well worth watching account of the impact of AIDS.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a rather pedestrian but highly affecting depiction of the impact of AIDS on a group of mutual friends living on the East Coast. Long Time Companion's strength lies in its sincerity and directness. Unlike the hokey Philadelphia, Long Time Companion looks at its characters dispassionately--neither blaming nor excusing the behavior which led to their contracting AIDS--and simply records their fates as they decline into the later stages of the illness and death. The concluding scene is utterly devastating and makes it well worth watching the rest of the film. Convincing performances, especially by Bruce Davison. "},{"Title":"Kind of nice.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a great film, and it seems kind of naive now in retrospect, butI'm sure for it's time it was important. Basically it follows a group ofgay men from the time of the discovery of AIDS, till the present. Youget the picture. We follow their lives and loves and all that, over thecourse of eight years. This was produced by American Playhouse,and has their classy footprints all over it! As Emanuel Levy says inhis book, 'Cinema of Outsiders',  Longtime Companion is a tadtoo tame and earnest in showing how a hedonistic communitybecomes a therapeutic one. The film implies that AIDS improveseveryone's character; No one panics, no one deserts his sicklover, no one gives way to despair. Still, I liked the actors and theeffort made. "},{"Title":"Dated but still powerful","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Film follows a bunch of gay male friends from 1981-1989 and we see how AIDS affects them and their friendships.  This was made in 1990 when AIDS was still considered a death sentence.  There's no cure now, but people are living longer so this film is dated.  Also, it shows just one day in their lives for each year so it's sometimes disjointed and hard to follow.  Still, this is an excellent film.  The script is strong and every single performance is good.**SPOILER**  Especially good are Campbell Scott and Bruce Davison...the scene where Davison tells his lover to let go is heart-wrenching.  But what is Mary-Louise Parker doing in this?  She's good, but her character is given nothing to do.  A milestone in gay cinema and a must-see whether you're gay or straight.  Davison was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for this.  Sadly, he lost.  Also, avoid this film on Bravo.  It's cut to ribbons. "},{"Title":"The Characters Didn't Seem Too Developed","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was watching the Bravo! channel this morning, when I couldn't sleep, and I came across this movie.  The characters didn't seem very convincing, except for Bruce Davison. And the pace of the movie went by too fast you couldn't keep track of the names of the character's.  I'm doing a novel that has a Bi-sexual character who dies of AIDS complications, so I thought that this would help me, even though the characters are gay men, not necessarily bi-sexual. One minute you are witnessing the character played by Bruce Davison having to deal with his mates death.  Then when they show the funeral scene it isn't his mates funeral but his own!  Who can shift gears that fast.  American Beauty deals with some minor gay characters and the resulting homophobia, and it tells the story much better. I was disappointed.  Infact, around the end of the movie, I finally gave out and fell asleep.  "}{"Title":"Topical Social Movie Cuts the Mustard","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although topical, this movie is not dated in any way. Set in the late '80s and '90s, the film evinces timelessness in terms of dialog, music, style, set design, and costuming. In fact, the only thing that dates the movie is the absence of cell phones and flat-panel monitors. Unfortunately, the biggest miss is excluding larger social institutions and their reactionary background the President, NIH, etc. But, perhaps, that is the point of the film to keep the effects of the disease personal and gut-wrenching. Far better than An Early Frost and your typical made-for-TV, disease-of-of-the-week films. Truly great acting from a well-put together cast of believable and empathetic characters. "},{"Title":"Not very fun to watch people dying","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, yes, it's an early gay film and it's a film about AIDS. But beyond that, it's just a so-so film. It's just not very fun to watching people dying... and that's just about what the movie is about. Gay men dying of AIDS. On the subject, I would much prefer AND THE BAND PLAYED ON and other notable documentaries which are more effective. "}]