[{"Title":"One Of Martn's Funnier Efforts","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" At the time of its release, I thought this might be Steve Martin's best work. He's done so many good things that I wouldn't say what's his best anymore but he is very good in here. His Italian hoodlum accent is funny and the unique character he plays, Vinnie Antonelli is very entertaining to see and hear.This isn't a laugh-out-loud-type of comedy but a pleasant one all the way through with good subtle humor. The first half of the story was much better than the second half. It gets cornier as it goes on. Martin's supporting cast - Rick Moranis and Joan Cusack - don't quite cut it as an FBI man and district attorney, respectively, being ridiculous clown-type characters but, hey, this isn't supposed to be taken seriously. Moranis' Barney Coppersmith is stupid but likable and Cusack's Hannah Stubbs is overly silly.The language is very tame, especially for a PG-13 film. It's just a nice lighthearted comedy, worth a look or two. I saw it three times and by then, that was enough. The DVD version I saw wasn't a whole lot better than the tape with poor surround sound and a so-so transfer. "},{"Title":"Pure Heaven.","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After a car is stolen by a gangsterAnd where did you learn to jump start a car?  I had to learn to jump start ambulances to get invalids to the dialysis machines. - Joan Cusack and Steve Martin, My Blue Heaven.There's a lot of fun to be found in My Blue Heaven, a simple little comedy with only good intentions. I find it almost impossible to dislike - it has little offensive material, it isn't a stupid, recycled movie packaged with marketable trimmings. Instead, it is a joyful little flick that knows it is no Oscar winner but still tries to entertain its audience. And it does. My Blue Heaven is pure heaven for anyone who appreciates fine comedy - it's a little bit wacky, a little bit goofy, and very, very funny.Steve Martin is perfectly cast as the wild and crazy Vincent Antonelli, a Mafia informer who has been entered into the Witness Protection Program. His wife wants no part of their new, cheery life in a suburban America so she leaves him early on. Rick Moranis is equally well-cast as Barney Coopersmith, the FBI agent assigned to protect Vinnie and make sure his new life is suitable to his comfort.Barney's wife has just left him, too. She complains that he is too anal-retentive. She even mentions that he has a technique for getting equal amounts of butter on his waffles. Meanwhile, Vinnie soon tires of his new life and resorts to crime - first little things, such as marking down prices on meat in the local grocery store - which results in the best single line in the entire film, when a perky employee greets Vinnie. His response is a four-letter-word that isn't nearly as (c)rude as it seems it would be at first. Soon he meets up with old partners and crime and they form a new crime syndicate - much to the chagrin of a female police officer named Hannah Stubbs (Joan Cusack), who seems to be the perfect match for Barney Coopersmith.Hannah is unable to prosecute Vinnie because he is a Federal Witness. At first she and Barney hate each other. Then they grow closer. Vinnie watches on with joyful interest. And what makes this movie so enjoyable, in part, is the chemistry between Martin and Moranis. It's their first film together since Parenthood. They're a good duo, and Martin is so out of character here you start to forget it's even him playing an Italian mobster. Compare Vincent Antonelli to Neal Page (Martin's character in Planes, Trains and Automobiles), and the difference in not only attitude but mannerisms and levels of intensity is clearly evident. Martin can play the middle-class American white male especially well, but this film clearly shows that he has not left his wacky background in such films as The Jerk far behind.My Blue Heaven came out the same year as Goodfellas (1990). It was impeccable timing - at the end of Goodfellas we are left with the penetrating image of Ray Liotta's character Henry Hill outside a suburban home in a cheery neighborhood which, remarkably, looks exactly like the neighborhood in My Blue Heaven. It could be argued that My Blue Heaven is an immediate sequel in some senses. Where Goodfellas left off My Blue Heaven starts - it just throws in some comedy. Which is why I don't understand its small impact when it first arrived in theaters. (Suffice to say, it sorta flopped.)I own this film on a VHS tape I purchased for $4.99 at Wal-Mart. I found it lying in the bottom of a discount video barrel with no-name titles. There are comedic gems that have gained respect over the years, and then there are comedic gems that have slipped by unnoticed. My Blue Heaven wasn't very noticed upon its release in 1990, the few critics who saw it seemed not to pay any attention to it. Funny how some of the most joyful comedies slip by. My Blue Heaven is a few laughs short of a comic masterpiece.4.5/5. "},{"Title":"Smart Comedy","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steve Martin is a mobster turned informant in the U.S. Witness Protection Program, but his dishonest habits are hard to break in this clever little comedy. Director Herbert Ross uses a smart screenplay, talented performers, and a great premise to make My Blue Heaven work a lot better than most films of its genre. Rick Moranis is the FBI agent who tries to protect Martin from mafia hitmen and more dangerously himself. Joan Cusack is priceless as a local district attorney who wants to get Martin for every little offense he commits while awaiting his court date to testify. William Hickey is also good as one of Martin's shady friends. A good little film overall. 3.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"under-rated","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In my opinion Steve Martin's most under-rated film, in which he plays an Italian gangster put on a witness protection programme as he awaits to go to court. Martin was born to play this part, and his character's cocky swagger had me laughing every time he appeared! Rick Moranis also stars, and is his usual nerdy self, which is funny enough!  "},{"Title":"A cute and lovable comedy","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just watched Blue Heaven and I thought that it was a nice sweet comedy with two of my favorite comedians Steve Martin and Rick Moranis. They make such a great duo and you can tell that they really enjoy each other's presence. This is the only Steve Martin movie my mom didn't have, so I had to rent it. But I was excited to see Steve Martin as a tough Italin mobster, so I couldn't resist the rental.My Blue Heaven is about a man, Vinny, aka, Todd, and he's about to go on trial to rat out some Mafia members, but he must be protected from hit men, so that's where Rick's character comes in. He must take care of Vinny and make sure that he isn't arrested or injured, but that's going to be hard since Vinny keeps getting into trouble with the D.A. played by Joan Cussack. Vinny also thinks it's a good idea that she and Rick get together and they do. But Joan is going to try her best to get Vinny busted.It's predictable, but it is a very adorable movie that I think any Steve Martin fan could appreciate. The cast was great and the story was very funny, I thought it was so cool that it was slightly based on Henry Hill's(who you probably remember from Goodfellas) life. Rick and Steve are just great and I think you'll enjoy this movie.6/10 "},{"Title":"simple, but pretty good","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Blue Heaven is exactly the kind of movie you want to see after a long day of work, when you're just looking for something relaxing to spend your evening with. The movie is pretty simple and predictable, some of the gags are not too funny, but it has its good points. Steve Martin is great as an italian mobster, he plays really great. Some gags are very cool and funny, and the dialogue is many times interesting. In conclusion, a good watch. Vote 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Has Funny Moments","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The mobster Vincent 'Vinnie' Antonelli (Steve Martin) is under the witness protection program and the FBI agent Barney Coopersmith (Rick Moranis) is assigned to take Vinnie and his wife Linda to a house in the suburbs. However their wives leave Vinnie and Barney and the agent gets closer to the gangster and befriends him. Vinnie is a bon vivant and a crook and does not keep the necessary low profile. The District Attorney Hannah Stubbs (Joan Cusack) arrests him but Barney releases him from jail since he needs to testify against the Mafia. Soon Barney falls in love with Stubbs, but Vinnie gets into many troubles calling the attention of two hit men from the Mafia. The police officer Crystal Rybak (Melanie Mayron) protects him and they also falls in love with each other. In the end, the good-hearted Vinnie becomes a prominent personality in the suburbs. My Blue Heaven is a heartwarming comedy with funny moments. The good story is wasted with the uneven screenplay. Vinnie in the supermarket is hilarious and maybe the best moment of this movie. The conclusion is corny but entertaining. Steve Martin was originally cast as Barney and Arnold Schwarzenegger was cast as Vinnie but he left the production to work in Kindengarten Cop. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Meu Pequeno Paraíso (My Little Heaven) "},{"Title":"Recapturing a good memory","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this movie not long after its release in August,1990. It was a rather important and memorable part of my young lifeI was getting ready to move off to college(among other things)and was needing a little distraction. Since I fancied myself as a Steve MArtin fanatic(still kinda do),I felt like I HAD to see this. While I would've never--not then,probably not now,either--thought this to be anything of great work,it's still a blissfully wonderful comedy.You might be able to take Vincent Vinnie Antonelli(Steve Martin,full-tilt commitment to the role)out of organized crime and the big city,but you cannot take the organized crime or big city out of Vinnie,as he frequently goes astray of the law in his witness relocation in a quiet desert community outside of San Diego. The fed assigned him Barney Coopersmith(Rick Moranis,mensch)seems to be woefully unable to keep a leash on his charge,but it's alright because while Vinnie may not sit still in protective custody,he's got a big heart for those around him keeping him out of prison. Naturally,while Vinnie may not be always above board about his actions,he's still pretty good on his word and intentions.Easy,breezy comedy directed by the late Herbert Ross and penned by Nora Ephron(who seems to be a much better screenwriter than director),it's a film that is as light as air on a subject not normally broached in this manner(even Analyze This! and its sequel,Analyze That! still had a somewhat heavy air in them,albeit still largely tongue-in-cheek). Credit the deft and intentional script and the intensely likable interplay between Martin and Moranis(not to mention the potential love relationship/tension brought on by Joan Cusack as a divorced mom and zealous local DA)for this fact. I saw this again recently having bought this on a Two-fer disc that was paired with The Man With Two Brains. While I bought the disc primarily to watch THAT film,this add-on was not only a good re-watch(or even,come to think about it,re-re-watch)but brought back a long,pleasant memory or two of film-going. "},{"Title":"Humorous and quirky!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I reviewed the movie LA Story, I mentioned that the film had little quirks that made it unique.  This movie definitely has its own quirks.Steve Martin is known for playing dopey roles, something he has played well and demonstrated in The Jerk, which was a classic in its own right.  My Blue Heaven is deinfinitely a classic at best.Steve Martin plays Vinnie Antonelli, a mob family member who is referred into the Witness Relocation Program, and must live under a new name in San Diego until his trial.  When we first meet Vinnie, we see a man in a shiny suit, sunglasses, and flat top and just have to laugh at the appearance.  Then, he lays on his very funny (and fake) New York accent, and we have to laugh at it.  He plays a stereotypical New York/Italian, and we're impressed.  I found this movie to be particularly humorous.  Many people (Italian and Non-Italian) know what Fongol is, and probably any Italian owning a dog (not me though) will have said it at least once to a dog.As an Italian, I think the concept of a non-Italian playing the role is golden, and we can laugh at ourselves and see how humorous we are.  The scene which made me hysterical was when his family welcomed him in the airport and he spoke Italian to his mother.  If you like Mafia movies, or Steve Martin, definitely check out this much overlooked comedy.  With a Martin, as well as Rick Moranis, Joan Cusack, and a great supporting cast, you will truly love this film!!!  Gratcie!!! "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I see where some people did not much care for this movie. That's the way it is with comedies. Not everyone has the same sense of humor.I liked it.I found Martin's character to be very entertaining. His constant stream of BS is very entertaining. I know it's comedy, so I am not like those people who felt a more traditional gangster actor would have been better. It's his very silly over the top style which I found endearing.Moranis is OK. He's too typecast for me, always playing a similar role. I thought he was maybe funnier in ghost busters. I don't know. He's a decent actor. It's that whole square role he plays that gets to me a bit. He's supposed to be boring, obviously. But he's maybe too boring.I found the female cop love interest for Martin to be great. She's cute and she's funny.Joan Cusack...I have liked her better in other roles. She's hilarious in Grosse Pointe Blank. She's OK in this role.I liked the silent film style captions, or whatever you would call them a lot. They added humor to the movie.In summary, I found the movie very light, very entertaining, and cute. I like that type of movie. If you want something that requires no thought, where your goal as a viewer is just to relax and be amused, this is perfect. "}{"Title":"Light hearted jaunt","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film went completely under the radar in 1990 and it isn't all that bad. Steve Martin hams it up as Vinnie, a mob informant under the Witness protection program, Rick Moranis is the FBI agent assigned to protect him, and Joan Cusack plays Moranis' love interest/Vinnie's enemy as the DA of the suburban town Martin has been relocated to. These three are the best part of the movie. There are definite plot holes, the script gives Martin a couple of one liners but is weak in general, and nothing else really stands out about this movie. WHat made it worth while to watch is the great chemistry between the three leads. Martin gives it his all and is very funny. Moranis has it tougher while trying to be a nerd/FBI agent(unusual combo) but he pulls it off. His face is so expressive its like you can see what he is thinking. This makes the scenes where Martin is making him do something crazy that much better. All in all, its not great but its worth watching with your kids because they will love it and you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Zany, tongue-in-cheek comedy that's an overlooked classic","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Blue Heaven should be mandatory viewing for any fans of mob movies and shows from GoodFellas to Wiseguy and The Sopranos.Steve Martin indeed gives one of his funniest portrayals ever as a transplanted Mob guy who is a big fish out of water in a suburban town.Don't miss the many tongue-in-cheek references to GoodFellas as My Blue Heaven is a humourous take-off on the real-life mobster that inspired that classic movie. It picks up exactly where GoodFellas ends, and that's where the humour starts.Give this one a try, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin as a mobster who straightens out","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steve Martin plays a mob guy who is placed into the suburbs in a witness relocation program. He soon realizes that though he has left the mob the mob hasn't left him..Rick Moranis plays the skeptical FBI agent. Steve Martin charms the pants off in this movie and does a great job. A fun movie to watch On a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"You might melt all this stuff.....","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Vinnie is a smooth-talking mobster who is relocated from New York City to a suburb of San Diego by the Federal Witness Protection Program in exchange for testifying against the mob.He must start life over in a quiet town with nothing to keep himself entertained - until he runs across some old friends from the Big Apple and they start up a little business of their own.Vinnie's bad behaviour wreaks havoc on the life of Barney Coopersmith, the straitlaced FBI agent assigned to protect him.Barney must struggle with Hannah, the local assistant D.A., to keep Vinnie out of prison and safe from the mob before his testimony.Before long, Vinnie is sweet-talking Hannah into dates with Barney and teaching Barney how to dance, dress, and become a lady killer as they run from Mafia hit men..Released in England around the same time as Goodfellas, the film is a light spin on the life of Henry Hill. Imagine watching the last scene of the said movie, and then whacking this one on, and you have some sort of insane sequel.This is the sort of sunshine happy movie Hollywood released before the advent of Gross Out movie and the Farrelly Brothers, and it's a pleasure to watch.To call the film kooky is an understatement, and it's all thanks to the paring of the two leads.Martin is in L.A. Story mode here, and he shines as the Vinnie, one of the nicest gangsters you could ever meet in a suburb.Scenarios are psychedelic, and it's one of those films that you can watch with ease, knowing that all will be good come the end.With a great supporting cast, My Blue Heaven is one of those films you may have missed first time round, but know about, thanks to the iconic poster, and word of mouth.Well worth watching, with all the family... "},{"Title":"Very funny nonsense","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very, very funny film. Steve Martin is probably funnier here than in any of his other roles as small time thief Vinnie Antonelli who gets placed under Witness protection program to testify against some bigger crooks. Rick Moranis also has never been more appealing as the unfortunate agent who handles Vinnie's affairs.Of course, My Blue Heaven is not credible for one moment but it never stops with the jokes which come fast and furiously and work for the most part. The script is superbly written in terms of hilarious dialogue and one quotable line after another. Everyone involved aims at giving it their best, even Joan Cusack is likable here.If you want to switch off your brain for 90 minutes and have a few laughs, I recommend My Blue Heaven. Works for me every time. "},{"Title":"Martin and Moranis at their prime.","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is from the period when Rick Moranis and Steve Martin were still at the very top of the comedy-genre. This movie shows both of them in top-form and they make this movie a fun and certainly above average one.It's not the most clever or best comedy movie even written but the movie does serve its purpose. There are quite many different plot-lines. It doesn't make the movie confusing to watch but it does make it a little bit less interesting to watch at times. Therefor the move never really reaches the level of true greatness but it still is a bit of a forgotten and certainly underrated comedy that deserves some more recognition.This movie features Steve Martin in one of his best and most entertaining roles. He is perfect as the ex-gangster, who now is in the witness protection program. He goes perfectly over-the-top as the Italian wise-guy. Rick Moranis' role is a bit smaller (too small) but not any less entertaining because of that. Moranis and Martin form a pretty good and funny comical duo, mainly because the two characters are very different from each other. The movie also has a really strong supporting cast, with some big and well known respected names in it.It's a movie that really mostly relies on its two main character. They make the movie and its comedy moments work. The movie doesn't really have that many memorable moments, although the dance sequences are definitely fun, original and amusing. Its more the sort of movie that amuses and entertaining throughout its entire running time, without making a too big or lasting impression. The movie tries to be clever at moments with its story but it only succeeds partly in this. The story is too messy and too disconnected to make it really fully work.There are too many issues with this movie to really regard it as a great comedy classic. The story is not always told in the most interesting way and not everything in the movie really connects with each other. Also the ending was a bit of a disappointment. It was like they wanted to solve every plot line and problems in the last ten minutes in just a couple of sequences. It made the ending a bit of a too easy and unsatisfying one.Overall an entertaining, bit of underrated comedy, that is fun to watch, mainly thanks to Martin and Moranis who were both in top shape at the time of this movie.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A decent little comedy from Steve Martin","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those few moments where Steve Martin tried playing a character as opposed to playing himself. Such a formula tends to work for him.While the movie did seem rather convoluted in some spots, Martin's character is so well drawn out and likable, that you tend to forget about the weakness of the plot and the predictability. But hey, there is enough comedy and movement to keep this story going, which in regards for this film, is all it really needs to stay afloat. I thought Rick Moranis was pretty good, and the ending was so perfectly cheesy, it couldn't have fit this movie any better.  "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Film, Light Hearted Fun","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife & I really enjoyed this film, and I was previewing it to see if  it was appropriate for my kids because of the PG-13 rating. There really wasn't anything I found to justify the PG-13 rating.  The only thing that came close was the description of a mob hit, talking about a 22 caliber bullet bouncing around inside the victim's head.  But that is so brief it hardly bears mention. The rest of the movie is pure enjoyable fun, with Steve Martin as the mobster under the witness protection program who can't keep out of trouble, and Rick Moranis as the FBI agent assigned to baby-sit him.  Great dialog, good middle-america footage, and well-played contrast between cardboard cookie-cutter track living as opposed to the big city life of New York. "},{"Title":"Great Martin, Moranis, Cusack movie!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the very few movies that are rerun a lot in syndication television and yet, I never tire of it.  it's a great movie!  I love it, it's funny!  It is a MUST SEE movie if you like Steve Martin, Rick Moranis or Joan Cusack! "},{"Title":"this movie is pure heaven","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Some people may roll their eyes at the thought of another mafia spoof, but Steve Martin does a good job with it. He plays hit man Vinnie Antonelli, who is having to hide out in the suburbs. Vinnie is a cool dude, and decides that FBI agent Barney Coopersmith (Rick Moranis), who is protecting him, needs some fun in his life. So, he shows Barney the time of his life...at any cost.In some ways, the movie is another excuse for the generation of comedians who grew out of the Saturday Night Live and SCTV routines to do their stuff. And you'd better believe that they do just that. Joan Cusack and Carol Kane play supporting roles, but I wonder whether or not their characters could have been developed further. Overall, it's a really good movie. "}{"Title":"Vincent Antonelli Stadium.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I forget how many years ago I first watched My Blue Heaven, but watching it again tonight on DVD was almost like seeing it for the first time. I remembered it as a fun movie, but it is actually better than I had remembered.Steve Martin is a New York mob guy, Vincent 'Vinnie' Antonelli, who is in the federal witness protection program, transplanted to San Diego, given a new home, a new name, and a living allowance until he testifies against his former cronies. Rick Moranis is the FBI agent, Barney Coopersmith, assigned to watch over Vinnie. But Vinnie is hard to watch, and he keeps slipping away and into petty trouble.Vinnie's first scrape in San Diego comes when he hot wires and steals a car. District Attorney Hannah Stubbs (Joan Cusack) wants to keep him in jail, but Barney pulls him out to preserve his false identity. Always an opportunist, Vinnie sets out to make a match between Barney and Hannah. It was inspired casting for the shorter Moranis to play opposite the taller Cusack, both in what are serious roles in a comedy. The comedy comes from the contrast of their characters, and it is good.Most SPOILERS follow. It turns out that many of Vinnie's old cronies are also in San Diego, and they tell him the payments stop after the testimony, they expect us to get real jobs and earn our keep. So, they all get together to run various illegal fund raising schemes. In one, they hijack cargo that turns out to be empty 5-gallon water bottles. So Vinnie sets them out in businesses to collect donations for Little League baseball. Later, caught in the scam, he weasels out by, arranged from a jail cell, having his friends begin actual construction of a Little League Park, Vincent Antonelli Stadium. This is strictly a comedy, and in the end we see Vinnie beginning to settle down and perhaps go straight, in San Diego, his Blue Heaven. Martin wears an unusual hairdo for him, dark hair sticking straight up, and he does a very good New York gangster accent. I don't like all Steve Martin roles equally, but he always does a superb job. Vinnie Antonelli is becoming one of my favorites of his. "},{"Title":"A big time crook moves to a small time town and takes them for everything they have.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is one of the best comedies ever made...It's hilarious how Martin's character can just pull nonsense out of no where and make the small-towners believe every word he says. They are the most absurd reasons for stealing and breaking the law ever. For example, the phony minister, the jump-starting cars in the army, 25 copies of one book just in case he wants to read it more than once, he put a stolen fish in his trunk while the weather was cold because there wasn't enough room in his freezer on account of another guy he knew gave him a side of beef, etc. Its brilliantly funny and the people who denounced it obviously didn't watch the movie close enough. "},{"Title":"I loved every minute of this movie!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Blue Heaven (1990) came as a very welcome surprise. I had written off writer Nora Ephron because of her brief stint in TV at the beginning of her career. But she turns out to be a really inventive and clever writer who knows how to deliver socko comedy at the start of a movie and then keep topping it up right to the very end! Director Herbert Ross also made a false start to his movie career with the disastrous re-make of Goodbye Mr Chips, followed by the disappointing Owl and the Pussy Cat. Admittedly, Play It Again, Sam is great fun but how much of that success is due to the input of Woody Allen? On the other hand, whichever way you look at it, My Blue Heaven is brilliantly directed from start to finish with every episode topping the ep that went before! Credit must also be showered on the players, particularly Steve Martin and diminutive Rick Moranis. In fact, all the acting is top notch, and I loved the music score too! Available on an excellent Warner Brothers DVD which also features the French-dubbed version. Whatever you do, don't listen to this French version. It's awful! It's hard to believe that as recently I imagine as 1991 such execrable dubbing was still being recorded with absolutely no attempt at lip sync, let alone a bit of effort to match the vocal inflections and timbre of Martin, Moranis and company. "},{"Title":"Good fun movie","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are many types of movies, 23 original screenplays or something like that. The point of movies is to forget and fall into the story, or fall into the fun of the story. This is one of those movies, just plain fun. Nothing is real or credible; I liken this type of movie to a cartoon for all ages. Steve Martin is brilliant. His dialogue accent is weak and completely unique, but it's Steve Martin and his mannerisms make up for his flaws in Italian-ese. Joan C is always wonderful in whatever she does...she is just awesome and flawless. That Canadian guy...Moranis. As always, a great character actor. But as always, he is mediocre and relies much too heavily on sight gags and behaviours. The male equivalent to a dumb blonde. Great flick...if you hate Steve Martin, then don't watch. Otherwise, enjoy! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My Blue Heaven - One of my favorites of all time","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Blue Heaven starring Steve Martin is one of my all time favorite movies. Meaning I can watch over and over. Most great movies you can watch once or twice and then revisit years later. But this movie I watched over ands over when it came out and still watch whenever I need a good laugh. Nothing serious here, just a feel good funny comedy. Love Steve Martin's New York attitude and how they make fun of a small town in San Diego and show all of the differences. A little exaggerated but entertaining. The characters are fun and the story line is engaging. If you're looking for a movie to pass some time and get a few laughs you'll love this like I did. I highly recommend if you like movies like Caddyshack, My Cousin Vinny, Big Lebowski, Supertroopers, Stripes, and the like - Also some of my All Time Comedies "},{"Title":"What Martin did best","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unfortunately It's difficult to erase Steve Martin's recent abysmal C.v but this Is very amusing, he plays the Ignorant, delusional eejit as well as anyone as this the man with 2 brains & the brilliant Bowfinger showcase. I saw bringing down the house a week later and the un-natural, rubbish humour Is miles away from this highly entertaining turn.As a despicable mafia sellout Martin Is great In being as low-life as humanly possible. Resorting to the cheapest shot whenever cornered he does It all with a stupid smirk and pithy comeback. Slightly poking fun at Goodfellas In plot Martin's jumped up, jokey mafioso personna makes My blue heaven perfect drunk Friday night fare. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest show ever but hey it is still funny.","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a low key comedy that stays low key throughout. It is filled with clichés' and Steve Martin overacts in every scene he is in. The film make the people of his new hometown look stupid. Between the dense cashier at the supermarket to JC as the kindest ADA ever. Now that I have put my two cents in as to why is flawed. Let me say I love this movie. Don't get me wrong I know it's flawed but still this movie makes me laugh every time I see it. The sets are so American Dream it is sick. It is the performances that make this movie. The humor at times is so dry it is hard to pick up on. Martin and Moranis play off each other so well they carry the whole thing. JC looks great and plays great as the uptight ADA. The rest of the cast does well although some of the other mobsters relocated to the area look a little to midwestern.I know it is not the greatest show ever but it makes me laugh and that's what comedies are supposed to do. I give it 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Wildly Funny","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was wildly funny!  I've seen it several times and it never fails to bring a smile to my face and laughter.  It's easy to watch and I find the main character charming even though he's a criminal.  He's this mafia guy in a witness protection program who's bored out of his mind so he tries to stir things a bit and in the process loosens up some people's attitudes towards life. He's like the crazy uncle who brings you candy and presents when you least expect it.  What's wrong with that?  Ok, he tries to swindle people, but that's his...job. A zebra can hardly lose its stripes, right?  In the end he makes good and everybody's happy.  That's what counts. I love the music.  Lighten up, you can't take life too seriously.  Have some fun.  Don't read too much into some situations or characters, otherwise you miss the joy.   "},{"Title":"A modest comedy with a sweet spirit and some good laughs.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In My Blue Heaven Steve Martin is as funny as he ever got.  He plays, of all things, a 'dese-dem-dose' mobster named Vinnie Antonelli who drops a dime on his crime family and enters the federal witness protection program.  The feds move him to a white-bread suburb of San Diego, where Vinnie mows the lawn in his sharkskin suit.  To keep Vinnie out of trouble until he can testify, the FBI assigns agent Barney Coopersmith (Rick Moranis) to ride herd on him.The main pleasure of the movie is Martin's characterization of the wily, mousse-haired Vinnie, an over-the-top comic performance that feels unlikely but somehow always works.  A romantic subplot between Rick Moranis and Joan Cusack is surprisingly affecting. You could do worse spending 90 minutes than by watching this movie. "},{"Title":"a pleasant time-passer and nothing more","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This Rick Moranis/Steve Martin film is relatively fun and entertaining, but also quite forgettable--mostly because the film is mostly founded on a single joke that isn't all that funny. Martin plays an obnoxious crook that Moranis has been assigned to protect and it's the standard buddy film where two totally dissimilar guys are thrown together with hillarious results. Generally, while the results are slightly amusing, that's all there really is to the film. Martin hams it up with an over-the-top stereotypical cheap hood performance (which, frankly, isn't too good, since it's so broad and overdone) and Moranis plays a dull befuddled FBI agent. Really, this is only a very slightly better than average time-passer and nothing more. If it comes on TV and you have nothing more important to do, then give it a watch. Otherwise, it's pretty skip-able. "}{"Title":"Martin and Moranis","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" People forget about the amazing comedy that comedians Steve Martin and Rick Moranis have. From Little Shops of Horror, to LA Stories and Parenthood, Martin and Moranis are equally as funny and talented as Wilder and Pryor or even Martin and Lewis. They are not only funny but have a chemistry that allow the two actors to be different characters. In My Blue Heaven, Steve Martin proves he can play Italian. Not since Al Jolsen does an actor make fun at a nationality so well by doing it so fake. This is one of very few perfect comedies that tells a comedy without jokes. The characters alone make the movie funny, even though they are not aiming to make you laugh. Well, some are, but the overall drama of the movie makes you laugh. In a story like this, the characters can do no wrong. "},{"Title":"If you like light and bright...","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are great movies that few would dispute. Then, there are poor movies that few should watch. This is neither. My Blue Heaven is up for grabs. However, if you like light-hearted comedies with scenes that are bright and cheerful, THIS is your movie. This movies doesn't attempt to contribute in any significant way to the art of film. Rather, it is an obvious attempt to please the audience. I am not ashamed to admit that it did exactly that for me. I wouldn't call this a great film but certainly entertaining and uplifting. It lacks the intelligence of When Harry Met Sally (another Ephron written film) but that isn't needed in this movie. If you are feeling blue and need a lift-me-up, this is for you. "},{"Title":"A pleasant, smooth ride","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very pleasant, watchable movie that doesn't have much meat on it. Martin is good but not great - he's kind of recycling his Czech wild and crazy guy routine with a slightly different accent. He tries to unstuff Rick Moranis' stuffy FBI agent - Moranis is not believable in the role, but this movie doesn't ask you to believe him. Joan Cusack is wonderful as Moranis' love interest. I wish she could choose higher profile roles that are worthy of her talent.I like the theme of old gangsters going to Heaven - in this case, that's San Diego - away from the dark, dreary world of the East Coast via the witness protection program. It's a good idea, and there are a few good laughs. I just wish it had challenged me more as a viewer. There's some really deep material here that could have been explored, even in a comedy. "},{"Title":"Vinnie Antonelli is about to enter the Witness Protection Program and he will change everyone's life in his new neighborhood.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  FBI agent Barney Coopersmith (Rick Moranis) is assigned to protect former Mafia figure Vinnie Antonelli (Steve Martin) in the witness protection program, far away from his NYC neighborhood. Vinnie has to get used to his new neighborhood in the burbs and his new name Todd.  But the 'burbs will have to get used to Vinnie.  No matter how he tries Vinnie just can't keep a low profile.  Coopersmith certainly has his hands full keeping Antonelli away from the Mafia hitmen who want to stop him testifying, and the local D.A. Hannah Stubbs played by Joan Cusack,not to mention the nightclubs... But who would have thought Vinnie could play cupid thru all of this.  This hysterically funny screenplay written by Nora Ephron and played for every laugh by Steve Martin, Rick Moranis, Joan Cusack, Melanie Mayron, and Carol Kane will put a smile on your face.  This film is great Laugh Therapy everytime. Add this to your film library. "},{"Title":"Excellent directing and acting.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Steve Martin finally found a vehicle to show-case his talents. No silliness; just good, straight comedy. The meringue dance sequence is fantastic. Good directing had a lot to do with the quality of My Blue Heaven. "},{"Title":"A mobster kills you with kindness","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My blue heaven is a wonderful farce made in 1990 starring Steve Martin, Rick Moranis, and Joan Cussack. In classic fashion this movie presents situations that are so humorous because of their ridiculous nature. But don't underestimate the power of this farce as a vehicle to show the transformation each character. Vinnie becomes an honest citizen, Barney learns how to spice up his life to a salsa, and Hanna gets rid of her Army shoes.You may see similarities between this movie and Martin Scorsese-type New York gangster movies. Purportedly My Blue Heaven was loosely based on the story of Henry Hill, Good Fella and famous snitch. Many of the external characterizations by the stock characters are seen in both types of hey-howya-doin movies.True to being full of exaggeration, watch how Vinnie (Martin) talks his way out of grand theft auto when talking to Hanna Stubbs (Cusak) a prudish assistant DA. Little things are exaggerated but divulge the essence of each character like Barney (uptight, by-the-book geek) getting caught by his seat-belt harness.All of the verbal and physical humor is way over the top using deliberately exaggerating gesticulations, footwork, and language.Great songs set the farce in motion and vaudevillian acting keeps it going. The movie opens with My Blue Heaven as song by Fats Domino; Angel in paradise belted out by Tony Bennet's. You will want to learn how to do the merengue and salsa after watching Barney get an education from Vinnie and girls in New York. For the action loving fan watch the wham-bam-sock'em number Barney does on Daniel Stern, Hanna's ex-husband. A real treat is watching Bill Irwin playing Kirby, Barney's FBI partner. Irwin is a Tony award winning comic, mime, choreographer, Mr. Noodle on Elmo's world, and star of the stage. A lot of viewers have no idea the Bill Irwin is the Charlie Chaplin of our time.And Shaldeen (Carol Kane) as the leopard skin wearing hootchie-mama. Vinnie It is dangerous for you to be here in the frozen food section Shaldeen Why is that? Vinnie Because you could melt all this stuff. And she buckles at the knees. What a hoot!I gave My Blue Heaven movie ten stars because it is a classic farce that uses quick physical comedy and tight dialogue to generate a good feeling for you. "},{"Title":"Goodfella's Remastered","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Alright this ain't exactly Goodfella's (1990). No drive-byes, no drug use, no murder shown. This isn't a mobster film even though the main character, Vinnie (Steve Martin) is a rat. Vinnie finally joins the witness protection program. Being the witness too a murder in New York, he joins and is shipped of to a small town outside San Diego. Assigned to watch him is an uptight FBI agent named Barney (Rick Moranis) and everything changes. Even though Vinnie tries to help he starts to get back into the business he was meant for, crime. He buys stolen credit cards, pirates goods, and starts up an organization with a group of other 'rats' put in the same place.The whole while both Barney and Vinnie loose their wives to other people. Now Barney's sole job is to protect Vinnie's name and see that he isn't knocked off. Through the course of the film, Barney is taught a few things by Vinnie dancing the Marengo, hitting on woman, and trusting people. The film is a few laughs to short of being a classic comedy but it is very good. This is the only film I've ever seen that actually has Rick Moranis following in love and actually an actress during the film. Steve Martin does the best acting of the cast, basing his character loosely on Henry Hill (main character of Goddfella's who actually exists) in a comical sense. the film is beautifully choreographed with the two or three Marengo scenes. The story is funny and smart. The gathering of the 'rat' mob members mite be the funniest scene in the film.Vinnie also goes through a bit of character development like Barney, getting out of the business and eventually to start saving up to build a baseball park.My Blue Heaven. Starring Rick Moranis, Steve Martin, Joan Cusack, Melanie Mayron, and Bill Irwin. 4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful, fun, almost dark comedy.","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Blue Heaven is a wonderful example of Steve Martin's diversity as a comedic actor. I love his devil-may-care attitude in this one and his relationship with Rick Moranis's character's is absolutely hilarious.Martin plays Vincent 'Vinnie' Antonelli, a low-level mob figure who is turning state's evidence against a bigger gangland figure. He is in the witness protection program, and assigned to Barney Coopersmith (Rick Moranis), an FBI agent who is chomping at the bit to do some real detective work.I won't go into the plot, but it is quite enjoyable to watch.One of my favorite Steve Martin movies.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Amazing Martin","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Setting aside the fact that Joan Cusack is a fantastically beautiful woman and always worth the price of admission, I am continually amazed that Steve Martin can ham it up and make it work.  Rick Moranis is always the worried little guy and that's OK but Martin is at his best, clowning it up as a Mafia good guy, wearing some of the most outlandish outfits since Jack Nicholson in Prizzi's Honor.  Don't get me wrong.  There's nothing funny about the mafia or the mob.  But, Martin creates his own persona with some great lines as funny as Marissa Tomei and Joe Pesci in My Cousin Vinnie.  As a loveable sleazebag, Martin is great...and, of course, Joan Cusack is also great.  Check this one out.  It's fun. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's Finest Comedy","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the greatest movie Steve Martin ever made and is one of the best comedies of the decade.  There are many hidden jokes that can be found by repeated watchings.  There are also many humorous quotes that apply to everday life. "}{"Title":"Best movie ever !!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you havent seen this movie...... do it !! It is absolutely fantastic. Steve Martin in is best role ever. If you dont like it, god forbit, I dont wanna know  "},{"Title":"great actors unable to conquer Ephron","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" MY BLUE HEAVEN is a low-key but nonetheless tiresome fish out of water comedy that's frustrating in many ways and rarely satisfying. Nora Ephron's annoyingly inoffensive script works completely against the potential of the cast -- Steve Martin, Rick Moranis, and Joan Cusack are all excellent.Martin's portrayal of a reformed-or-is-he? Mob crook is so endearing and fun it's ashame it was wasted on this movie. He provides nearly all of the memorable moments, as inevitably he must in the story that requires his bombastic ways to so charmingly rub off on stuffy FBI man Moranis. He essentially has to carry the entire movie, and surprisingly enough he does. Indeed, if you're a fan of the performers, Martin above all, this is worth seeing, but you'll forget it soon enough. "},{"Title":"IF I ONLY HAD ONE TAPE ON A DESERT ISLAND.....","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have watched this movie more than a hundred times. Not to sound too neurotic, I even have a spare (second) tape of it. Unlike many comedies, wherein knowing in advance distills the comedic moment, in this movie I can't wait to see those moments again and again. Steve Martin's excellent, over-the-top version of a low-level mafioso stuck out west at 123 Happy Street waiting to be a witness for the prosecution in a big mobster's trial' is a treasure. And all the supporting actors and actresses are extremely well cast, a factor that - to me - is paramount in building the afterglow of a really good flick. Joan Cusack is perfect; Rick Moranis is perfect; Bill Irwin is perfect; and so are virtually all the others, too many to list. And the highlight moments flow into each-other like fluid gold. The stolen car portion; the merengue dance; the undercover uncover; the return at the airport, and on and on. And behind all of this is a terrific, light score that magnifies the airy movement of the script. There are scores of comedies I like and watch numerous times. Many have bits that are extremely funny, often incredible. Who could forget some of the stuff in Tommy Boy? But if I could keep only one that I knew would never get old, this is it!  "},{"Title":"My cousin Vinnie relocates","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Heaven help those communities that are chosen as a haven for criminals that are cooperating with the government. Most of them are out of the way, and in the case of this movie, Vinnie Antonelli, the FBI's witness from hell, sticks out like a sore thumb! This film had the right ingredients going for it. Where did it go wrong?, one will never know! With a talent like Herbert Ross directing, and a screen play written by Nora Ephron, one of the best women in the business, as a writer and a director, it sounded like the perfect team to make this film a winner. Not having seen it when it first came out, and having heard it was not worth the effort, we decided to watch it when it was shown on cable recently.Steve Martin is a genius in his own right. That said, like some other funny men, without the reining power of a good director, Mr. Martin tends to overdo his roles. This is unfortunate because when he is good, he is excellent. The problem with the film is that we don't buy the idea this jerk, Vinnie, has any redeeming qualities. In fact, he goes into his own criminal activities, which seems to be possible. We have heard how a famous criminal, Sammy The Bull Gravano, doing this type of thing while in protective custody, with a new identity getting into drug trafficking!The film will not add anything to Mr. Martin's resume, or to Joan Cusak, Bill Irwin, Karol Kane and the rest.Don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Goofy","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I admit it -- I am a sucker for a certain type of Steve Martin movie (The Jerk, L.A. Story, and of course My Blue Heaven) -- the days when he was choosing to make stuff that was wonderful mix of funny and sweet. In this movie, Martin and Rick Moranis have a nice chemistry as a semi-reformed mob guy and the FBI agent assigned to protect him. There are some incredible one-liners, sight gags, and a great cast of character actors showing up as various old-time wise guys. As usual, Joan Cusack is terrific as the love interest who manages to make Moranis softer and more tough at the same time. It's also a movie that makes you sad that you don't see Melanie Mayron more. And the dancing scene on the beach -- completely charming. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin at his best","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was a good movie, with a great comedic story, and I can't see any flaws in it whatsoever. I've watched it a couple times through. There's no bad acting in it and it includes two of the best actors of that era--Rick Moranis and Joan Cusack. While I like Steve Martin and have seen many of his films, I can't say he's all that great of an actor, just kind of funny. In this one, however, he had a hard role to play, and he played it well, doing great voice-acting too. I can recommend this film to anyone who hasn't seen it. It's very enjoyable and funny. I like it. "},{"Title":"The Hell?","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Blue Heaven features a simple premise; it's a fish-out-of-water comedy about a gangster in the Witness Protection Program adjusting to suburban life. Except the premise requires an actor who has played a gangster in the past a DeNiro, Pacino or Pesci comes to mind. Since we're stuck with Steve Martin we're left with a movie that fails on every level.I'm gonna go ahead and guess that this movie was written specifically FOR a DeNiro or Pesci. I'm gonna guess that said star pulled out at the last minute. I can only assume that this happened so far into production that no one had time to revise the script to cater to new lead Steve Martin, because the jokes make NO SENSE WITH A NON-GANGSTER ACTOR PLAYING THE ROLE! Steve Martin doesn't even help by trying to play the part realistically; he does such a broad, offensive Italian caricature that the entire picture dissolves into a slapdash cartoon. Imagine casting Robin Williams in the lead of My Cousin Vinny.Now I have to wonder how they came up with the title of the film. By turning on an I-Pod and picking a song title at random? It might just as easily have been called Hey Jude or Whip It.I love Steve Martin, but would someone mind telling me what he was thinking here? If he was thinking at all? His Vinny comes straight off the dinner-theater stage and into suburban America, which is evidently populated by unsuspecting nitwits just begging to be fleeced by oily New York mafioso. I won't waste time on Rick Moranis' ineffectual FBI agent- all I have to do is tell you that his character is named Barney Coopersmith. That should sum up the level of wit in Nora Ephron's stiflingly obvious script.I'll give Steve Martin one thing with his spiky black hair and constant facial twitching he manages to transcend his WASP roots... he never comes across as Italian but he might pass for a schizophrenic Guatemalan busboy on a three-day cocaine binge. The movie is a mess... it's as emotionally hollow as the tract-housing communities it tries to satirize, and if you don't yet understand the power of casting in making a movie work always remember My Blue Heaven.At least it's good for something.GRADE D "},{"Title":"Zanily Funny","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I hadn't even heard of this movie until I stumbled across it on late night TV and found it more than adequately funny. As a Sicilian, I got over any real sensitivity on the mobster subject long ago. The beautiful thing about Martin is that he can be absurd in almost any role he plays and still be likable and funny because of that very absurdity. This allows him to doing characterized spoofs of even evangelists with relative impunity. The magic formula is that just about everything he does in a role would supposedly make one dislike him, but one doesn't.I am not exactly sure what failed to make this movie more of a box-office success, or why it got so little attention. I would think that there would have been enough Martin fans to give it a good flying send-off and kept it there. Possibly it was due in part to the fact that by the time the movie was made, the movie-going audience demographics had started to change considerably. Adults were becoming more likely to rely on TV and video-tapes for their viewing fare, unless they thought a movie had the scope and grandiosity to benefit from the very large screen. The movie houses depended more and more on the teeny-boppers who relied on them as social outlets or at least just another place away from home(ugh!). And most teeny-boppers lacked many of the points of reference that would make the whole New York/wise guy/FBI/not really bad guy shtick really funny. Then of course it was also the beginning of end-less violence and computer generated special effects which youth saw and popularized as an extension of their video games.Considering the more recent offerings such as Bewitched, this movie is on a different plateau altogether. If you are in your forties now and have been exposed to the Sopranos, by all means see this movie if you missed it originally. Chances are it will make you laugh, hard. And is that not what a good comedy is supposed to do? "},{"Title":"Aimless, nonsensical and relying too heavily on charm.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Blue Heaven is a promising idea and follows along the lines of those charming little comedies that were made in the late 80's/ early 90's (Mr. Destiny, Groundhog Day etc.). But My Blue Heaven falls way short of the mark. The main problem is that the plot goes all over the place going from one pointless situation to another. The finished product just seems like a muddled mess. The script really is bad. This comedy never has one instance that made me even smile. It fails in making the characters likeable and only makes them seem dumb.The acting standard borders on ropey in some cases aswell. Steve Martin overacts as much as possible and his performance is rather unconvincing, let alone the wig. Rick Moranis seems dwarfed by the irrelevant material that surrounds him. Joan Cusack is as forgettable a love interest as they come.The film never settles on anything and is too unconventional for its own good. A mixed bag of good and bad, My Blue Heaven is a disappointing misfire. 4.5/10. "},{"Title":"A very poor comedy","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm really baffled by the positive comments that have been posted here. Did these people see the same movie I saw? I wonder.When I saw this film in the theatre no one laughed. And I mean absolutely no one laughed at a single joke or gag in this film. There were a few chuckles here and there, and I have to admit I grinned a couple of times, but I can barely remember anything that was truly and honestly funny about this movie, much less the audience breaking out in uproarious laughter.I went to see it with the sale's point that comedic talents Rick Moranis and Steve Martin would be pulling the comedic load. Well, I paid my then $8.00, and sat in a packed house where barely anyone laughed. This was largely do to the extreme poverty level of laughs found in this film. And by laughs I mean both performances and audience reaction.Yes, I understand Steve Martin's humor stylings. Yes, I know his performance is supposed to be a comedic take on a former mobster. Yes, I can accept the caricatures for what they are. But that doesn't make them (nor the film) funny.Hey, if this film floats your boat, then more power to you. To myself that doesn't speak well for anyone's taste, but to each his own. For myself this movie is like an extremely bad nightmare, or the vacation trip from Hell. It's just as forgettable as the film stock to which it was committed.Don't waste your time and money on this poor excuse for a film. If you want a smart and funny comedy that involves mobsters or gangsters, then check out Free Johhny Dangerously. If you're looking for smart slapstick, then give Noises Off or What's Up Doc a whirl on your DVD player. "}]