[{"Title":"The first and best western film to come from Soviet Russia","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"54 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The Russia House is an amazing movie. It captures the majesty of Russia in visits to Moscow and St. Petersburg (Leningrad) as well as the crumbling Soviet state. The first western movie filmed in the Soviet Union, The Russia House is better defined as a love story than as a spy thriller. Do not be concerned however, spy fans. There is plenty of intrigue to be had in this beautiful movie. The interplay between Sean Connery, Roy Scheider and J.T. Walsh in a scene from Vancouver, British Columbia alone is worth the price of admission. However, the true star of this understated romance is James Fox, who plays the British contact for Connery's Scott Blair and the foil for the CIA's Scheider character in such gentlemanly fashion as to make the audience believe the true Bond-style gentleman-spy really does exist in this world. From the beautiful scenery to perhaps the best and most haunting soundtrack of any movie--ever (reviews abound--just look them up, friends--easily the great Jerry Goldsmith's finest work), the Russia House is a truly mysterious and romantic movie. "},{"Title":"This is great stuff","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Admittedly, The Russia House may not be for all tastes, but I saw this when I was 15 when it came out in the theaters and I loved it then and I love it now. If you go in expecting this to be a James Bond/Simon Templar/North By Northwest type movie, you'll be GRAVELY disappointed. Needless to say, the movie is dialogue driven and the performances are great. Sean Connery (my all-time favorite) gives a nice performance in a role that isn't typical Connery. Michelle Pfeiffer (my favorite actress) is equally excellent. I kept looking for her to flub her Russian accent, but she's on target from start to finish. The supporting players Roy Scheider, who I also love, is awesome. There's a lot of witty dialogue in this film, but Scheider has some of the film's most memorable ones. Ken Russell, the controversial director, has an equally memorable, witty role as Walter. I own this movie, but between the time I saw it in the theaters and the time I bought it a year and half ago, Russell was one of the things about the movie that really stood out in my memory of the film. And of course, James Fox who's always great.Not really a supporting player but it might as well be is the LOCATIONS. Wow, really breathtaking stuff. Fred Schepsi did a wondrous job with the locations, and the CAMERA. The cinematography and locations were first-rate. And if that wasn't enough, I was equally enthralled with the jazzy musical score. If it isn't already apparent, I love this movie, and I absolutely recommend it. It has a nice blend of dialogue, plot, romance and humor. I reiterate Not for all tastes given that many may find it slow, but definitely worth a look. Hope you all enjoy it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Authentic and beautifully filmed on location; all actors excellent!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  My parents were born in and emigrated from the Ukraine.  They have firsthand knowledge of the way the Soviet government operated. The details in the movie are very true to life under the Soviet regime.  The plot is complex but life is also complex; especially under a repressive regime.  I found the movie riveting; the plot keeps you guessing until the end. It is beautifully filmed on location.  The actors are all excellent and very well cast. In addition, the music is wonderful; not only as a movie score but on its own, as well.  Although some may find the plot difficult to follow (you do have to pay attention), it is well worth the viewing.  After all, spying is a complex business.   "},{"Title":"John LeCarre heaven","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" My first comment for this site....exciting stuff.Prompted to write this by seeing this again on video - the third time for me, and it's rare that I want to see anything three times. And I realized that it's fascination still holds....this is one of my top 10, definitely.The reasons I would rate this a 9, while somebody else would give it a 5.9 are largely personal....i think it always comes down to the personal. Talk all we want, when we watch a movie - as when we eat a meal, or kiss someone - the pleasure center in the brain either lights up or doesn't. For me it's all about the love of a place...for Scott Barley Blair it's early Glastnost Russia, for me it's 90's Germany - Hamburg, Berlin...the strangeness, the trueness of people who surround you in such a place and your love for them because of this. The fact that a film can light up specific sense memories like these means that it is true - at least in that respect. This is a remarkably honest film - terrifically unsensational for a spy film and one of the rare love stories that delivers the satisfactions expected of a love story without getting mawkish. Everything rings true here except for the ending (a fabricated happy ending which is the only thing that kept me from rating this a 10).To ask for Manchurian Candidate type excitement from this low key film is wrong. The suspense, which is remarkably sustained (those rich long tracking shots of people walking through public places to uncertain destinations to meet with, or maybe not meet with shadow characters who may be allies or enemies) is the truer suspense of the uncertainty of living in a gray, gray world...where nothing much happens, but peril is part of the fabric of mundane life.(Those sequences are gorgeous....the colors of autumn in a Leningrad park, the closeups of the stone gargoyles....the moody circular stepping pace of the soundtrack....Branford Marsalis' saxophone.) Someone has said here that it is talky. Yes, it is talky...but the talk is brilliant...it is the perfect reflection of a world where everyone - book publishers and bureaucrats and spies alike speaks in mannered, ritualized streams of code. This is not disinformation - it is perfectly understood by all, a language that has supplanted the language of an earlier age in which sincerity was an option.Besides that ending, the piece is perfectly faithful to LeCarre's novel. LeCarre's books have had good luck when being translated into movies. Of the eight or so that have been adapted, four have made great films The Spy Who Came into the Cold, The Russia House, and the two George Smiley BBC miniseries. LeCarre is a great writer and more specifically great at plotting and dialogue, and these films all succeed pretty much by filming what is written unadorned and pouring on the atmosphere. And they are blessed with lead performances by three great actors at the top of the form - Richard Burton, Sean Connery and Alec Guiness (Guiness especially...to watch him for six hours in Smiley's People is one of the great pleasures).A beautifully efficient and elegant translation by Tom Stoppard of a great novel, wonderfully dignified and touching performances by Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer (never seen her better), a beautiful soundtrack by a second tier composer graced by the presence of a real jazz master, a terrific evocation of a place and time....a very moving film. "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that will overwhelm you, if you let it. If you are interested in nonstop action, look somewhere else.  If you are looking for a nice, linear story line, look somewhere else.  If, on the other hand, you are looking for a complex story set at the sunset of Soviet Russia, with an incomparable musical score and believable characters you can accept as the real thing, rent or buy this movie.  Sean Connery does a wonderful job as a worldly and inebrieated man confronting true love, and all it ramifications, for once in his life.  Michelle Pfeiffer is a beautiful, but tired, mother of two who doesn't have the time for love without meaning.  Behind the scenes, the interplay between American and British intelligence is priceless.  Lastly, the score is wonderful.  If you can't bring yourself to watch the film, at least buy the CD of the soundtrack.  This is top shelf stuff.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Last of the Cold War dramas? (Not for the easily distracted.)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The Russia House is a superior spy romance movie which falls short of being great. Additionally a couple of factors have been unkind to it over time.Connery and Pfeiffer are excellant; the large cast are almost uniformly outstanding (except perhaps Roy Scheider, who I usually like, but who seems a bit over the top in his role here); the Moscow scenery and end of the Cold War feel are great, and the main characters are easy to like, if difficult to outright love.  On the down side the writing assumes too much in expecting the audience to stay on top of the espionage jargon and intrigue, added to the non-linear plot. Let your attention wander and you'll lose your way. If it had been a little easier to follow, it would have left more room for dramatic tension, which was adequate but seldom riveting.When I said that time has been unkind to The Russia House, I meant two things firstly that the unfortunate timing of the movie's release, a year before the collapse of the Soviet Union, ensured that it would be dated almost immediately. More significantly, a growing portion of the film's potential audience didn't live through the late Soviet Era, and the nuances of concepts like Glasnost, and why Perestroika makes it hard  for Pfeiffer to do her shoe-shopping aren't going to mean a thing to anyone much under 30.But that's not the movie's fault. Russia House is still a  quality, enjoyable drama with a great cast, even if it's somewhat ponderous and slow-moving, and complex. And oh yes - it has James Fox. A film like this without James Fox would have been like a table with three legs.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A surprisingly non-cynical Le Carre story","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As a great admirer of John Le Carre, I watched this film with high expectations & although the story wasn't the usual Le Carre (such as 'The Spy Who Came In From The Cold'), I enjoyed it immensely. It is a combination of a good old-fashioned romance & a look at what happens when an ordinary man is brought into the world of espionage. Connery is very good as the boozy, world-weary publisher who considers personal relationships more important than Cold War one-upmanship. Michelle Pfeiffer, apart from being very pleasing to the eye as usual, was also pretty believable as the Russian trying to do the right thing. What's more, Klaus Maria Brandauer deserves an honourable mention as well. OK, the plot is complicated & sometimes hard to follow, as are most of Le Carre's works (& also, doubtless, the real world of espionage), but it is worth the effort. If you are seeking a simple good guy beats bad guy film, then don't watch this or any other realistic spy film. If, however, you want a story that manages to combine cynicism & romance, I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"a romance pretending to be a thriller","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I was just in the right mood, but I found this an effective romance. Michelle Pfieffer was even better than her usual terrific self, and the rest of the excellent cast was, well, excellent. It is pretty slow, but I think that this is essential to the conclusion, which I found quite moving. You have to give this movie a chance to grow on you, but if you are patient it is quite accessible. Not bleak at all, as you'd expect from Le Carre. "},{"Title":"Slow Pacing - James Bond This Is Not","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting adaptation of John Le Carre's spy novel.  As with Mr. Le Carre's writing the movie is slow and deliberately paced, letting the plot slowly sink in, and not explode in your face.  The casting is dead-on with a frumpy Connery playing a middle-aged British book publisher whose love of Russia draws him in to a very high-stakes espionage caper at the end of the Cold War.  Michelle Pfeiffer is also well cast as Katya, his Russian counterpart, i.e., a non-professional also drawn into the spy game.  The movie does have a problem in moving the plot along through the all-to-frequent scenes of guys sitting around talking about espionage stuff.  But if you like this kind of slow-paced, heavily romantic, thinking man's thriller then give this movie a try. "},{"Title":"musically, an interesting film","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  i wish to opine merely on the film-scoring aspects of this feature. Jerry Goldsmith wrote a compelling and sexy set of themes which are used to great effect in this film. it surprised me, having watched the movie for probably the 5th time the other night, how integrated and present the music is. now, to a large degree this is normal with a modern hollywood feature. but i found that objectively viewing the film from outside the story itself, the music carries a greater weight than in most films of its genre.  this is perhaps the choice of the director or the producers, but in either case, Goldsmith (and Marsalis in performace) does a wonderful job of lifting an otherwise lethargic script (as do Connery's and Pfeiffer's performances). the film itself could have been 20% better, but it would most certainly have come at the expense of the musical score and soundtrack, which really shine in this rendering. "}{"Title":"Romantic vision of Russia in the end of the communist age","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Very interesting film, specially for people who feel some kind of attraction toward Russia. It contains some of the first images filmed by American cinema industry in former Soviet Union. The rhythm is a little slow, but it's compensated by the excellent story, scenario and performances. The characters are very well defined. Michelle Pfeiffer plays one of her greatest performances and Sean Connery and Kalus Maria Brandauer have also very remarkable roles. I've personally visited Russia and the film reflects very well the general atmosphere ... the essence of the country. To my opinion, it's the best film ever filmed in Russia. "},{"Title":"complex cold-war suspense","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Great Cold War spy vs. spy stuff with complex plot and sub-plot twists and turns. James Fox' character (Ned) was well developed, as he grew increasingly more aware of the goings-on on both sides and even more aware of old Barley's persona and why he was doing what he was doing.Michelle Pfeiffer impressed me with the interpretation of her role and with her facility with the Russian dialect/accent. This is my favorite of all her roles. As for Sean Connery's interpretation, I don't think I enjoyed him in any role quite as much as this one. The instances of dry, cutting humor juxtaposed with the strains of the deep-seated moral ambiguities to which he is exposed makes this role a challenge to any thespian and he carries it off perfectly. No one else could do Barley quite like him! The supporting cast was excellent, but one of the really strongest points in the movie is the contribution of Branford Marsalis superior Soprano Sax work over jazzy/classical/ethnic themes. The fact that the character Barley was himself a practicing sax player lends even more authenticity to Branford's work here.This movie is a do not miss one of the best I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"The hour that the ship comes in","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Spy movies can be so boring. I suggest you take this one as touristic time travel, with a side order of insignificant cold war trivia thrown in at no extra cost. Following John Le Carré's novel, the script takes us from Lisbon to London to Leningrad and back again. It also takes us back in time, to an era when (political) climate change actually was a good thing. The plot itself won't engage you, but it may keep your mind from wandering too much, or your body from falling asleep. The cold war, I guess it was splendid while it ran. But seen from a distance, through the eye of the camera, it seems mostly cheesy (You are my only country now.). Praise, however, be to Tom Stoppard for what is probably the best description Sean Connery will ever give of himself, be it on screen or in real life I look like a large unmade bed with a shopping bag attached. Other than that line, there is only Roy Scheider to keep you amused. His character, Russell, is a tan and dapper intelligence man who may well have been Ben Gazzara's original role model for big-time beaver picture producer Jackie Treehorn in The Big Lebowski. "},{"Title":"Music On The Mark","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  In years of listening to soundtracks, I have never been disappointed in a Jerry Goldsmith composition.  It's almost frightening to realize his credits number over 250, he's *still* putting out 2-4 compositions a year, and they're *still* of a calibre so many composers shoot for...and miss.  This gentleman has a never-ending supply, for which I am eternally grateful.I literally wore out my first cassette tape from this film, and was on the way to wearing out the replacement when it was nicked.  The third is on its last legs, too.Beautiful music?  Beyond that.  I once described this heart-melting, soul-stirring, I-think-I'll-swoon music as better than ---Ah, well, in case the editors are watching, I'm sure you can figure it out. (There's a chocolate cake recipe by the same name, if you need a hint.)If the plot of the movie is too much to follow, as some people have noted (hey, after work, the complexities of a Mighty Mouse cartoon are often beyond me), my advice is to pop the soundtrack into the CD/cassette player and decompress.  It's my absolute favourite wine and cheese music.Then, when you're conscious the next day, tackle the plotline.  It's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Why Don't People Like This Movie?","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was a great adaptation of one of LeCarre's best novels. Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer both give great performances. The script by Tom Stoppard is excellent, and stays very true to the book.Nevertheless, it got panned by the critics. I don't know why. Its a great spy story and a great love story. Go rent it. "},{"Title":"The most genuine, thoughtful love story ever committed to film","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  For those expecting an Anglo-Russian spy tale, you will be left somewhat wanting. For those who believe that the world can be a better place if we put that aside and that the love of two people is a far more endearing goal, you will be enchanted. This film puts everything into perspective.The love story of Barley and Katya is totally original and beautiful. The jazz soundtrack is very moving and one to be played with a glass of wine and the lights on low.The location shots are simple but very effective, with backdrops of Russia taking precedence. Options to appeal to thriller fans and the US audience by taking the movie to Western locations is not taken. That would have been an easy option.The other commercial option of making the British and American agents appear less humble is again not used. Indeed, it is refreshing to see Western intelligence surrendering to a drunk bookseller and a beautiful, naive Russian.This is a movie that you will love, although not by one or two climatic car chases or shoot-outs. You will love it for its simplicity and warmth. Fabulous performances by Connery and Pfeiffer make their love totally believable and enviable.Truly a unique piece of film. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum Spy Caper; Quite Disappointing","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The Russia House makes one valid point the James Bond movies do not provide an accurate description of the life of a spy. Having said that, if The Russia House does provide such an accurate description, one wonders why anyone would make this movie.Simply put, this is very dull stuff. Sean Connery is Barley Blair, a British publisher who has a love for Russia and visits the old Soviet Union regularly. Set at the end of the Cold War, just as Gorbachev is beginning to open the Soviet Union to the West, Blair is conscripted against his will to work with Katya (Michelle Pfeiffer), a Russian publisher who has sent him a manuscript which actually contains Soviet military secrets. The major problem with this movie for me was that it just didn't seem that anything particularly important was at stake. As a result, the movie lacked tension; there was nothing in it that particularly held my interest.It does - quite deliberately I think - address the question of just who the bad guys really are in this. A couple of scenes address this in particular. As Blair reluctantly meets with British Intelligence officials who are trying to convince him to take on this assignment, he's told by one this is a free country. You have no choice. Then, as Blair is given a polygraph by CIA officials, this exchange CIA - Are you being coerced? Blair - Yes. CIA (somewhat excitedly) - By the Soviets? Blair (very deliberately) - NO!It has a few moments, but overall I was quite disappointed. 3/10. "},{"Title":"The Russians Are Coming!!!","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Films that require you to pay close attention to every little detail and have a complex plot from the outset can generally be thrust into one of two categories Stimulating and intellectual, or potential insomnia cures. The Russia House is the former... so keep taking the Nytol. There's much languid talk about politics, international trade, the Cold War, espionage... and for those expecting Sean Connery to slap on a tux and start blowing people away, and going to be sorely disappointed. If on the other hand, you LISTEN to what is being said and are open to the idea of getting small rewards along the way rather than shallow exhibitionism, than this may be right up your street.Make sure all the windows are closed, the children are in bed, your bladder is empty... because you don't want any meaningless distractions while the story is being told. Not that it moves at a fast pace, but inconsequential moments have repercussions for later on, and simple snatches of dialogue could hold invaluable clues. Russia's never looked better, and the chief photographer captures Moscow in all it's architectural splendour. The much missed Connery (He's retired from acting now, believe it or not) does a sterling job as the amateur spy who doesn't know what side he's on, and sex-on-legs Pfeiffer has a dead-on Russian accent. At least to this untrained ear.Maybe not for action junkies, but anyone else who appreciates much subtler qualities in film... Please step this way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Slow and cerebral","Date":"13 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I have read a few John Le Carre books (although not The Russia House) and was not as impressed as most other people seemed to be. People say that the movie is slow and cerebral (and it is) but really that is how Le Carre's books read. Sean Connery never puts in a bad performance, and neither does Michelle Pfeiffer. And it never hurts that she is sooooo beautiful. Klaus Maria Brandauer is also always good and still is here. The problem is the script, which relates back to the source material. It is a little bit of a bore. Not badly, just a bit. It looks like the filmmakers were so proud to be filming in the USSR, that they went a little overboard. Not every place in Russia is St. Basil's and the Winter Palace. Overall the film is OK. "},{"Title":"Fine Performances, Ordinary Film!","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Based on John le Carré's novel of the same name, 'The Russia House' offers Fine Performances, but as a film, its plain ordinary. It does have some captivating moments, but overall, the slow pace & a half-baked Adapted Screenplay, act as a disadvantage. 'The Russia House' Synopsis An expatriate British publisher unexpectedly finds himself working for British intelligence to investigate people in Russia.'The Russia House' begins nicely, but loses momentum after 45-minutes into the film. Sure, the second-hour has some interesting moments, but the Writing isn't striking. The Climax, however, works. Tom Stoppard's Adapted Screenplay isn't without merit, but is flawed as well. Also, the slow-pace left me restless at times. Fred Schepisi's Direction is skilled & well-done. Cinematography is excellent. Editing is fair. Performance-Wise Sir Sean Connery, with a flawless Russian accent, is in good form. Michelle Pfeiffer, also with a superbly picked-up Russian accent, is natural to the core. Roy Scheider is flawless. He stands out. James Fox is effective. Klaus Maria Brandauer is terrific in a small, but significant role. On the whole, 'The Russia House' could've been so much more. "}{"Title":"A Classic Cold War movie","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Some people have commented that this is a rather dry movie or the plot is hard to follow.  Others might be disappointed that there wasn't enough action.  This is a classic cold war movie with an excellent plot, and fascinating characters played by some really good American and British actors. The black and white way which intelligence agencies in the US like to view the world as opposed to the many grey areas that British intelligence pays attention to is masterfully depicted here (the conflict between Ned and Russell towards the end of the movie.)  Shows that the special relationship between the UK and the US can, especially in the intelligence world, be rather strained at times.  Another fascinating aspect is where Russell says that the information could take away the rice bowls of some very important people.  True.  There is acknowledgement on both sides of the Cold War conflict that some numbers were inflated to keep both military-industrial complexes in business.  All in all an absolutely fascinating movie for someone who has some background knowledge of the Cold War.  Definitely not a James Bondesque flick, this one shows what true intelligence gathering is all about; an often boring wait and watch process. I get something new out of this movie every time I see it. "},{"Title":"One of the ten best films ever. Ever.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Russia House is British playwright Tom Stoppard's effort to bring John LeCarre's book to the screen. Sean Connery owed Stoppard a favor and agreed to act in the lead role of an out-at-elbows publisher whose plays jazz clarinet and is equally talented on the whisky bottle. LeCarre likes to confront mildly despondent middle-aged men of middling talent with a challenge that might allow them to be small heroes. LeCarre's mini-supermen were interesting in his first dozen novels but American readers have grown heartily sick of the theme and many left Russia house collecting dust in the annual pile of unwanted Christmas gifts. Imagine the surprise of discovering that a movie based on an unreadable book turns out to be a masterpiece.Director Fred Schepisi filmed Russia House in Moscow and Leningrad in the midst of Glasnot. The movie begins at a Russian book fair where a Moscow book agent Katia (played by Michelle Pfeiffer) comes to deliver a secret manuscript to Boozy Barley Blair (Sean Connery). His book stand is empty, he is absent. The manuscript makes its way into the hands of British Intelligence and turns out to be a technical treatise showing that the Soviet Union cannot make solid (rocket) fuel worth s**t, its rockets suck instead of blow, and they could not hit Nevada on a clear day. Through a series a virtuoso flashbacks, fast-forwards and voice overs we learn that Blair loves Russia and Russians and that during one of his drunken rants at a retreat for Soviet writers he has inspired Russia's top rocket scientist to betray his country because as Blair has expounded in his cups if we are to survive we must all betray our countries. The plot of Russia House is too complex to describe in a few lines but the theme is simple. A country's system can be bad, but its people good. America and the Soviet Union are in the grips of weapons makers and generals who amplify their power by blowing up the threat each country poses the other. To tear down the lie that the cold war is the only peace possible between Soviets and Americans, Blair and his rocket scientist must disobey their superiors and turn coat, much as soldiers of the First World War did when they crossed no-man's land to shake hands. Stoppard somehow manages to get the message of Russia House across without stunning us with platitudes about geopolitics and even manages to squeeze in a love story that comes across as mature and moving.This movie is to Sean Connery what Glenn Gary Glenn Ross was to Alec Baldwin. The script of Glenn Gary put an epic speech into Baldwin's mouth as the hectoring slave driver of pathetic real estate agents and showed the world that Baldwin could act. Connery has never been better than in Russia House nor has he worked with such an expert cast. Roy Scheider, Ken Russel, Michelle Pfeiffer, James Fox, Klaus Maria Brandauer, as well as the regular batch of talented British no-names give this movie the sort of punch that has not been seen since 12 Angry Men and Inherit the Wind.Russia House is not for everyone. You will see no shootouts, no exposed breasts, no chases down busy streets. If you want a glimpse of the Soviet Union before its fall, brought to life by a crack troupe of actors at the top of their game then you need to see this movie. Again, and again. "},{"Title":"Another kind of hero","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" We live our lives and one day up comes the chance for exceeding the boundaries of everyday existence. This came to Barley and Katja. But their heroism wasn't manifested as heroics for flag and country. Theirs was for each other and triumph over the contriving connivers -- skulduggery even in glasnost. How all of this gets done in the film was intricate and convolutional. Has anybody yet figured it all out? But the scenes and scenery, photography and music, the definitive qualities of each character elevated, for me, this film over so many others. Connery in total abandonment of Bondian casualness delivers, to my sensitivity, the greatest love paean ever as he walks to Pfeiffer in the kitchen down the hall uttering I love you and going on invoking maturity, absoluteness, and unselfishness all in one ten- foot soliloquy. I could go on, but I'm all pent up at the moment. Later, then. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The Russia HouseI must confess, this is easily my favourite film. I have watched only a handful of films more than once. This film I have watched at least twenty times but by the time you read this it will be many more since I watch it at least every 6 weeks or so. I sit down with a bottle of genuine Russian vodka, a small tin of red caviar and some hard white bread, I turn up the dolby 5.1 and soak up the experience. Why is this film so good? Well for a start it is from a book by John LeCarre who must be our best living author. Who else researches a book so thoroughly? Every location has been checked, every character totally believable, with an intelligent plot.Secondly the screenplay by Tom Stoppard is faultless. Having read the book first, I could not believe how faithfully Stoppard made his screenplay- chunks of LeCarre dialogue are faithfully copied. Then there is the acting. There are memorable performances from Sean Connery (Barley) and Michel Pfeiffer(Katya), the beautiful Russian heroine. Klaus Maria Brandauer wins my best supporting actor award as the totally believable Russian scientist. There are so many memorable lines of dialogue in this film. Brandauers line If I will be a hero, will you act like a merely decent human being always brings a lump to my throat. Barley's tongue in cheek replies to his CIA interrogators are wonderful. What gives this film such a feeling of authenticity are the locations which are all genuine Moscow and St Petersburg. Already Moscow has changed a lot since this film was made. The lovely old National hotel shown in the film has been demolished and replaced with a modern nonentity, so this film is rapidly becoming a piece of history. The buildings are changing but the same faceless KGB operators are still there. How can one flawed man fight the power of the spymasters. Barley shows how to do it. What a hero! Does it have any faults?If only Ken Russell had stuck to directing and left acting to actors. "},{"Title":"Overlooked masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A subtle film that improves with each viewing. My wife and I now consider it a truly great spy romance, second only to 'Casablanca.' Stoppard's dialog actually makes the film superior to the novel. Great cinematography, score, and acting. "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie doesn't get better reviews, it is an excellent adaptation of John LeCarre's novel.Sean Connery is wonderful as Scott Barley Blair, as is Michelle Pfeiffer as Katya. It is imaginatively filmed, it has a great screenplay (written by Tom Stoppard), and is very true (within the limitations of two hours) to the novel.Its an excellent, intelligent, spy story.Note The ending was changed, slightly from the novel, and the character of Harry Palfrey was excised. "},{"Title":"Superb plot and sub-plot and exceptional performances","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A superb novel by John le Carre and faithfully transferred to the big screen by Tom Stoppard, this film should be remembered as one of the all-time greats.Katya Orlova, played exquisitely by Michelle Pfeiffer, was, and remains a character of love, intelligence, courage and beauty. I for one couldn't help falling in love with Katya. Ms Pfeiffer was simply brilliant in the role, and totally convincing.The leading character, a debauched upper-class English publisher played by Sean Connery was also totally convincing and a joy to watch. As the story unfolds his love for Katya grows and, perhaps for the first time in his life, learns the meaning of true, grown-up love for a woman, and what it really means. He becomes a man.An extremely amusing cameo performance was delivered by (I think) Ken Russell, and one which I will remember forever.As for the rest of the cast all I can say is that they all performed to the same exemplary standards as the leading actors.Overall, this gets my vote as the best movie of all time! "},{"Title":"Le Carre blithers, but Connery and Pfeiffer light up Moscow","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Despite certain divergences in character and plot, this movie version of The Russia House does do justice to John Le Carre's twisted tale. Perhaps this is because so much of Hollywood shares Le Carre's own moral obtuseness -- wishing bureaucratic tyranny upon the rest of the world, while insulating itself with money.Le Carre cannot tell the difference between West and East, between the bumbling mediocrity of western bureaucracies, and the unremitting evil of the Soviet bureaus, which owned everything in the evil empire, right down to peoples' souls. The Russia House was the first of his many post Cold War novels to make it clear that he could not, or would not.Yet the man does write brilliantly. Le Carre is one of the great masters of English prose. Therefore one can almost forgive his blockheadedness, while one enjoys his rich descriptions, his twisted characters, and his sharp storytelling. It's only the morning after finishing one of his novels, or the hour after watching a movie adaptation such as this, that one's head begins to throb with the bitter, pointless, imbecility of his world view.The cast of The Russia House, headlined by Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer, is superb, with one glaring exception -- Roy Scheider in pancake makeup is simply not plausible as a CIA manager, even mid level. By contrast James Woods does an excellent job as his opposite number in British Intelligence (with support from a young Michael Kitchen, now the graying star of Foyle's War). But this movie is mainly worth watching for the engaging lead performances by Connery and Pfeiffer, even though (or perhaps because) they play their characters quite differently than they were drawn in the book.The location photography is excellent, with nice views of Lisbon, and many long sequences shot in Moscow and Leningrad. Moscow looks nearly deserted, a graphic reminder that the official Soviet population figure, 5 million, was overstated by at least a factor of seven (according to Robert Heinlein).There are interludes of wistful jazz woven seamlessly into the story, but much of the rest of the musical score is loud and distracting, especially toward the end. I suppose it was intended to induce anxiety in viewers who could not follow what was happening in the complicated plot. The director should have stuck with the jazz.* By far the best screen adaptation of a Le Carre novel is The Little Drummer Girl directed by George Roy Hill. It is one of the best movies ever made.A very good movie that shows an intimate slice of life in the Soviet Union is the French film East-West (Est-Ouest). "},{"Title":"Deliberately Paced.","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery is a publisher and saxophone player swept up in Cold War antics as an agent trying to smuggle scientific secrets of some sort out of Russia and into the West.I never liked the soprano saxophone. I don't know why it exists. It's usually too shrill and is associated with supermarkets, cheap commercials, and Kenny G. Why isn't the clarinet good enough, hey? This is one sluggish movie and a bit complicated, as the author's plots tend to be. It's redeemed by the shenanigans of the CIA/MI5 or MI6, a group of puppeteers behind Connery and his contact, Michelle Pfeiffer, led by a hot-headed Roy Scheider and a dry, ironic James Fox. J. T. Walsh -- my co-star in the superlative Windmills of the Gods, or what it Rage of Angels?, I forget -- is the ironbound US Army officer who suspects everyone of being a ComSymp and wants to bomb them all -- a hard-head from the ***hole up, as someone describes him.They put Connery through a lie detector test to make sure he's not a commie, and the scene puts on display the movie's most charming feature -- its witty screenplay.The wily interrogators ask Connery about his politics, his motives, his past. Have you ever associated with any musicians with known anarchist tendencies? Connery frowns thoughtfully. Well, there was one trombone player. Willie Brown was his name. He was the only musician I've ever known who was completely devoid of any anarchist tendencies. The performances are uniformly good, even Roy Scheider who seems about to stroke out at any moment and who shouts scatological imprecations. I think the role calls for it. I can't understand why all the men are so awfully sun tanned though. The weather in Moscow and St. Petersberg are about what we can expect -- more clouds of gray than any Russian play could guarantee.The photography of Russian cities and their monuments is memorable. "},{"Title":"Connery Brews Moscow A Fragrant, Spiced Barley","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" John Le Carre stories are subtle, tissuey things. Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy requires re-reading the book, and rewinding in mid-film, to catch key plot developments. The Russia House is, in this vein, a classic Le Carre yarn, co- adapted to the screen by Le Carre and the talented Tom Stoppard. The film is produced and directed by Australian filmmaker Fred Schipisi, notable for the excellent and psychodynamic Six Degrees of Separation and the fulsomely enjoyable Roxanne. Schipisi's direction and production values are this film's weakest points, the framed shots from the start look amateurishly ungainly, ill-framed, and ill-cut. The director's only saving perhaps was the decision to allow jazz man Branford Marsalis to score the film, with mostly lilting haunts of soprano sax melodies. The story centers on a Brit, played by Sean Connery, and a Russian, played by Michele Pfeiffer. It is 1990, and glasnost has been declared. Connery's leading man, Barley Blair, is a Russophilic book editor fond of extended stays in grey Moscow. Pfeiffer's co-lead, Katya, is a Russian of almost anonymous identity beyond the familiar tropes. Katya has a friend who programs Russia's nukes, the friend wants Russia's secrets out, and Katya is recruited to vouchsafe them as written down to Barley, this westerner with a kind soul and an avowed commitment to humanism. Let's start with the biggest and best part of the film, Connery. His Barley is a glorious, ruined shambles. A gentle, aging hedonist, who looks, stealing a line from the film like an unmade bed with a shopping bag attached. Connery is entertaining and engaging in every frame, truly inhabiting Barley as an original character.Pfeiffer is very good, if not at her best as the Russian woman beholden by secrets and restrained by crippling caution. Her Russian-tinted accent is querulous in the first minutes of the film, but by the midpoint she achieves--and she may do it with her cheekbones as much as her diction, it all counts--believability as a Russian person. The other great strength The Russia House has, which has sustained the film as watchable and re-watchable over time, is the large supporting cast of male actors portraying the MI6 and CIA spooks who Barley haphazardly encounters, and very quickly takes direction from. James Fox, Roy Scheider, John Mahoney, Michael Kitchen and an almost SNL-flamboyant Ian McNeice (as the riotously out-of-place Merrydew) provide a fantastical espionage-ical Greek chorus that set off Connery's ethical and emotional contretemps.The film's final potent ingredient is a solo supporting performance by Klaus Maria Brandauer as (code name) Dante, a mysterious Russian who seems to be behind the searching questions the men in grey directing Barley seem to have. The Russia House is neither the best wrought Le Carre story on film, nor the best Russia film depicting the second cold war era of the 1980s. It would take a quick undercard to The Hunt for Red October. It would lose in a close decision to Gorky Park. But Connery as Barley above all is worth the ticket, which leaves the film in the category of worthy, even with the producer/director's foibles set against it. "}{"Title":"Slow moving but enjoyable espionage story","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A Soviet author known only as 'Dante' wants his book to be published in the west; to this end he has asked his friend Katya to deliver his manuscript to publisher Bartholomew 'Barley' Blair. Barley in meant to be attending a book fair in Moscow but he isn't there and Katya passes the manuscript on to his 'friend' Niki Landau. She tells him how important it is that this book is published but rather than passing it to Barley he reads it and hands it to MI6. They contact Barley to discover what he knows about Katya and Dante; he has no knowledge of Katya but had met Dante at a party some time earlier. The manuscript suggests that the Soviet military poses far less of a threat than was previously thought&#x85; of course until they learn more about Dante they have no idea whether he is real or not.Barley is sent back to Russia to learn more about him. Once there he meets Katya and as he learns more details about Dante he develops feelings for Katya. As the operation progresses control is passed over to the CIA and it soon becomes apparent that they are not too pleased with the contents of the manuscript&#x85; one would think a less dangerous Soviet Union would be a good thing but if that danger is suddenly seen to be rather low the vast amounts of money being spent on intelligence and military equipment is harder to justify&#x85; something those in that world do not want to see.If you are expecting 'James Bond' style thrills you will be disappointed; there are no exciting stunts, chases or explosions to be seen. In fact there is little real tension as we never really think Barley or Tanya is about to be grabbed by the KGB. That doesn't make the film boring though; the story unfolds in an interesting way. We gradually learn more about Dante while also watching the growing closeness between Barley and Katya. Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer put in fine performances in the lead roles and are supported by an able cast of well-known actors including Roy Scheider, James Fox, Michael Kitchen and J.T. Walsh&#x85; as well as a young Martin Clunes in a small but amusing role. It is clear that the makes wanted to take full advantage of being one of the first western films to be made in the Soviet Union; many of the scenes in Moscow and Leningrad looked as though they were picked to showcase some of the most impressive parts of those cities. The ending has a nice little twist that doesn't seem overly forced&#x85; we are also treated to a happy ending that is far from guaranteed with films based on the works of John le Carré. Overall a solid, gently told espionage story that will disappoint anybody expecting a thrill-ride. "},{"Title":"needs more tension","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Katya Orlova (Michelle Pfeiffer) passes along a manuscript intended for minor publisher boozy Barley Blair (Sean Connery). It contains three notebooks from Dante (Klaus Maria Brandauer) showing Russian military secrets and their inferiority. Dante had meet Barley earlier during a party where they connected. British agent Ned (James Fox) and CIA Russell (Roy Scheider) lead the effort to make contact with Dante and determine the validity of the information.This movie does get a good sense of a period of time in Russia. What is truly missing is a sense of tension. There isn't enough danger for Barley. He's not getting killed. At most, the Americans put a little pressure on him but the problem is that he doesn't care. Like he says, he's not selling them the Picasso. He's really just the delivery boy transporting the Picasso. I struggle to figure out what the danger is for Barley. Obviously, the danger is higher for Katya. I love Michelle Pfeiffer but her Russian accent annoyed me. Also there is little chemistry between her and Sean Connery. Her motives are questionable and he's just an old dude after a hot young thing.The most interesting relationship in this movie is between Ned and Russell. They have to decide whether this is real or not. Also they have to run the plan. Their positions are on the line which elevates the danger level for them. It seems to me that there is an easy solution to the questions falling into the wrong hands. They could add other questions to the list. While there are interesting aspects to this movie, there is a dangerous lack of tension. "},{"Title":"A Film about the end of the Cold War","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" After watching this movie I remember what was so great about it, namely that when it was made it was the first movie to have had a majority of it filmed in communist Russia. The film is interesting as we look at the date, it was made after Glastnost, the time when Soviets were given the freedom of speech, and the collapse of the Soviet Union. There are a number of things that are said in this movie that is ironic considering that it was true. Another thing is that Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay and that added to my impression of the movie. Tom Stoppard is a very talented playwright and anything written by him I expect to be of a high quality.The Russia House explores the relationship that grows between a Russian publisher and an English publisher, and the world of intrigue that they are dragged into. This is not a typical good guy verses bad guy movie, but rather about people that get caught up in things that are beyond their control.The movie is focused on two people - Barly and Katynia. While Barly was at a Russian poet's camp, he met a strange guy named Dante. They talk about truth and the nature of loving one's country. A few years later, Katynia comes looking for Barly, but as she cannot find him, she hands some manuscripts to somebody else. In this man's search for Barley he decides to pass it to British intelligence, and when they look at the manuscripts they realise that it contains a lot of the Soviet Union's strategic plans, and these plans actually show them how weak the state is.Dante simply wanted these manuscripts published, but the intelligent agencies realised that these manuscripts going public could bring a quick end to the cold war. If the Soviet Union is as bad as it really is then there is no real need for having such a sophisticated intelligent ring. Thus they decide that they want to find out more information and to learn if the source is reliable.It is interesting because when the Soviet Union collapsed, it came out that its military machine was not as threatening as it was. This movie was made before the collapse, so it was either already known or it was something to make the plot more interesting. Still, I find it difficult to believe that the US did not really know how bad the Soviets were because of the extent of their intelligent agencies, but then the CIA may not have been as good as it is made out in the movies.What is good is that this movie is not the typical American anti-communist propaganda, such as Little Nikita was. It does not go on about how great the American way of life is and how bad and evil the Russians are. It does suggest that the system is bad, but it is more the oppression of the government than anything else. Most of this movie pushes the beauty of Russia, and we constantly see some of the ancient buildings that dominate Moscow and St Petersburg. Everything is different now, but we are looking back at a time before the USSR had collapsed.This is a very good movie namely because the characters are so in-depth. The end does not come out like a soppy ending to an American romance, but rather it is one that emphasises that there is not good or bad, just people who are involved in conflicts that they are not interested in. "},{"Title":"Good of its kind, though more of a love story than a spy story","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" By chance this is the second of two spy films I watched in as many days and, essentially, they couldn't be more different. The other was The Good Shepherd, a long, subtle and nuanced portrayal of loyalty, trust, the lack of it and betrayal, all framed by an account of the genesis of the CIA and a fictionalised account of the life of James Angleton up until the Bay of Pigs fiasco when the CIA tried to get rid of Cuba's Fidel Castro. It stars Matt Damon and was directed by Robert De Niro, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys good, intelligent films which are the antithesis of so many shoot-em-up, wham-bam and gung-ho military and spy films we are all too often served up these days. And it has to be said the, by comparison, The Russia House pales rather, although that reflects on how good The Good Shepherd is rather than any shortcoming of The Russia House. That is the much more conventional film the two, a film of John le Carre's novel of the same name and, I must add, better than some of its kind. Both it and The Good Shepherd examine betrayal and how a loyal citizen might be tempted to betray his country, but at the end of the day The Russia House is more of a love story than a spy story. Although, a la le Carre, there are apparent ethical dilemmas and a convincingly detailed view of how spy agencies work - though I am in no position to vouch for the accuracy - it is very much the tale of how a 'decent human being' who drinks rather too much and has a dishevelled romantic past finally finds true love. Its side theme of how, when push comes to shove, the West - and especially the US military/industrial machine - is making rather too much good money from the arms race to be as interested in an end to the Cold War than it claims, is intriguing, but that theme is somewhat cursorily examined (in the novel as well) and were that to have been the film's driving force, it would have been very different and, I suspect, in other hands rather better than The Russia House. But I seem to be damning with faint praised and I don't mean to. From Sean Connery and James Fox to Roy Scheider and John Mahoney, not forgetting Michelle Pfeiffer as the love interest, there are strong performances and the film rattles along very nicely. Incidentally, the hero is an amateur though gifted jazz saxophonist and one rather attractive stylistic device is that the film as two different styles of score a jazzy, bass-driven one when the action deals with the spying and a lush romantic character when we get to the lovey-dovey stuff. And at the end of the - disappointingly obligatory happy end - those two kinds of score are skilfully interweaved. If this kind of film is your bag, go for it. It is better than many, and you won't be disappointed. But if you want a more subtle and more satisfying outing, try The Good Shepherd. You won't be disappointed with that, either. And you might be even more enthused. "},{"Title":"The principals and cinematography are riveting.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There's not much in the way of praise that I can add to what's already been said - you naturally expect top-notch performances from Connery, Pfeiffer, Scheider and Fox. The coverage of the Moscow architecture is unprecedented. It was almost distracting, however, to get caught up in the director's penchant for having something red-colored in virtually every scene. It may have been something worn by a principal character or merely in the background crowd. It might have been a vehicle or a piece of interior decor such as draperies or furniture. It was foreshadowed in the opening credits where nearly every Letter R was partially composed of a stylized hammer and sickle. As the film progressed it seemed that the other primary colors, yellow and blue, also became playthings for the director. Note the final scene where Connery welcomes Pfeiffer as she and her family come off the ship. Connery is sporting all three colors - a red vest, a yellow shirt and a blue tie. It takes me back to first grade. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films. A thinking-man's suspense film, it contains performances by Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeiffer that are among their best. The plot has many interesting twists and there is fine character development. "},{"Title":"Crisp espionage thriller","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a treat for Connery fans who may want to see him in a movie where he's not always about to be blown off the face of the Earth. In this movie, he has a pivotal role working for British Intelligence, but there aren't any explosions and whatnot. It's thrilling and exciting in the way of an espionage thriller. The romance between his character, Barley, and the Russian go-between, Katya, is earnestly portrayed by both Connery and Pfeiffer. The supporting cast do a good job in creating a suspenseful atmosphere.  Important to listen, as there aren't many visual effects to tell the story. "},{"Title":"the book, of course, was better than the movie","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  the book was better than the movie but a movie, of course, can bring out some things we(i) may not be able to imagine. for instance not being much of a jazz fan hearing branford marsalis playing was much better than what i was hearing in my head. my katya in my head looked like michelle pfeiffer, because i saw the show before i read the book, so that was ruined. the movie was good. worth watching if one does not read much. but there is movie on paper than there is on the screen. "},{"Title":"slow-moving but thoughtful","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I wrote an article a few days ago about 'Something Wicked This Way Comes,' and it has practically nothing in common with 'The Russia House' except one thing- at the end of the movie, things are pretty much as they were at the beginning. A great lot of talking and personal interaction has taken place only for matters to ultimately return to square one. It's sort of like the equivalent of the old 'it was all a dream' plot device, where we discover at the end that nothing really happened, one of the characters just dreamed it. Except in this case, there is no dream. If ever a cold-war political thriller could be described as crackling with melancholy, 'The Russia House' would be it. Based on the John le Carre novel, this must certainly be one of the most laid-back examples of the genre ever produced. There are no action scenes, no shoot-outs, no car chases, unless you consider beat-up Russian compacts driving slowly around Leningrad while being followed 'car chases.' This is a film almost completely made up of dialogue, of people talking to each other, and covertly listening to other people talk to each other, then talking about the conversation they just overheard. Barley (Sean Connery) owns a small British publishing house but he spends most of his time drinking and talking. A 'manuscript' meant for him instead falls into the hands of British Intelligence; it purports to describe Soviet nuclear capabilities, and not in a very flattering way, as in, it suggests they couldn't hit the broad side of a barn with one of their warheads. The CIA gets involved too and there begins a guessing game over whether the report is accurate, what the person's motives were in sending it, and how to respond. So a reluctant Barley is recruited to go to Russia and meet up with the people who smuggled it out, one of which he met previously at a book fair. If everyone took everyone else at their word, the plot could be resolved in two minutes, but then we wouldn't have a movie, would we? Barley meets Katya (Michelle Pfeiffer), who actually brought the manuscript to the book fair and is without a doubt the most beautiful woman in Russia. Pfeiffer is really very good in the part, sounding quite convincing as someone who is fairly fluent in English but who still struggles with it. Naturally, Barley falls in love with Katya and his growing desire for her corresponds almost exactly with his diminishing interest in the political intrigue he has been sucked into. 'The Russia House' was largely filmed in Russia and it feels authentic. The culture is painted as one of an intelligent and restive people made to live under a paranoid system that is built around informants and spies and turning in anyone who is suspicious, which seems to be damn near everyone. You get the impression that half the population is employed in following the other half around to see what they're up to. Because it's mainly scenes of people talking, the film veers from interesting to tedious, depending on the quality of the conversation being had at the moment. One of the better ones is when Katya finally opens up to Barley and explains why the manuscript was sent to him, and about Dante, the Russian scientist who wrote it. I don't know if this was intentional, but it reminded me very much of the scene in 'Casablanca' where Ilsa tells Rick for the first time about Victor Laszlo and his work in such an admiring and loving way. The jazzy music score by Jerry Goldsmith featuring Branford Marsalis' saxophone work is not always appropriate to the material. There were times it seemed more suited to a film like 'Tootsie' or the Bob Newhart television show. Given the bittersweet sadness of much of the film, a darker soundtrack would have worked better. In the end, neither the Russians nor the Brits and Americans trust the material each has been given and neither is anxious to upset the status quo, so, as mentioned previously, nothing really changes. There is the obligatory happy ending where Barley succeeds in getting Katya and her family out of Russia to live with him in Lisbon, but it feels tacked on and unnecessary. Good performances by all involved and the occasionally thought-provoking dialogue make 'The Russia House' worthwhile if not terribly exciting. "},{"Title":"Acting 3, Storytelling -1, Film Score 10","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  All the ingredients for a souffle of a spy-love story were there. Take three good actors, Sean Connery, Klaus Maria Brandauer, and Michelle Pfeiffer, allow them to create memorable, unique characters who interact in a melancholy, sadly beautiful, disintegrating Leningrad and have Jerry Goldsmith compose a ravishing score with Wynton Marsalis playing the theme. Allow a director and editor to tell this story in an incoherent fashion and voila! The souffle will never rise to what it might have been.What could have been perfection must be viewed with a discerning eye I'd watch it for the grown up love story, the cynical idealism of Brandauer and Connery's characters and the urban Russian settings--grand and squalid, all at the same time, like this movie. Oh, but that musical score--magnificent! "}{"Title":"Le Carre's story of a man regaining meaning in his life","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sean Connery as well as the entire cast performed effectively to define a man (Barley Scott Blair) who's life was essentially empty until he became a Good Man to a mysterious Russian author. Was Barley and Katia an unlikely match? Most likely under ordinary circumstances. But when all the best plans of the men in grey suits began to fall apart, Barley's unselfish and risky rescue of Katia, her children and her Uncle became one of the most endearing romances I have ever seen. Watching the movie, I couldn't help but envy him, that's what movies are for, but then I wonder could I have matched his courage.  "},{"Title":"No Tension or Conflict - More of a Travelogue for Russia than Cinema.","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Fred Schepisi, The Russia House should be more like The Russia Bore. It is a failure of a story with ultra-slow pacing and devoid of needed tension. I seem to recall this coming to the theater and reading a drubbing by critics at the time. That drubbing is likely warranted. The only redeeming factor here in a small way is the inter-cut and backdrop shots of Moscow and Leningrad. It feels much like a travelogue, and although dated over 20 years ago, has a historical and almost rustic feel. But this isn't nearly enough. Some other problems are the complete lack of romance/chemistry between Michelle Pheiffer and Connery, easily old enough to be her Father. The whole espionage vantage feels punch-less. And the music is monotonous and tacky. Can't recommend it, although there are certainly worse movies out there. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of its kind!","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Without any hesitation, I admit this is one of my favorite movies! To be more precise, it's one of the top 5 movies I have ever seen, and a rare one I watched several times in the course of the two decades (in cinema, on video or TV). I noticed an interesting development of my attitude towards this movie my first watching hasn't resulted in a special satisfaction (as far as I remember), but every subsequent time the movie engaged me more and more. Obviously, this masterpiece of non-standard political thriller should be seen more then once! What is so good about it? I would say &#x96; everything! First, the theme a subtle story of personal relationship (ending with love affair) between two people from different political worlds placed in the atmosphere of the last faze of the cold war era and the beginning of the USSR collapse. Second the brilliant main roles performed by Sean Connery (charming as always) and Michelle Pfeiffer (probably her best appearance ever; she was so persuasive in the role of a 'typical' Slavic character and mentality). Third some amazing scenes of dilapidated Moscow environment, conveying the atmosphere of a derelict regime which is about to be changed. Fourth excellent, unobtrusive and well attuned music. Fifth a contrived direction and film editing ('fusion' of two different scenes), etc.All in all, The Russia House is a masterpiece of its kind and I wander about the pretty low rating it got at IMDb.com. It's not fair in this case. It's not fair, indeed! "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Is it just me or does Sean Connery have a good track record for making uninteresting movies, particularly where he's the main character? This is much like Cuba, another bore from him from over a decade earlier. The only movie by him I really liked was the Hitchcock film Marnie and he wasn't the central character in that. Watch him as James Bond, though he's far from the best Bond, in my opinion, and his Sixties' Bond is rather tepid compared to the later ones, including Roger Moore. Don't get me started on other stinkers from him, like Outland, The Name of the Rose, The Offence, The Hunt for Red October, The Man who would be King, Rising Sun, The Molly Maguires, Wrong is Right... "},{"Title":"For Some Reasons.. The Music Was Better Than The Movie !","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" *** This Comment May Contain Spoilers About (Casablanca - 1942) Also***(Sean Connery), (Michelle Pfeiffer), (Roy Scheider), (James Fox) and (Klaus Maria Brandaur) WAW ! In fact when I first watched the original trailer (which is great by the way) it surprised me wonderfully because having all of those stars whom I love in one romantic spy movie based on one of (John Le Carré)'s novels could have been real fun.. But as you see.. It could have been not has been ! So why is that ? I think it's in the script. When you look at movies like (Clear and Present Danger - 1994) you can see clearly a capacity in mixing so many story-lines cleverly without any sense of confusion or omission. And in another movies like (The Last Samurai - 2003) you may find the smartness of gathering what's public and what's private in balanced way. Actually it's the creative ability of a scriptwriter to harmonize all the elements together to make what the genre requires and what the people need in one movie. In (The Russia House) the formula was to make spy adventure, with one love story and how it could survive. But eventually I think it was deficient both ways !It's basically a story about how disloyalty can be a real loyalty for another love. How you can betray a cause to be faithful to higher one. So (Dante) wanted to publish his own country's secrets to terminate the nuclear armament for good, and how (Barley) didn't want that, just to save his love. It's a matter where Rick Blaine here is following his heart more than his patriotism. The tune of saving the eastern party's people is so romantically spurting this time more than any time. So firstly it might be this formula as well as its message; as we have a man who loved a woman more than his own homeland (especially with Barley's last move with the K.G.P). That could bother some of the patriotic viewers aside from the simple ones whom went to see the old Bond strikes again !Moreover, the details of the spy story and even the love story were so bad. We didn't have any sane opportunity to live anything satisfyingly. It's only a brief sentence to know the character of (Katya), a very fast and poor scene to know about the love life of (Barley) his chaotic flat, and a hasty flashback to discover how it was Casablanca for (Katya Orlova) all along as another (Ilsa Lund) who loved the serious wrong man once ! So nearly everything seemed tastelessly laconic. But it annoyed me the most with the very easy love story between the 2 main leads. Why all his feelings were preparations for me to you ?!, and why she falls in love with that dangerous man for else reason more than his tweed suit and him being the charismatic (Sean Connery) ?! I didn't understand why after taking (Connery)'s character to the interrogation at the start there was, minutes later, that flashback for him sitting in a café with a friend to see how they took him already ??! Maybe it was just an attempt to begin thrillingly but sure that totally superfluous scene frustrated it ! There was a big irritating irony between what we've been watching and what we've been listening; as the music of (Jerry Goldsmith) was truly more romantic, solid and eloquent than the movie's events. It looked like a grandly touching soundtrack for another better romance that eventually I didn't watch ! It promises all the time but the movie doesn't deliver, or at least doesn't deliver that talented much. Just like watching the photo-montage of the city's signs with emotional music in the background. That was a direct love story between the makers of the movie and the civilization of that oppressed part of the world more than the dramatic love story between (Barley) & (Katya). Therefore that beautiful sequence seemed like a TV program about Russia's ancient splendor or the greatness of its prisoner art which deserves now to be free, putting in mind that this movie was the first major American production to be shot on location in the former Soviet Union, however that was out of the story as explicit expression from the drama's makers not its characters !Not to mention characters we didn't go deep enough inside them, and a die hard happy ending that abbreviated nearly everything in a fool not convincing way (the memo was just a hoax !?), and miscarried a decent climax for the spy story...Though maybe the whole movie was a disloyalty to the spy story and the spy business itself to make such a romance which assures love more than anything, but (The Russia House) couldn't serve any of them powerfully despite the sensitive atmosphere, the brilliant cinematography, the great music, and the try to make a dreamy happy end out of (Casablanca). "},{"Title":"Artistic piece of work","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie based on Carrès book. Connery and Pfeiffer interact great and persuasive. The music-content and music-scenes makes it a ten-score.Touching, true, intelligent and sensitive. Some politics, some anarchism, some concerts, some spying, some history and some romance. Perfect!The filming of Russia is stunning and real. The people, buildings and weather sums it all up. Katjas uncle and children...it is all so real and convincing.Growing up love, Russia and US fall in love, integrity and affection for each other In the middle of a huge plot between Dante and American investigators who wants to sell a Picasso to Mr. Publisher Barley. But Mr. Barleys Picasso is not for sale...The man's got integrity and to the American investigators anger, anarchistic tendencies. Except for one of them, who actually want to help Mr. Barley. Pretty sympathetic for an American to be...  "},{"Title":"WORDY THRILLER WITH INTRIGUE","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"      Rather long, protracted and talky picture (based on the novel of the same name by John LeCarr`e) about British publisher caught up in espionage plot.          The movie would have been completely sunk, had it not been for the strong performances by its principles, Sean Connery as Barley and Michelle Pfeiffer as Katya. Although he has a relatively small role, Klaus Maria Brandauer (Hanussen) puts in his usually fine, sometimes understated performance.     RUSSIA HOUSE falls in on the tail end of the Soviet Union. The British and American spy machines go into operation, and a lot (I mean a LOT) of talking ensues, without the benefit of action. This dulls the picture (not to mention the viewers) considerably. Perhaps, if the duration had been trimmed back, it would have helped. Who knows?     The viewer never seems to get the exciting climax that most political thrillers offer, say like for instance, THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. This movie is for serious LeCarr`e fans only.            "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Booooring, pretentious, confusing, pointless.If you like the James Bond or Bourne movies, stay away from this one like from the pest. Some of the positive reviews say it's worth watching it because of the way St Petersburg is shown, but having to put up with a weak, unfocused and uneventful plot, with the worst possible editing job and an improvable production job, is just not worth it. Rent a documentary about the city but do not watch this movie. Next time I will check the IMDb before recording a movie, although I may not always agree with the overall ratings of every single movie (Fanny and Alexander should be 2.8 not the other way around). I like technically good movies that move me, that thrill me, that leave an impression on me. This was not it. "},{"Title":"Didn't Pique My Interest","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Russia House should have been a great film. Certainly with spirit of glasnost prevailing at the time, the western crews who came to the soon to be extinct Soviet Union to make this film got some great location cinematography of Leningrad, Moscow and other points of interest on the European continent. Sean Connery's name heading the cast should have guaranteed box office and I'm sure a few people paid for movie tickets for Russia House.Unfortunately what they got was one two hour long boring story. Connery is a book publisher who gets a manuscript from a Russian scientist telling the truth about their defense capabilities. Of course the spy agencies from the UK and the USA find out about it and enlist Connery in some dangerous games to prove the authenticity of the manuscript.This is a spy story with no guns, no gadgets, but unfortunately no real story. Totally unlike other John LeCarre stories done for the screen like The Spy Who Came In From the Cold or Smiley's People. Try as I might I just could not get into this film, not even for Sean Connery.Michelle Pheiffer is the go between for the Russian scientist and Connery the publisher. A little May/December romance evolves between Connery and Pheiffer, but it doesn't save the story.If you're expecting James Bond from Russia House, don't bother. But I can't say see it if you expect something like The Spy Who Came In From the Cold. "},{"Title":"The Slumber House","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I read John LeCarre's book and I never thought a movie version could be as boring, but somehow, it was.Sean Connery is expectedly appealing, but one can tell he only did this movie so he could get a free trip to Russia. Michelle Pfeiffer is cute, though she appears to have bitten off more than she can chew here. Nice Russian cityscapes, but the musical soundtrack drones on endlessly in the background. It would be difficult to recommend this film over LeCarre's novel - both are convoluted. One of those flicks where you can fall asleep for 10 minutes and then wake up with the feeling that you haven't missed anything. Snooze City. "}{"Title":"A good last 12 minutes","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I was disappointed in this film. As a spy film, so-so. Not much intrigue and never a sense of danger. As a romance, it's not that great either just OK. Of course most every man is attracted to Michelle Pfeiffer, but the story itself doesn't build anything in the Connery character toward that relationship. The only thing the writing puts in there is that he's smitten by her when he first sees a picture of her. The opposite is also true, but not as much. It's understandable that she would have attraction to him from his acting as savior to her and her family, but he's 28 years older, and the writing doesn't address or overcome this. You just have to suspend your disbelief--hard. However, it works a little bit because as the viewer, you like Sean Connery, still see him as 1962's James Bond; and, you like Michelle Pfeiffer. This film could have used lots of editing. It's over two hours and moves very slowly. As my title says, the last 12 minutes are pretty good, but not so great that I enthusiastically say it was worth the wait. Rather, I say The last 12 minutes are good, and the first 110 are simply just so-so. "},{"Title":"a brave attempt to film a much richer novel","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Sean Connery further undermines his James Bond image by portraying, with obvious irony, a grubby amateur spy exploited by British Intelligence to obtain top secret information from somewhere inside the Kremlin. It's a far cry from Ian Fleming, presenting a serious, more credible espionage caper and suggesting that underneath the cosmetic reforms of glasnost the same invisible wheels continue turning (and for spy writers like John Le Carré, they had better be). The game of bluff and counter-bluff will be familiar to any fan of cloak-and-dagger fiction (the true villains, not surprisingly, are the gray-suited puppet-masters of the SIS and CIA), but all the clichés of the genre are at least brought together with a craftsmanship rare in Hollywood at the time. Director Fred Schepisi takes advantage of the Russian locations by making the film into something of a wide-screen travelogue, but the absurd, happily-ever-after epilogue is out of place it looks like an imposed afterthought, and certainly can't match the more thoughtful ambivalence of the book's final pages. "},{"Title":"Michelle Pfeiffer as a Russian Doll","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" She not only does the accent, she looks the part. Michelle Pfeiffer as a Russian woman makes this Cold War tale retain its interest, and as for Sean Connery, for once he has an actual rounded character to play, complete with eccentricities, and he does it splendidly. This is a highly successful adaptation of a John le Carre novel. Of course it is all predicated on the menace of the Cold War, even though there is much talk of 'glasnost', photos of Gorbachev are now hanging on the walls, and things are meant to be loosening up in Russia. (In fact this was the first Western film ever made there.) But the Soviet Union still exists, so that this is one of the last big spy movies based upon the Soviet threat. With this film, John le Carre's spy world went out not with a whimper but with a bang. It is a rattling good tale, and well worth the watch today. The supporting actors are very good Roy Scheider, Klaus Maria Branauer, James Fox, Michael Kitchen, Ken Russell (yes, the director), David Threlfall, and others. Russell gets a bit hysterical in some of his scenes, but one would expect that from him. Brandauer has his usual magnetic intensity. Kitchen is cozy, like the sort of thing you sit in for your cuppa tea. The story itself does have some inert elements, since a group of spy masters sitting around in a control room getting remote signals all the time from Moscow is hard to make dynamic, no matter how many snide remarks they keep making to each other, and how much artificial tension is generated by ambiguous signals which confuse and worry them. One could easily pick no end of holes in the plot. But why should one? The film overcomes all these weaknesses and carries us right along. Somebody somewhere has forgotten how to make good spy stories simply, and the ones being made at the moment are generally too 'busy', leaving little room to breathe between surprises, and characters are too often two-dimensional. Here the two leads are not only written in the round (a clever script by Tom Stoppard helps!), they are played in the round by two real pros. Fred Schepisi does a wonderful job of directing. All good fun, and it really takes you back. It seems only yesterday that Red Square inspired more fear by far than the wastes of Waziristan, or whatever pale substitute for fear we are meant to be quivering about today. This film was shot on location in Lisbon, Moscow, and St. Petersburg (then still Leningrad), and there is a lot of magnificent cinematography, so that the film is partly a travelogue showing us glimpses of wonderful things. It is such a shame that they had to cut away from some of those shots in the interests of the storyline and not linger over them, such as the amazing roof in Lisbon and some glimpses of the Russian countryside, which are so tantalizingly brief. "},{"Title":"Honor is due","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The Russia House is a Cold War espionage story based on the novel by John le Carré. The film features impressive shots of Moscow and Leningrad matched by a great score from Jerry Goldsmith. Since the film was shot in 1990, it depicts the Soviet Union in the wake of Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms and on the verge of collapse.Leading the cast is Sean Connery, who shows an interesting character in Barley Blair, a British publisher that is reluctantly dragged into the world of espionage. Michelle Pfeiffer is perfect as Katya, a Russian woman involved in the intrigue. Pfeiffer's Russian accent and her nuances in speaking English were a great part of her character. The relationship between Barley and Katya is well-developed and makes the romance in the film welcome. The supporting cast is also superb, with Klaus Maria Brandauer as Dante, James Fox as a warm yet tempered British Intelligence bureaucrat and Roy Scheider as a crass CIA bureaucrat.The story of The Russia House develops slowly and thoughtfully. Those looking for a spy movie with a lot of action scenes should definitely avoid this film. I enjoyed the interesting story progression and the film's focus on character development. The film's end was a very satisfactory end to the intrigue. "},{"Title":"not that spectacular","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" for me,this adaptation of A John le Carr'e novel is nothing spectacular.in fact,i found it boring and hard to follow.plus,i didn't find any of the character compelling.and there were many predictable moments as well.i will say though that Michele Pfeiffer was convincing as a Russian woman.she had the accent down pat,as far as i could tell.and there were some nice shots of Russian buildings.some of the old buildings are quite magnificent to behold.unfortunately,none of the above is the reason i wanted to watch the movie.i just wanted it end,but i went on and on.and on.anyway,my vote for the Russia House is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Endlessly tiresome and confusing","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the impressive writing and acting credits, I could never figure out what the plot was, who was doing wehat to whom and so on and finally after an hour, I gave up.  A total waste of time, frankly - poorly scripted, and appallingly directed. Slow, tedious....Skip this one on TV..which is where I endured it tonight. "},{"Title":"Is the DVD different than the original?","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Saw this when it came out in the theaters and years later bought it on DVD. I'm convinced that it was re-cut and edited to be more romantic on the DVD version. I don't think it was as full of music (which is truly remarkable - Branford Marsalis is right up there with the great saxophonists) or had such a sappy ending (I think) when it was first released.There's some great acting in it, particularly by Roy Scheider on the CIA side, as well as James Fox and Michael Kitchen on the British side. But most especially by Klaus Maria Brandauer. He stands up well to Sean Connery. Hated Ken Russel. Don't like his movies much and hated his acting.So, does anyone know if this was re-cut for DVD release? "},{"Title":"A real, and romantic spy thriller, but you can still get the popcorn in","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The pacing, but neither acting nor depth of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. A suggestion of Bond - Brandauer, Connery, Fox. Oh, and Ken Russell downstage centre for the first half. Did he get written out, or was he removed half way through the project? Too much colour would throw most matinee audiences off Tom Stoppard's meticulously constructed adaptation.The film doesn't quite catch, notably the romance which should dominate and lift us out of the latter plot labyrith. But I like the direction, the pacing, the cutting. I like a fair bit of the acting, mostly the British (English!) input, it must be said. I also like the score, which is dated and a even a bit self-regarding ('featuring Brandford Marsalis' in the opening titles). But then RIP Jerry Goldsmith, you never did average.And average the film is well above, a thinking matinee. Hide the Bond collection and get this DVD out when your Mum's staying. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Real romance between Sean Connery and Michelle Pfeifer","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  THE RUSSIA HOUSE gets a 10 out of 10 rating because the CIA and MI6 are always perfect. As a CIA informant I should know. I once had a Russian walk up to me with a bucket full of nerve gas, my hands began to shake uncontrollably. He smiled and said smells like fish he wore a Russian spetsnaz style hat. I looked at him angrily but didn't say anything. For some time I thought the Russians had invaded Canada to try a stunt like that but a quick check on CNN showed me that everything was fine. I recognized the guy as Russian because of the accent and he looked a lot like Putin I have also taken a Canadian Forces Intelligence course. I informed the CIA about the incident but didn't say anything to the police because I had no proof and they would have said I was crazy. If the Russians walk around gassing me and the Chinese Peoples republic army try to light up cigarettes around me and give me the evil eye already I have nothing more to lose saying I am a CIA informant. I was investigating a Russian named Anatoly for the Ontario Provincial Police Intelligence Section prior to being gassed and it didn't take much to anger the Russians. Thats how I know how demanding the role of Informant is.         In the RUSSIA HOUSE Sean Connery as Barley Blair investigates the origin of three notebooks that a defector has sent to British Intelligence containing Russian Military secrets. Connerys character knows a lot about investigating Russians and he does a good job. The romance between Connery and Michelle Pfeifer is believeable. The dialogue is very cerebral and believable and the viewer comes to think of Connerys character as a spook or werewolf as they say in American intelligence circles. The camera angles of people entering and leaving the Russia house are tight and grim. "},{"Title":"missed the potential!","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this movie has some great actors (Connery, Pfeiffer and Brandauer) and with that a story combined, make a huge potential to be put onscreen. It never quite gets above average, though many times it was interesting.What disturbed me was the pacing and redundancy of so many scenes. I don't mind longer and well shot scenes, as long as they fit and hit. In The Russia House the entire movie has a plot cut down to only a few moments of talking and walking and love, which isn't bad, but was made bad through the directors artistic feeling for this picture. He tried to make some melancholy and drama by forcing a slow pace and long shots. It doesn't work when nothing happens. As well some scenes (especially in the beginning when Connery is in Lisbon in an interrogation) take very long to be established because the director showed them several times, just with different angles and dialogue which do not further the story or character.If only some of the more suspenseful scenes (they weren't that suspenseful) were shot to be suspenseful, even just for the cause to be suspenseful, this movie would have been much better and I would have rated it sure above 5 points. "}{"Title":"Pretty pointless movie! Boring....","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I didn't expect much from this movie but still it was surprisingly bad. I mean it doesn't do anything for you. It doesn't make you laugh, cry, excited, afraid or anything. The romance between Pfeiffer and Connery isn't very convincing. There are good actors in this movie and they are all wasting their time. Even Connery, he's starting only to annoy with his ssshhh. There are no great feelings in this movie, it's not comedy, thriller, drama, it is just a movie. And too long, nothing happens in two hours. Only funny thing in the film is that there is Martin Clunes from Men Behaving Badly in a role with no lines. But as I said The Russia House is a pointless movie. I gave it 3/10, perhaps even that's too much. "},{"Title":"Four out of five bag tags","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  After viewing all the other movies my flight from Canada to Hong Kong had to offer, I watched Russia House.Now, since I'm not a morbid guy, I don't wish the plane had crashed in a blazing comet of flame. However, if a minor rupture in the pressurized glass near my seat had occurred and proceeded to suck my 160-pound frame through a 2-inch crack in the window, yet spare the other passengers, I would be a much happier man right now.I understand some think the movie is beautiful, transcendent and touching.Don't buy a suit from these people. They would find tweed exciting.My biggest beef is the score. It sounds absolutely grating as it relentlessly wallows in melancholy. Boring melancholy, at that. Plus, it doesn't even sound Russian. Hello-o-o, *RUSSIA* HOUSE? Where's the lira? The gudok? I didn't even hear a gusli.Also, in an intellectual thriller with a man and woman holding each other on the poster, you would assume you'd get a love scene. Usually the lead actress takes off her top for this type of movie to up her chances for an Oscar. Well, if you like breasts, that's another reason to skip this; you get NOTHING from Michelle Pfeiffer. (I recommend A Midsummer Night's Dream to rectify this sad happening.)Furthermore, Sean Connery was in this movie and I don't recall seeing a single gun. Connery + guns = deadly entertainment! If this is what the end of the Cold War means, I say turn down the thermostat, Russia! Connery was definitely On His Majesty's Secret Snore-fest here. (He made Red October the same year. Now THAT'S a good Russian movie.)Everyone is so dry and drab in this film that even the over-the-top, ambiguously homosexual whatever-the-hell-his-job-was comic relief guy is tortuous. I can honestly never sleep on flights, but this one knocked me out after 15 minutes. Unfortunately, my oh-so-delectable airline food soon arrived to wake me up and plunged me back into the fiery hell of Russia House.If I had to choose between watching this movie again and getting slapped in the scrotum four times, I'd honestly take the bag tags.Avoid it like castration.  "},{"Title":"Cold War Drama That Left Me Cold","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  THE RUSSIA HOUSE is a very well acted film with a good though electic cast. Connery is fairly good in his role but he could have played the part with a little more laid back attitude , Pfeiffer is great as is Klaus Marie Brandauer but whose idea was it to cast Ken Russell and Martin Clunes ? The problem I had with THE RUSSIA HOUSE is that John Le Carre novels are not a good source material for films , they`re far too literary with lots of scenes of characters discussing espionage strategy and the human condition and this is no different . There`s too much talk , too much philosophy and not enough action . I remember this film was marketed as a thriller on its release when it`s nothing of the sort - it`s a drama . Bare this in mind and you may not be too disappointed while watching it   "},{"Title":"boooooooooooring","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I figured, a good espionage thriller starring Sean Connery, right? Wrong. The pacing is slooooooooooow, the dialogue is ponderous and pretentious, e.g Sometimes you have to betray your country to save your country. (which is true only in John LeCarre and Graham Greene novels), and it's hard to care about what's happening on screen. Some nice photography of Russian locales, but on the whole, forget it. "}]