[{"Title":"Pacific Heights is Educational","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Pacific Heights is required viewing in all Apartment Management courses in San Diego County. It is a chilling tale of decent but uneducated and unprepared new owners with a dream unknowingly up against a seasoned player in the professional renter game. This viewing requirement is one of the tools used to introduce starry-eyed management newcomers to the harsh and not-so-easily apparent world of the sick, the dangerous and the sue-happy portion of the rental market who will try to get the management stripped of all their personal assets and possessions, fired and possibly jailed, who work diligently to get the owner's property away from him/her, and who have no objection to going down as long as they can take others with them. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Keaton shines as the villain!","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Prior to this film,we only saw Michael Keaton in comedic,and good guy roles.In Pacific Heights,he proves to us that he is not afraid to turn on us and be the bad guy.Keaton is excellent as Carter Hayes,the worst kind of no account,as he knows how to stay just out of reach of the law. The character is very similar to that of Max Cady in Cape Fear,though Cady is the far more memorable of the two.Carter Hayes is a nightmarish tenant wreaking havoc on the lives of his helpless landlords,wonderfully played by Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine.I consider this film to be an overlooked classic that never really got the attention it deserved,perhaps because no one wanted to see Keaton,particularly after his Batman success,as a villain.Those looking for a modern day Hitchcock-esque thriller will find a winner here.Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Flawed, but good enough","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film didn't completely win me over like I was hoping it would, but some solid acting, a good premise, and a few clever scenes made it worthwhile.  There was never anything particularly suspenseful about the film, and you pretty much know who will win by the end, but the loathesome Michael Keaton character helped to keep me interested throughout.  There were also a few things that especially annoyed me, including the terminally stupid Matthew Modine character, but this movie just has too many positives for me to dwell on the negatives.  It's by no means perfect, but it's an effective thriller nonetheless. "},{"Title":"underrated film","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie again recently, and I have to say that upon reconsideration I think this film is a bit underrated. There are a few deeper sociological issues being explored here that I perceive but are quite subtle in their appearance in the film.It is a study about the law to some degree, and it has some critical things to say about the ability for one who knows the law and its loopholes and thus exploits others with tools that were originally intended to preserve civil society. Keaton plays a psycho, but one who is highly educated and quite adept at his craft of fraud and deceit.Further, Modine's character is irrational, befuddled, and ultimately marginalized. I wonder if the director took some liberties with him (as this is a true story, I don't know everything about the real person he portrays) to bring out a few of his close-minded tendencies that may have contributed to the awful situation in which he finds himself. Obviously, there is the closet racism which keeps him from renting to a black man (this is thrown in the viewer's face later and is quite obvious), but there is also the way he perceives a man's role as the solver of problems and his wife as nothing more than a spectator.That she ends up being the one to calmly and coolly affect a search for and investigate Keaton's character, assaults the traditional notions of a man's role as a protector. Her temperament is ultimately more appropriate for the solution to the problem, and I think it is no accident that the director portrays it in this way. "},{"Title":"The last 10 minutes","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  William Goldman says that the last 15 minutes are the most important of any movie and that's what saves what is otherwise a sometimes fascinating but often dull film in Pacific Heights.The plot line is fairly interesting but feels rather drawn out through most of the film, until the fantastic ending pulls out all the stops and turns the film into something good. The writing in general is a bit contrived and the dialogue fairly wooden, but it isn't quite enough to destroy the film even early.The acting is very uneven, led by a terrible Melanie Griffith and a middling performance by Matthew Modine in terms of screen time, but certainly controlled by the fantastic performance of Michael Keaton, one of the world's greatest actors. Keaton is especially fantastic in the final sequence, from his charming act with the old woman to his harrowing, venemous final scene there is a complete change in who he is and it is all the more frightening and powerful for the juxtaposition.Schlesinger's direction, besides Keaton's performance, is probably the saving grace of the film. He manages to inject a beautiful dark style to the film that the script rather lacks but seems to want while also keeping us in a blunt reality with the plain, simple outdoor shots. His use of lighting and well-chosen camera angles wonderfully play up the situation.Overall, Pacific Heights is a middling film with a fantastic performance by Michael Keaton and good direction by John Schlesinger that turns into something better with its fantastic, surprising, venemously satisfying ending. If you watch it, though, don't give up on it 'til it's over.  "},{"Title":"Tenants are the curse of the propertied class","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a carefully programmed yuppie nightmare, something to titillate the emotions betwixt the sushi and the creme de mint, something to remind the upwardly mobile that you have to keep your guard up at all times because there are animals out there waiting to take it all away from you.Clever plot premise Yuppie couple, stylishly unmarried, possibly for tax purposes, buy a painted lady in the Pacific Heights district of San Francisco, a Victorian fixer upper for $750,000. It's the 1980's and everybody is getting rich in California real estate. They are now in yuppie heaven since there are two rentals on the property which take care of $2300 of the $3700 monthly mortgage, which leaves them responsible for only $1400, which is less then they were paying before, and now they have a huge tax write-off and hopefully an appreciating property. Of course they are margined to the gills, but what can go wrong?How about the tenant from hell? Forget about your wild parties and your late-with-the-rent dead beats. This guy (Michael Keaton as a slimy, upper crust psycho genius) doesn't even pay the deposit. He just moves in, squats, and our yuppie couple is helpless to get rid of him since by law he now has possession. He changes the locks, cultivates big ugly oriental cockroaches, and pounds away at all hours of the night, and chases off the other tenant. Seems he has done this before. Seems it is an elaborate scam to gain total possession of the entire property. Next to go are the owners.Naturally the cops and the law seem to work for him, not our adorable couple. (This is a little fictional reality to further excite the passions of the audience, call it poetic license, since we all know that the tenant/landlord laws in California are written by and for the propertied class, as they are anywhere else, as is only right.) But this is a morality play. Could it be that our yuppies are undeserving of their wealth and are easy prey in the econ jungle because of their naiveté? Could be. But as this is a modern morality tale, you can be sure that the woman, played with worrisome lines under her eyes by the ever adorable Melanie Griffith, will turn the tables and kick some male butt despite the handicap of having a not too bright boyfriend, who is easily manipulated by our villain into some rather stupid male behavior that makes things worse for our heroine. Incidentally, he is played with such annoying exactitude by Matthew Modine that I can hear the rednecks in the audience screaming Die yuppie scum! It should be noticed that the adversary of the yuppies is not your standard ghetto dweller, but a wayward member of the upper class, a fitting adversary in this yuppie trial by fire.I'll let you guess who wins.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Why Background Checks Are A Good Idea... (spoilers)","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Pacific Heights is a great movie is you're in the mood for good suspense. It is the tale of two newlyweds (Melanie Griffith as Patty; Matt Modine as Drake), slightly short on reasonable income, who buy a hefty house in Pacific Heights. Being a larger house than they initially intended to buy, they rent out the floors. One goes to a polite Asian couple. The other, to a wealthy man (Michael Keaton as Carter Hayes) who is in the business of real estate scams. Carter is the worst case scenario of a tenant. Short of murdering the landlords and fellow tenants, he moves in rather quickly and bypasses much of the background checks by telling the impressionable young couple a bunch of lies (actually, it's pretty much Drake's fault for rushing into everything without adequately checking up on Hayes). Then, without every paying up the rent or deposit, he hangs around just long enough to get tenant's rights (or at least a presumption of rights, after which the already tight-budget couple would have to sue to claim misrepresentation and everything) and keep the couple from kicking him out. Gradually, terrorizing them as he had done so many times before. It's all part of his scam.Michael Keaton is terrific as the elusive and obviously strange and brutally eerie Carter Hayes. He is so creepy, I think that's what makes the movie so suspenseful like the scene when he's hanging out in the basement when the power goes out. Or the final revenge sequence in the hotel (perhaps the finale is one of the greatest revenge sequences ever in a movie!). The guy who's made it his purpose to raise as much hell as possible to get what he wants. But, this may well be the last time Carter gets away with it. Patty and Drake seem to fall apart when their tenant not only refuses to leave, but makes trouble for the other tenants (in a pretty gross way).Drake doesn't handle the situation too well. The couple immediately feel helpless when even the law fails to rid them of Carter Hayes. The viewer, too, gets on edge about Carter Hayes. How do you make a guy like this get the f*ck out of your home? (That's one of the great elements of suspense, in a way, we feel like the invasion of Patty and Drake's home is like an invasion of our own. That's just how powerful a character like Carter Hayes is). And Drake's form of vigilante justice isn't the smartest way of handling the situation, using fists of fury rather than intellect, which seems to only exacerbate the couple's problems. In fact, Patty is the one responsible for the fantastic events that create one of the best revenge scenes and really give Carter Hayes his own just deserts.Pacific Heights really is a fantastic thriller. Some might not appreciate Matthew Modine being cast as Drake here. A part like this might've called for someone less dorky, since Drake wasn't really a straggly guy, he was just a guy who wanted to get rid of Carter too fast without really thinking about the smartest way of going about it. However, Melanie Griffith works great in her role as Patty. Nonetheless, it is really good stuff, a thriller that you're sure to enjoy! "},{"Title":"I got what I expected...","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Pacific Heights is based on a true story, about a couple who rent out an apartment to a crazy scam man, played by Michael Keaton in the film, who reak havoc. Needless to say, this is a very basic and very predictable thriller, if that is what you want to call it, but it's more of a character study, and despite its predictability it IS very watchable.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Michael Keaton Is The Movies Saving Grace","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" An unusual choice for Michael Keaton to follow up his first Batman movie with him going from hero and to outright villain.Plot In A Paragraph Drake Goodman (Modine) and Patty Palmer (Griffith)an unmarried couple, purchase an expensive 19th-century house in the exclusive Pacific Heights neighbourhood. They rent one of the building's two first-floor apartments to the Watanabes, a kindly Japanese couple. Not long after, Carter Hayes (Keaton) visits to view the remaining vacant unit and immediately expresses a desire to move in. Hayes drives an expensive Porsche and carries large amounts of cash on him. He convinces Drake to waive the credit check in exchange for a list of personal references and an upfront payment of the first six months' rent, to be paid by wire transfer. Before any of that happens he moves in unannounced and refuses to leave.Melanie Griffith whilst looking great is awful acting wise, and Matthew Modine had me questioning how this man forged a career as an actor. Some of my main annoyances came from his character, and I had my concerns that he may end up being the real psycho, but his performance really was dire.It's Keaton as the villain of the piece, who shines and gives the movie it's best scenes. Tippi Hedren and Dan Hedaya have small roles and Beverley D'Angelo has an uncredited role as a former lover/business partner of Carter's. I'm not sure why she is uncredited though. "},{"Title":"Maddeningly vague, but surprisingly effective","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Pacific Heights is unusual among psycho-thrillers because of its completely different approach to psychological terror. Instead of a Freddy Krueger or a Michael Myers we have Michael Keaton as a psychotic tenant who makes life hell for his landlords Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine. Knowing every legal loophole in the book, his weapons of choice are restraining orders and civil suits, not butcher knives and chainsaws. Driving them to increasingly desperate measures to evict him, Keaton dreams up new and more sadistic methods to torment them.I've always thought Pacific Heights is rather underrated. It's got a mite more intelligence than you'd expect from Hollywood's hijacked psycho-stalker genre. John Schlesinger directs it all with confidence, but then he's an old hand in this area. And Michael Keaton is wonderfully malevolent. His presence makes the entire movie. I've always enjoyed the course the film takes us on. Even if it occasionally gets into some muddy areas along the way, Pacific Heights is compelling to the very end.Modine and Griffith play Drake Goodman and Patty Palmer. A young and naive yuppie couple, they renovate a Victorian house in San Francisco. Truthfully, the house is more than they can afford, but can (barely) make ends meet by renting out two downstairs apartments. One to a nice Japanese couple. And the other to businessman Carter Hayes (Keaton).Hayes moves in without permission, or even a down payment. He locks himself in, not paying any rent. He has a roommate, who hammers away to all hours of the night. He changes the locks. Breeds cockroaches. Drives away the other tenants. And because no money is coming in, Drake and Patty's legal status is becoming all the more shakier. As is they're relationship.Pacific Heights is a film that comes with a certain appeal when looked at closely enough. The idea of a tenant being able to have more power than a landlord is scary stuff. I didn't always believe some of the stunts the film pulls. Unleashing hordes of cockroaches is perhaps going a little too far. Even for a psycho-thriller. Even a tenant who knows how to manipulate the law for his own purposes would have to face culpability sometime.And yet at the same time, Pacific Heights is a constant source of fascination. Hayes leads Drake and Patty through a wonderfully complex legal minefield. Its surprisingly the film's threats of foreclosure and mounting bills that are more effective than its outright sinister approaches.This is a criminally overlooked performance on Michael Keaton's resume. In fact he's always been an actor long overdue recognition. Hot off the success of Batman, Keaton plunges right into the role of Carter Hayes with pure, unadulterated relish. Even though Hayes' motivations are never exactly made clear, its Keaton's performance that sells the character.This is a man with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. He apparently comes from a broken home. Shut out of the family fortune. Disowned. So now he takes a perverse pleasure in destroying the lives of those happier than his. Keaton is a powerful presence. All the more remarkable considering he spends most of the film behind closed doors.Whenever Keaton is around, you sit up and pay attention. But I can't really say the same for Modine and Griffith. Modine is annoying the way he stupidly plays into Hayes' hands time and again.And as for Griffith, she only really comes into her own towards the end. Melanie Griffith once showed signs of being a promising actress in the 80s. Witness her superb performance in Working Girl. But over the years her star has paled, and now she's nothing more than another face in the crowd.But towards the end, we finally see something of the promise she showed in Working Girl. She exacts a little revenge on Hayes by playing him at his own game. She tracks him down to a swanky hotel, has his bank account frozen, and charges hundreds of dollars worth of room service to his credit card. That's the Melanie I remember.But elsewhere, every shred of enjoyment to be had comes courtesy of Keaton. There is something wonderfully poetic to Pacific Heights at times. Not to mention unnerving. Like when Hayes calmly provokes Drake into beating the crap out of him, because the stress of all this causes a pregnant Patty to suffer a miscarriage. And best of all, Drake is legally restrained from entering his own home. Because of Hayes' presence there.The climax is pretty good too. That's the point when Schlesinger (and Keaton) forgets about being courteous, and launches into all out psycho mode. Complete with nail-guns and spikes.Pacific Heights is maddeningly vague at times about where its going to go next. But I think its a worthwhile film, and well worthy of reevaluation. Also look out for a fine turn from the underrated Laurie Metcalf as Drake and Patty's attorney. She lights up the screen just as much as Keaton does. "}{"Title":"Good film with par acting","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is one of the few films there are about being a property landlord(the other is 2003's Duplex). A young and naive couple(Modine and Griffith) are convinced to move into a building that they cannot afford and decide to rent out some rooms to help pay the mortgage. Predictibly, their perfect plan is destroyed by a seemingly respectable tenant(played well in a rare villain role by Michael Keaton) who ends up driving away other tenants and putting a strain on the couple's relationship with his increasingly erratic behavior.The film is suspenseful right up until the last minute, but there were some problems. First, Modine's anger at the situation and Keaton seemed to escalate way too quickly. He simply flew off the handle at which could have been honest, simple mistakes on Keaton's part such as day or so late with the first rent payment. It may have been more effective if the tension built more slowly.Overall, a pretty good film with good suspense and fairly good acting. "},{"Title":"Yuppie plight (spoilers)","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's not often we're asked to sympathise with landlords. Usually they're the villains of the piece. They're the ball-breakers, the money grabbers and the bastards who'll kick you out of your gaff just for playing your Kenny G collection a fraction louder than normal. But remember, this is essentially an 80s film &#150; sure it may have been released in 1990, but that's a mere technicality. Therefore we're in the 'greed is good' era. The era that looks up to yuppies and people who live well beyond their means. So we're meant to feel sorry for these people, people whose biggest problem in life is whether they should go for a 750k Victorian house in an exclusive neighbourhood or something more modest &#150; say, something for a paltry half million. I'm sure many people would like that sort of problem.But I'm being a bit harsh. You need a big house for a film like this a glossy, vacuous thriller. A two up two down just wouldn't have the same effect. I mean, could you imagine Panic Room in a semi-detached? It wouldn't work. But still, for a variety of reasons it is somewhat difficult to feel sorry for the couple in the film.The first reason has already been given. I'm an envious bastard. I wish I could live in such a beautiful house. The second reason, though, is that Matthew Modine and Melanie Griffith are perhaps the blandest couple in cinematic history. If they were a colour they'd be magnolia. If they were a snack they'd be bread and butter. And if they were a country they'd be Belgium. I just can't get terribly caught up in their plight. And the third reason for my apathy is that they're so stupid. They rent out an apartment to some bloke just because he drives a Porsche and flashes some cash. Sod that, just give me your credit details. But of course, the sneaky Carter Hayes has an excuse ready and manages to convince them that he's a stand-up guy. He even has some false references set up.But again I'm being harsh. But this time I'm being harsh on Melanie Griffith's character Patty. It's Drake (Modine) that Carter fools. Patty is suspicious from the start. And it's actually quite clear that Patty is infinitely more intelligent and resourceful than Drake. She's the one who tracks down Carter when he goes missing. She's the one who finds out about Carter's past. And she's the one who bumps Carter off (yeah, Drake may grab hold of Carter's ankle and steal the glory, but Patty does the hard work). And to further prove how emasculated Drake is, Patty's a better decorator and she takes control when screwing. And after Drake gets shot she tucks him in for beddy-byes. Patty's the one with the balls.And further highlighting the strange gender reversal in the film is how pleased Drake is when he's forced to move out of the big house and into a flat with one of his mates. Patty is all-alone with the dastardly Carter Hayes while Drake is living it up with his pal. We even see them flambéing together! But remember, this is San Francisco we're talking about. (It's also worth noting that Dorian Harewood plays Drake's pal. It's a Full Metal Jacket reunion. Joker and Eightball on Civvy Street.)But gender reversal aside, the film is entirely conventional. The bad guy is something of a genius, the other tenants are kindly individuals and the only hope for justice is justifiable homicide. Indeed, the law, in time-honoured fashion, proves itself to be a complete ass. Some goddamned liberal has given tenants rights! The bastards! But hey, at least the film proves that all you've got to do to get justice is to go after the dangerous psychopath that's been making your life a misery, enrage him, force him to break into your home and kill him before he kills you. It's the recourse I'll stand by if I'm ever in the same situation.But despite the film's predictability and it's numerous faults, it's still enjoyable entertainment. Yeah Griffith's helium-powered voice is annoying. Yeah Patty's investigation into Carter's whereabouts is made ridiculously easy by the fact that Ellen Griswold hands her a postcard with Carter's current location pictured on the front. And yeah it has a dream sequence that looks like it comes from Spinal Tap and an oriental couple who bow a lot, but damn it, it has Carter Hayes! The man's a loony extraordinaire.My favourite Carter bit is when he comes to 'apologise' after Patty has a miscarriage. Nature can be so cruel some times. How can you not love a guy like that? And he also breeds cockroaches and plays with razor blades while sitting in the dark in his car. Of course, it makes no sense that he's sitting there in his car &#150; the oriental couple accidentally knock out the power and Patty has to go to the garage where she sees Carter who apparently sits there all day moodily smoking in his Porsche on the off chance that this might happen &#150; but who cares? We like our movie psychos to have panache.We also like our movie psychos to be smart. And at the beginning Carter does well on this front. He plays everyone like clockwork. But when the script demands it he can be as stupid as Forrest Gump. He keeps a book of newspaper clippings with him so that his entire past can be revealed when the heroine decides to get revenge. Oh how vain you are Carter! And oh how dead, too. Another thing we like from our psychos is a nasty death, and Carter gets a good one. He falls onto a couple of steel pipes. Ouch! And thankfully the film refrains from the standard, 'Boo, I'm not really dead' final shock. It's about the only cliché the film avoids. "},{"Title":"Chilling Morality Tale Of Our Times.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's not personal. He's a professional. That's the advice given to the Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine - the couple in this movie - when they are robbed blind by the tenant from hell. Their beautiful home is stolen from under their feet and their marriage is put in jeopardy by ice-man Keaton's psychological demolition job.Having experience something similar from a sub-let myself I am not surprised that this is based on a true story as it rings chillingly true. I have met this kind of person and they are just like that. If they meet a nice, attractive, hardworking and likable couple justifiably proud of their dream house such a sociopath will only have one thought in their head; How do I get it away from them? In these days of second mortgages and 'extreme makeovers' we can hardly be surprised if this kind of villain multiplies faster than the cockroaches Keaton releases into Griffith and Modine's house.Watching this movie was certainly cathartic for me - and the ending was certainly satisfying. OK, maybe a little implausible? So what? So is Lord of the Rings - this film did it for me and if you've ever been conned by a demon tenant then you'll know exactly what I mean.ZB "},{"Title":"Duel of Writs","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS.  Manipulative, effective tale of the tenant from hell.  Keaton, well-dressed, polite, aces out other tenants and rents one of two apartments in an old Victorian house that a yuppie couple, Modine and Griffith, have just gone deeply into hock to buy and have lovingly refurbished.  The couple have maxed out their loan capability and need to rent both apartments in order to meet the mortgage on their $750,000 home in San Francisco.  Griffith is also pregnant, so their entire future is riding on this investment.Things begin well enough.  The Watanabes rent one of the apartments and Keaton the other, although there is some problem with his credit check.  Still, he weasels his way in by eliminating the application of another prospective tenant and by making earnest promises to pay soon.  He also takes immediate possession of the apartment without formal invitation. Then things go downhill fast.  Hammering and electric power tools can be heard from Keaton's apartment day and night.  He seems to have an unsavory, surly roommate.  He changes the locks on the door so Modine can't get in.  The Watanabe's complain that the noise is keeping them awake at night.  Nobody answers Modine's increasingly frantic knocks on the apartment door.  A horde of cockroaches that have been hatched in Keaton's apartment invade the rest of the house, driving the Watanabe's away.  Griffith has a miscarriage.  Not even loan sharks will lend them enough money for the mortgage payment.  When Modine shuts off the electric to Keaton's apartment, Keaton calls the police.  If you want to know why I used the word manipulative in describing this movie, the scene when the police arrive during the confrontation between the couple and Keaton is a good example.  We've all seen this situation before.  Innocent people accused by an evildoer in the presence of skeptical cops.  (How much wine did you have to drink before you think you saw a murder next door?  That sort of thing.)  Modine, the victim in this case, of course would be most effective if he calmly explained what had happened, matching Keaton's smooth and reasonable-sounding lies.  Instead he goes all to pieces, shouting obscenities at Keaton, sounding like a raving looney, until the cops have to haul him off to the side and tell him Keaton is within his rights and that he, Modine, should get a lawyer.He and Griffith do so, and the lawyer turns out to be sympathetic, helpless, and expensive.  Debt is piled upon debt, and nothing's coming in.  After the loss of their unborn child, Modine and Keaton are visited by a phonily contrite Keaton in person, who has just called the police and alerted them to an assault that is about to take place.  It does.  Modine beats hell out of Keaton and throws him through a glass door.  The police arrive, cuff Modine, and he winds up in jail, unable to make bail and facing a civil suit from the slimy tenant.  Keaton also has a restraining order put upon Modine, so that Modine must leave his own house and stay 500 feet from it while Keaton is present.  An ominous phone call from Griffith brings him back illegally, only to be met in the hallway and shot by Keaton.But Griffith manages to discover Keaton's identity and establish his MO, thereby getting him into trouble.  Keaton attacks her at night, attempting to nail her head to the floor with a staple gun, but is impaled upon the sword of justice, I mean the protruding bolts provided by the scriptwriters.More examples of manipulative techniques that are now utterly standardized.  When entering a room in which there is reason to believe danger lurks, the victim doesn't turn on the lights.  A previously somewhat dim-witted ordinary bourgeois turns into a virtual sleuth in the blink of an eye.  The villain's motive is sloughed off as unimportant -- all he really winds up doing is stealing some appliances, although he's already rich as Croesus. Still, for all the implausibilities, there's a lot of tension as the screws tighten on the yuppie couple.  (They have to sell the house in the end, but don't worry -- they make a tidy profit.)  The movie has a glossy modern sheen.  The old house looks just fine sitting up there on a hill in Pacific Heights.  It gives us violence but no shootouts or car chases or explosions.  The main source of dread is one that any of us could feel -- of having overreached ourselves, of buying shares of Enron and watching it nosedive, of having gotten in over our heads, of losing our jobs, of being victimized hatefully by a total stranger.  If you want to see the story in its raw form, without the newly applied bone white latex and the Kohler faucets, rent the original Cape Fear. "},{"Title":"Lows.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Sick little film has the dark and shady Michael Keaton terrorizing Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine after he rents the ground-floor apartment from the young couple. Keaton is truly frightening as the wild psychopath who just will not leave, but he gets no support from the rest of the cast. When Keaton finally decides he has done all he can to make life a living hell he takes off, but Griffith wants her revenge. This is supposedly based on a true story, but in the end a stumbling screenplay and unclear direction by John Schlesinger keeps Pacific Heights from reaching as high as it should have reached. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Disappointing; Needed More Of Keaton","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" What hurt my rating in this movie was that friend said It was the scariest, most suspenseful film I've ever seen! Well, I didn't find this to be the tense thriller she said.....or even close. Since I expected more, I was disappointed.The only interesting character was the villain, Carter Hayes, played nicely by Michael Keaton. The problem was he wasn't shown that much in the film. This movie needed more scenes with him in it, and less of the two other major characters Drake Goodman. (Matthew Modine) and Patty Palmer (Melanie Griffith).This starts off promising, as if it's going to be very suspenseful. Maybe it was Modine's unlikable character that turned me. Whatever it didn't have the impact I was expecting. Overall disappointing. "},{"Title":"yuppy horror not fun","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Drake Goodman (Matthew Modine) and his girlfriend Patty Palmer (Melanie Griffith) are stretching their finances to the limit to buy a San Francisco house. They need to rent the two ground floor apartments to cover the mortgage. They rent one apartment to the nice Watanabes. The other one they rent to Carter Hayes (Michael Keaton). Carter seems to be well-off initially. Things turn quickly. Carter never pays rent. He causes problems. The law is on his side. The couple gets Stephanie MacDonald (Laurie Metcalf) as their lawyer.Matthew Modine is so angry and so unlikeable that it's hard to root for him. He keeps yelling at everybody and it happens very quickly after the first hurdle. Michael Keaton is a nice creepy villain. It's somewhat a horror. The problem is that it's not a fun horror. The thrills are derived from annoyance. It is very good at being an uncomfortable watch. It's actually a relief when Modine takes a backseat to Griffith. For what it is, this is expertly made. "},{"Title":"ridiculous,  and yet has entertainment value","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Pacific Heights has characters - at least in the male leads - who are unlikable and/or are rather underdeveloped. To be sure, John Schlesinger casting Michael Keaton was a smart move the man has screen charisma to burn, certainly at that time in 1989/1990, when he was hot off his two most iconic performances (Batman/Beetlejuice, both hard not to quote at times during this movie when those characters got at their most crazed). But I wonder what the thought was with Matthew Modine; I couldn't tell whether he was mis-cast, or if the part as just crummy. In any case, Modine and Melanie Griffith are boyfriend/girlfriend, expecting a baby, and with a new house right in the heart of San Francisco that they need to rent out some levels to. Due to a misunderstanding they miss out on the Nice Black Guy (darn, there goes his application down the stairs, and another plot device) and instead get Keaton's Carter Hayes as a tenant.But oh, what about the lease, or the rent? The mind games start immediately, and that's kind of a problem with the story. If the screenwriter took a little time to develop this man as somewhat of a threat, maybe make him interesting at first, perhaps even relatable, then gradually turn the screws in a gaslight fashion on these landlords, the suspense would be more palpable. As it is, Carter is basically a nut almost from minute one, and while one would think the audience should be on the Happy-But-Not-Now couple's side, Drake's reaction is that of super-high hysterics. He yells, he curses, he's played at level-11 in a manner that it's no wonder Carter can get the upper hand on this couple. Oh, and then there's the rather extreme things done to the place to make it foreclose-able drills late at night, cockroach breeding to infestate, and other creepy moments.In other words, Pacific Heights is not one for subtlety. This doesn't mean the movie isn't entertaining on a completely trashy, sort of tasteless level. Scene after scene shows things getting worse for the good guys while the 'bad' guy gets away with this. And yet, this is in Planet Movie Land that he's doing this. So many questions get raised that the audience just has to accept when it comes to the laws regarding how a tenant can f*** with the landords and visa-versa; doesn't a, I don't know, LEASE have some major factor here? At first I couldn't figure out what Carter's game was, though once I realized it (and thanks to a double check via Ebert's review) it got clearer about this man's plot of divide, foreclose and conquer. And yet... who IS this antagonist? There are parts given some clarity in the third act, and it does start to get better as the proverbial tables get turned. And actually Griffith and Keaton turn in excellent performances, for what they're given to do. But the film has the subtlety of a baleen hammer, and the soundtrack by Hans Zimmer makes it pretty damn dated (moody saxophone, anyone?) I think there's a lot of potential with this sort of idea of one man entering a couple's life and making it into a living hell; right now in theaters we have The Gift by Joel Edgerton, which is a much more clever update of this kind of premise, though mostly because things make logical sense with the plot. A lot happens in this movie, at least it feels that way in the first hour, but the main characters either act clueless or rather stupidly, with Carter as this weird psycho without any explanation. This isn't to say everything should've been spelled out, but a little more character clarity on the part of Carter - or a more gradual progression of the character mechanics - might have made it a legitimately good movie.As it is, Pacific Heights is at best a guilty pleasure, a flick that's not dated well but certainly has a lot of fun moments in watching these actors play these sorta-yuppies in this would-be cat/mouse game. Did I mention how much fun it is quoting Keaton's LET'S GET NUTS?! in the climax? 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fine film about infuriating situation.","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a thriller. It isn't the best thriller of all time, though there are thrills. If you need lots of thrills, perhaps this isn't your movie. There are other things at work though, things other than thrills. There's anger. This movie will anger you. Infuriate you. It did me. The suffering of Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine at the hands of Michael Keaton is infuriating, in as much as they cannot do anything about it. Keaton plays a bad man Carter Hayes. He rents a room in a gorgeous Victorian house in San Francisco's - you guessed it - Pacific Heights neighborhood. Drake Goodman and Patty Palmer - Modine and Griffith, respectively - are living in sin, and renting out the room to Hayes. But Hayes never pays the rent and never leaves. It gets worse from there. It's kind of a cautionary tale for Renters. Most reviewers have called out Griffith and Modine's characters as being yuppies - I just see them as a normal middle-class couple. Not much yuppie-ish about them. Maybe I don't really know what a yuppie is. Doesn't seem generous to call them yuppies, though. And here, they are victims. I like Michael Keaton, though he's not on screen all that much, really. There's some convoluted back story to his character, though it's hard to understand why he's really as bad as he is. No matter. Michael Keaton is the best part of this movie. Matthew Modine is okay. He's kind of a chump. You kind of get the feeling like he partially deserves what is happening to him. Partially. And then there's Melanie Griffith. She's okay in it, too. She's the heart of the movie, really. The movie doesn't really suggest anything about who the characters really are or why they make the choices that they do. The movie is really all about the situation that they are in - and as I said, the situation is a bad one. It may be that the movie is trying to say something about the rights of property owners in this country, or the lack-thereof. But it doesn't explore that enough. Overall, it's a good little movie, and I recommend watching it, especially if you like Keaton. I like Keaton. I'm glad I watched. "},{"Title":"Pacific Heights &#x96; Low Human.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Pacific Heights is directed by John Schlesinger and written by Daniel Pyne. It stars Michael Keaton, Melanie Griffith, Matthew Modine, Laurie Metcalf and Mako. Music is by Hans Zimmer and cinematography by Amir M. Mokri.Young couple Patty and Drake plough all their resources into buying a large house in the affluent Pacific Heights area of San Francisco. With two apartments to rent they think their numbers have come in when they manage to find tenants for both. But one man, the mysterious Carter Hayes (Keaton), soon proves to be anything but the perfect tenant&#x85;There are twin terrors at work here, one is the tenant from hell, the other is the laws that protect him as he manipulates the system to its very stupid core. The makers do a very good job of making the film unsettling throughout, the ghastly menace who invades someone's home and holds all the ace cards is a constant terrifying presence.Schlesinger for two thirds of the piece crafts a tightly wound thriller, unfortunately it just gets too daft for its own good as the cat and mousery reaches the culmination of plotting. Keaton is great, expanding upon the dark part of Bruce Wayne portrayal to be scarily smooth and convincing. Griffith is good value as well, and it's great to see a female character showing great resourcefulness, but both actors are let down by Pyne's screenplay in the last third where the psycho versus good lady section is too far fetched. Whilst Modine isn't a good enough actor to pull off the furious husband act.A mixed bag, but mostly it beats a good thriller heart to keep it above average. 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"Private Joker vs Batman","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Domestic thrillers were en vogue in the early 1990s. One of the better ones was Pacific Heights, which starred Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine as a young couple who renovate a group of apartments. Things turn sour when one of their tenants (Michael Keaton) reveals himself to be a crazy con-artist.Heights overplays Keaton's villainy, and its climax is pure cliché. Still, if you're looking for an eviction thriller about Keaton's Batman being wiped from his millionaire daddy's trust fund, going mad and then taking his rage out on a bunch of yuppies, this is the film for you. It was directed by John Schlesinger, a once interesting director (Midnight Cowboy, Marathon Man, The Falcon and the Snowman) whose career subsequently crumbled.6.9/10 &#x96; See Flesh and Bone (1993) and Cutter's Way. "}{"Title":"Too Many Script Problems","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a John Schlesinger directed thriller about two unmarried, upwardly mobile people, who buy a Victorian mansion only to find themselves terrorized by a tenant. The couple are portrayed by Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine; the tenant is Michael Keaton, who was in between his Batman movies at the time. Keaton slithers his way into the apartment without a lease or paying a deposit, ...yeah right! People that have the kind of money to buy a $750,000 building aren't that dumb. It would probably take, in most cases, over $100,000 for a down payment. Yet this movie would have us believe that people would just allow anyone to waltz into an apartment without being checked out. The script leaves a lot of things unexplained like this. We're supposed to believe it's because the couple are so desperate for money to meet the mortgage that they'd allow someone in that flashes cash like that. OK, but then Keaton violates any number of landlord/tenant laws almost immediately. It should never take 6, 8, or 9 months to get rid of a tenant as the movie implies; because, it would most likely bankrupt any new owner. California must be the dumbest state in the country if that's the way it is there. In Wisconsin, you could throw someone out in about two months tops, worst case scenario. Also, a landlord has a right to enter the premises for any reason with a 24 hour notice to a tenant over here, which Modine attempted to do more than once. As a result, the varying degrees of law around the country would affect how viewers perceive this movie, alternating from suspenseful (as was the intent) to preposterous to downright bizarre. For me, it was just disbelief. The Modine character was a way over-the-top nut-ball himself, which is necessary for the viewer to believe that the Keaton character could get away with this for so long. Griffith redeems a small portion of the script in the last half hour, as she attempts to play detective. Keaton is the best thing in the movie, as he plays this whack-o to the hilt. You thoroughly detest him long before the end of the movie. The ending seems very tame though, considering all that's gone on before. Beverly D'Angelo has a small uncredited role, and Tippi Hedren has a bit in the last half hour too. There are just too many unexplained things in this movie for it to work, such as the landlord/tenant laws problem mentioned above. In addition, what was the point of the male character that answered Keaton's door a number of times, only to leave and never be heard from again later in the movie? Why would Modine remain clam and collected when he just happens to discover Keaton's game, but then rage out of control at the mere sight of Keaton? The movie never uses the San Francisco location to good effect either. Wanting Keaton stopped is the only reason to continue watching this movie. You don't really care about the couple or too much else. It would be interesting to see this on a double bill with Peter Weir's The Plumber. ** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"YOU PAY MY RENT","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This summer we heard the sad announce of John Schlessinger's death so I was happy to see Pacific heights back on telly simply as it is one of the finest thrillers ever, even if it has the typical Basic Instinct-suspense that follows the classic route it must be one of the best in its genres. My first thoughts were that this movie lost a bit the realitysense but to my great shock it all seemed based on real events and after having seen this movie you probably think twice before you rent your house! It all starts when a couple (Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine) buy their dreamhouse but as such things are expensive (yeah we know!) they must rent two parts of the house. One is rent by an ordinary Japanese family but for the other etage it seems they cant find a candidate till a man shows up with a Porsche (Michael Keaton). Drake Goodman (Modine) really cant hear anything bad about Carter Hayes (Keaton) especially not if he sees the money in the mans wallet but Patty (Griffith) isn't that convinced and soon she has right as the promised rentmoney never cames and Drake develops himself to a real evil  and it's not just the house he wants destroy and with tears in their eyes the young couple must witness how the American justice protects the renter... It all might be a bit predictable but Schlessinger uses such unique (and quite shocking) plots to catch the attention of the viewer that is the kind of movie you always wanna see back and Modine plays such a twat that you tend to be in favour of Keaton, if only there wasn't Griffith! One of the best roles I ever saw from Michael Keaton!  "},{"Title":"Very good film, what a nightmare!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I think it's safe to say that this is truly an original idea for a film.  The story is very odd and not one you would expect from a thriller, but nonetheless, it's very good.  I couldn't help but be infuriated with the situations in the film.  This guy, Carter Hays (Michael Keaton), is such a smug jerk and whatever the land lord's do, they just can't seem to rid themselves of this guy.  You truly feel sorry for the main characters in the film.Michael Keaton does an incredible job with his role, you truly loathe his character by the end of the film.  He is such an evil and sick person.  I think Michael Keaton really deserves some credit for the job he did in this film.  Matthew Modine and Melanie Griffith also did a fine job with their characters.  Very well done, on all accounts.I don't think I would recommend this film to everyone, but if you're into thrillers and seem interested in what the plot summary says, then by all means see it!  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Just when you though it was safe to rent out the studio....","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Pacific Heights annoyed me. It's not so much that it's a bad movie, but it certainly seemed flawed in a way that made me wonder what was left on the cutting room floor. There are several incomplete scenarios and a plot that only works if the facts as presented are believable. I didn't think they were.The essential premise of Pacific Heights, allegedly based on a true story, is that the way the laws are set up one can rent out an apartment to a psycho and that psycho can then destroy you and your property while claiming one court victory after another. The way this is presented is just simply unbelievable. In the meantime, observing what Keaton will do actually becomes rather anti-climactic and, ultimately, boring.As for incomplete scenarios, we never really get a sense for who the person with Keaton in the apartment really is, or what ultimately happens to him. We never really learn what Keaton's character gained from the opening sequence. We are shown a minor character's application becoming accidentally ignored and yet it plays no role because the man later doesn't believe that it was an accident anyway and his involvement doesn't really matter ultimately. So what was the point? To imply racism that wasn't apparently there in this case?The performances salvage this from being awful and it is why I gave it a 6. Michael Keaton does a good job as an amoral person. One gets the sense that behind the blank stare there really is no moral code. Melanie Griffith is her usual soft-spoken self, but it works here. Although, considering how laid-back she is, one marvels that she would have the chutzpah to try and exact revenge. As for Mr. Modine. Well, he does have 2 emotions to convey self-satisfaction and hysteria. And he gets each accomplished on cue. He struck me as the 1990 version of Ben Affleck. Easy on the eyes and empty between the ears.Pacific Heights was interesting and realistic in that, in today's market especially, the only way to own a decent home may involve renting out apartments. This is a cautionary tale for nervous landlords.(mini-spoiler below)Yuppie priorities also take a beating. In what other movie does a miscarriage become a throwaway subplot to the real tragedy, in this case, the desecration of one's property?Dry your tears and pass The Wall Street Journal please. "},{"Title":"Bruce Wayne goes postal.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"   SF couple (Matthew Modine, Melanie Griffith) purchase a $1 million Victorian house and rent out the individual apartments. A man who doesn't want to fill out an application (Michael Keaton) moves himself into one of them, changes the locks on the door, makes lots of noise with a stoner/hippie and trashes the place so much that cockroaches crawl into the apartment of the people next door. The man won't pay any rent, laws in the area somehow won't evict him (and give him more rights than the landlords) until he moves out with the appliances, and his strange personal history is uncovered. Based on a true story, which may forgive the film's implausibilities. Throwaway entertainment with no emphasis on good acting/writing, but a lot of fun to see Keaton in such an odd role.  "},{"Title":"Clever Thriller, but disturbing!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS Pacific Heights is an interesting movie in which you'll be kept in suspense. I just saw this movie and thought it was good even if it was quite disturbing at the beginning. It just didn't make sense to have a tenant who did all of those wicked things to a happy couple. I considered it was quite disturbing. I really felt stressed out at seeing the owner of the apartment suffer so much because of his tenant. It was just uncomfortable, but I'm glad Michael Keaton's character gets what he deserves for having stolen and wrecked so many things from the couple. As for Melannie Grifith, she gives a believable performance as well as Michael Keaton does; nevertheless their performances sometimes seemed a little bit shallow. If you like thriller movies, watch it! I'm pretty sure you'll like it, otherwise don't even try watching this, because it's not a movie for all tastes 7/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty boring.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie is good for suspense and drama with regards to Keaton, however, apart from that, it is really a boring movie.  Although the plot was good, the acting and the little bits in between the main scenes just didn't grab me.  If you are a Keaton fan, rent it.  Otherwise, you may end up bored. "},{"Title":"A good suspense film.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Melanie Giffith and Matthew Modine play a yuppie couple who buy a Victorian house and make it into apartments. Michael Keaton plays a sociopath who tries to ruin the couple house and lives. All the performance are great especially Keaton acting an unusual role for him. The story is a thrilling way to the end. "},{"Title":"Perfect thriller, IF you identify with success.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you've ever rented, or owned property, then this has special meaning. In the 1990's, this was even a little ahead of it's time! The acting is accurate, a Keaton classic! Even if you've read the other reviews, and think youve seen it - SEE IT AGAIN. There are no special effects, no spiritual depth, just 80's yuppies, (dumb ones) Keaton, and a storyline that puts nearly everything post-Y2K tape to shame.OK, see What Lies Beneath to out do it..... "},{"Title":"Nature can be so cruel","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A yuppie couple buy a large house in an exclusive San Fransisco neighbourhood.They renovate it and plan to rent two apartments on the first floor to cover the costs.A prosperous looking man moves in but is not the ideal tenant.He never pays any rent, drives the other tenants away and systematically ruins the lives of his landlords....Batman finally goes nuts!! In the first of a short spurt of nice people turn psycho films, Keaton makes an underwhelming premise ever so excellent, thanks to his calm one minute/Beetlejuice the next performance.Whereas Modine really hams it up to be ever so slightly convincing, Keatons facial expressions really just cover all the bases.It's never clearly explained why Hayes really trashes the apartment, or why he won't pay the rent, but when the film gets this tense, it's really hard to care for substance.It's a shame that Griffith and Modine are such wet blankets, because there are some instances when you really want Hayes to succeed. Ellen Griswold pops up (and out) halfway through the film to discuss the narrative and plot holes with Griffith to tie up any confusion the audience may have.The film has a very Eighties feel to it, right from the dress sense to the overall attitudes of the characters which slightly dates the movie, but then psychos always go for the yuppies.It would be great to see Keaton, Liotta, And Jaon-Leigh team up in ans Avengers type ultimate psycho movie, but that would be silly.A great, good looking movie, with an incredible performance from Keaton. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable, in spite","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When you view a science fiction film, you suspend belief to enjoy the story, and usually muse about how many of the goings-on might be actually possible in, say, a hundred years or so. But throughout, you know your watching something wholly unrealistic, usually for pure enjoyment, and perhaps for some sort of morality tale, as well.However, this flick, which also seemed to wish to convey one of these morality tales, along with a presentation which we were asked to accept as at least somewhat plausible, missed its mark, in my opinion.I enjoyed, but not for the reasons intended, at least partially because of its over-the-top implausibility.The cost of everything in San Francisco is sky-high. The city has often led the lists of our country's most expensive, and on the occasions where it hasn't, has been close behind, say, New York City, Washington, D.C., etc. And Pacific Heights is among the area's most expensive within.It's doubtful that Griffith and Modine could have swung the financing as shown. Not impossible, but even if they had been able to obtain it as shown, the costs and time incident to their refurbishing would have taken far longer and been far harder to achieve than shown or implied in the film.They looked and acted like a couple of college kids who might have been renovating a studio flat in an inexpensive college town -- not like a pair of yuppies involved in a real estate enterprise, overall, around the low 7-figure range.They even looked a bit like doophuses in dealing with prospective tenants, and pretty much in all aspects of their relationship and activities.In many ways, the sociopathic (this character's a time capsule example to illustrate the word sociopath) Keaton was the most empathetic figure among the leads.**Possible spoiler material following**Even in this age of identity theft, and the capability to do wonders with computers, credit records, credit cards, etc. -- more so today than the several years ago, when this film was made -- the ease and rapidity with which both Keaton and Griffith carried-out their activities stretched credibility. Not as much his duplicity, which apparently had been developed over an extended period -- but particularly the ease with which she sidetracked him towards the end of the story.Finally, I would have preferred a different conclusion. I realize that the ending was probably dictated by the desire to conclude with a horror film aspect. But I'd like to have seen a succinct trial of the Keaton character, quickly shedding some more light on his earlier background and nefarious activities, and closing with him wild-eyed in the loony bin, possibly initiating a future scam of some sort from behind bars. "},{"Title":"Tense thriller","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this again for the second time having seen it originally some years ago. I enjoyed it the first time I saw it and was glad to find that my enjoyment has not diminished. I couldn't believe its now 18 years old - frightening where the time goes! Although it can hardly be described as a cinema great, it certainly has its share of tense moments and Michael Keaton makes a good, believable psycho. You definitely feel for the Griffiths / Modine characters, especially if you've been driven to the edge of insanity by the behaviour of another tenant in an apartment block (as I have!) - very uncomfortable viewing indeed! All in all, an enjoyable roller coaster that seems to be under -rated. "},{"Title":"Michael Keaton is chilling as the renter from hell...","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The danger of renting an apartment to someone without references is explored here in gory detail. PACIFIC HEIGHTS has a wealthy middle-class couple renting to a man who appears to have money (he drives a Porsche) and seems pleasant enough on first sight. But before long, they discover that he's really the sort of tenant any respectable owner would want to toss out into the streets.But it seems that there are laws about eviction that don't make it that easy--at least in PACIFIC HEIGHTS where all the action takes place. Getting rid of the Devil (MICHAEL KEATON plays a truly psychopathic nutcase) proves a strain on the marriage of MELANIE GRIFFITH and MATTHEW MODINE, until they discover that he's not only a one man demolition team but has stolen her husband's identity in some sort of real estate scam.With all of these events taking place, you know you're headed for a bang-up ending once Melanie makes it her personal mission to destroy the evil Keaton--and we do get a satisfying ending when her mission turns out not to be too impossible.If you stop to think about all the loop-holes in the story, you'll find yourself getting restless long before the ending. Clearly, there are plot points that haven't been thought out and the man's motivations are never made abundantly clear, so that Keaton's madness never gets any explanation from the scriptwriters. But it works as a stark nightmare of what kind of tenant abuse really can exist in today's society, especially if a nutcase is involved.MELANIE GRIFFITH(she of the somewhat annoying speech patterns and squeaky tones) is reasonably good as the stronger in the marriage partnership, but it's clearly a field day for MICHAEL KEATON who walks off with the film as the devilish psychopath. "},{"Title":"Good suspense, directed by John Schlesinger....","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" who also did The Believers. This film was made in the early 90's when suspense/thrillers were making a comeback; Michael Keaton, while not a favorite, was quite good.Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine portray a young couple wanting to make a real estate investment, so they purchase a Pacific Heights building, and proceed to renovate it. They are not yet married. Griffith still looked good here (prior recent surgeries) Matt Modine is also a sympathetic character.There is a brief cameo with Beverly D'Angelo, who does not have enough of a part. She usually adds something to most films she is in. Keaton is a mysterious tenant, who offers Modine an all cash deposit and drives late model Jaguar. Although there were several other eligible tenants, Modine opts for Keaton as he seems to have a lot of cash, and is reliable (The operative phrase here is seems to be).Basically strange occurrences crop up, Keaton is a sort of con-man, with some added psychopathology thrown in. Laurie Metcalf in a brief role as their attorney, informs Modine that he cannot just throw the psychotic tenant out. The law protects the tenant. While some of the incidents are a bit unbelievable, the story is suspenseful and holds your interest. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable and wastes whatever potential it had to rise above the pack","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Patty and Drake push their financial boat out and purchase a sprawling Victorian house in an exclusive San Francisco neighbourhood. To cover the costs they rent out the ground floor apartments. The first goes to elderly couple the Watanbes, while the downstairs looks like it will got to Lou Baker, but when businessman Carter Hayes rolls into town offering cash and months in advance, Drake welcomes him as a tenant. However it doesn't take long before Carter's bank transfer doesn't come through and his strange behaviour begins with all-night DIY and avoidance tactics. Drake tries to force him out but the law is won Carter's side and a standoff ensues.At a time it seems like there was a spate of films that dealt with the intruder within and this is only one of them &#150; and not a great one at that. From the very opening scene nothing is really explained about Carter and yet the film seems happy to just let him lose on Patty and Drake without really telling us why he is doing what he is doing. I realise that his motivations are gradually revealed across the film but they are muddled at best and the lack of clarity doesn't really help the drama because it all just seems to be happening for no reason. It does distract though but I didn't find it offered much more than that. It does just what you expect it to do and ends exactly how you expect it to end and is pretty unspectacular at every turn. Schlesinger doesn't do anything that special to make it better than it is on paper and I must confess that I was surprised by how dull it was.The cast can't do much to help matters. Griffith does her usual whiny thing which apparently appealed to a mass audience at one time; if you like that then that is what she does but for me she just seems as far removed from a real person as she could get. It doesn't help that neither her nor Modine are given real people to work with nor that they don't have any chemistry together. On his own Modine is obvious and not that great. Keaton is convincingly creepy and is a nice presence but the material doesn't deserve him and he never gets to do anything with his character that he hasn't done in the first 30 minutes or so. The supporting cast are only so-so but have value in terms of oh look it's &#133; novelty thanks to Metcalf, Lumbly, Hedaya, Hedren, Mako and a few others.Overall though this is not anything special at all. It does just what you expect and doesn't even seem that fussed to establish reasons or mystery for it and, as a result, the lack of tension is telling. The performances aren't up to much either, not helped by the lacklustre material, while the director just seems happy to do whatever shots seem the easiest to do. Not rubbish by any means but instantly forgettable and wastes whatever potential it had to rise above the pack. "},{"Title":"A good thriller with an interesting story","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Schlesingers story about two dating landlords (griffith and modine) who cant get a strange man (Keaton) out of an apartment that he is not paying rent for. THe acting in this film was decent, Griffith was annoying, i didn't like her performance, Modine was decent, but Keaton was great in the villain role. Keaton gives another good performance here, about as good as his work as Batman. I liked the suspense of this film, direction was awesome with a strong script. It was entertaining and original. I liked this film a lot, besides annoying Griffith. Schlesinger's direction was good, one can tell he has experience, he crafts the story well and keeps it interesting. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Decent, but frustrating","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Somewhat decent movie, overall, but frustrating in it's questionnable plot devices, and overall storyline. Extremely well-acted by Michael Keaton. However, there seemed to be so much unexamined and unexplained that, in my opinion, took away from the movie overall.I don't know all the rental laws in California, but I found it preposterous that someone could plop themselves into an apartment, tear it to pieces, not pay the rent, and have the law on his side. I don't know precisely how this works, but I had the feeling this may have been an extreme example of renter's rights. The cops and legal system in this movie all seemed to be behaving from some kind of alternate, backward universe. Living in California a few years ago, I had the misfortune to have to evict someone. I had the law on my side every step of the way, and was able to get this person out of the property without much trouble. In fact, I was able to have the person charged with vandalism for damage they had done. The cops and courts were all thoroughly on my side. What exactly was going on here? Where did Carter Hayes come from? What in the world was his story? How did he come to this level? He seemed to just show up on their doorstep, well-dressed and professional, and then basically go batty. Why not some further development of who he was, and where he came from? There was slight anecdotal hints, but he seemed to be just some mindless slug, allowed to drop into someone's life and wreak havoc in it. Michael Keaton was truly sinister and terrifying in this, and made something more of the character, but this could easily have been senseless.Too many questions, and too many events that strained credulity. "},{"Title":"Never happen","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I saw a few people asking in other comments whether the law would really allow Keaton's character to do what he did. The short answer is no. First of all, Keaton never signed a lease; thus a landlord/tenant relationship was never formed and Keaton would have been deemed a trespasser and Modine could have brought an ejection action immediately and had Keaton out w/in weeks (at the most). Even if Keaton's character was deemed a tenant, Modine could have brought an ejection action for the unpaid rent. The ejection proceedings would have been summary (i.e. very limited) and Keaton would only be able to adduce landlord negligence or violations of the warranty of habitability (i.e. unhealthy conditions) as a defense -- the only thing that would allow him to stay w/o paying rent. Otherwise, Keaton would get the boot from the sheriff.  "},{"Title":"Michael Keeton is an EVIL MAN!!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  He plays the most EVIL tenant that one could ever IMAGINE!!!  I was shocked to see how evil he is and how he manipulates the system in this great thriller!!!  Matthew Modine DELIVERS THE GOODS as always in this movie. However, the KUDOS go to Keeton for being such a good bad guy! "},{"Title":"Pacific Heights is an excellent movie!","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Pacific Heights is different and a very serious movie! It has Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine in very good performances! In My opinion Griffith looked and spoke very similar like Meg Ryan (in Armed and Dangerous) and speaking of someone being similar like someone else I thought the same about Luca Bercovici as he looked and spoke very similar like D.B. Sweeney! Laurie Metcalf and Mako good were good. Look for Tracey Walter, Beverly D'Angelo, Dan Hedaya, and Jerry Hardin! But the star of this film is Michael Keaton! His performance is arguably better than his Batman performance! His character is so unique in My opinion! His character is unpredictable and intelligent! You can't help but wonder what is going on with him, what has he done in the past and what is his next move? Who really is Carter Hayes? Hans Zimmer's score is very cool and I think its one of his best! This is a very good movie that's full of mystery and suspense and if you like the cast mentioned above and are a big fan of Michael Keaton then this is a must plus I strongly recommend it!Movie Nuttball's NOTEHere an interesting fact! In Batman Michael Keaton was Batman and Tracey Walter played Bob the Goon. In Conan the Destroyer Mako played Akiro 'The Wizard' and Tracey Walter was Malak. In Pacific Heights they are all in it together! "}{"Title":"Michael Keaton was a very EVIL TENANT!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Every time I view this film, I just simply hate Michael Keaton(Carter Hayes)Jack Frost '98, as the sick tenant who drives Melanie Griffith (Patty Palmer), The Shade '03, simply crazy along with Matthew Modine (Drake Goodman),Hairy Tale'03, who is driven completely NUTS. If you look close, you will see Beverly D'Angelo (Anne)Jazz Night'99 who is uncredited in this film.  Tippi Hedren(Florence Peters) Ice Maker'03 & the The Birds, gives a brief performance to this great spine chilling film which really keeps you on the very edge of your seat. If you have not seen this film, enjoy it as soon as you can. "},{"Title":"Kept me excited","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm a bit biased, because I'm often a sucker for psychological thrillers, but this one kept me blood pumping.  There are certain things I didn't understand about the plot, which I have to give another look at, but for the most part I didn't find it too complicated.  I just wonder if Michael Keaton really could've gotten away with doing what he did, even if he didn't fill out an application and wasn't officially granted the right to rent the apartment.  It seems very strange, but then again I don't know s**t about s**t when it comes to the law.  Maybe someone with much more legal expertise might view the film differently and jot down a few flaws.  Then again, the truth can be stranger than fiction and maybe Keaton would've gotten away with that little con game.  All I know is that when Melanie Griffith got revenge on him in that hotel, I was laughing with delight (However, I really doubt a maid will just let someone into a room, who's claimed she lost her key, just like that).  My only major criticism is Matthew Modine.  I've never seen him in a bad performance previous to this, but for some reason he slept through this role and recited his lines like he was in a coma.  Then again, I rarely see Modine get angry in the roles he played (since he usually plays the nice-guy pretty boy), so maybe that's an emotion he has problems expressing, because he certainly couldn't express it in this film.  Keaton, on the other hand, is great as I expected.  He is one of our fine, underrated actors who unfortunately drifted off in recent years.  But I enjoyed him as the villain in Desperate Measures, and I enjoyed him as the villain in Pacific Heights as well.  The ending is the conventional duke-it-out climax, and I really wish it could've ended on a much less cliched note, but other than that, this is pretty much a first-class thriller.   My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"great cinematography!","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of my all time favorites because of the use of the camera during the film.  How do you feel during the scene outside the courtroom in the San Francisco City Hall Rotunda?  Perhaps a bit dizzy?  This is a great movie for real movie suspense fans.   One never really knows what is going on, which is a sign of a great director and cinematographer! "},{"Title":"watch who you rent your apartments out to","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Taut drama about a couple whose budget is stretched to the limit. They buy an old house and fix it up, intending to rent out rooms. One of the rooms is rented out to a scam artist who plans to use the couple and their home to his advantage. Frightening film. "},{"Title":"Exasperating and mean-spirited...","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Absorbing, reasonably well-performed thriller, about a psycho-renter who wreaks havoc on his naïve, good-hearted landlords, may have been an even more effective picture with a smarter screenplay. The plot isn't as elaborate as it should be (the antagonist's motives are barely touched upon), nor is the movie remotely enjoyable (nobody can help the young couple--not even a certain judge who looks ready for a nap). Heavy on nastiness and noise, the film does get under the viewer's skin, but in an irritating way. Central players Melanie Griffith, Matthew Modine and villainous Michael Keaton are each solid, yet John Schlesinger directs with shallow showiness; his tricks, including a dopey nightmare sequence, cause one to lose faith in the proceedings long before the too-timid, unsatisfying fade-out. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A great film which shows Michael Keaton at his darkest best","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Although Melanie Griffiths exemplifies all that everyone hates about the cutesie pretty girl next door, this film offers what is possibly Michael Keatons best performance. Dark and sinister is what he does best (Check out desperate measures) and what made him the best batman of all time. An edginess and 'will flip out at anytime' persona makes this film great and gives credibility to a film that has often been overlooked. Intertwined with intellectual legal precedents and a situation that most landlords would find terrifying (But what any tenant on the receiving end of a short deal revels in), this film comes to a climatic ending. As botyh of the above people, it is difficult to decide who to root for in this film, but, please, forget the last negative review of this film and watch it. A great film with Michael Keaton, one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood, playing an amazing part. "},{"Title":"This movie is worse than Air Marshall","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I've seen bad movies, and I thought I saw the worst in Air Marshall, and couldn't imagine a movie worse. Boy was I wrong. Pacific Heights is totally absurd and frustrating. I stopped this movie after the police paid a visit. I tell you, if this is California law, I never want to move to California. I've watched enough People's Court to know nothing in this movie makes sense. Yes, it was against the law for him to shut off power and heat; that much is true. The officer said, Whether he has a lease or not, he's still a tenant. Absurd. If there is no lease, he is trespassing. He has a right to change the locks? Who owns the building? The tenant? He doesn't own the place. He's renting the apartment. The landlord has a right to enter the apartment in case of an emergency or to do repairs or any number of reasons since he owns the building. Changing the locks is illegal. Drake has a right to start eviction proceedings. No rent has been paid. Keaton admits there was a problem with the money. Go to Small Claims Court. You don't have to mess with attorneys. There's landlord/tenant court, go through evictions. And the potential tenants' comments about refusing to authorize a credit check is enough to make my skin crawl. It's not necessary,  he says, My credit is good. I'd say, Well, then there's nothing for you to worry about. I've seen enough episodes of Cops that you don't know who you'll meet, and I don't think anyone truly believes that no one ever lies. This movie really insults my intelligence. This is the biggest piece of crap I've ever seen. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Most irritating movie ever?","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'd give it a 0 if I could. Started out with a perfectly good love scene and then BOOM! You're stuck in a couple's nightmare. Why the heck would anyone want to see this? Its just irritating to watch people who shouldn't be renting property to anybody. They are set-up from the beginning to fail. It is painful to get through every single minute of it. Even when MG looks like she's turning the tables on MK you cannot assume it will go well. It is not at all what we thought this movie would be. MK impressive as a bad guy? Who the crap cares? The movie was too painful to watch. I don't care home many good names are attached to this loser. DO not watch it. I warned you. "},{"Title":"Drake Goodman and Patty Palmer Build their Dream House","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Rather typical, yet fun and exciting thriller that starts out somewhat slowly but builds nicely by the close of the film. The story involves a young unmarried couple who allow a man to rent a studio apartment in their newly financed Victorian home only to discover he has no intentions of paying and has other financial plans ahead...the story gets a bit convoluted by the end. Matthew Modine and Melanie Griffith play the couple well-enough. Neither is great but both serviceable(and Griffith even in attire NOT made to accentuate her beauty) is a treat for the eyes. The real talent here is Michael Keaton who has a knack for playing psychopathic men. I wanted to bash his head half-way through the film as my heart went out to this couple for being right but laws supporting the real crook prevailed! Director John Schlesinger creates a nicely taut denouement and step by step we reach the chilling climatic moment. Tippi Hedren(Griffith's real-life mother) has a small part as does Jerry Hardin(of X-Files fame). Dan Hedaya also has a small role and Beverly D'Angelo has an uncredited role. Mako, as a Japanese renter, also is on board with a nice small performance. I enjoyed Pacific Heights despite the story which...if you think about things too long - just does not make sense completely. "},{"Title":"Always a fun ride","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" If you like Melanie Griffith like me(I'd marry her)you'll like this one.I happen to think she is a fine looking woman.I just watched this again and it's better than I remember.Not that it's that old of a film but the movie has aged well since it was made.I wish Griffith could be taken more seriously because despite her sex appeal she can act.But there is no chemistry in this film between her and Modine. Michael Keaton or should I say Carter Hayesstill to this day freaks me out in this.The last 30 minutes or so of this film work perfectly and every time I see it,it keeps me engaged.Every time I hear Melanie's voice no matter what movie it is,it exudes sex. I guess I am a little obsessed with her. "}{"Title":"Inconsistent, indecisive, predictable","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Very disappointing film from a director who usually delivers. John Schlesinger has previously impressed audiences with movies like Midnight Cowboy, Marathon Man and The Falcon and the Snowman. Flashes of brilliance here are never delivered consistently. Highlights are far too infrequent, in a movie that never could decide what mode it was in.Cast - all just there, and nothing more - included Matthew Modine, Melanie Griffith and Michael Keaton. Ultimately predictable, a lot of potential was wasted here. Pacific Heights could have been a great legal thriller.Friday, April 5, 1991 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"So So Movie","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" No wonder this was in the bargain bin at WalMart. Why didn't they just call the police when these problems first started? It would've shortened the movie for the better. There was no agreement, , no deposit, no keys given to Micahel Keaton's character, nor was there a lease therefor he is not a tenant. He is a trespasser and breaking the law. Even the judge goofed when the owners went to court for a hearing to evict him. I hope they didn't pay for that attorney because there was no lease. So why did the judge say there was and why didn't their lawyer point that out? For people who had money problems, they sure had enough to pay their lawyer, hire an exterminator, make repairs and take a trip to L.A. "},{"Title":"An embarrassment","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is just one of those films that is completely beneath contempt.  It's so formulamatic and hollywoodized that its sickening.  First of all it rips off other primal thrillers such as Fatal Attraction and Cape Fear, second of all THE ACTING IS TERRIBLE!!!!!!, except for Keaton in the smaller role as the bad guy, come to think of it he didnt have to act much.  Griffith was just plain awful in the lead, Modine was almost as bad but i'll put him ahead of Griffith because he tried.  Everything was just so predictable and boring that I wanted to shoot myself.  If you want to see an unoriginal predictable thriller done well see Unlawful Entry(1992) with Kurt Russell and Ray Liotta, at least in that movie the acting was good and their performances let the movie rise above the formulamatic plot. Overall this movie was awful and should have ended many careers, maybe it did!! Bomb out of ****. "},{"Title":"Keaton chews the scenery; Griffith shines","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Loved this film. Michael Keaton did such a bang-up job as the psycho. Quite a change from his earlier hit roles in Beetlejuice and Night Shift. I'll bet it was huge fun for him. Matthew Modine was irritating as always. And I am always impressed by Melanie Griffith's acting. With her good looks, blonde hair, and honey-sweet voice, for some reason, I always seem to expect her to not be a very good actress, but whenever I see her, she's excellent. Okay, there are a few coincidences, lucky breaks, and other plot holes, but most movies have these. And, at one point near the end, I was expecting a certain film-climax-cliche' and the filmmakers actually passed it up! I have to recommend this one. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Weakish plot though good to watch","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Found this one recently on DVD for less than 7 dollars and thought why not, for that price ??? I quite enjoyed the film, the only actor I knew in it was Melanie Griffith and found the suspense quite gripping. Certain aspects of the plot, such as the tenant being allowed to move in without even having paid rent and being supported in this by the police, seem totally far-fetched, but perhaps this is American Law !!So thought the plot was weak, the suspense was good and the topic of the film is quite original. A bit of a nightmare for anyone thinking of renting out property !!!  "},{"Title":"It is a longtime since Marathon Man","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What separates a good thriller from a great thriller?  On the most base level it is how many (or preferably few) times you say no way! John Schlesinger and Daniel Pyne did a nice job of setting up the premise for the film, then spent the next 2/3 of the movie destroying it.  Spurious representations of landlord tenant laws, girl friend as super sleuth, et al.  Typically pedestrian performances by Melanie Griffith and Matthew Modine didn't help the cause, and while Michael I'm not just a comedian Keaton was credible as the malevolent tenant, he alone could not rescue the film.  You know things have gone awry when you use the 4x fast forward on your DVD to get to the inevitable confrontation to see if it is handled with any more grace than what has come before it.  In short, slip in a copy of the Marathon Man long before you consider watching this Schlesinger effort.  "},{"Title":"Standard thriller material good acting vs. uninteresting setting","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  	I was led to believe that this was 'one of the great thrillers of the decade', so I started watching it with sky high expectations. When I finished I was very disappointed, not because it was a bad movie, but because it wasn't very fun to watch or interesting. The atmosphere and setting were horrible, and the plot was original and realistic, but not very good.	Still, both Modine and Griffith make the most of the material, putting in honest, unforced performances, and Keaton is remarkable as the villain.	The movie is well edited, and some scenes are quite suspenseful, despite the uninteresting plot and characters.	Comparable to the Gary Busey thriller 'Hider in the House' "},{"Title":"Keaton lights up an otherwise routine outing","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Many films made in the early 1990s have dated fairly badly when watched today &#x96; even more so than their counterparts made during the '70s or '80s. PACIFIC HEIGHTS is no exception. It's a psychological thriller, one of many made after the success of FATAL ATTRACTION, and like SINGLE WHITE FEMALE it features a tenant from hell &#x96; in this instance Michael Keaton. Keaton, cast against type as a psycho, is good, but the rest of the film can't match him and what could have been an edge-of-the-seat movie like THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE turns out to be merely so-so.John Schlesinger, who made the excellent MARATHON MAN amongst others, over-directs the film so that it looks like a music video. It's all about thunderstorms and mood, but it's hard to get worked up over it when the characters are so badly written. Even Keaton himself is a mystery, screaming out for more exploration. While the plot deserves kudos for avoiding serial killer clichés, instead featuring a more interesting story centred around identity theft, it isn't enough to lift the movie above average. And whoever thought Matthew Modine's whiny, wimpy husband would make for a sympathetic character &#x96; big mistake. Griffith is okay, but then that's the trouble &#x96; everything's merely okay when it really should be unmissable. "},{"Title":"Not as high as it thinks it is","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Pacific Heights was a film I had high (pun intended) hopes for, seeing that it was from the 90's and had was part of Channal 5's Psycho season where they promised classics such as Single White Female and Misery therefore I was expecting it to be in that kind of league. Unfortunately it turned out to be a low rip off of Single White Female.It appears dated with the sort of poppy score played over the top, very 90's. It also appeared dated with the bad acting and poor screenplay. All the characters were absolute drips! The main man was annoying with his bad temper and abusive attitude towards his wife. His wife wasn't that much better with an all too laid back attitude. Then there's Michael Keaton who was actually quite a fun character and a typical baddie to have.Pacific Heights offers nothing much new with an all too familiar storyline, 'Bad Tennants', and although it was quite entertaining and not really that boring, it just offered nothing new but frustration. The ending is pretty decent although predictable. It's quite predictable throughout and overall forgettable.By all means go and watch Pacific Heights but it will leave you empty, yet momentarily entertained. "},{"Title":"Attack of the stupid people","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Don't be one of them. Don't be one of the stupid people. Don't rent or buy or watch this film. I suppose there are worse films, but very few spring to mind.The entire premise assumes you were born yesterday and remain ignorant of human behavior or common sense. I'd go on about the plot or the performances, but it's just one contrivance after another that leaves the viewer frustrated and angry at the characters (ALL of them) not to mention the director.By the end you don't care who lives or dies, as long as it ENDS.There are a lot of ways to spend your time. Don't waste it here! "}{"Title":"Not very convincing or gripping.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This film has some good points and the story could have made a pretty good film, but I doubt it could ever have been a great film and it has too many flaws that keep it from being better than mediocre.Michael Keaton is pretty good as the sinister tenant, and he creates some pretty good tension and creepiness. However, otherwise, the characters and the story simply are not convincing or compelling and are not very gripping. I didn't care much about the characters or their dilemma, in part a result of the actors themselves. I found them annoying and hard to believe, like most of the rest of the film. The plot development and directing seem partly to blame for everything not quite coming together, too, as it seemed uneven and failed to create a tight cohesion to the film. I have heard that this may have been based on a true story, whatever that means, but it doesn't matter because this film simply didn't seem convincing.Although very minor, even the setting in Pacific Heights was a blow to the film's strength for me, since even in 1990 I found the idea of a basically normal and not particularly wealthy couple buying a fixer-upper there to be rather unlikely. This is hardly a real problem, but it rather foreshadowed the problems of the film. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I don't usually give away the plot when reviewing movies, but the storyline of 'Pacific Heights' is so ludicrous that one cannot discuss the film properly without considering its absurdities. Its lead characters are a young couple who acquire a squatter, bad news because they need to rent the basement he is occupying in order to pay their own mortgage. Moreover, the guy is a bit creepy, and soon it appears his aim is not just to live rent free but also to provoke his landlords into legally punishable actions against him, and maybe even to con his way to gaining possession of their entire house. As in all movies of this sort, the villain's ability to destroy the heroes' lives is dependent on his almost supernatural ability to predict their behaviour, and his willingness to endure pain to achieve his goals; the film's execution is unsubtle and the every plot development is heavily signposted; but up to this point, it still holds up as a routine but serviceable thriller. Then things get really bad. The tenant finally vanishes, but not before stealing all the fixtures and fittings (why he does so, and why, if he'd planned to do this, had he bothered to set up all the potential lawsuits he hereby abandons, no-one ever explains). The police finally accept he is crook, but believe they have no way of catching him. So the female hero immediately chases after him herself, her only lead stupidly helps her without meaning to, and she successfully tracks him down within 24 hours. In real life, she would now phone the cops; in Hollywood, she might kill him. In this film, she chooses instead to play a schoolgirl prank on him (now there's a smart thing to do to a psychopath!), and needless to say, he comes back for a laughably violent showdown (fought with D.I.Y. equipment) which ends when he happens to falls onto some conveniently waiting iron spikes. To call such nonsense drivel is to pay it a compliment.As for the cast, Michael Keaton is enigmatically menacing as the tenant, but Matthew Modine and Melanie Griffith are largely (I think unintentionally) irritating as the couple he targets as his victims. As for director John Schlesinger, he has made a number of interesting movies; but boy, is this not one of them. "},{"Title":"Nightmare on Pacific Street","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Putting a down payment to their dream house the $750,000.00 Victorian dwelling on 170 Pacific Street in the trendy Pacific Heights section of San Francico both Drake Goodman, Matthew Modine, and his live in girlfriend Patty Palmer, Melaine Griffith, went straight to refurbishing it. Later on the two advertise the place in the local newspaper for tenants whom they feel would, with the scarce apartment situation in San Francisco as it is, love to live there.Everything seems to be going right for Drake & Patty until Carter Hayes, Michael Keaton, shows up out of nowhere looking for a place to stay. At first everything seemed to be all right with Carter. He's got a good paying job, making as much as $200,000.00 a year, and he's very friendly and helpful at the place like helping in taking out the morning garbage and not making a pest of himself by playing the stereo past 10PM. The one thing that the two didn't realize about Carter is that he has a habit of not paying his rent and making life miserable for his landlord! This had Carter and his girlfriend Liz, Sheila McCarthy, get thrown out of their previous home by the landlord. The landlord fed up with Carter's bouncing rent checks ended up hiring a couple of thugs, who ended up busting Carter's nose, to throw them both out on the street! In fact Carter Hayes is not Carter Hayes' real name! It's his previous landlord's name that he hijacked together with his identity credit cards and bank account! Now planting himself as a tenant at Drake and Patty's place he plans to do the same thing to them as well!Carter turns out to be a real piece of work in his making things so impossible for both Drake & Parry that he almost ends up driving them straight to the nearby Golden Gate Bridge in order to jump off it. This super sized pain in the butt goes so far together with his creepy roommate Geg, Luca Bercovica, to breed cockroaches in his rented apartment for which he doesn't pay the rent! The roaches end up infesting the entire house driving the rest of the tenants out on the streets running for their lives. Carter goes so far as to make both Drake & Patty the villains in the eyes of the law, which is blind in the first place, by having Drake arrested and fined for trying to throw him of for non payment of rent because he was a bit to rough with him! This has Drake' & Patty ending up paying all the expenses , due to a court order, including his own rent that Carter is responsible for! While all this is happening the mortgage for the house threatens to go into receivership with no income, from the now gone tenants, coming in to pay for it!**Spoilers** It's Patty who takes matters into her own hands with her boyfriend Drake now just about to be committed, by Carter's outrageous antics, and tracks down just who this Carter Hayes really is! And in the process finds out that he's far more vulnerable to being not only bankrupted but put behind bars then both she and Drake are! Turning the tables on Carter by exposing him and his low down and dirty tactics to those who think the world of him finally broke him down to where in desperation he makes his first and last mistake in the movie! Losing his cool and resorting to violence to get even with both Patty and Drake, who had really nothing to do with his new found problems, had the cool as a cucumber, when screwing others, Carter go psycho and thus end up going straight to the city morgue in a meat-wagon.P.S Check out the movie's director John Schlesinger do an Alfred Hitchcock like cameo appearance in his mad dash to the elevator, with Patty on it, just before it closes its doors on him! "},{"Title":"Real To Life","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I had seen this movie in 1990 and I can say that I had already experienced all the emotions of the couple in this movie renting to their crazy tenant. There are people out there like this and this movie should be shown to perspective landlords. The movie is factual and Meg Ryan plays the part of a calm and clear thinking person of which you have to be if you decide to rent.I have recently been through an experience that could be a sequel to this movie. My recent experience would make Pacific heights seem like MIRACLE on 34th STREET.Don't be afraid to be firm with tenants or they will take advantage of you. "},{"Title":"This movie... sucks!","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The entire plot of this movie completely ridiculous! The premise that there is a volcano under Los Angeles is more believable! If you somehow end up with this tape in your VCR, I recommend you fast forward and watch ONLY the parts with Michael Keaton.  No other part will be bearable. If you see it on TV, change the channel, unplug the TV, do whatever you must to avoid this movie! (Ok really it isn't THAT bad but the premise is downright awful) "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Michael Keaton's performance in Pacific Heights is interesting, but the film practically makes no sense. I didn't care about the characters that Matthew Modine and Melanie Griffith portrayed, and I think the direction was pretty lame. Only worth watching if you would like to see Michael Keaton in a strange role.  "},{"Title":"A Bad Lifetime Movie","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" You've read the other comments and the plot synopsis....I can't believe that this movie gets any credible response! Holes and lapses of logic aside, the suspense level is entirely manipulated and even then it doesn't exactly elicit goosebumps. I hated the couple and could have cared less about their problem. By the way, WHO was the other guy in the apartment? Was it Keaton in disguise or just another mysterious character to pique(cough) my interest.Keaton was OK...The movie was pure drivel "},{"Title":"This movie was the pits.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worse movies I've seen in a long time. The characters were not at all interesting, and it took way too long for the movie to pick up speed. There were some very bad attempts at being artistic, and many shots, etc. that were completely superfluous.I watched this film on TBS's Movie Lounge last night. The only thing I enjoyed about it was seeing the celebrity guest hosts (the girl who played Jan Brady in The Brady Bunch Movie and Weird Al Yankovic) make fun of it. It was almost MST3Kish. Please don't waste your time seeing this movie.  "}]