[{"Title":"Don't get your hopes up","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"57 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've read the book so many times and after seeing the first 1963 adaptation of the movie I admit I was a little let down. I was surprised they didn't put in the Simon scene (which is probably one of the most important scenes in the book) and a lot of other important things they missed out on. But then, once I found out there was another version of the movie I quickly rented it. But let me tell you something; This is movie is much worse than the first one, and does an awful job of telling the storyline. Although the boys were very adorable (I'll admit that)that still didn't make up for the bad acting job they did. Plus, I was really confused on why the director chose to make a nonexistent captain the most important symbol in the book. Why he did that is beyond me. So anyways, my point is, if your looking for a good movie based on the book, you should probably just stick to the first one, and don't waste your money on renting/buying this movie.  "},{"Title":"This Version Bites","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"64 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sorry folks, the 1963, low budget, English black & white version is much better. Hollywood can never leave a good story alone. On occasion they can do it better, sometimes on par , usually they blow it. This version blows. I give it 3 stars out of 10 for production value and some good casting, but it wasn't enough to save it. Rent the 1963 version or better yet read the book. "},{"Title":"A Society Without Perspectives and Rules","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a plane crash in the ocean, a group of military students reach an island. The boy Ralph (Balthazar Getty) organizes the other kids, assigning responsibilities for each one. When the rebel Jack Merridew (Chris Furrh) neglects the fire camp and they lose the chance to be seen by a helicopter, the group split under the leadership of Jack. While Ralph rationalizes the survival procedures, Jack returns to the primitivism, using the fear for the unknown (in a metaphor to the religion) and hunger to control the other boys. His group starts hunting and chasing pigs, stealing the possession of Ralph's group and even killing people.I found this impressive movie very scary, since it shows the behavior of children (and human beings) fighting to survive in a society without perspective and rules. My immediate association was with my and other Third World countries, where many children are abandoned by the Government in their poor communities, and without education, perspectives in life and laws, become very young criminals working in gangs of drug dealers and thieves. In this movie, it is exposed how primitive a kid can be without the authority and respect, and this sort of violence is in the headlines of our newspapers almost every day. There are many discussions presently in Brazil about juvenile criminality. I have never the chance of reading this visionary novel; therefore I can not comment is it is a good or a bad adaptation, but I found this movie a frightening study of characters and sociology. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) O Senhor das Moscas (The Lord of the Flies) "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the book a couple of years ago, and found it to be very dark but not by any means boring. Now, we are studying it, and our teacher brought both movies for us to watch. Unfortunately, we watched this one first. Right after the first scene, I knew that this movie would be terrible. None of the actors fit their description, and every single one of them cannot act; not that the script helps. Eery scene is rushed and senseless - I cannot imagine how anyone who has not read the book can understand what's going on. Then there is the fact that they swear. A lot. Believe me, I have nothing against swearing, but the whole point of the book was that these were more or less polite, normal, *British* boys, who turned into monsters in a very short period of time. Here they were so bossy and arrogant already, that it was hard to tell the difference. Jack was made into some sort of bad guy who steals cars, robbing him of any sort of dignity that he retained in the book even after his descent into monstrosity. Piggy... Piggy had a high, whiny voice, and the sight of him slobbering over his broken glasses was enough to make me sick another good character wasted. The Piggy in the book, at least, was not stupid. And the scene of his death lacked the horror and the suspense of the book. It is funny how only a few written words can contain more emotion than a five-minute movie scene. Simon's character was also ruined; the most awesome scene in the book was simply not there. Why? And what is with the pilot? His presence took the place of the beast - not a good replacement. The beast itself was barely mentioned. There were two scenes which I somewhat enjoyed - Simon's body floating in the water (not the scene of his death), and the chasing of Ralph through the burning forest - both these scenes take less than a minute. This movie is not worth watching. I suggest you don't. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Film","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie during my English Class a few weeks back, and I have to say, it was rather disappointing. I loved the book, the story was very interesting, unlike anything I've ever read. When we watched the movie, I knew it would be different, but I didn't think it would be THIS different. The story almost completely changes, nothing but the bear bones of the book are left, and it made me sort of angry. It was cartoonish, and lacked any symbolism whatsoever. The book was great because of it, and here it lacks something. I feel that someone who hasn't read the book will laugh, they probably wouldn't understand what is going on. So much of the plot was taken out. The acting is okay though, Balthazar Getty does a good job as Ralph. Despite the boys being American here, he reminded me of the Ralph in the book. "},{"Title":"I have very mixed feelings about this movie","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I was in 10th grade, I read the novel Lord of the Flies in English class, and right after that, we watched this movie. I really loved the novel so I was excited about seeing the movie. The novel Lord of the Flies is very provocative. While it stands as one of the greatest novels of the 20th century, it also stands as one of the most controversial and frequently banned novels of the century. For a novel of that much greatness, it is hard for a movie to do it any justice.Part of the reason for why Lord of the Flies is a classic and is still read today is because of its theme, which involves kids killing each other. There has always been a sensation and terror about that kind of theme. This movie tries to catch that theme, while it succeeds at being a disturbing movie, it fails at living up to the novel. There is also a lot of symbolism in the novel that isn't really present in the movie as well.The directing in this movie isn't done very well. The beginning of the movie just kind of opens up and never really gives you much background. As the movie goes along, there isn't much of a flow to it. The book had a great flow which kept the story moving, but the movie was pretty choppy, and as you watch it, you don't think the director even cared about keeping the flow of the novel.The child actors aren't much better. The kid who played Ralph was good, as well as the kid who played Jack. The kid who played Piggy was pretty good, but not quite up to par with the other two that I mentioned. The kid who played Piggy fits the description pretty well, and I kind of feel bad for him because his performance in the movie sort of affects how people look at him as a person. All of the other kids in this movie didn't do very well at all.One of the key elements in the novel is done very poorly in the movie. In the novel there is a scene where the kid Simon sees a pig's head on a stick and has a conversation with it. In the movie all that happens is Simon looks at the pig's head and you see a flash of lightning. The director sure expects a heck of a lot out of the audience if he wants them to believe the kid is having a conversation. Another key scene from the novel, Piggy's death, was also done very poorly in the movie. In the novel it was shocking and depressing. In the movie it is depressing that he dies, but the scene looked pretty fake. There are also a few random things that were put into the movie and had not much impact on the story, like the glow stick, and the pilot who survives the crash, unlike the novel.A couple of scenes in the movie are done pretty well. There is one scene where the kids are all gathering around the fire at night and are reenacting a hunt that took place. This scene is done pretty well, but the real key to that scene is the score in the background. The score is pretty good and helps guide the movie at times. At the very end, when the kids see the marine standing on the beach and they realize what they had done, the director did pretty well at showing the kids' emotions over what had gone on at the island. Unfortunately, the ending is very sudden and is over before you would expect it to be.I loved the novel, but I have very mixed feelings about the movie. There are plenty of things in the movie that you will be disappointed by, but there are also some redeeming factors. It is worth watching once, but only if you have read the book. If you haven't read it, this movie will ruin it for you, so read the book first and then see the movie. "},{"Title":"What golding was going for","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Though this movie could of been better in many areas it still fit into what Author William Golding was going for.The transformation of the language in the movie is just to keep up with the time. Does any one believe this movie would gain any respect in this day and age if 9-12 year old children were going Wizard!, Wacco!, Doink!. (Actual quotation from point when they are excited). No of course not (By the way 9-12 year olds enjoy swearing more than any other age group). I know personally I would be laughing all the way through the entire movie, which would not portray the decay of mankind to politely. So, yes they came onto the Island swearing. But if you remember Jack was never innocent. Though he was eviler at certain points, he always had the evil side.I believe other than the fact they were missing Simon's epileptic episode, the movie was a fine representative of the book. The beastie though clearly not a dead parachuter like in the book, still provided the same role as in the book. That is a source of false power to Jack.Though the movie was a bit of a modern adaptation it still provided the same dark and hopeless feel of the book. I personally loved the book, the movie changed a few important events that I feel should of been left in. Either way the movie painted many of the scenes exactly how I imagined them and for that I give them credit. I just hope that if they make a modern adaptation they should be more creative, possibly change the setting, and the characters, but still have a similar plot. That way the audience has to fill in the blanks between the book and the movie so they are in suspense not critization of the dissimilarities between the two. "},{"Title":"Really a good movie","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I never read the book. Both my older brother and sister read it in middle school, but somehow I missed it. I have been aware of the story for many years though. I am definitely going to go pick up the book now. Furthermore, can anything be more cliché than to pan a movie because it didn't live up to the book. Anyways, I had the luck of going into this movie without that bias.I have read many other books that involve political analysis, such as George Orwell's 1984 and Animal Farm. I find these kind of topics fascinating.First of all, I disagree with the people that saw this movie and see it only as boys go savage. It shows that reviewers simply don't understand the deeper level this movie goes to, which is why do people behaved civilized at all. How does a democracy survive? How do dictatorships happen? What is civilized? How do you make people cooperate?I personally have been in situations, such as adult recreational sports, where I volunteered as a team captain. It's a perfect analogy to Lord Of the Flies, because a team captain has no real authority. I'm not paying people, and I can't kick people off the team, and there are real limits to anything I can do. Every time I have done that there is always some punk that decides he wants to take over, or doesn't have to do what he is told. This happens regardless of how minimally I am trying to dictate anything.So, how do you prevent anarchy? How do you keep from being overthrown? Every society starts out like this. Sure, once someone gets in power there are many people that can't compete with them, but at the top of any hierarchy is competition and relationships. How is order created?So, after I watched this movie I thought, what did Ralph do wrong?Here is my answer. First of all, Ralph should have not created a complete democracy. Instead he should have created a council subgroup of kids that would be elected into their positions. He should have also been elected, and would have easily won in the beginning.By tying the council members positions to his position, they would have supported him in case of any rebellion. True authority is cemented in affiliation. Also, if someone else wanted to take over they would have had a civilized means to do so, next election, and wouldn't have to resort to rebellion.Also, anyone not doing their fair of work on the island would have to be judged before the council. This way his authority would have been enforced through a form of group discipline.Many tribal societies function like this, despite the fact that some might judge them to be uncivilized. In fact, this is also how modern democracy/representative governments work.Jack on the other hand did just about everything right in building his brutal dictatorship. He built his own council out of boys that decided to rebel with him from the beginning. So, he already had his power base. He used fear of the monster to create a constant state of emergency to keep people from questioning his authority. He used violence to keep everyone in line, and he eventually attempted to kill off all his opposition.Stories and movies like this are very important to keep us aware of the way we are manipulated by those who want power. By simplifying the situation they serve as a window to show us how our larger societies function.If you learn anything from this movie at least learn to be suspicious of any political group that cultivates fear in you of outside forces. By making you afraid and convincing you that we are the ones that can protect you, they are using the oldest trick in the book. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie and I don't know why so many people bag it.I have seen it several times and I actually own a copy.I must confess though that I have never read the novel or seen the original 1963 version.People who have read the novel have said that they found the movie disappointing.Movies are never as good as books.There are always different interpretations in movies and it is sometimes very hard to convey certain elements of a story in a book in a film.Several people have said they thought the acting was terrible.I thought the two lead actors Balthazar Getty(Ralph) and Chris Furrhr(Jack)were excellent and they both played their parts really well.Balthazar Getty is a great actor who I think is very underrated.Okay so they replaced the British kids from the novel with American kids.So what who cares.Its still a great story and the whole point and theme of the story which is to show how children unsupervised by adults can turn into savages and become uncivilized is still there.Also since when was swearing uncivilized?I noticed one reviewer commented on the fact that there was a lot of swearing and that the idea was that the kids were supposed to be polite and civilized before they became uncivilized.If swearing is uncivilized then we must all be because we all do it from time to time.There was not a lot of swearing anyway it was only occasionally.I have certainly seen and heard a lot worse.Get over it.I thought the cinematography was great too.If you like stories involving people stranded on a deserted island as I do then I recommend that you check it out. "},{"Title":"Shakes you to the bone","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well I happened upon this movie by accident and started watching it because I fall for the kinds of movies where someones stuck on a desert island etc. Over all it's an extremely good depiction of humanity and the psycological behavior of children left alone without guidance.  The acting was wonderful, and I'm sure anyone who sees it will agree that that kind of situation is difficult to imagine let alone act out especially with the actors being so young.  I recommend this movie for anyone looking for a creepy survival story.    "}{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that this movie has recieved such bad reviews, and has only a 5.9 rating.  And the fact that I am the only one to write about this film makes it truly underrated.  When I first saw this movie when I was nine, I was blown away by it. it was the ultimate boy movie for me. The acting was very realistic.  It was about a group of boarding school boys get shipwrecked on an island with no parental supervision.  It showed us how truly savagely and animalistic we can become when their is absolutely no rules or restrictions. And how our survival insticts want to take over. The end was very touching and summed it all up, without any words being spoken. "},{"Title":"Horrible interpretation of a wonderful novel","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you have read the book or even seen the 1963 movie, you know how awful this one is. It twists the plot to the point that its structure is completely demolished. It changes the characters almost entirely, both by making them American and military students, but also by making them swear all the time. Jack isn't even the leader of the choir, which is one of his most important character traits from the novel. In fact, the majority of what drives the plot and creates Golding's theme of the evil of savagery and the evil within us is gone in this movie. It was made into a worthless shell of the 1963 movie.If you were aggravated by missing scenes from the 1963 movie, you'll completely hate this movie. 90% of the important scenes are missing the characters are not themselves, and most of the dialogue is changed. Even the pilot is alive for a large part of the movie! I would not recommend for anyone who even remotely enjoyed the book or 1963 movie to see this movie. It WILL ruin it for you. Even as a movie, it is not a good one. The musical score is alright, but the acting doesn't make the movie worth watching.All in all, it's a terrible movie and an abomination of a Lord of the Flies interpretation. "},{"Title":"Nothing special this time around, but not a complete failure as some claim.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"      When I saw this remake I did not find it as bad as some said it was. Basically its like so many remakes of classic films, they rarely live up to the original. There is little new thats added here. Most of the virtues of this film are just repeats of the virtues of the first film. New to this film, on the plus side is the use of vivid colour, as oppossed to the original films harsh, grainy black and white. The colour photography beautifully captures the lush tropical surroundings. On the negative side are the silly dreams of the kids being rescued. Also having the piolet survive and wander around like rabid dog looks like it was thrown in to provide a few cheap shocks, or something. "},{"Title":"Not a good adaptation","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I could nitpick for ages about this film - however I will confine it to mentioning that numerous anachronisms abound in the movie - while it's supposed to be reasonably faithful to the original novel to the point of the children not knowing what day it is, or what time it is, the actors can be seen wearing watches in several scenes. Add in the excessive use of swear-words among the children, and it definitely leaves something lacking that exists in the novel.Ironically enough, I saw the movie first before reading the novel, but grew to enjoy the novel much more than the movie.I hope to one day see the black and white 1960s-era version.  "},{"Title":"Better than the 1963 one","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"33 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Some people may dislike this movie because of the cursing, or the fact that the whole story has been twisted around. However, it was way more entertaining than the 1963 one. I am currently in English in high school, and we read the book, then watched both movies. I think some people don't realize how complex this story is. You cannot just watch this movie, or the original. Read the book. Analyze the story, every detail. Then watch the movies. The 1963 movie does follow the story from the book, but I almost fell asleep. Although the new one may be an insult to the book, it was far more enjoyable. However, I was displeased at how the boys were acting. I do think there was way too much cursing, and some rather inappropriate comments for 12 or 13 year old boys to be making. This isn't a good movie for children. Regardless, if you are into the book watch the movie! "},{"Title":"Why was this made?","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have read Golding's book and seen the 1963 movie. You may ask why I watched this remake and, after suffering through it, I have to ask myself that question. Remakes of excellent movies are always risky, but if you are going to do a remake at least you should aim to create something better, or offer a different and interesting interpretation. This movie does neither, it follows in the footsteps of pretty much all remakes--it is a disaster. The real tragedy is that someone who sees this before reading the book or seeing the 1963 film will be inclined to give a miss to those superior works.For whatever reason major plot points of the book have been reconfigured. This is all well and good if the final result is engaging, but here the changes are a degradation, resulting in a loss of dramatic effect and allegorical meaning. Instead of having proper English schoolboys stranded on the island, the boys here are cadets from some United States military school. The story has been updated from the early 1950s, apparently to sometime in the 1980s judging from the language used, mention of TV series like Alf, and the talk of being captured by Russians. The main point of Golding's book was to show that even the most civilized English boys (one group among them having been the school choir), can behave savagely when civilization is stripped away. It is less surprising here that boys from a military academy come to behave badly, particularly in the 1980s. Using about every major swear word in the English language, the kids are not at all likable.The acting is sub par, even for kids with little experience. They don't really talk to each other, they just read their lines. There is no spontaneity in their behavior. I have never seen a more pathetic attempt at crying than what is on display here. Chris Furrh is much too much of a pretty boy to be believable as the blackguard Jack.This movie offers a classic example of where color can be markedly inferior to black and white. In this movie, where the focus should be on the kids, they are swallowed up by the lush vegetation. After over forty years I still had vivid memories from the 1963 movie; after only a week I have had few specific memories of this movie.Perhaps the most irritating thing about this production is the obnoxious score. It is exceedingly distracting, constantly drawing your attention to it in trying to make up for lack of any dramatic tension provided by the script. In some of the final scenes the music is a flagrant ripoff of Stravinsky's Rite of Spring. If I had not read the book nor seen the classic 1963 movie, I might not be so hard on this, but having had those experiences, it is impossible not to make comparisons, and this falls short. A great effort made to take a step backward. "},{"Title":"Not great but reasonably watchable","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read the novel in tenth grade English class and remember watching both of the movies in class the week after finishing the book, but it had been several years since I'd seen this version and when it came on TV last weekend I decided to watch it.The first thing that I noticed was that so much of the symbolic imagery was either lost or heavily modified, I'm not sure if the writer really understood the story's themes or got the meaning of some of the imagery of the story with important scenes changed and a great deal of the character development was left out entirely which makes the script feels like the cole's notes version of the story.Among the more glaring changes wereIn the book Simon was an allegory for Jesus while in the movie he's looked at as being weird, they completely ignored the mystical almost Buddha like qualities of the character. In the book Jack represented the darkness that exists within us all and our hidden desire to pretend to be what we aren't while in this movie he's just an arrogant jerk.In the book the pigs head represented the pure evil of Satan (lord of the flies is a translation from a Hebrew word that literally means the devil)while in this version of the movie it's really just set dressing that does not convey the horror that it's supposed to.In the book Roger starts out as a minor character but slowly builds into being a sadistic psychopath who represents the pure evil that we all possess but control, in this movie he is portrayed as being sick and twisted monster who revels in the pain of others almost right from the start and in the novel he's first described very subtly as being dark (meaning evil not African American)but in this version of the movie he's written as the stereotypical violent black kid. The whole scene of Simon's death was presented in the book in a subtle way as a semi-satanic right (the whole setting was indicative of an ancient pagan right of animal/human sacrifice)while being described as accidental it's left up to the imagination of the reader as to what happened, in this movie it comes off as being a frenzied accident.In the book Piggy's intellect is the glue that holds Ralph's civilization together, in this movie he 's written to be a whiny simpering sort of buffoon.But the biggest changes that actually hurt the movie the most were a combination of two things first changing the time setting and second making the boys American,The thing that made the novel so shocking was the idea that prim and proper English school boys in the late forties or early fifties could become uncivilized savages capable of horrific acts of brutality and violence committed against each other.Updating the time setting and making the boys American really took away from the shock value of the novel because by the late eighties and early nineties it wasn't so uncommon to hear stories on the evening news about preteen gang bangers shooting people or middle school kids violently attacking each other on the school yard, these factors really desensitized the audience to the violence that the boys are doing to each other in the story and make it much less impactful to the viewer.The acting is alright, it's nothing terribly special but watchable it's obvious that the director wasn't going to pull Oscar winning performances out of the kids but the leads manage to put in convincing performances and bring some life to their characters despite being saddled with a relatively flat script that omits much of the character development from the novel.The direction and photography are good, although the bright lush colors sort of take away from the darkness of the story and make it seem like a tourism Hawaii commercial at times.The negatives slightly outweigh the positives but it's a decent movie and is at least watchable which is more than I can say for some movies today. "},{"Title":"Dismissed In 1990, This Version Of Lord Of The Flies Holds Up Remarkably Well!","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When the new version of Lord Of The Flies hit screens in 1990, it was critically savaged, mostly for being among that most maligned of film categories, the remake. Lord Of The Flies had already been made into an austere, critically revered, Black & White film in 1963, so an updated version, filmed in color, using American kids instead of British kids was considered a sacrilege.Both film versions of Lord Of The Flies were based on the novel by Nobel prize winning author Sir William Golding and tell the story of a group of boys from a boarding school who end up stranded on a deserted tropical island when their plane crashes. Although they initially try to live with order and rules, it doesn't take long for the boys to descend into savagery. William Golding was a former schoolteacher who dealt with pre-adolescent oiks the same age as his novel's protagonists. I suspect there was a good deal of satisfying revenge in his describing these boys as being nothing more than savages in school uniforms. But Golding was less interested in telling a realistic story than by making his deserted island an allegory for British society but he artificially stacks the deck by making his world all male and by keeping the boys between the ages of 8 and 13, before many of them start having sexual interests. Golding's novel is heavy on symbolism and paints its characters in stark unambiguous terms so Lord Of The Flies can be easily dissected with any intellectual knife, from the political (Ralph represents Democracy, Jack represents Totalitarianism) to the psychological (Ralph is the Super Ego, Jack is the Id). Personally, I think this undercuts his most powerful conceit, which is, without adult supervision, how long would it take for a group of young kids to degenerate into anarchy and brutality? In the 1990 version of Lord Of The Flies, the kids are not British, but American and they are from a military academy. This change upsets the purists most of all. Because, if you were determined to show that the British class system is so inherently fragile that it would crumble when confronted with the merest challenge, your theory is kaput if the kids are American.American kids are automatically less uptight than their British counterparts. From the very start they are less willing to group themselves into preconceived social stations. We see this clearly after a conch shell is found and all the boys are called for an assembly.Here, two older boys, each with natural leadership qualities rise to the occasion. Ralph (Balthazar Getty) is the liberal idealist and Jack (Chris Furrh) is the conservative realist and while they are good friends at the start, this soon changes. Their personality differences immediately begin to shape life on the island. Jack focuses on the hedonistic positives; they don't have teachers, classes, tests or any girls to bother them, so why not enjoy this unscheduled vacation a little bit?But Ralph, thinking down the line a bit, knows that there is no way they can stay on this island for the rest of their lives and that if they don't start doing something to get rescued, they might end up doing just do that. This is a marked change from the 1963 version where Ralph and Jack hated each other from the get go. In the earlier film, Jack is a conservative prig, bloviating like a conservative radio host, about how the English are the best at everything and automatically assuming himself the leader of the boys simply because he's head of the choir. Jack is openly scornful of the election that votes Ralph in as leader and immediately causes a rift by separating his friends into a group of hunters.But, in the 1990 version, Jack is portrayed as a strong young lad with natural charisma. Whereas Ralph can only offer hope that they may be rescued eventually, Jack offers his followers tangible solutions to immediate problems; THEY will hunt for food, THEY will build shelters, THEY will maintain a signal fire. Jack gets the other kids to join his side not by bullying, but by actually providing a viable alternative to Ralph's leadership. Imagine what America would be like if conservatives ever learned that simple lesson!Think about it, in the 1990 version of Lord Of The Flies, since both Ralph and Jack are presented as attractive, competent and intelligent leaders, it is not so easy to assign blame when their island society begins to degenerate. It's difficult to take sides when conservative Jack is not all BAD and liberal Ralph is not all GOOD. This is bothersome to most people because they prefer their symbolism spelled out for them.Overall, the story has been admirably updated by screenwriter Sara Schiff, her realistic depiction of the boys' descent into savagery is more organic and feels more truthful and less manipulative than the earlier film.So, why did the 1990 Lord Of The Flies get dissed so badly? Perhaps in 1990, there were still people who felt that kids were somehow incorruptible and not prone to violence. Even though history is full of stories about violent children from the Hitler Youth to the Khmer Rouge to the genocide being committed in various African countries today. The belief that a group of young boys would inevitably chuck aside civilization and descend into viciousness may have seemed unthinkable when the book was originally written and the 1963 film was shot. But now, in a post-Columbine, post-9/11 world, it seems amazing that this sort of thing doesn't happen more often. "},{"Title":"this is what happens","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is what happens when you hire an obscure director who has only directed 13 projects(mostly TV) in 28 years(Hook)who unfortunately also did the editing.......certainly no Kubrick by the way........an even more obscure screenwriter for whom there is apparently no information at all anywhere(Schiff)......a lead character who actually has two real broken wrists(Getty) and even though he was the original producer on the 1963 version which was excellent due to direction, a producer so disenchanted with movie making that he quit and went to the stage to work(Lewis Allen) although much to his credit(7 noms,3 tony awards). I cannot imagine how they convinced him to have anything to do with this travesty..........i suppose they thought it was a novel idea to CHANGE THE STORY........which is ALWAYS a good idea, of course!.........it is also sad that this movie was overshadowed by a better Disney TV movie made at the same time(Exile)...........i wonder what Golding thought of this version (cringe) "},{"Title":"Good subject, but no.","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know, the book this film was inspired and it's subject are really interesting. It's a sociology/anthropology class. Instead of cherishing this well made book, the filmmakers seemed to be a little lazy and made the movie without commitment. The actors are okay, but the plot and the development of this story were too superficial.The film basically shows how a society without a punitive power would interact. They didn't approach it very deeply, but they (fortunately) approached the Only the power breaks power thinking that Monstesquieu said when suggested the separation of powers.About what the kids did to themselves, I personally don't know if that's what would happened if some young boys got lost in an island. I'm not sure if they'd act like they did here, I kept myself thinking about it for hours but got no where. I may ask some professors of mine. "}{"Title":"A good way to spend some time","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the book nor have I seen the 1963 film. So, I can say I really enjoyed it because I didn't have hight expectations. The kids were adorable and performed quite well, for their age. The plot is quite reasonable. Nevertheless, I think the special effects leave a lot to be desired.Metaphorically, it showed how a civilization composed of weak people can be influenced by one small rogue group and how the basic personal instinct and interest can overide the basic moral rules. Good food for thought. So, all things considered, it was a good way to spend some time. "},{"Title":"Go primitive to Survive !","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the book but I found the film very interesting. Mainly because we can actually see the breakdown of civilization, especially with kids that had been to military school, so they were educated to follow rules and to be organized. And to see those habits being forgotten for survival... it's amazing!Although the detailed death scenes of those boys were, in my opinion, unnecessary and shocking, they make the film even more compelling viewing.Overall, I think the actors did great, for kids, and the plot despite a bit boring, has a very good moral.Definitely it isn't one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film Lord of the Flies is very mysterious because we never know what's going to happen. This film transmits to us how far a human being can go to survive, and how savage people can become when they are under pressure. I think this film doesn't transmit the meaning of the film title. Lord of the Flies is a very metaphorical film because the way of thinking and acting of the kids symbolizes the different personalities of the human society. The cast was well chosen but some of them, like the twins, their acting looked a bit fake, it didn't look natural. Not only that but the special effects aren't that good and we can see that clearly when the rock hits Piggy. I think that everyone should see this film. "},{"Title":"Roast piggy.","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I usually read and hear about this Hollywood remake copping a real shellacking when compared to the original 1963 British b/w version and that of William Golding's 1954 novel of the same title. I don't mind this 90's update, but that's considering I haven't read the book or even watched the first film adaptation. The concept (civilized children struggling with order and reverting to savagery to survive and dominate) would have been disturbing back in those times, but now nothing is too surprising. What disappointed me more than anything was that the drama of the situation isn't as powerful or gripping as it should have been. While it's beautifully photographed in presenting the lush island and accumulates an expressively grandeur score, it still does feel a little empty, tidy and mundane when it needed to be raw, passionate and intense for any real impression. I guess there was too much easy-going scenic and textual activity on director Harry Hook's part. Even when it finally busts its guts (in the dying 15 minutes), you can say it was too late and too short to draw much empathy and dramatic suspense. There are exemplary performances by Chris Furrh and Balthazar Getty. Furrah as the bold, rebellious lad who counter-punches Getty's calm, persistently hopeful leader. Danuel Pipoly is the only one of the remaining cast to standout in some shape. Might not be anything grand or rewarding, but it keeps you watching to the very end. "},{"Title":"Not bad... But 1963 version far superior","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having read Golding's novel, and being a fan of the original film version I approached this remake with some apprehension. It is flawed, but I wasn't disgusted with the result. It is OK. Doesn't hold a candle to the original, though, which kind of defeats the purpose. Much of the story is the same, and follows the same pattern, of the original, in which scenes, and plot turns are directly from the novel, and which are left out. The strengths of this version lie mostly in the photography, and use of colour. The tropical island, and physical changes are captured well. The opening shots, underwater, are particularly well done. The characterizations are not bad, overall. The chase at the end, is well depicted. The problems with this rendering, however, do tend to outweigh the good points. Most notably- The concept of The Beast, and the more simplified relationships, and characters. In the novel, and 1963 film, there is no Adult survivor. This alters the story altogether, and casts doubt on the motives and actions. It does not work within the framework of the novel. The beast is meant to be a mystery, to the reader and the viewer. The presence of the wandering captain establishes from the get-go, that the beast is human, and in fact the captain. It is doubtful that all the older boys would not make the connection. This in turn ruins the mystery for the viewer. In the novel, and the 1963 film, the beast (or monster in this version), is at first a puzzle, subject to conjecture. But initial encounters are presented as quite hair-raising, in no small part due to the knowledge that the boys are alone, on the island. Final confirmation of the nature of the beast, is both gruesome, and terrifying. Despite the obvious fact that it is not supernatural, or actually monstrous. The Beast is, as discovered by Simon, a downed pilot, possibly from an air battle. Many pilots were MIA during WW2, and the Beast is one of them, having come down on the island, and entered the cave/grotto through an opening in the canopy. Still strapped to his parachute harness, and clad in a leather flying helmet, goggles, boots and suit, the dead and decomposed airman continues to be animated by the wind, the chute and rigging emitting ominous flapping and groaning noises. The scene of Simon's discovery is both vivid and memorable. In the 1990 version, this is completely abandoned, for the notion of the delirious captain. Some of the symbolism regarding society, and power is left out of this version. Most notably in the treatment of the relationship between Jack and Roger. In the novel, and to a somewhat lesser extent, the 1963 version, the roles of Ralph and Piggy are mirrored by those of Jack and Roger. As Ralph and Piggy rely on each other to maintain civilization, and democracy, Jack and Roger likewise collaborate to bring about totalitarianism. In this version Roger is a relatively minor character, doing little but following the chief. In the novel/original, Jack leads, but relies almost completely upon Roger, the physically strongest boy, to enforce his rule. Roger is quite sociopathic, and as the story progresses, Jack, rather than gaining power, actually loses it. Jack becomes little more than a figurehead, allowing more and more displays of autonomy by Roger. Finally, when Roger kills Piggy, Jack fears not just usurpation, but assassination. Jack is the Dictator, installed by Roger, the military, which becomes increasingly arrogant and violent. It is Roger that encourages Jack to hunt down Ralph, and kill him, although Jack would be content to banish him. Jack can no longer reign in his muscle. All of this is missing from the 1990 version, and replaced with the more streamlined narrative, and reduced characters. Overall, not bad adaptation, and would serve well to inspire to read the novel. However the 1963 version is far superior, and would be more satisfying for those who are familiar with Golding's book. "},{"Title":"Bad Book, Bad Movie.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book in High School and I hated it. We then watched the move in class after reading the book and I thought it was equally bad. It was boring, pointless and real waste of time. I was glad when this horrible story was behind me and I would never have to see either the book or the movie ever again. The only good thing about the whole experience was that I got an A on the test and that's what counts. On the test we were asked our opinion and I pretty much wrote I hated it and the teacher was so impressed that I got the only A given. Spoilers If you haven't seen it, it's about a bunch of kids who get stuck on an island and turn in to savages, killing two kids and eating pigs and stuff. I think it's terrible that schools are having kids read this book and watching the movie, it's saying that we must respect authority or we will turn in to savages.Who cares about profanity? Kids using profanity is realistic. Just go to a high school and you find loads of it. "},{"Title":"not worth watching","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" a fan of the book, I also enjoyed the 1963 movie. But, watching this, it's seems very dumbed down. Much of they symbolism of the book is explained to the audience of this version of the movie and done poorly. The acting is sub par, the direction mediocre and the screenplay is just terrible.I would think that, with today's audience being more sophisticated and not was easily shocked as in 1963, they could stay truer to the book. But, the writers and director did what Hollywood usually does, ads symbolism of their own (military school) and removes the authors original intent.If you never read the book or saw the 1963 movie, you might enjoy it. But, if not, please stay away. It's just bad. "},{"Title":"another heart of darkness","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" William Golding's compelling adventure of the human beast untethered illustrates Darwinism at its most ferocious this is truly survival of the fittest. The new film version updates the fable from a group of British schoolboys stranded on a tropical island to a team of young American military cadets, a switch Golding himself might have approved of. Watching little soldiers devolve into savages, with all their spit-and-polish discipline reverting to primitive barbarity, is a chilling reminder of the animal lurking just under the skin of any military man. The cast of young unknowns may at times look a little self-conscious in front of the camera, and some of the contemporary dialogue doesn't ring entirely true. But the film itself is beautifully photographed and very carefully arranged (director Harry Hook also served as editor), maintaining a simple mood of accumulating dread knowing what's about to unfold doesn't make it any less awful to watch. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you look beyond the lines in the book, you'll realize that the point of the book isn't necisarily just about kids getting lost on an island, yes, that is the story, but the meaning. The meanings are normal people turning into savages. Look at the time this was written Just as Europe's fascist dictator's were rising. One meaning is the fall of democracy (Ralph's group) to brutal fascism (Jack's group) after awhile, each kid decides, 'well, everyone else is doing it' and joins Jack's side. I think what Golding was trying to show these kids' savagery. There is a difference of savagery in the 40's (when the book was written) and the 90's (when this movie was made) I think that the swearing just makes it more modern day. And of course this is not for children, neither was the book. It never was meant for children. All in all, I think it was a great movie, though it could've been better. "},{"Title":"A good adaptation of a great book.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lord Of The Flies was a classic book, which was both an exciting story and a fascinating study of human behaviour. This modern film adaptation, with the British schoolboys replaced by US military cadets, is also very good. The acting is generally good and the main events of the story are portrayed well to maximise the shocking nature of them. You get a good feel for the characters, and the Americanisms are not problematic. I think this is a lot better than the 60s film version, and is easier for young people of today to appreciate. The only thing that keeps it from being a classic film is that it doesn't go into anywhere near the amount of interesting symbolism and psycho-analysis that was present in the book. An enjoyable film, but not as good as the book. 8/10 "}{"Title":"My fave movie, very nicely done, only a few mistakes","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time.  The book and 1963 movie are great, but this movie really made the story come alive for me.  I wish the boys were still British, but the difference in the stories also made for an interesting remake.  Along with the sexy guys (hey, I'm only 14 I can think these thoughts!) the music and filming really captured a feeling.  The feeling will never leave me...it's just one of those films you can never forget.  I've seen it 6 times, but plan on watching is 600 more! "},{"Title":"Viewpoint of a 15 yr. old guy","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I did not intend to see this movie. I was just surfing. But something made me watch it.It was amazing. One of the best films i've ever seen. To depict the emotions they were experiencing fluidly was a really difficult challenge, and the movie managed to do it. I've not seen any other lord of the flies movie. But I find it hard to believe it can be made in a better manner.The ending was very abrupt, and left me breathless for more...it was completely unexpected. But what I loved the most was the storyline. How seemingly normal teens (or preteens), can change in the absence of order. And I realised that it was absolutely true. What was shown in the movie was so natural, it didn't feel like a movie.If you can remember and understand yourself in that age, hardened in the army, but still a child, you'll love the movie. "},{"Title":"not great but watchable","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what it is with all the reviewers who seem to enjoy smashing this Hollywood remake of the 1960s version to pieces. Apparently they can't stand this adaptation for a more modern audience who - like me - found the earlier version technically poor, acted very poorly, and going at a stultifying pace guaranteed to put you to sleep long before the end. Yes, there's maybe a bit too much swearing in this version, and it takes several liberties with the scenario, in sharp contrast to the slavishly faithful earlier adaptation, but my feeling is that many reviewers failed to consider, for one thing, that this is an American adaptation made for an American audience and so, naturally, the Britishness of the story simply had to go out the window. Everyone does what they're best at, right? Having said this, it's time to point out why this version is actually, although far from a masterpiece, not so bad at all, certainly when compared to its predecessor 1. It's in colour, and technically - sound, camera work, musical score - superior to it2. It still has all the main themes and ideas of the novel despite the changes to the book plot3. While none are for the clearly worse, several changes are actually for the better. Take the 'beast' who in the original comes falling out of the sky. In this one he's actually from among the boys, but unrecognizable, and so fitting in much better with the 'evil inside' theme (Simon what if there's no beast, what if it's just us?)4. The acting is infinitely better. Jack (and Ralph) may swear a lot but they are - and look - also very natural in their roles compared with the overall stilted acting in the other one. And Piggy - his glasses may be over-sized, but his performance is memorable. He is readily identifiable with, something that the 1963 Piggy never managed to achieve. (BTW It would have been nice to hear the 'dialogue' between Simon and the Lord of the Flies but this would have sounded ridiculous to anyone not acquainted with the book, so it was a wise decision to leave that out in both versions)5. It seems to me that if you really wanted to adapt this novel to the screen and reach a larger audience you'd probably have to compromise even more in terms of authenticity. The story is just damn difficult to transfer, therefore this version does not deserve the kind of 'purist' criticism leveled at it on these pages. It's more entertaining and still thought provoking, and that was likely what the makers set out to create - it would be unfair to expect more than that, and the older version definitely falls short on the first of those counts. "},{"Title":"Terribly Underrated Film","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My first job was to read the book. I couldn't get into it at first - too much labored descriptions of the island, etc, but after I pushed all that aside, I loved it. Everyone is right when they say what a masterpiece William Golding's novel is. But I'm not reviewing that...My second job was to watch the film version - well, this version. I watched the earlier (1963) version afterwards, and really didn't think it stood up to the book. While I loved the opening credits and a lot of the climax, it just really didn't do it for me. Perhaps it was because the earlier version is in black and white. I don't know...But it is the 1990 remake that really does it for me. I love it. I don't understand those who put it down. They whinge about the profanity and the boys now being Americans instead of British, etc. - all elements different from the novel and the 1963 version. But who cares? They go on about there not being any depth or feeling in the story... There is. Perhaps they just don't see it after the close-knit relationship of the novel and the 1963 version. But regardless, this is a great movie.I thought the opening scene was brilliant - the raft bursting out of the water and scaring the hell out of the kids got me straight into the film. The locations are spectacular - the scenery literally took my breath away. I was most impressed by the use of photography in this film - much better than the 1963 version.Anyway, back to the point. This is a strikingly-made adaption of the novel. The characters, particularly Ralph, aren't always true to the book, but they were developed very well. Jack's transformation from a civilized teen to a savage brute is brilliant - and Ralph's relationship with Piggy is strengthened to a bond which is only broken by Piggy's death at the hands of mayhem. Another element I loved and thought extremely ingenious was having the pilot survive, and ultimately, take the place of the parachutist who drops in on the boys in the book and 1963 version. If the boys can survive a plane crash in the middle of the ocean, then why not the pilot? The only thing I found annoying about this change was that he floundered about like a lost puppy after recovering from his fever - then ultimately wound up being murdered by one of Jack's posse (Roger?).The use of the dream sequences, I thought, was done extremely well. Ralph's hallucination of a helicopter spotting them on the island, only to blow up as it passes them, had me gasping in awe. What brilliant film-making. Simon's dream was also very haunting - the young boy witnesses the pilot, Captain Benson, announcing they are about to be rescued and are going home, then wakes up to find the pilot still unconscious with sickness.The music that accompanies the film is a masterpiece on its own. Every piece brilliantly sets the tone and mood of the film and gives a great feel of the emotions the boys are feeling. Particularly amazing is the music heard during the scene where Simon discovers Captain Benson's body, and his own subsequent death.And of course, the mood during the film is absolutely true to the novel, even if the events taking place aren't. The dance Jack's tribe performs in front of a disbelieving Ralph and Piggy enforces the utter breakdown of law and order on the island and the dark forces operating within the boys. It is obvious that the notions applied in the novel - that the real monster is inside each and every one of us - is present here.The ending is superb. The chase scene is executed masterfully, often in slow motion, amongst the raging flames of the fires Ralph has set in hope of being spotted by a passing ship. The emotion displayed by both good (Ralph) and evil (Jack and his tribe) is absolutely real, climaxing with Ralph tripping over a log to land smack-bang in front of a marine officer. What better way to snatch away the breakdown and decay on the island, and of the aforementioned chase, than having a group of marines spotting the fires and landing to investigate, only to discover Jack and his tribe ready to kill Ralph and immediately snap them back to reality. The acting here is top-notch. Jack's reaction to the naval officer is one of complete believability - he suddenly realizes that his dream world on the island has come crashing down and now there is an adult to take charge of things and put an end to his rain of terror. The marine officer (played by the brilliant Bob Peck) is a fitting model to the awful truth that society has its rules and boundaries.And what better way to finish the film than with a long shot of a second helicopter approaching the island, ready to land and further emphasize the return of the boys to the real world?Wonderful. "},{"Title":"A powerfully told story.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The use of slow motion is great with the score coming in at just the right time to bring a tear to my eye. Ralph is an enormous hero fighting to survive. The mini society they create is terrifyingly real.This is a terrific movie which was not as praised as it should've been.  "},{"Title":"Fairly compelling; not as good as it could have been.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't read the book, which theoretically is an advantage (it is distracting when you have to compare all the time and locate what they missed), but in any case there IS something missing from this film, something that could have made it much better. Is it perhaps the fact that we never get enough background information on the kids for us to truly connect to them? The actors themselves are not bad at all, and the photography  does achieve some beautiful contrasts between the sea and the land. But overall the film is not exceptional in any way. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"A casual chance of creating the perfect society, man and his instinct.","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the flies is a travel trough the global human spirit, made flesh in a bunch of kids. In the performance of its young actors,and with the brilliant background of William golding's great novel, we can see the world, its primal instincts and reactions. Mankind is drawn in a tragic line, and the society concept is re evaluated from a sober and clear point of view. In this group of kids we can watch world history, we understand the news that appear on TV. Full of sweetness that always ends ruined by reality,even the bases of religions are shown to us in a pig's head and all the incidents that surround it. Lord of the flies is a guideline to human behavior, a mirror of ourselves, that makes it easy to understand the world we are living in, by putting it in a far distance and situation, that ends up showing how we are alike "},{"Title":"Man is a Beast...","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a beast in man that should be exercised, not exorcised. ~Anton Szandor LaVey~This second movie adaptation of Sir William Golding's beloved novel is as epic as the main message in the book. The carnal desires of man will out, no matter what education, faith or good manners one is grown up with. We've tried everything grown ups do. Why didn't it work? is the famous line by Piggy in this movie, which was shot in the exotic and hypnotising backgrounds of Hawaii and Jamaica. It is the story that was meant as an allegory for World War II, but still is an allegory for human nature in every way. Man is an animal and the carnal side of man will out, no matter what. It is a beautiful story about Darwin's principal 'Suvrival of the Fittest', even though it is told in biblical images (Baal (Beelzebub) had flies as servants in times of The Philistines.The movie tells us the wonderful tale of human nature, set in a 1990 timeline. Even though many people of the young generations do not know about subtle things like the TV-show 'Alf' being mentioned, this movie is ageless.Wonderful acting by all of the kids and disturbing effects, like the rock on Piggy's head.One of my alltime favorits for sure! "},{"Title":"A well-made adaptation honoring the spirit of Golding's work","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't make the mistake of thinking this movie is just parroting the book. It is a fresh, updated telling of a time-honored story. All of the key elements are there, just spun artistically into a different era. To enjoy this movie you will have to manage your expectations. If you go into viewing it with bias as to what it must be you will probably score it low as a lot of others have. The story line is good. The lead actors are quite good, delivering performances beyond their years that have them coming off as quite fluid and natural. Some of the other performances are strained . . . but I find it quite acceptable that such a troop of young actors would deliver a performance in keeping with their age. Perhaps we the viewers have become so spoiled with astounding performances, we're jaded against simple good performances. While changed up a bit, this is the same classic story of striving for civil order yet having it inevitably fall to struggles of power and ego and fear. Made all the more poignant for having it performed by such a young cast. A huge hats-off to the production crew. Filming with just one or two children and animals is said to be quite the monumental undertaking. Managing a young cast of over a dozen and coming out with such a good film deserves far greater notice than many reviewer are granting. "},{"Title":"Still, this 1990 version of 'Lord of the Flies' is a very suspenseful and unyielding look at what pure chaos really is.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you're reading this, then I'm sure that at some point in your life, you have either read William Golding's 1954 novel 'The Lord of the Flies' either as required school reading or for fun, or have seen the original adaption on film from 1963, which is currently part of the Criterion Collection. However, my first foray into this world was through this 1990 movie. It wasn't until a few years later that I read the book and saw the original 1963 film.'Lord of the Flies' has been referenced in countless books, magazines, television shows, and other films, where they're usually discussing a group of kids who are unruly and on a path of destruction and death. Needless to say, 'Lord of the Flies' has always been controversial, which it still is today, given the subject matter. This 1990 version is a bit different than its predecessors, as director Harry Hook wanted to give it a more modern appeal to younger audiences. Instead of a group of British choir boys surviving a plane crash in the ocean with no adults, and making their way to a deserted island, this 90's version has a group of young military cadets stranded with one gravely injured adult. It turns the tables a little bit as we get to see an assuming group of boys who might have some skills to survive in a dire situation along with a mental attitude for order and command, turn into something completely frightening and chaotic.It was a smart move on Hook's part here, as well as, making the young survivors American, rather than British. But the big story points are still there. Ralph (a young Balthazar Getty) and Jack (Chris Furrh) are the main leaders of the group of young survivors who turn into enemies, while Piggy (Danuel Pipoly) still acts as the collective groups moral and ethics board, trying to get these wild kids to survive and help, rather than become savage beasts with no rules. Hook wasn't bothered with telling a story with the amount of symbolism or depth here as in the original novel or even the original film. Instead, a captured the pure horror as these kids turned into monsters.The film succeeds in this aspect very well, because we can easily see nowadays that this kind of situation is far to real and hits close to home for most. Another interesting change is that this 1990 film was shot in color. The original film was in black and white, and painted a fairly bleak outlook from the get-go. But here, we have beautiful landscapes and luscious greens for miles, which is the place where these stranded kids go wild, which is an interesting notion in and of itself. How could these kids possibly become the murdering lunatics they are in such a rich and beautiful place? It's fascinating to watch.The young Getty, Furrh, and Pipoly all do a decent job here in their roles. Furrh is menacing for sure throughout, but also makes you believe he is still a scared little boy deep down, while Getty is constantly mixing a variety of emotions in order to stay alive. Then there is poor Pipoly, who does a great job of being the joke of the group who everyone picks on. It's still quite sad to see what that character goes through. Even a young James Badge Dale as Simon turns in a solid performance, however a few of the other kids still needed a week long acting class in certain moments.Still, this 1990 version of 'Lord of the Flies' is a very suspenseful and unyielding look at what pure chaos really is. The gut punch is that it's all young kids going through this and acting out these bizarre and violent behaviors. Needless to say after 25 years, this film still holds up quite well. "}{"Title":"Lazy adaptation and poor performances","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mama, mama can't you see? What the Army's done to me? They put me in a barber's chair. Spun me 'round, I had no hair.Harry Hook's 1990 adaptation of William Golding's classic novel, Lord of the Flies, didn't leave much of an impression on me. I've never read the novel, but from what I've heard there are several differences in this adaptation mainly in that it is a modernized version of the story and that the children are American instead of British. The greatest issue I had with this film is that the child actors weren't very good. There were several scenes in which the delivery of the dialogue felt completely forced and so did the emotional moments where some of the kids' cries felt terribly fake. The film definitely hasn't aged well considering how strong the performances are from child actors nowadays. The second issue I had with this film is that the shocking premise of seeing these innocent kids become savages is something we are very used to seeing now. We are way too familiar with their dark side and we've heard of one too many school shootings on the news. Perhaps we've become desensitized towards this issue, but it doesn't shock the audience now in the way the story intended to. The story itself feels pretty rushed and we never get to spend much time with these characters or get to know who they are. I simply never felt engaged with the story and thought that the transition from one scene to the next was never smooth. The Lord of the Flies' greatest virtue is that the island is gorgeous, so the cinematography was executed pretty well and the visuals were beautiful.The film begins with an underwater sequence as a group of kids are trying to save an injured pilot from drowning. They are a group of young military students who survived a plane crash and fortunately have found a nearby island to settle in. They must find a way to survive while they await rescue so the kids appoint Ralph (Balthazar Getty) as their leader. He assigns different responsibilities for everyone which include searching for food, gathering wood, and keeping the fire camp burning in case a plane or a boat passes by. A couple of days go by and some of the kids get tired of doing their choirs. When Ralph calls their attention, Jack (Chris Furrh) decides he is no longer going to take orders and decides to leave. Several other kids decide to follow Jack and pretty soon the group is divided. Unlike Ralph, Jack is simply concerned with hunting and he could care less about being civilized in this remote island. It doesn't take long before several of the kids begin losing their humanity and joining Jack. Ralph and Piggy (Danuel Pipoly) seem to be the only two rational kids left on the island as rumors of a monster fills the rest of the group with fear.The film really doesn't leave much room for analysis or interpretations, and the book probably does a better job at that. The theme can basically be summed up like this it is in our nature to become savages, but society is a way in which we've learned to keep those desires in check. However, the transformation of these characters doesn't feel very natural considering the emphasis is on summarizing the story instead of actually building the characters. It's as if the main purpose of the film was to simply get from point A to point B. That is what ultimately hurts this film because the lazy script adaptation doesn't allow us to see that transformation unfold gradually. It all becomes about choosing one leader and following them. http//estebueno10.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Changes don't all improve story","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A plane crashes in the ocean. The pilot captain Benson and a group of military school cadets reach an isolated island. The injured captain is delirious. Ralph (Balthazar Getty) is the senior cadet who has an injured arms. He tries to organize the boys using the conch found by Piggy. Jack Merridew is the oldest and often fights with the argumentative Piggy. The popular Jack gets obsessed with hunting down the wild pig and the group starts to go wild while Ralph tries to maintain order. The sensitive Simon is shocked at the growing brutality. Captain Benson wanders off. When Jack neglects the signal fire to go hunting, the group splits in two.There are a few changes from the classic novel. They don't all necessarily improve the story. The most troubling is the militarization of the boys. Ralph doesn't get his leadership based on a vote but rather by his cadet ranking. It loses some of the symbolism in the book. The theme of the lost of a democratic civilization is watered down by the boys being military cadets. The captain is an interesting choice and creates some good scenes. The best part of the movie is the use of real young boys. This movie needs the young kids. It is interesting to see a colored version. However if the movie intends to make changes, they should push more towards horror. "},{"Title":"A place, lost in time and space-where innocence is lost","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This adaptation of William Golding's chilling novel, that bears the same name, is decidedly American. Although brilliantly acted, this American adaptation of the classic lacks the essence of the novel. The changes are obvious. There was no plane crash, no choir of boys, no symbolism that was the rich undercurrent of the novel.Upon arrival, in a raft that mysteriously disappears after the opening sequence, the boys; seemingly from an American military school, are stranded on an uninhabited island, presumably somewhere in the Pacific. The film moves quickly without allowing the viewer to develop any attachment to any of the boys. The vulgarity used by the boys was superfluous and unnecessary. Further detaching the viewer from the experience by setting them on edge by the verbosity of these boys. The vestige of the Captain? on the island with the boys veers us further from the novel. Although some thought was used to turn this last adult into Simon 's monster, the delicacy of the situation is manhandled until warped into obscurity. There is no symbolism, no hidden fear of the unknown. The viewer is lead to the conclusion rather than discovering it, as it occurs in the novel. The deaths of Simon and Piggy were almost as an afterthought, rather than chiefly main points. There is no frailty of Piggy, with his restrictive asthma. No idyllic beauty in Simon. The very features that endeared the reader were lost on the viewer who had no connection to the boys. And without doing so, their deaths were just relegated to gratuitous violence. The underdeveloped character of Roger made Piggy's death nonsensical. There was no shattering of the conch. No forethought that Roger was the true evil of the island. The reason the boys followed Jack. The threat of psychotic violence wrapped up in a tween wrapper. Jack and Ralph, albeit most developed characters, were shallow. The child actors portrayed their roles brilliantly. But we're underestimated by screenplay and director. An underlying fault within the entire project. Giving this film such a high ranking was out of love for the story. The enigmatic island, the poor tortured Ralph, and for the loss of innocence. Overall, if you have the means, seek the original 1963 version and skip The Lord Of The Flies, Gilligan's Island edition. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord Of The Flies is not an enjoyable book, but it's near impossible not to admire it. It's a powerful story but there's good reason why it's studied in so many schools. The second time it's been adapted for film, the black and white 60s version is apparently good but comparing this awful adaptation to the book is like comparing The Mona Lisa to a crayon drawing. This decides to ignore it's source material. The boys are now American. They have an adult with them on the island. Simon's barely in it. The twins are barely in it. The themes of the novel and the various motifs are given little to no attention. The dead pilot is never on the island. The beast encounter is reduced to a boy getting frightened by the adult. The boy's arrive on a raft yet decide not to use it to get off the island again. There are virtually no hunts. The Lord Of The Flies never actually speaks to Simon. Many of the key scenes and hints of savagery are left out. The boys... you get the idea.What were they thinking? The acting for the boys is surprisingly good and it's well photographed but the script is terrible. It's totally lacking in what makes the book so raw and powerful. It doesn't explore themes at all and is just a simple story of boys devolving into savagery. It feels rushed and since it's only 90 minutes long too much of it is missed out. It may be unfair to keep comparing it to the book when books and films are 2 different mediums, but even ignoring the book this isn't a very good drama anyway. The story is a bit dated and therefore perhaps another adaptation wasn't necessary in the first place. The finale is good, and you get the odd powerful moment here and there but there's not a lot of tension as the boys descend into savagery. We all know what's coming and we don't care. Ralph is well played but too soft, Jack is too obsessed with fun, Simon is underutilized and so are Sam and Eric. They pretty much got Piggy right. This is just a bad adaptation all together, even worse than Of Mice And Men (1992). Don't use this film for revision if LOTF is in your exam, as this ignores the book.4/10 "},{"Title":"A Pretty Messy Disappointment","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film...This film really annoyed me.This film could've been great. It could've been amazing.But it was just...alright.Now being an alright movie isn't a bad thing.Unless it could've been much, much better.This film was so, so, so messy. I mean, this movie, it seemed like the film didn't really know what it was gonna be. The film was just so disorganized.On the other hand, the performances were pretty good. The kids are not bad actors.But this film was kinda dull. It seemed a bit meh.And when something did happen, it only happened because of STUPIDITY.I mean, this film could've been great if instead of killing off a couple characters, they'd slowly kill off the entire cast. That would've been fun.But we ended up with this.Lord of the Flies was a disappointment.I give it a 6/10. I'd give it a 6.5, but I'd have to round up to 7, which is too high, so I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Beware of falling rocks.....","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After a plane crash in the ocean, a group of military students reach an island. Ralph organises the boys, assigning responsibilities for each one. When rebel Jack neglects the fire camp and they lose the chance to be seen by a helicopter, the group split under the leadership of Jack. While Ralph rationalises the procedures, Jack uses the fear of unknown to control the other boys, and hunting and chasing pigs, stealing Ralph's group and even killing people.....For purists of the source material and the original movie, it's going to irk a few people. Here we don't really have the metaphors of religion and the fear of growing old, it's just a load of boys in pants running amok in the jungle.But it still sort of works. Getty and th other one are really good as Jack and Ralph, almost Cane and Abel in stature, they are friends, then become the best of enemies, for no good reason.Soon the island is split in two, one lead by head, the other by heart, but as the heart is deceitful above all things, the 'head' camp gets gradually smaller as the days go by.It starts off as an adventure for the boys, but soon becomes a nightmare, when people start getting killed. and this is where the film falters, its too dark and grim and savours too much on the deaths of characters.Yes, they have to die to keep the material true, but does it have to be so graphic?Other than that, it's a very wheel made film with some good central performances and quite a good final act. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really love this movie! I have seen this movie on school. The acting was just great! Especially the acting of Ralph and Jack. They really brought the characters alive. People who have read the book and then watched the movie, should just forget the book. Cause a movie is never the same as a book. This movie has great actors, great music sounds, a good story and good make-up and costumes. The only thing that's bothers me is that the movie is a little short. But the end is just brilliant! It is not a movie for young kids. There are a few murder scenes. I love the music sound in the beginning and the island and the area is also beautiful. It is and stays an amazing movie. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We saw this movie in our English classes and we've never read the book or seen the other 1963 movie so we can't compare this with that.We have several opinions and we can't really decide whether this movie is good or not worth watching.On one hand we think the subject of this movie is interesting and can really make us think about our society and the people who live in it, here represented by the different characters. Also we found the island where the story takes place really beautiful and idyllic, which can attract viewers who like stories with this kind of scenario.On the other hand we found some holes in the plot which made it harder to understand the storyline and some other aspects like the title.This seemed especially wrong to us since after watching the whole movie we had to ask our teacher why this was called Lord of the Flies.The main actors were quite good especially Ralph and Jack, the guy who played Piggy had an annoying voice but he looked cute, so you can stand it.After reading some comments we think that maybe if you read the book you will be very disappointed. If not, it is a movie with an interesting message that you can actually like. "},{"Title":"Neither Great nor too Bad","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My opinion of this film (only the 1990 film version because I haven't read the book, so I can't compare anything) is that it is kind of disappointing, I mean, a bit boring, but reasonable. The plot is good,the setting is absolutely amazing (a desert island) but the ending leaves a lot to be desired. The acting, due to the actors' tender age, is not very good, but acceptable anyway, although the special effects were good, considering the date when the film was made, however the soundtrack was not good, not adding anything to what we know about the film and the worst part of the film was definitely the title... The title doesn't really have to do with the film itself. All things considered, I think this film is good for people who like suspense films and i advise you to watch it!! "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As we haven't read the book we can't compare it with the film nor have we seen the 1963 version although we find it very exciting and it was also really interesting to see how little boys can behave when they are so for a long time without adult supervision.In our opinion the cast was well chosen because in spite of their age the boys acted very naturally throughout the film conveying the dark theme of the story and because, for some of them, it was probably the first time they had acted.The main story is not that interesting but the details are really captivating and its nice too see how Ralph can be so mature with those wild and primitive boys. Howhever, Jack is very mature too, not in the film, but in real life because for a kid to do that kind of role it must be very difficult to hurt his friend and even to kill his friend.One of the biggest criticisms we have about the film is how it ends because we would like to know something more. It sound like they needed to finish and that was an easy way to finish.Overall, we liked the film and if you haven't seen it yet we must tell you that you really should see it, but if you are a very sensitive person, be careful because there are some chocking images. If you like adventure you really should see the film and try to image how you would behave in that kind of situation.Have fun! "}{"Title":"Neither good, nor bad...","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the book but, as many have said here, it obviously isn't well adapted. I think that some parts were left out and the acting wasn't at the expected level. However, I found the film quite interesting. Actually there were some good aspects about the film the views, which were beautiful, Simon's death (a well-made scene), the special effects, and other things like the make up. In spite of these positive points, generally, the film isn't so good the soundtrack is poor, the acting (as I have already mentioned)isn't good and the ending scene disappointed me. In my opinion, the film didn't transmitted so well the idea of primitivism and savagery as it could have (as other referred). All things considered, and being realistic, this film didn't have the amusement and enjoyment that a massive number of people expected. "},{"Title":"nice film","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read the book, but I still think I can comment this film. In my opinion, it was quite good, although there were some scenes that were a little bit unrealistic and not well-acted. The actors, despite being kids of 10 or 11 years old, did an excellent job. One thing I didn't like, was the swearing, because you don't expect kids that age to say those words and expressions to each others. However, it was an interesting story and I really enjoyed watching the film. The end of the film is a little bit unfinished, but I think it makes the story more interesting.I recommend this film to everybody, I think you should give it a try! "},{"Title":"A decent film. A bit disappointing...","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There a few few young actors who show great skill, but others not so much. The storyline is loosely based on the book, some dumb lines, but aside from the negatives lies a pretty good movie. I really liked Ralph and Simon as they portrayed their characters well. But the lack of character and plot development may draw quite a few people away from the film. I do wish that the movie was a bit more of a direct depiction of the book, which I thoroughly enjoyed. Piggy got annoying. It was a short film, making it feel almost like the time spent on the island was only about 2 days when in fact it was quite longer in the book. Don't compare the movie to the book. The book is classic, the movie is a decent adaption. Comparing the 2 is like comparing Monday Night Football to an Eighth Grade Football Playoff. "},{"Title":"Culture is a VERY thin veneer","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Caveats Read the book. It's brilliant. Then read the original b/w version of the film, which sticks to the book. Then see this newer version, in color, which contemporizes it in ways not really necessary but not very misguided, either. A plane crash leaves a group of military school boys stranded on an island. They must survive. In this newer version, British lads become Americans, there are references to television, newer characters, etc., and they have a hugely expanded vulgarity to their language. Just modern kids&#133; Anyhow, the story remains compelling, and is a landmark of Modern World insight by William Golding, the author. It is not for young children. Bottom line Culture is a VERY thin veneer. VERY. "},{"Title":"A few moments of tension in an otherwise dull adaptation","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this adaptation of William Golding's novel several years ago in a high school English class, before I ever read the book or saw the 1963 film. I remember finding it disturbing, but wasn't sure what I thought of it in terms of quality. After reading the book, I watched the first Lord of the Flies movie, which I had high expectations of. My expectations were not quite met, but it still turned out to be half-decent. After that, I just watched this second adaptation of the story again, and this time, I definitely didn't think much of it.A group of American military students end up in the ocean after their plane crashes, but manage to get on a boat and row to a nearby island, taking the unconscious Captain Benson with them. Once there, Ralph is soon elected as the leader. Unfortunately, keeping everything under control is not easy for Ralph, especially after Captain Benson wakes up one night while the boys are asleep, but is oblivious! The next day, it is unknown where the commander went, but he is assumed dead. After this, Ralph completely loses control over many of the boys, who join the power-hungry Jack, and become very primitive and dangerous with him! If you have read the book and/or seen the 1963 movie, but haven't seen this remake, some parts of that plot description obviously don't ring any bells. You can be sure that the first movie is much more faithful to the book than this one. This version begins differently, with all the boys together from the start, instead of being scattered on the island, and in the book and the first movie, there is no Captain Benson. The characters also use more coarse language, whether that's a big deal to you or not, and you will find other inaccuracies. However, a movie adaptation not being faithful to the book doesn't necessarily ruin it. This version has other problems, such as simply not being very gripping (I found some parts intense, but not enough), and the dialogue is sometimes weak. I also don't know what I think of the way the Piggy in this movie cries. The cinematography here is more professional than in the 1963 version, but that doesn't prevent this 1990 film from being inferior.Some fans of William Golding's 1954 novel do not like the 1963 film, but this second adaptation of the story is clearly less popular, which is understandable, due to some of the things I've mentioned above, as well as other things. If you look at some of the other comments, you will see that many of those who have read the book think even less of this adaptation than I do. Although the first Lord of the Flies movie is far from perfect in my opinion, it's still a reasonable adaptation. This movie, on the other hand, is not. For strong admirers of the book, I wouldn't expect much of this movie. In fact, you might want to avoid it altogether. "},{"Title":"A different Medium","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Film and book are two very different medium's of portraying a story. Plots MUST change in order to suite these opposing medium's. A book will entice or allow one to explore and create the images of a world through their own imagination, thus the images portrayed are purely a creation of the reader's imagination, hence leaving interpretation entirely up to the reader. A film is purely visual, and 'feeds' the images and must attempt to portray an interpretation which the viewer must accept and cannot reject. If we look at many highly sought after film's created by highly prestigious filmmakers, such as Steven Spielberg and A.I. Artificial Intelligence, the plot also changes dramatically to prove the film worthy of the portrayal of the story. In the case of Lord of the Flies, I too feel that the film was in a sense 'lacking' a certain presence or charisma, however I thought that the changes in plot were essential in the portrayal of the story through the medium of film. The FILMS characters would have benefited if they had been explored more deeply, so as to allow for more empathy from the viewer, such as Ralph's nostalgic memories or Simons constant graphic nightmares, or the obscene illusion of the Pigs Head conversing with Simon. Also I feel that the film may have benefited greatly from an essence of 'comic relief' which the novel also lacked, and I feel is essential in any story, such as in the works of Shakespeare's Macbeth, with the brief but highly effective 'Porter' scene. None of this occurred in the film, which I feel is the main reason for the disappointment experienced amongst the viewers. If one would like to read a book for a story, one should read a book. However if one would like to be in a sense 'fed' a story, then one should watch a film. That is the blatantly austere reason for the term used on films such as Lord of the Flies BASED upon the novel by Sir William Golding. Therefore I feel it totally unjust of anyone to cast dispersions upon any film for its 'plot differences' between it and its mothering source. "},{"Title":"Good Movie- Terrible ending","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this tale of how civilized people will act under uncivilized conditions is an enjoyable way to spend about 88 minutes. But in the final moments of this movie, everything that we've spent building up to is blown to hell. The ending is so abrupt and inconsequential that it demeans the whole purpose of the movie. I, have read the book and find it to be incredibly good; however, I am sure William Golding would much prefer the original '63 version. Harry Hooks, the director, was clearly trying to make a point with his modernized telling of the classic, but come on... (spoiler) ...The movie ending with a bunch of American soldiers appearing on the island and everyone going back to (what we would assume  since the movie leaves us there) their normal personalities. If they wanted to change the book they should have done it drastically. I would've preferred them killing Ralph and then resorting to eating each other over this ending. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie would be quite useless without the aid of the book. The storyline was jumpy and changed often. If you hadn't read the book, you would have had a lot of trouble understanding the movie. The characters came across not as strong-willed, competitive young men, but as arrogant selfish people. The fact they were American actors, not English disrupted a bit too. The whole stereotypical 'english schoolboy' aura was lost, which i thought was a rather crucial part in helping the actors portray the appropriate characters. The actors in this movie were good, however and their emotions were carried to the audience well. I preffered this movie to the older 1963 version. "},{"Title":"Challenging novel, but intriguing film...","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I found the novel quite challenging and quite a hard read. You had to focus on the storyline and concentrate on what was happening, not enjoy what was going on around you.  However, in the film I found it extremely easy to follw both the storyline and how each of the characters was dealing with the certain situation.  I was able to focus on how everything fell into place; everything was just as I imagined.  Although there were a couple of differences that had me startled.  The factor of the captain living on the island with the boys and how they were fully aware that he was in trouble, and quite sick.  I also found it strange and pretty annoying how the movie used American actors, where as in the novel they are portrayed as English school boys. "},{"Title":"Great! *some spoilers*","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Lord of the Flies last night. Having read the book when i was a child I thought this should be good. And i was right! The plot was great, Acting wasnt too shabby.All around pretty good*Spoiler Part* I really wanted Jack to die at the end.(which i thought he did in the book)And I almost started to cry when Piggy died.*end Spoilers*I wanted to kill Jack myself. I give it an 8/10 Great movie "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago, when I was pretty young and it scared the crap outta me. I rented it several months ago again and really loved it. I've read the book, which also was great, and I still the movie was so rad. People say that the symbolism is lost in the movie, a bit, but not enough to ruin it. I agree the could have done more with the pigs head and simon's epiphany. The location was gorgeous. I like the actors they chose. All of these kids at that time were unknowns and for most it was their first film, but they did a great job, especially Balthazar Getty. He's one of my favorite actors anyway, but this was his first film too and he did a great job as Ralph. I also like Danule Pipoly, who played Piggy. They really captured the feeling the book was trying to portray. There are some really creepy scenes in the book and in the movie its even more so. I love this movie, I don't know what it is about it that I find so great, but its something. And I read one comment on here about someone who thought the Alf reference was stupid or didn't like that it was in the movie, I personally think it was perfect to have that in there, after all these are just little boys. And of course they're going to miss their old lives and everything they used to do, so its fitting and it makes you realize that they are just litte kids. All that aside the books message was about humanity and the beast inside all of us and without civilization man instinctively turns to savagery, basically. There is a lot more to the book and the symbolism, but I think the movie captures it well and is a great adaptation that gets the message across. "},{"Title":"A remarkably well-made disaster.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  William Golding's masterpiece, something of a rite-of-passage for fourteen-year-old boys, is unfortunately lost in this ultra- Americanized adaptation.  Here there is less emphasis on humanism and more focus on shock and violence.  Unlike Peter Brook's original film adaptation, this attempt excludes what is possibly the most essential bit of philosophy in the novel Simon's epiphany with the pig's head. Despite the lackluster adaptation, the film itself is exceptionally well-made.  The score is haunting and beautiful, the  cinematography is striking, and the acting is surprisingly good.  It is unfortunate that none of these successful attributes can make up for the adaptation's disappointments. Viewer beware. "},{"Title":"Beautiful adaptation of a  chilling story","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beautiful is a word only too often used. In the context of  a movie that is so horrifying, it may seem quite inappropriate. But this movie with its picturesque cinematography and spine chilling sound recording, becomes beautiful because it takes one to those recesses of our mind which we shudder to acknowledge the existence of. It disturbs one, makes one uncomfortable... I felt like switching the channels, lowering the volume... anything to prevent me from experiencing the movie or acknowledging how disturbingly close we are and have always been towards unleashing the thinly disguised Dr Jekyll within us... the children behaved as  children do while facing peer pressure, just the consequences were much greater this time. "},{"Title":"the truth","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film in Basic Law at school and was appalled by the way the children acted.  I thought it was incredibly cruel to kill .....and.......>  Balthazar gave an excellent performance as Ralph. The ending was unclear to me though. "},{"Title":"Great potential leads to disappointment","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After studying this great piece of literature in English, I was elated to find a movie version of the great novel.  With so much action, suspense, and insight into the human mind, how could a movie go wrong?  Well, this movie managed to do it.  I was truly appalled at how the screenwriter took such a powerfully poignant novel and stripped it of its true meaning.  I understand changing aspects of a novel to make it more suitable for the screen, but not if it changes the entire theme of the work.  William Golding rolls over in his grave every time this movie plays.  Don't waste your time with this one; read the book instead! "},{"Title":"*Warning* Terrible Movie","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies adapted from a book that i've ever seen.  It completely misses Golding's point and the setting is just wrong for the movie.  It supposed to be a dark movie where the evil in everyone is coming out.  The setting makes it look like a vacation. "},{"Title":"So inaccurate it's laugh worthy","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No one has pointed out the blatantly obvious mistakes, such as the fact that they turn up with GLOW STICKS, in a raft, with an adult. The book clearly states that there are no adults, so why does this Bensen end up dying in a cave and becoming the beast? And why are the boys made to be American 'cadets', when they're really British boys being sent away to safety during the war? The plane also crashes on the island, not in the sea. Even Piggy's death is wrong, he was meant to be sent '40 feet into the air', not just bumped on the head by a tiny rock. Before he dies Piggy even wears a watch, yet still wants to 'make a clock'. The entire film is too Americanised and wrongly modernised, and is a very bad influence on those studying the story. The whole thing needs to be re-made, and this time, not by Americans. Boo. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies (1990)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A shockingly terrible adaptation. All of the pieces might be there on screen, but nothing and I mean NOTHING that makes any sense translates onto screen. It's amazing how someone could miss all of the interesting themes. I'm pretty sure the child actors wrote the script without any understanding of the book. So it starts off with American Military Cadets, rather than prim and proper British Schoolboys. This is the first huge mistake as it completely craps on the transformation that every student goes through. Jack is reduced to a villain. We even here he was bad before getting to the island. The children don't fail at creating a society, they're all just a bunch of disgusting little twerps. Arguing at the slightest little thing. The kids also start with a grown up on the island...I can't even begin to explain how damn stupid that is. It adds literally nothing. The fighter pilot is excised, losing the irony of Piggy praying for a sign from the adult world, only to have an adult killed in war appear. As well as Jack being the villain, Simon's just a weirdo, with every nod toward religion now gone. So what's left? A bunch of horrible children stuck on an island and acting like turds, which they were before they got to the island. Pointless, painful and frustrating. "},{"Title":"More than just a simple story","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a less British version of the book, and not really about children but a metaphor for society as a whole. The children are left to their own devices. At first, the boys form a society that looks out for group and the welfare of all of them. This scheme requires each of them to work and take responsibility for finding the food, and minding the signal fire that is their hope of rescue.Some of the children rebel and go off on their own to create a hunter tribe to satisfy their desire for meat, independence, and power. One by one the other children are drawn to this group out of fear, the need to be with a group and attraction to the strong but evil leader. I think humans are under this same tension even to the detriment of our own survival. Ultimately, we are all looking to be rescued from ourselves. "},{"Title":"many differences from the novel","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie was great why better then the original it was more movie like and had less of those annoying long shots in the first one. However this movie was a bit off. In the book there are no adults the fact that an adult is on the island keeps them more in line so its harder for them to be savage which is the whole point of the book. Second Piggy has more dignity in the book and the first movie in this movie he is a blubbering fool. Third The fact that there is some one who is the beastie ruins that the beast is really themselves and that the beast is just something the have channeled their fear into. forth the boys are originally British boys and the military boys in the movie are really choir boys in the book. The fact their military boys means they have experienced things and are not Innocent. This movie IS good even if you have read the book if you haven't read the book or the original movie it would be even better. (sheesh I sound like my English teacher ugh I'm OLD SOUNDING AA) "}{"Title":"What movie lives up to the book?","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Writing this directly after ejecting the DVD, which in turn is about 4 days after reading the book, I can't say much more than what has been said on both sides. The book was excellent... as good as expected, and I read the casebook version, with all the critiques and interviews at the end. I found the boys they picked to be the lead characters to be very well-selected, except that Jack should've been Ralph and vice versa. In the book, it is Ralph that is tall, fair and well-built. The film didn't harken on much of the deep symbolism that the book unleashes on the reader, as is mentioned with the absence of Simon's conversation with the Lord of the Flies. Simon is a MAIN character to the whole spiritual presence in the story's purpose, him being a Christ-like figure, killed as he is bringing good news (to the tribe that the monster is only a dead man). Jack is the Satan, or devil, and in the book is the leader of a choir, not an officer in the cadets. It seemed as if the director couldn't get British boys to play in the film, so made them American cadets, had them curse and be ticked-off, and put Marines to rescue them instead of the British Navy. I loved little things in the book like calling the twins Samneric (Sam and Eric), and the littler boys, littluns. There is no reference to this in the film. Substituting the pilot for the parachutist works out fine for viewers that didn't read the book, and I thought both Piggy and Simon's deaths were adequately portrayed. In all, not a bad translation, but I thought that more could've been done to accurately depict the book's intent. The movie is only 90 minutes long, and another 30 minutes of say, Simon's mystical experiences, and Roger's transformation to executioner would've played well. I guess I'm off to get the '63 version now... "},{"Title":"very good film","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read William Golding's novel Lord of the flies few years ago and I really loved it, still it's one of my most favorite books. Few weeks ago I saw the film version from 1963 and I liked it much too. A week after that I saw the 1990 version and from the start I didn't like it and I was really disappointed - there were too much differences between this film version and the novel, it seemed to me too vulgar and too brutal... But when I saw it for the second time I really started to like it. The actors are really very good and the film itself is really very quality. In my opinion it's very underrated film and I think it's not fair when everyone says it's crap just because it's different than a book. Forrest Gump as the film and as the book are also pretty different and nobody says it's crap. I think it's worth to see it and definitely it's not a waste of time. I recommend it for everyone - for people who read Sir Golding's novel as well as for the ones who didn't. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Flies -- enjoyable, but could have been better.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I personally enjoyed the film, although I did happen to pick up on a few of its deficiencies as well. It was quite different from the book, and I'm not sure the makers of the film picked up on a lot of the dimly appreciated symbolism that the book contains (if you were reading between the lines). I have not seen the original film from the 1960's, so I cannot make any comparison in that regard. But the film differs from the novel in the sense that it does not capture the idea of the beast that torments the children's minds and is supposedly hiding in the darkness, wherever they are not looking. In the novel, the beast symbolizes the same irrational fear that we all possess -- children and grown-ups alike. It is the same sort of irrational fear that triggers irrational thought, which ultimately is the cause for the deficiencies in society. After reading the book I was somewhat disappointed to find that the film did not quite grasp that concept, nor did it do justice for William Golding's elusive depiction of the wild and selfish nature of human thought. I could blunder on about the film's many faults, but it also has many positive aspects to it as well.I give the Lord of the Flies a rating of 8 out of 10, despite its lack of depth and symbolism. Perhaps this favorable rating can be partially attributed to me being so feverishly smitten with Balthazar Getty (Ralph) and Chris Furrh (Jack Merridew). "},{"Title":"Who said children is innocent?","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent adaptation of the book and the director manages to show how children can learn and exercise the worst of human behavior, the search for power at any cost, even if it is other human lives. I think it might have been real difficult to cope with such a numerous cast of boys and the result is really good.  "},{"Title":"A Big Disappointment","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have recently been set the task of studying Lord of the Flies. I read Goldings novel and was impressed. I later watched the 1963 film version of the novel, and was impressed, Brook managed to convert the novel into an amazing film, capturing the stranded theme very well. I thought that as I had seen the first film version of the novel I should watch the other, therefore I did, and I was greatly disappointed.The whole point of Goldings novel was to put across how children (boys) turn into savages without any adult supervision, and in Hooks 1990 version there is an adult on the island with the boys, this completely defeats the point Goldings novel and was a great disappointment to myself and classmates. "},{"Title":"Striking Film About Authority","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Harry Hook's 1990 film of Sir William Golding's Lord Of The Flies is a haunting masterpiece.  When I first saw this film in my teenage years, it taught me a valuable lesson about life that I think every individual has to learn.  The value of authority.  Some individuals will never learn about rules and who will govern them until it's too late in life.  This film vividly shows how the group ran by Jack (Chris Furrh) couldn't be controlled until a higher authority stepped in.  In this case, it is the Marines at the end of the film.  Harry Hook's film is a haunting, and meaningful film to watch. "},{"Title":"Read the book as well","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie came out about a year after I had read the book (for a literature exam), and so the storyline, imagery and hidden meanings were still quite fresh in my mind when I saw it. Due to the scope of the story, it is understandable that the characterisation will be unsatisfactory at times. However, the show makes it up with its relatively fast pace, building up momentum quickly to its finale. Many subtle moments in the book were left out in the movie, which would leave viewers familiar with the book feel shortchanged. But it compensates by attempting to make as accurate a portrayal of the book as possible. In other words, the movie is worth the money, but it would be better appreciated if the book was read and understood first, because only then can one imagine the almost impossible task of adapting this book into a 2 hour movie. "},{"Title":"We're not savages, we're English!","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You may notice that the above line is from the black-and-white 1963 adaptation of William Golding's classic book Lord of the Flies, rather than the 1990 update which I am reviewing. I regret to say that I have not read the book (don't worry, I intend to), but having seen both films, I safely have something to base my opinions on. The 1963 film is described, both by IMDb reviewers and the film's description, as a faithful and brilliant adaptation of the book. Certainly, it was powerful, bold, disturbing and contemplative, offering a range of great acting and filmmaking. If it is any reflection of the book -- and my upcoming opinion applies anyway in terms of film -- then the 1990 film I am (finally) reviewing is utter tacky garbage.I am not going to complain about the contorting of the plot into all sorts of odd shapes, for that is perfectly acceptable if the end result is mildly worthwhile, but in the case of this Lord of the Flies (LotF) it turns out a mess which puts a sour taste in your mouth. Completely it is destroyed, so that even the crucial underlying themes in the film and, for sure, the book are replaced with brash, overspoken, meaningless messages. Nor am I going to be deliberately obtuse and moan about the inappropriate use of profanity in the film. Rather, I will (rightly) point out the quaint Britishness of the original's characters, which gave the film a timely, sophisticated film and underlined the transformation into savages, and then ask you to look at the new LotF's bratty American tweens, who from the outset behave like the kids even kids want to shout at.Instead of the above We're not savages! and other well-written dialogue, we get a half dozen f-words thrown at each of the cast, dated teen gobbledygook that comes out as annoying and the failing attempts of the writers/directors to give the kids that never-get-it-right badass look, instead heartlessly Americanising poignant characters with such crude lines as Shove his d**k in the conch! and Shut up, s**thead!, which culminate in two things. One, the savage state of the kids not being too different from their normal demeanour, except for violence too over-the-top for kids in a movie which was ignored by adults for starring nothing but kids. Two, mere minutes after the film begins you silently pray to yourselves that these idiots will starve to death as soon as possible.The child actors in this film, unlike those of the 1963 version who acted well and were nicely sympathetic, are plain unlikable and untalented. Although the people who played Jack and Ralph can more or less pass on this front, Piggy in particular has been portrayed as a snivelling, annoying, useless fool who, really, has come out as a crude and over-the-top caricature of the, well, real Piggy. The majority of the rest of the cast are typical plucked-from-in-front-of-the-TV brats (sorry for repeated use of this word). They sit around and their main function in the film is to serve as friction between the leads -- the actors pull this off well, but with a vicious arrogance, playing the role almost as if they are sneering at the people who do fall into this situation, and acting as if they are bullies in a schoolyard (refer to Shove his d**k in the conch! for an example of this).In the end, it is clear that the badly put out themes are only second to the all-powerful studio machine, which has blatantly tried to run an aged, classic novel through Hollywood and spit out a streetwise, teen-friendly money grabber (again, see Shove his d**k in the conch!) However, the dark themes are constantly at odds with this crude method, dragging it down until the two juxtapose violently upon watching. The violence, again, is far more graphic than the original, depicting with stark nihilism the... you find out for yourself. The end result, a badly acted, cash-grabbing, shameful, overly American, crude, visceral, badly hip bomb balanced on wobbly, half-hearted gravitas, would be funny if it wasn't so ridiculously shameful.R.I.P. William Goldberg. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Poor Piggy, Poor Movie","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a bad adaption to such a good book. It was all around sloppy and not sad, just stupid. The acting was OK, thats what differs it from a 1/10 to a 4/10. The boys that play Ralph, Piggy, and Jack were good little actors. But you couldn't help feel sorry for them. Especially Piggy, who was so very talented and was killed so gruesomely (well, he was killed in the book to) I couldn't help but gasp at it. Really disappointed, especially seeing how the 1st one wasn't exactly a masterpiece either. Sorry fans...but its just a bad film. Don't buy it if you feel you need to. Its a waste of time and money. But if you do remember how well these children's talents were wasted. "},{"Title":"Horrible Adaptation of a Wonderful Book","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Lord of the Flies is a horrible film that had an amazing chance, and failed so badly in so many ways. The story is amazing, I loved the book, and wanted to love the movie, but didn't. The screenplay is horrible, the dialogue sucks, and the scenes are very badly written. The one good thing The Lord of the Flies does is like the book, it starts out after the plane crash, and ends before they leave the island, making the entire film on the island, and it would have been much worse if they didn't do this. The acting is very bad, none of them act well, none of them give anything like a real performances. The direction is horrible, all the scenes suck, and are horribly put together. The visual effects are horrible and nothing looks even remotely real. A horrible adaptation of the wonderful book. "}{"Title":"Absolutely great!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember this movie to be excellent! It had a great impact on me when i saw it because i remember that after it was finished i stood still in front of the TV for a few minutes almost breathless with my eyes hypnotized...absolutely great...although the end was quite unexpected, I think the plot was very good established.The characters were very expressive and the actors, even though children managed to get into the play and send to the public the feeling that had to be sent.The emotion during the movie, the action and the tragic in it leaves you breathless. I think this movie has to be seen by everyone because it is one of the best ever made with the proper plot.It will leave you with a special feeling. "},{"Title":"High praise","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beautifully acted by a cast of young non-actors for whom this was their first, and in most cases, only film. Only the lead actor pursued an acting career. Kudos to the director, Harry Hooks, for knowing how to direct his young cast and then edit the footage into compelling performances. The boys worked together so well I had the feeling they all knew each other prior to filming. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Should have worked much better second time around","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As remakes go, this one is not at all bad. As adaptations of classic novels go it is a total misfire. Peter Brook's 1963 was a rather amateurish affair and while this version is far better produced and acted, it fails on account of its script, that makes it ineffective. In the original novel, it was a group of British schoolboys, not army cadets who were castaways on an island. In some ways this makes their descent into savagery more believable, but on the whole it appears to be a tale of already foul-mouthed, psycho kids running amok without the supervision of their parents. The result is film falls down in the footsteps of the previous version, in that it too, fails to give any conveyance of the weighty themes of man's basic evil that Golding tackled in his original novel. It is watchable and entertaining to an extent and director Harry Hook coaxes some good performance from the three leads and his visuals along with Philippe Sarde's score lend the film a haunting quality. But to its detriment, the film remains quite unfaithful to the novel and is ultimately unrewarding, when it really should have worked far better. On wonders why Hollywood updates novels in this way, because the result is always the same a flop. "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While all the other people who have reviewed have said things like, 'It's decent' or 'Fair.' While they have a right to their opinions, so do I. And I'm just going to come out and say it, IT SUCKS! Going on my worst movies ever list, this version of Lord of the Flies is cheap and poorly done. Many themes and idea from the book and the original movie are ignored. Now that would be fine for a sequel. But this isn't a sequel, it's a remake. Everything in this movie is screwed up, for example they have a glow stick and there is an adult survivor on the island. And don't get me started on the profanity. It's comes to a point where almost every other word is a curse word. It seems to me, the makers of the movie spent more time on the scenes and effects, rather than the script and the actors. Avoid this movie at all costs. Thumbs down on this one. "},{"Title":"Beautiful adaptation of classic story","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nice adaptation, bolstered by an amazing score by Philippe Sarde.  Great cinematography and breathtaking visuals. "},{"Title":"honest","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" it is not the perfect adaptation. and that is its virtue. because, out of acid remarks about it, this Lord of the Flies remains a honest film. the acting of boys, the tension, realistic atmosphere, crumbs of facts, savage nature as mirror of feelings, all is precise, delicate and fresh. the film keeps all virtues of novel. but it remembers that is work of a director, with his vision and way of affective translation of lines. it is , like novel, a cruel cold parable. but , for the performance of its young actors, a challenge. so, in this case, good intentions are really admirable. and final result not disappointed. a travel in heart of society. and an unforgettable verdict. "},{"Title":"i watched 30 minutes of it and look at the rating i've given it","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i personally think that most of these IMDb users are being far too generous in rating and reviewing this movie. i even think that the people who rated this a 1/10 are being just a little too positive with their reviews. now you're probably wondering if this is the worst movie i've ever seen. the answer is a clear and obvious yes. i'll even go as far as saying that 6.2 rating should be a 2.6 rating. why?- the acting is abominable. most definitely the worst i've ever seen. we figure out without any effort of giving it any thought that the actors are doing their job SOLELY for the money.- in the thirty minutes of the movie that i watched i found that ALMOST EVERY ELEMENT OF THE STORYLINE was changed. there is a pilot or captain who's not supposed to be there because he's not in the book. We are supposed to see a storyline where everyone except Ralph and Piggy turn into savages. but right from the beginning, they're swearing like there's no tomorrow.- the script is what keeps you entertained. it was so dumb and so badly written that it often makes you laugh. a lot of the things they say are dumb and pointless. i don't care about how jack got caught driving a car on a highway.- the characters in the movie AWFULLY developed. we're supposed feel remorse for the way in which Piggy is treated, but his character is so badly developed that we can only laugh at his problems.- i should also mention the fact that because of the things mentioned above, the director did not even seem to have a clue as to what in the world he was doing. i've seen videos of people making little movies that are supposed to be scary and they actually seem to know what they're doing, UNLIKE THIS DIRECTOR.now, as for my recommendations, i would certainly recommend viewing this. why? because while watching this movie, you get to laugh at how badly they failed, especially when it comes to script. that's why this movie can pass as a great comedy!i've tried to keep this review fairly simple but ended up having a lot more to say about this movie, and i guess even this review is a bit positive. but oh well, now you know how abominable this movie is. as of now, you can enjoy this nicely made comedy film! "},{"Title":"A good film...","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We haven't read the novel so we can't compare it to the film, but we can't say that it was the worst movie that we ever saw.It's an interesting story with a symbolic theme and it shows how children act if they don't have any adults to supervise and guide them because without all of this they become violent and savages. The acting is pretty good and natural in spite of the fact that they are kids, however we thought that Piggy's death wasn't natural and well presented, because when the rock hits Piggy's head, he takes too long to fall but the majority of the special effects are quite good. The background is very realistic and it was well adapted to the story. The soundtrack wasn't annoying and it was a good choice. One thing that we didn't like was the end because it finished so suddenly that it confuses you and we feel that it should be more clear. We would like to know what happened later. In conclusion we would say that it has a nice cast, with realistic special effects and background, an appropriate soundtrack and an interesting story. We recommend you to see it. "},{"Title":"The lord of Flies","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We haven't seen the other movie, and we haven't read the book either, so we're only going to talk about the 1990 film. The acting is quite good, but the children didn't play the characters like they should. The idea of Wild Life was a bit poor and sometimes the scenes were pretty violent. The plot is well developed, but a lot of people say the book is much better. The special effects could be more realists. The end is a bit disappointing, because the arrival to the US should have been showed, and Jack and his group should have explained why Piggy and Simon died to their families. Some of the actors performance were extraordinary, for example Balthazar Getty, who has a successful career nowadays, and Chris Fuhrr, who played the character extremely well. We wouldn't recommend the film to everyone, because it can be a bit shocking. "},{"Title":"Nice ;)","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We haven't read the book but we thought the film was very good.The actors were very young; however, they did a good job, because some of them had difficult roles, for example Piggy, who suffered bullying.The story was very interesting because it showed the danger of a society without rules.The landscape was very beautiful and was connected with the idea of the film.We didn't like the end because it didn't show us how the boys continued on with their lives but we would recommend it to all our friends. Bye bye "}{"Title":"Can't understand the bashing","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've just seen the movie and I certainly can't understand why there's so many people hating this movie with so much fervor. I've seen angry comment about them being American and not British, about leaving some things out and putting some things instead. Comments about the hair color of the kids, the skin color of the characters, the variety there is in the film that isn't on the book.Well, if this is about judging an adaptation (or translation or version of the novel), then I believe it's to be expected to have different elements since novels and films are different languages. What we have to see here should be if the message was passed along. Did the money achieve that? We could see how these seemingly educated boys turned into savages, even when a minority tried to do things'as grownups would've done. I think that wasn't as emphasized as it should've been since the boys seemed a little wild from th beginning, so the change wasn't as shocking, but the message was there. And even if it was lacking some directing skill in making some scenes more moving than they were, it came off pretty well.As I just read today, the idea that books are always better than movies should be one that must be erased. Films are a different thing, even when using novel arguments. There are as many great novels turned into hideous films as hideous novels turned into great films. Sad thing is, is very hard to find great novels turned into great films, but great novels turned into fairly good films aren't as hard. Plus, what's there to lose with an adaptation? For the fans of the book, it won't change the love for it. For the ignorants, they'd either be content with the movie or check out the novel. That was Bazin speaking.So, all in all, it was a fairly good movie, maybe getting some degrees outside of Golding's world and into Hook's world, which is fine since it's HIS movie. Just illustrating the book as it was, as incredible as it is, would be somewhat of an insult since it'll mean that it touched the director so little that he'd have to make a mechanical characterization.Somehow this turned into a book-isn't-necessarily-better-than-the-film comment, but I think it fits to this case. If you liked the book, I recommend to watch the film. Both of them. It's all a matter of sitting and analyzing the motives of the director for changing. Why are they Americans? Check out the time line, the public it was directed to.BTW, I don't know why everyone was so mad about the acting. The children playing Ralph, Jack and Piggy were pretty good, even if they had to play some scenes that didn't entirely convince (the sobbing after the breaking of his glasses?). And the colors were a pro instead of a con, as some pointed out, since it gave realism to the movies and a contrast between a beautiful place and horrible behavior that made the idea of making Hell on Eden all the more understandable.*sigh* All this could be summarized in 1. Watch the movie, whether you've read the book or not. In the best of cases, you'd want to read it (again, if you're a fan) 2. Stop bitching about differences and similarities and try to understand why were they made and what did they cause. If not, you're merely on a quantitative and impressionist level that readers of this novel shouldn't have (or allow) "},{"Title":"what a waste of time","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was, by far, the worst adaptation of a book I have ever seen. First of all, there were no surviving adults on the island. Second, there was a ship that they missed because of the unlit fire, not a .... chopper. Least, but not last, they cut out whole pieces of the book which were extremely relevant to the story, to the message that the author wanted to transmit. Oh yeah, and the monster ... I couldn't believe that they portrayed the monster in the mad adult when it should of been a whole lot different. Golding wanted to say that the monster is within them, the children, which from innocence submitted to primal instincts, highlighting the killings that took place. My advice, before watching any adaptation, read the book first. 90% of the times when a book is screened, it's ... "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I sat down to watch this film with an open mind after having heard a lot of positive comments on it.I loved the idea of degeneration of the youth and the idea of using fear to control the crowd; however, the execution was far from satisfactory.The film was extremely episodic and paced like a freight train headed up hill - locomoted by an RC car (on flat batteries).An ever graver issue was the fact that the protagonists were passive, victimized, and did nothing but cry about what was happening - Well, DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT! It proved quite tiresome and disillusioning when you found yourself rooting for the bad guys for lack of better choice.A good idea, ill treated. "},{"Title":"The story about starting the fire is physically completely wrong.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the Flies is a great story and an OK movie (I still like the newer version more than the old one). There is however, something fundamentally wrong in both the story and the movie there is there a young, very short-sighted boy whose glasses, that is lenses of the glasses, are used to start the fire. This is a pivotal point -- for many reasons -- in the whole story. However, even rudimentary knowledge of optics would tell us that you may start a fire (provided plenty of hot sun rays are available) only with a biconvex lens, the one used to correct far-sightedness (hyperopia) NOT near sightedness (myopia) which is corrected with biconcave lenses that cannot possibly ever be used to concentrate the sun light and start a fire. I don't understand two things (1) how William Golding, a Royal Navy officer, made such a gaffe, and (2) how no one else has ever noticed this -rather obvious error -- before. It is an annoying detail that throws much of the story upside down. (Perhaps Golding thought about it but could not find a suitable escape, that is, if the boy was made far-sighted, he would then not have problems seeing the path without glasses and would net slip off the rock and get killed and, as a consequence, many other events could take another direction.) "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I'll agree with the people who said it was a poor adaptation of a classic novel. True, the boys are American, speak profanity, and the pilot is still alive. Big differences that upset eager bookfans. But another complaint is that they never added in Simon's conversation with the 'lord of the flies'. If they'll remember clearly, it was not in the '63 version either. I liked this version better because it was more frighting, and it gave me a better sense of the good vs. evil. The 63 version was more, I don't know...stuffy. These American boys were more up front about the fact that Jack was clearly in charge of his camp and the other boys were being drawn to it like flies to the pig head. The end was more climatic, and I just think it represented Good and Evil better than the 63 version 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie Overall","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A straightforward story no hidden massage - trying to tell us about the innocent lost, human society and civilization.The movie starts off straight as the boys first landed on the island without tell us why or how. The movie continues through out with survival of the fittest and end with no consequence.Overall it was a very satisfying movie and did offer the audience a great deal of reality. Though the acting is not great, I still very recommended for most people to watch it, if you can bear with the facts that the movie trying to bring.Reason To Watch · Adaptation of the good book, · Pretty EntertainingReason Not To · Animal being harm (for pig lover), · Pretty abrupt ending,Rating 6.5/10 (Grade B-) "},{"Title":"Kids will play games. Suppose they were real?","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie opens with an underwater shot of a man in uniform, unconscious, bleeding and sinking. A young boy goes down and pulls him towards the surface, as about 20 or more kids, about 10 to 14 years old, tread water on the surface. Then we see a raft with the boys coming ashore on what looks like a tropical island. They are military school students returning home when the plane crashes. They bring the injured adult to shore, talk a bit, then decide to sleep and figure out a plan the next morning.The story and how it unfolds reminds me of the 5 stages of grief -- denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and finally acceptance. The boys develop some order to their existence, and Ralph (Balthazar Getty) is chosen as the default leader. He is the honest, organized one who wants everyone to do the things necessary to survive peacefully and eventually get rescued. Like keeping a fire going at a high place so they might be seen from afar. He pushes for stricter rules.But there is a stinker in the group, Jack (Chris Furrh), who the kids say was sent to military school as punishment for having taken a joy ride in someone's car. At first he and Ralph get along, but we can see from his demeanor that he does not handle authority well. He wants to hunt wild pigs on the island, later he says, I'm going to make another camp, for the hunters, forcing the follower kids to take sides. Most of them go with Jack, he is more exciting, but also dangerous, and it is ultimately safer to be with him, especially when Jack's group begin night-time raids on the others.MAJOR SPOILERS. When there are only two left in the original group, Ralph and the one they call 'Piggy', they visit the hunter camp and while Piggy is pleading for sanity, a small bolder is pushed down onto him, killing him. Now there is only Ralph, and he is hunted like a wild animal. In the last scene, he is chased through fires by all the other kids in war paint and sharpened sticks, as Ralph stumbles onto the beach, looks up at the boots and legs of a military man in uniform, followed quickly by others and helicopters, as the credits roll.What I see in this story is similar to what I saw in a more recent movie, The Beach. In both, a group of people who find themselves in a community without clear authority or rules, are then forced to impose rules and authority as necessary to keep everyone in line. But that imposing of rules then creates friction which eventually destroys the peace. It's our nature, it is the price we pay for not all thinking and acting alike. "},{"Title":"Terrible.  No credit to the book at all.","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is no way that this film should be called 'Lord of the Flies'. There is no way that it should have Sir William Golding's name associated with it. Since when were the boys American? The story has been changed so much that the significant meanings and references to the horror of war have been lost completely.  The boys' characters in the book represent the forces of good and evil.  Jack is Hitler and Ralph is Churchill.  The Island itself and the activities that go on there are supposed to symbolize the fall of civilization in the Western world.  The important symbolism of the island (being the pink rocks and the pink conch) were completely lost.  The film is an insult to British writing.  The 1963 version is much better. "},{"Title":"It was good for what it was","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie but i kind wished it would stick to the book a little more. I also think it could have been longer...90 minutes was way to short , i didn't really have time to get to know the characters, Everything happened to fast!  I thought the end was thrilling and exciting. My over all grade would be a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Horrible, just Horrible","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Regardless of how well the kids acted, which i don't think was well at all, Sara Schiff should be banned from ever writing screenplays again (which maybe why she only has one writing credit). She managed to take a masterpiece like lord of the flies and butcher it. Some how the Fear of the boys was suppose to be the pilot who apparently went crazy and spent his time in a cave on the island?!? Did Sara even read the book? If you want to see the move rent the 1963 version. It may be in Black and White, but it follows the book and doesn't change certain key plots. "}{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen the older version and I haven't read the book either (if there is a book behind it). However, the movie is, at least, interesting and keeps the spectator in suspense. At the same time, it conveys some kind of message about human societies, leadership and the real limits of freedom. The ending comes somewhat unexpectedly and leaves some things open. This is an overall worth watching, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"powerful movie","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time late saturday night (it was on TV) and i found it really powerful and disturbing. I have never seen the B&W version but yesterday i read the book and it was really good too.  I understand about the loss of symbolism and the variations from the book but i just remember watching it and feeling really in awe. since i hadn't read the book i didn't have anything to compare it to and i thought it was very well done. getty was excellent, love him. simon was excellent too.  changing it to the academy i think was to cut down the time it would have taken for the boys to get to know each other because they already do.  the show of friendship between jack & ralph at the start was obvious.  in the movie ralph was a much more clean-cut figure than in the book where he bordered the line a bit.  simons death was very dramatic & piggy's was such a giant shock. the swearing i think suited the movie and yes, the imagery and music was great. i would have loved to see what would have happened though, to jack and such.i loved this movie, it's been on my mind since i saw it. however i didn't get the whole whipping part and the relevance of the lord of the flies wasn't obvious.  the whole burning bush thing was great, all full and green then suddenly dead. anyway, you have to imagine how it would have turned out, had a group of girls been stranded on the island.  i'm not sure the content was very believable but it made for an exciting book and movie.  the end expression on ralph's face when he saw the officer and started crying was brilliant. powerful  "},{"Title":"A tagline that refuses to agree with the film.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No parents. No teachers. No rules... No mercy.Well, three out of four ain't bad. No rules? Wrong-o. Had that been the case, Jack would not have been able to organize his little community of savages at all. There were rules, HIS rules, otherwise he would have found himself alone, barbecueing pork snacks while talking to himself. The film's got other illogicalities, internal ones, which is pretty sad.Getty continues to act while Chris Furrh has, I suspect, gone home to San Marcos to work in some business or other. Again, sad. "},{"Title":"Great and Moving movie","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was both great and moving.  What happened on the island was very well put together.  The actors were great and evoked a lot of emotions in me.  I strongly suggest seeing this movie.  BRING KLEENEX FOR THE SOFT HEARTED!!!!! "},{"Title":"the ultimate slam on the doctrine that says god is man!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I admit when i go to several of my favorite beaches i want to put on some native american music or tribal music start a fire and dance. Yet, the park rangers would arrest me. What is it about this drive this primal drive? I goto a few places, when the sun is just right it reminds me of ZUMA beach and hawaii. Yet, this film is about the aftermath of the loss of rules in civilization and what happens in the aftermath blakanization and tribalization. Ultimately, this is based on the golding novel which was a slam on the perfectability of man. I enjoyed the book more but the film is overlooked today. The nature of this film is the gradual fractures that spring up in the group of survivors and the only strong surivie tribalism. Murderous in intent and an end that makes you think, LORD OF THE FLIES stays true to the novel for the most part and succeeds as a adaptation. "},{"Title":"An awful rendition of a great book","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As  someone who thouroghly enjoyed William Golding's book, this movie was a huge dissapointment. It didn't follow the soryline of the book and it showed. I would advise against viewing this movie. If you want to hear this story at it's best and in it's entirety read the book. "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Modern masterpiece much better that the original. Basically this film in my eyes was the questioning of the good of man, does society make or break us. As you watch you will see good Vs. instinct, fighting to survive, and mostly everything that was in the book, which I read. Picking all children to act in a movie is a risky move because of their inability to act, but I would say they pulled it off fairly well, after all the emotion was there. "},{"Title":"A not very good movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The big problem with this film is that I simply fail to see any difference after the boys' plane crashes- while the book and 1960 film show the boys' evolution into salvages, these boys were already salvage before the crash. So what's the point to make the film in the first place.Another detail to lower the score the original book was about English boys- not American ones. Perhaps it was not commercial acceptable...  "},{"Title":"Score borrows heavily from Stravinsky","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I remember being disappointed by this movie, but I can't remember enough about it to be specific.  I just wanted to comment, in response to the reviewer who praised Phillipe Sarde's score, that Sarde relies heavily on near-quotations of long sections of Stravinsky's Rite of Spring.  Quotations in film music are pretty much par for the course, but Sarde takes it to a bit of an extreme here...if I remember correctly.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first version, not even close","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This 1990 version of Lord of the flies is mush worse than the one from the 60's. The movie lacks the kind of intensity and excitement as the first one had. The 1990 version becomes to dull and I must admit that I expected much more than this when I rented it. See the first one in stead. "}{"Title":"Looks good, but overall not a worthwhile film","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very pleasing to the eye. Unfortunately it falls short in terms of substance. The young actors don't manage to get anything across other than what great underwear models they would make. It goes without saying that the film doesn't do the classic novel any justice. If you want real adventure, visit your local library and pick up the book. "},{"Title":"An extremely free adaptation of Golding's novel","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The British black and white film is somewhat choppy as a result of massive editing; this colour film has the virtue of clarity and narrative smoothness. However, the quality of class, of the divisions in English society which the boys transfer to the tropical island in the novel, is wholly lost in this production about a group of stranded American military school cadets and their descent into sadism. The characters of Ralph and Jack are well foiled, but Piggy and Simon have lost something in the American translation. The substitution of the delirious pilot for the dead airman is ingenious, but the level of profanity is embarrassing. In the final analysis, the difference in maturity between the littluns and the biguns is insufficient, but the quality of the photography and sound is good. "},{"Title":"I would like to see the version without profanity.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The modern version is more appealing to today's high school student partially because of the use of color. Many of Golding's themes are handled well in this version as well. The big problem is that I can only show short snippets of this version because so much of the film is riddled with gratuitous profanity. The profanity does nothing to enhance the power of the themes in LOF. I would like to see a version of this film made available without the profanity. "},{"Title":"Lord of the Bad Adaptation","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What went through the directors mind when directing this movie? He completely misunderstood the TRUE meaning of the 1954 novel written by William Golding. Here he just has a bunch of kids stranded on an island who begin facing issues. The novel meant so much more because it was a metaphorical and symbolic representation of society. Not to mention that the story was better constructed.1(*)out of 4(****)stars  "},{"Title":"What a detriment to a great book","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a fan of the book, I  thought this film might be a good  contemporary adaptation of the novel  which struck quite a chord with me.  Instead, it was a convoluted mess  with little direction and little acting  ability. The scenes seemed to be  randomly put together, with little  semblance of the book's power within  the details of this film. Maybe good books  shouldn't be adapted into films. "},{"Title":"A History Lesson in bad Filmmaking","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorWhen you are adapting a novel into a motion picture reading the back of the book will not help you create a successful adaptation. Obviously somebody forgot to tell that to director Harry Hook and screenwriter Sara Schiff.The film based on the incredible novel by William Golding gets all the elements of the novel wrongfully. They forget to show Ralph returning to nature, the true meaning of conch, the symbolism of Piggy's glasses, the communist like party of Jack's tribe oppose to Ralph's democracy and Simon's Jesus like quality and his conversation with the Lord of the Flies.This film is basically a movie with a bunch of children stranded on an island who go wild!RATING 1 STAR (*) "},{"Title":"If you liked the book, stay far, far away","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, I've never seen an adaption as horrible as this. The film is a mockery of the book. first it completely rewires so many key elements of the book, and although the book is about British kids who are being sent to Australia to save them from the horrors of war, in this film, they are Americans who are coming home from military school in Australia(?) who should technically all know each other, but they really don't. oh and may I say one thing? There was never an adult on the island. Never! Yet in this movie there is, and well he makes a lot of changes to the book.I'll say ti again, if you liked the book, stay far, far away from this piece of garbage. And if you haven't read the book? Stay away anyways and go read the book. "},{"Title":"Watch the 1963 version instead.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This remake of the classic William Golding book Lord of the Flies is not only bad, but it doesn't measure up. They have a glow stick on the island, and there's an adult survivor too. What really got me on my nerves was the constant profanity. The book and the 1963 version had only one swear word in it, but this movie adaption of the book was non-stop. If you've already read the book and want to see one of the movies the 1963 version is the better version.Don't bother with this version it sucks. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic and Disappointing","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have heard a lot about Lord of Flies over the years, both about the book and the film. So, I was eager to make my acquaintance with it. I knew the initial premise and I knew the ending. So what I was looking forward to was good execution. I was expecting a realistic and psychological movie that has good plot and dialogs.Instead I get this piece of crap, whose only purpose is to shock the audience. Well the audience would have been shocked if they had showed this movie in 1950. But it doesn't even have shock value now.It is about a bunch of kids who are marooned on an island. But none of them seem to behave like kids. Some of them are very young, just 7 years old. But they are never afraid. They never cry, nobody wants to go home. Nobody misses mommy. Only one kid misses his favorite TV show, that's it. Life is apparently no struggle as they are easily getting their food. Seriously ? I think a group of adults would be more scared if they were marooned on an island. And the whole monster thing is just bullshit. They approach everything else logically, but there is a monster in the cave.By the way, I was just not aware before how much the basic premise is close to Lost TV Series except that it is just stretched very very long. And even is Lost the adults are more scared when they land on the island than the kids in this movie are. "},{"Title":"This movie was most definitely terrible in comparison to the 1963 version.","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In this version, they didn't even talk in the correct accent. All they did was swear and talk like Americans. In the book, they were English boys. It makes me feel guilty for being an American. This movie was terrible. I couldn't even sit through the entire thing, I turned it off within the first half hour of watching it. This movie didn't even follow what the book actually was. At the beginning, Piggy was supposed to meet Ralph, but in this movie, they drag the captain (who is supposed to be dead in the book) to shore. Don't waste your time watching this movie, go rent the 1963 version, it will actually be worth your time. "}{"Title":"Lord of the flies","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've read about 30 pages of the book, and i could immediately tell that this version wasn't true to the book at all. I haven't seen the 63's version though, but i hope it's better and less violent than this one. This movie was unnecessary violent, kids killing kids is a very horrible thing. The movie itself was very terrifying and sad. It really made me feel sick, there was some really frightening moments in this movie. I'm surprised that this movie is rated 12 in some countries. This movie should be rated 15+ all over the damn world. This movie made me sicker than i saw A clockwork orange, who had really rare scenes in it. So did this movie, i wish i never saw it because it really freaked me out in a lot of different ways. And the ending was horrible according to me...But the movie itself was good, if you are not comparing to the book... "},{"Title":"I have not read the book...but i bet that is much better than this adaptation","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lord of the flies is a movie about fight of powers. The story is about some kids of a military school that it suffers an air accident and they are caught in an island. After this they are divided in two, one of them is based on the good sense, the other one opts for the savagery. The rescue perhaps arrives too late.The story has an incredible meaning...but this adaptation has many flaws.The movie doesn't make the story interesting, this provokes that the spectator gets bored. The performances are very poor, one that another boy acts well.In spite of it the movie doesn't survive.Better read the book!!! *sorry, if there any mistake somewhere "},{"Title":"-","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i have watched both the 1990 and 1963 version of lord of the flies and i think that the 1963 version is nothing like the newer version. comments about the 1963 version say that is it child porn, i think not. yes there are a few scenes where you can see 2 boys asses and a penis but i don't think that that would be classed as child porn, i went on the net the other day and did some research and i found some pictures, the pictures were showing more nudity then the film was. does anyone no what rules the boys broke whilst on the island? i think that the newer version could have been a bit more longer and that the producer should have followed the first movie. "},{"Title":"Ghastly","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If we start from the premise of a novel (which is considered to be a classic) which was made into a film (which is considered a classic) it is hard to understand how this remake could have mucked up so badly. First it tries to translate between English and American. This is a mistake. (book) Ralph, Piggy and the majority of the boys come from a variety of state schools and from different strata of society, Ralph is elected leader - Jack comes from a Cathadral school and leads the Choir as a military group; (this film) all the boys come from the same military academy and Ralph is the leader -  Jack leads a coup against military authority. It's as if whoever did this adaptation worked from only the briefest synopsis and poorly digested even that. (book) A dead aviator arrives on the island from the first rescue plane the boys spy and they mistake his flapping parachute for a monster; (this film) the boys arrive on the island with an injured adult who wanders away in a delirium and is not found, they then mistake him for a monster (yeah, right!!!). If the Peter Brook film gets everything right except Simon's conversation with the pig head then this film gets everything wrong except the final scene (or I might just have something for white socks). Only Chris Furrh, as a psychopathic Jack, wins any honour in this film (and even he hasn't done much work since). The DVD is not widescreen - which is a pity because the photography is, at least, an excuse to watch the film.  "},{"Title":"Not at all like the book!","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just rented the 1990 version of Lord Of The Flies, and I have to say that this move has nothing whatsoever to do with the book. Well, yeah, maybe there are some events that ARE SHOWN BRIIEFLY, but thats about it. The kids in this movie's ages range from about 10 - 15, and in about every single scene they are swearing.. And I don't mean like little words such as crap they are litteraly cussing there little mouth's out! I haven't yet seen the 1963 Low-budget black-and-white version, but I heard it is ALOT better than this one. The screenplay writers are always bound to change little things, but this screenplay writer went way over the top! I mean, there are only supposed to be little boys on this island, but they went and threw in an adult, they took out the lagoon, and, if I remember correctly.. These boys are supposed to be English!? -- well, you know where I am going here.If there are any film makers looking for a movie to produce.. Make another movie on LOTF, except, don't change every single thing in it! The people who read the book, want to be able to relate to what they read while watching the movie. DON'T SPOIL IT! -) "},{"Title":"One of my favorite book to movie adaptions","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lord Of The Flies is a great adaption of a classic book. The boys in this version are more savage and the acting by the young cast is very good. One of the funniest yet cruel scenes is the death of Piggy . When you see it you'll know what I speak of. "},{"Title":"A HUGE insult to the book!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This version of the Lord of the Flies is probably one of the largest insults to a book I have ever seen in my life!!!! The director obviously rather skimmed or just didn't seem to figure the story out properly. Many things in this movie have been enormously changed, but almost like he was purposely trying to make them bad and screw this story up. Changing the inner beast, which was a powerful message in the story, to just being the captain was a BIG no-no. I am sorry, but this movie was just way too much americanised. If you are a fan of the book or want to see a movie regarding The Lord of the Flies, see the '63 version. You won't be disapointed on that one! All in all I give this film a 5/10. What was the director thinking?  "},{"Title":"Not as good as earlier version","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a fair attempt at a film based around Golding's classic novel, one of my favourite books in the genre. I have seen both versions (this and the 1967 version), and this is the poorer of the two. There are many continuity errors (incorrect planes for the time, digital watches on wrists, etc) but the film is generally sound.But I reccommend the original!Jon. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is neither as good nor as bad as most reviewers are saying. As an adaptation of a great novel, it is fair. It suffers from the usual problems of movies about kids there is no way that child actors could portray the range of feelings, thoughts and experiences described in the book. The psychological dimension of the story is generally ignored, and the changes - the Americanisation of the characters, the addition of up-to-date bad language and slang - do not help. There is too little characterisation, and the direction is disjointed. Nevertheless, there are some moments (eg the scene where Simon is killed) where it captures the mood of the book very well.  It's a long time since I saw the original movie, but from memory, I thought this one was better. "},{"Title":"Awful Hollywood remake","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the novel at school, the 1963 movie met most of my expectations of this savage and frightening  story. This 1990 remake is awful and typifies what Hollywood does wrong. And American actors?! Not for this story! Ignore this version and get the landmark 1963 film. "}{"Title":"does shame to William golding.","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After reading The lord of the flies by William Golding, which became possibly my favorite book, I went out to see how they did with the more recent movie... Huge mistake. All of the symbolism that made the novel amazing was left out in the movie. Even if you haven't read the book you would see some major mistakes, such as forgetting about a raft they used to get to shore (there was never a raft in the novel. The only thing that the movie did correctly was decent casting. To sum this all up I would like to say this movie made William Golding roll in his grave. If you enjoyed the book do not watch this movie. D*MN you Steven Spielberg! "},{"Title":"Ahhhh....my eyes!!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you loved the book DO NOT watch this movie. It doesn't even deserve to have its title be Lord of the Flies! It rarely follows the plot of the book, and butchers every single one of the characters Personalities. They make it so Jack starts of as a bad boy who was sent to military school because he stole a car. One of the boys also complains because he is missing the show ALF. ALF wasn't on in 1954! There also is NO symbolism! They even make it so one of the adults is still alive during the first half of the movie.I'm sorry I watched this garbage! If William Golding was still alive he should sue who ever re-wrote this for destroying a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"don't watch","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have recently stayed up halve the night just to watch this completely pointless Very badly done its morepretend then anything else wheres the adults in this film and the murder in itits hardly real and why does the group that do what an adultwould of done lose out to the tribe! avoid this at all costs or watchthe first halve much more better then the second poor piggy teased cause of his size and yet he helped get the fire started but I would of thought they keep the fire going to attract attention and whats that all about running down the beach with a glow stick when the tribe stab him with spears and saying the monster is still out there absolutely crap "},{"Title":"I hated this","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" God, I really hated this movie. I was disturbed by the violence and savagery, the whole thing just seemed so pointless. I did not read the book or see the older version of the movie, nor do I want to now. If the book had any intelligent point to make, it was lost in this movie. It took the kids can be cruel thing way over the top without explaining itself or even offering us a reason to care. The acting was dismal, and there were so many holes in the story, like the pilot, and I just couldn't figure out the timeline, were they there 2 weeks, 2 month? It couldn't have been much longer, just not enough time for so many kids to go so crazy... I was sorry I saw this. "},{"Title":"Sorry... one of the worst movies ever.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I read this book, and it was absolutely amazing. I was shaking the last five or six pages. But this movie... Oh good lord... this movie. First off, it's very... 90s. That's right, very 90s. I can't really explain what leads me to that first conclusion, but I bet you'll reach it too if you're unfortunate enough to see this terror of a movie. The acting, sucked. The costumes, sucked. (I'm sorry.. they just looked really stupid.) They seemed to think that they'd make the movie better by adding some obscene language, but it only served to make the characters look stupid. I can see if it had been in the book, but why would you ruin perfectly good dialog?! I honestly couldn't stand to watch this movie... I got it on DVD, so I was lucky. I watched the first 10 or so minutes and I got so annoyed with it all, that I just started skipping around in the movie. It *all* sucked. I got really confused too, because there was an adult on the island... that definitely was *not* in the book. They also got all the characters wrong... I just don't know what to say. I honestly can't remember a single scene that I enjoyed watching. So yeah... Please, do yourself a huge favor. Do NOT watch this movie. Watch the 1963 version. I know... it's black and white; but it is also multitudes better. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Movie","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story starts with a group of schoolboys stranded on a deserted island. This is too common, I can find movies with similar beginning in every movie stores. I am quite disappointed with this. The children didn't act like their ages. They were just about 6 to 12 years of age but they killed their friends in order to get control of the power. They behave like a group of cold-blooded politicians but not innocent children. It is nonsense. They sound effects were poor. There was no sound emphasized on sadness or happiness. We had to guess the actors' thoughts but not feel their thought by effects. In the last part of the story, almost all the trees burnt but how could they build the fire after Piggy's glass was broken? We will never know. During the fire, the children were all aiming to kill Ralph but they didn't think of putting out the fire! The story ended suddenly after the children chased Ralph out of the burning forest. They all came in a sudden and I don't know what they were doing. The movie was terrible! "}]