[{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Stanley and Iris' show the triumph of the human spirit. For Stanley, it's the struggle to become literate and realize his potential. For Iris, it's to find the courage to love again after becoming a widow. The beauty of the movie is the dance that Robert DeNiro and Jane Fonda do together, starting and stopping, before each has the skills and courage to completely trust each other and move on. In that sense it very nicely gives us a good view of how life often is, thus being credible. Unlike some other reviewers I found the characters each rendered to be consistent for the whole picture. The supporting cast is also carefully chosen and they add a depth of character that the main characters get added meaning from the supporting performances. All in all an excellent movie. The best thing I take from it is Hope. "},{"Title":"Beautiful blue collar romance highlights problem of illiteracy","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may not be a memorable classic, but it is a touching romance with an important theme that stresses the importance of literacy in modern society and the devastating career and life consequences for any unfortunate individual lacking this vital skill.The story revolves around Iris, a widow who becomes acquainted with a fellow employee at her factory job, an illiterate cafeteria worker named Stanley. Iris discovers that Stanley is unable to read, and after he loses his job, she gives him reading lessons at home in her kitchen. Of course, as you might predict, the two, although initially wary of involvement, develop feelings for each other...Jane Fonda competently plays Iris, a woman with problems of her own, coping with a job lacking prospects, two teenage children (one pregnant), an unemployed sister and her abusive husband. However, Robert DeNiro is of course brilliant in his endearing portrayal of the intelligent and resourceful, but illiterate, Stanley, bringing a dignity to the role that commands respect. They aren't your typical charming young yuppie couple, as generally depicted in on screen romances, but an ordinary working class, middle aged pair with pretty down to earth struggles.I won't give the ending away, but it's a lovely, heartwarming romance and a personal look into the troubling issue of adult illiteracy, albeit from the perspective of a fictional character. "},{"Title":"the real deal","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie, with perfect performances by the very best actors. Anyone who doesn't appreciate this little masterpiece has probably spent too much time in front of the TV. The writing is superb, and the direction flawless. From the opening 360 degree pan, which ends by a close-up of the bakery (which is, in fact, the center of the drama), to the outstanding last line of the film (which is, in fact, the theme of the movie), the storytelling is absolutely first-rate. The acting is a study in naturalistic performance style. Jane Fonda is, as always, the best of the best, but Stanley's father steals the show. De Niro, as Stanley, gives an understated and totally endearing portrayal of a resourceful and intelligent illiterate. This film is the opposite of the blockbuster -- finely crafted, intimate, and uncompromising.  "},{"Title":"Good film, great acting","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just read the comments of TomReynolds2004 and feel I have to jump in here.  I understand he doesn't like the film, but his reasons are not evident. My feeling regarding this film is that it is not afraid to travel the darker roads of loneliness, failure, disappointment and sorrow.  Each of these two people, as portrayed, have plenty of reasons to be bitter and angry, yet find tenderness and comfort in each the other.  Only great acting could make this work without becoming an emotional quagmire, sentimental and sappy.  I really became interested in these people because of their overwhelming humanity given to them by such strong performances.  I have every reason to dislike Jane Fonda for her Vietnam era actions, but personal feelings apart, she is fabulous in this role. Robert DeNiro is superb as a man whose intelligence and goodness begins to fail him in a world indifferent to his abilities. This is the first I have seen DeNiro using tenderness rather than toughness to sell a character and I really like it. This film was a big surprise when I first viewed it and I look forward to seeing it again. "},{"Title":"Moving and Heartwarming","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a male, not given to women's movies, but this is really a well done special story.  I have no personal love for Jane Fonda as a person but she does one Hell of a fine job, while DeNiro is his usual superb self. Everything is so well done acting, directing, visuals, settings, photography, casting.  If you can enjoy a story of real people and real love - this is a winner. "},{"Title":"A so-so movie made great by the stars","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent acting by the 2 main stars, De Niro and Fonda, make this a movie well worth seeing. A story about an illiterate, and a woman who helps him learn to read. In return, he helps her stop clinging to her past husband and learn to enjoy life again. It was interesting to see a slice of American life that's different from the glamour (huge homes with swimming pools) that is so often the backdrop to Hollywood movies (yawn). "},{"Title":"The interactions of class, gender and industrial capitalism","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a complex film that explores the effects of Fordist and Taylorist modes of industrial capitalist production on human relations. There are constant references to assembly line production, where workers are treated as cogs in a machine, overseen by managers wielding clipboards, controlling how much hair the workers leave exposed, and firing workers (Stanley) who meet all criteria (as his supervisor says, are always on time, are hard workers, do good work) but who may in some unspecified future make a mistake. This system destroys families - Stanley has to send his father to a nursing home (where he quickly dies) after Stanley loses his job. Iris' daughter is a single teen mother who drops out of high school to take a job in the plant. References are made to the fact that now, with declining wages, both partners need to work, the implication being that there's nobody left at home to care for the kids. Iris' husband is dead from an illness, and with the multiple references in the film about the costs of medical care, the viewer must wonder if he might have lived with better and more costly care. Iris' brother in law gets abusive after yet another unsuccessful day at the unemployment office when his wife yells at him for buying a beer with her savings instead of leaving it for her face lift and/or teeth job (even the working class with no stake in conventional bourgeois notions of perfection and beauty buy into them). The one reference to race in the film is through a black factory line worker whose husband is in jail (presumably, he's also black, and black men suffer disproportionally high incarceration rates). She remarks that he, like her, is doing time - her family is composed of a prisoner and a wage slave.Stanley, however, still believes in human relations and is therefore for most of the film outside of the system of Fordist capitalism. He cares for his father in spite of the fact that it was his father's traveling salesman job that resulted in his illiteracy - he has not yet reduced human relations to a purely instrumental contract, as Iris' brother in law does (suggesting that he married the wrong sister). He does not, as Iris says, conform to the work-eat-sleep routine of everyone else; rather, he uses technology and the techniques of industrial production in an artisanal and creative way, in a sort of Bauhaus ideal. This was the dream of early modernists and 1920's socialists (such as the Bauhaus) - to use technology to provide for all basic needs, allowing for more free time for creative human work and fuller human relations. He is also outside of traditional gender relations. He cooks, he cleans, he cares for his family, and he knows how to iron. Iris, on the other hand, lives in a traditionally male role - she's a factory worker, the mains source of income for her (extended) family, and she brings Stanley into the public realm, traditionally off-limits to women. By teaching him to read and write, she gives him access to the world of knowledge, also traditionally gendered male.Literacy here is used as a metaphor for the (traditionally masculine) public realm and the systems of circulation (monetary, vehicular, cultural) that enable participation in the public realm. Without this access, Stanley is feminized - the jobs open to him are cooking and cleaning. He is excluded from all regular circulations, unable to participate in the monetary (can't open a bank account), in the vehicular (can't get a driver's license, can't ride the bus), and in the social (he asks if he exists if he can't write his name).After learning to read, he grabs books on auto repair, farming, and spirituality (the Bible). The Word of God is therefore relativized, placed on the same value plane as how-to books. In fact, organized religion in general is only very occasionally present - the Bible also appears on a dresser as the camera pans to find Stanley and Iris having sex. It is, however, acknowledged as a moral force - Iris, clearly a character devoted to living a good life, mentions at the beginning of the film that her rosary was among the objects lost in a purse snatching.Once able to read, he enters the system and lands a managerial position with a health care plan, a car, and a house, taking his place at the head of the family, the breadwinner. Presumably, he's an industrial designer, dreaming up products that will require others enduring the drudgery of the assembly line to produce. This ending, probably the only bit of conventional Hollywood in the film, is so incongruous with all that has come before that I at least wonder if it wasn't forced in by some Studio exec suddenly worried about the lack of a feel-good ending and its potential effect on the bottom line.Now that, according to the pundits, we've comfortably moved on to post-industrial capitalism, the film also has a slightly nostalgic feel, as though we needed the historical distance to really analyze what happened during that period. Nevertheless, it's highly recommended - at least if you want to exercise your brain. Disregard the ending, and it's close to a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Love Conquers All","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Stanley and Iris' is a heart warming film about two people who find each other and help one another overcome their problems in life. Stanley's life is difficult, because he never learned to read or write. Iris is a widower with two teenage children working in a bakery where she meets Stanley.  She decides to teach Stanley how to read at her home in her spare time.  Over time they become romantically involved. After Stanley learns to read, he goes off to a good job in Chicago, only to return to Iris and ask her to marry him.It's a really good film without nudity, violence, or profanity, that which is rare in today's films.   A good film all round.   "},{"Title":"An Important Subject with Two Stars Meandering Through a TV-Movie-Level Vehicle","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As the last film directed by the redoubtable Martin Ritt, this 1990 drama is full of good intentions about adult illiteracy and has two proved star actors, Jane Fonda and Robert DeNiro, in the lead roles. Nonetheless, it rarely hovers above the level of a Lifetime TV-movie, as the story amounts to a series of episodes around the burgeoning relationship between Iris, a recently widowed worker in a pastry factory and Stanley, a quiet, illiterate cook who likes to invent mechanical contraptions in the privacy of his apartment. They meet when he is hired at the company cafeteria, but he loses his job when it becomes clear he cannot read or write. Realizing his illiteracy has prevented him from taking care of his ailing father, Stanley asks Iris to teach him. The rest is pretty inevitable, though there are affecting moments along the way mainly because DeNiro is able to convey the basic decency and veiled humiliation of his character.What I do miss in DeNiro's performance is the edge of danger that makes him truly transcend his best roles like what he did right after this film as Jimmy Conway in Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas. Stanley seems to be a distant cousin of DeNiro's similarly passive and inarticulate character in Ulu Grosbard's 1984 Falling in Love. In what was to be her last film for fifteen years, Jane Fonda seems woefully miscast, looking too intellectually alert and physically aerobicized to portray Iris with conviction. Begging for a Kathy Bates-type to inhabit her, Iris should be downcast about her life and feeling a deepening loneliness about her situation, but Fonda's off-screen resourcefulness makes it difficult to believe this woman would truly feel stuck. It also feels disingenuous of the character to talk about her weight concerns and wanting a couple of eclairs when we are looking at an actress who has made millions on her workout tapes.Regardless, Ritt is also a master when it comes to showing the trials of everyday people in working class settings, and there is genuine chemistry between the two actors, which helps considerably as the story meanders toward its conclusion. The rest of the cast is used inconsistently as plot devices, in particular, Swoosie Kurtz as Iris's battered sister, who oddly disappears midway through the story, and Martha Plimpton as Iris's sullen, impregnated daughter. I have to conclude the primary problem with the film is the episodic screenplay by Harriet Frank, Jr. and Irving Ravetch, both of whom have teamed with Ritt on a number of superior films like Hud and Norma Rae. The DVD has no extras. "},{"Title":"Not That Memorable, But A Recommended  Nice Story","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this to be a so-so romance/drama that has a nice ending and a generally nice feel to it. It's not a Hallmark Hall Of Fame-type family film with sleeping-before-marriage considered normal behavior but considering it stars Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro, I would have expected a lot rougher movie, at least language-wise. The most memorable part of the film is the portrayal of how difficult it must be to learn how to read and write when you are already an adult. That's the big theme of the movie and it involves some touching scenes but, to be honest, the film isn't that memorable.It's still a fairly mild, nice tale that I would be happy to recommend. "}{"Title":"Two great stars save an otherwise mediocre movie that suffers from too much niceness.","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley Cox (Robert DeNiro) is a great guy. He is kind-hearted, loyal, a hard worker, totally honest and intelligent. He is also kindly to his aging father whom he must put into a nursing home. There is only one problem. He can't read or write. That apparently happened because he slept through school and nobody bothered to wake him up, assuming he was just another dummy with no future ahead of him. That is until Iris King (Jane Fonda) comes along. This hard-working factory worker, a widow with a troubled family, takes an interest in his plight, and takes it upon herself to teach him how to read and write, falling in love in the process while getting over the memory of her late husband.There is really little plot and not a sensible reason as to why Stanley has never learned to read and write. When Iris accidentally costs Stanley his job by revealing to his boss the truth about him, you really don't believe that she wouldn't stand up and fight for him. Stanley isn't an innocent like Dustin Hoffman's character in Rain Man or dim-witted like Lon Chaney's character in Of Mice and Men; He is a normal Joe whom I just couldn't believe would never leave his neighborhood or be able to purchase anything if he can't read or write, let alone count money or know what denomination he is giving a cashier. There is little information on how he has survived up until then, and that is where the film looses credibility.Where it becomes entertaining is that the two characters are totally likable. It is very interesting to see these two Oscar Winning stars together in spite of the fact that Fonda publicly denounced The Deer Hunter, the Oscar Winning Vietnam film from 1978 that starred DeNiro the very same year that Fonda won her Oscar for the anti-war Coming Home. There is also little impact in the story with Fonda's family, which includes her troubled sister (Swoosie Kurtz, most of whose role must have been left on the cutting room floor) and her young daughter (Martha Plimpton). In a nice small role, The Drew Carey Show's Kathy Kinney plays one of Fonda's co-workers.I really wanted to like this more than just your average Hallmark type movie. There is absolutely nothing offensive in it, and only two scenes that are even mildly disturbing-one the opening where DeNiro comes to Fonda's rescue after her purse is snatched on the bus, and the other the slap that Kurtz gets from her struggling husband. How many movies of the past 30 years can claim that they simply are showing life without all the ugliness surrounding it? Maybe that's the film's problem. It is all too nice and wrapped up neatly rather than brought to a more dramatic head. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and touching film","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has a special place in my heart, as when I caught it the first time, I was teaching adult literacy. It rang very true to me and even an outstanding student I had at the time. There are scenes which make you gulp with sudden emotion, and those which even put a smile on your face through sheer identification with the characters and their situation. Excellent performances by Jane Fonda and Robert DeNiro that rank with their best work, a great turn by a young Martha Plimpton, an inspiring story line, and a haunting musical score makes for a most enjoyable and rewarding experience. "},{"Title":"Playing against types, Fonda and De Niro excel","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is what I call a small film, but every once in a while it's a small film that gives you the opportunity to savor fine acting performances.It seems as if quite a few of our reviewers don't like this film. I think that's because they expect Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro in a totally different types of films. I can't say that Jane Fonda is one of my favorite actresses, yet, almost every time I do see one of her films, I'm impressed. It wasn't until 1986 that I began to appreciate Robert De Niro. I learned that it wasn't his acting that turned me off; it was more the types of films that he often acted in. Now I like few things more than watching a good -- mature -- performance by a truly fine actor.This is clearly not the type of role that we usually associate with Jane Fonda -- a poor woman who works in a bakery factory and has a family life that is less than ideal. She looks a little worn out...which is just right for the part. Surprisingly, she's perfect here.It's a very different role for Robert De Niro, as well. He plays an illiterate who is fumbling through life. When he loses his job he has to put his elderly father into a public home for the aged, where he dies. That jogs De Niro to finally learn to read and write. ANd he asks Fonda to be his teacher. Of course, there's a lot of frustration in the process.No film is perfect, and the weakness here is that we know that a romance is going to develop and that they will live happily ever after. It's kind of obvious. So, as with many films, the joy is not where the film is going, but how our characters arrive at that destination.One of the things I like about this film is that it shows the lives of a socioeconomic group that we don't often see in films.The primary supporting actor worth mentioning is Swoosie Kurtz. Kurtz was an actress who was quite popular for a while, and this film made me realize that I hadn't see her in a while. I looked her up and was surprised to learn that she was now in her 70s. She does a nice job here as Fonda's sister. Fonda's son here -- Harley Cross -- does a nice job...believable. Martha Plimpton, as the daughter, also does nicely.Thankfully the mandatory sex scene -- a disastrous one -- is brief. But it exemplifies the somewhat awkward route to love these two people are having.I'll tell how good I thought this film was. I wasn't feeling well the evening I started watching it. I was very tired, so I thought I'd watch maybe half the film, and finish the rest the following day. Nope, I stayed up until nearly 130 a.m. to finish it one sitting.I give this a very strong 7. Recommended. "},{"Title":"rather undramatic","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Iris King (Jane Fonda) is recently widowed and working at the bakery factory. Money is tight. Her purse is stolen and Stanley Cox (Robert De Niro) helps her. He's an illiterate cook at the factory canteen. She has two kids Kelly (Martha Plimpton) and Richard. Her unemployed sister Sharon (Swoosie Kurtz) and her no-good husband Joe (Jamey Sheridan) are staying with her. Kelly reveals that she's pregnant. Iris and Stanley start hanging out together and she finds out his secret. She lets the cat out of the bag to his boss and he's fired. He's left with menial work and forced to leave his father in an old-age home. When his father dies, he can't even spell the name for the death certificate. He asks her to teach him how to read.The story has a lot of tough things going on for these poor people. The problem is that it's done with little drama. Both Fonda and De Niro are going low key with their performances. The romance is a slow boil. The movie doesn't hit big points hard or stay with them. The first big move is Joe hitting Sharon. Yet there is little follow up with them. Kelly is pregnant but that's another side trip. The most compelling part of the movie is the illiteracy but I'm not impressed with them transitioning to a romance. The acting is solid but it's all done without much tension or drama. "},{"Title":"It's the economy stupid!","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sharyn Wolf discusses the film Stanley and Iris in her book Guerrilla dating tactics. The book is definitely the best thing since the introduction of De Ruyter's hundreds and thousands. She mentions the film only in passing, and does not actually recommend it, but to me that incitement was enough. By the way, Wolf starts her discussion with a reference to the (non-existing) love life of the Cartwright family in Bonanza! This is really poking in my very first life experiences! Stanley and Iris has some positive points in anticipation. The writers also created the film Norma Rae (read my review). Jane Fonda and Robert DeNiro helped to change the perspective on the war in Vietnam. I can honestly say that the result has not disappointed me. The play is credible and moving without becoming sentimental. It was a pleasant surprise, that the story is also a portrayal of the bitter poverty among marginalized workers (perhaps working poor sounds more familiar). It is at least as much a drama about social conditions as a love tale. Many scenes unfold in a cookie factory. To a large extent the personal problems originate from the drawbacks of the society. Some people just don't get true opportunities. It's amazing there on the shady side. Nonetheless, the script also dives deep into the personal characters. The result is satisfying, considering that empathy comes naturally. Can I present any hidden layers or meanings in this review? That depends on what you want to see. I advise to look more than once (an intention not yet proved by myself). I would not be surprised if on a closer examination the narrative is quite ambivalent. Just an example which stands out near the end Stanley gets an excellent job in another state. Yes, again the American dream turns into reality! Amazing, you never get fed up with it. This is so much the usual pattern of course he wil forget his sweetheart on the assembly line, who has helped him advance, and marry a rich woman. I will not disclose the end, there are already too many spoilers, so go and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"bad editing, bad screenplay, bad film","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the 1990 film Stanley and Iris last night for the first time. I had always wanted to see this movie, as I am a big Robert DeNiro fan. Knowing that the film was poorly received upon its release I still went into my viewing with an open mind. Unfortunately the reviews were spot on twenty-two years ago. This film is very bad. I mean VERY bad. A real waste of the talents of both Deniro and Jane Fonda. I may have been a little more generous with this review if it was a low budget piece with two lesser caliber actors at the helm, but this is not so. Not only is the story generally weak, but this film suffers from perhaps the worst editing that i have ever seen in a major studio film with high profile stars. The story moves on from scene to scene, seemingly not explaining events that have lead up to what we are watching. It was like I was watching a poorly trimmed down television airing of a studio film that was compressed for time, however that was not the case here. this was an unedited presentation on Cable. Unless you are absolutely smitten with Deniro or Fonda, avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Confused, many glitches, but it still works","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just finished watching this movie, and it has left me quite confused. At one level, I enjoyed the movie immensely, for its powerful performances (OK - I have this terrible bias. No matter how much I try, I cannot completely dislike a De Niro movie) and the director's willingness to tread off the beaten path and look at issues that are real and disturbing, but which do not necessarily make the cash registers tingle. At another level, throughout watching the movie, I could not contain my disappointment at the inept treatment that is meted out by the script and the sketchy storyline.Was the director trying to document an epic human struggle, crafting out a modern day fairy tale, commenting on disturbing social issues or telling a plain love story? And this is where, I think, the movie fails. John Ford, Frank Capra and a host of others have made epic movies about human struggle; Bergman, Woody Allen and a host of art-house directors have delved on various social issues and several film makers from William Wyler to Stephen Spielberg have had their versions of modern day fairy tales. But none of them wanted to be everything in one movie.The first fifteen minutes of the movie make you think you are about to watch an intense, off-beat social document about burning issues like illiteracy, widowhood, old age, loneliness, teenage motherhood, poverty, mother-daughter relationship etc.In fact they are all hurled at you one after the other in the first reel itself. It's like the director saying - OK, this is CNN. First the headlines....now, let me see, have I missed anything. Oh of course, teenage motherhood. OK...here you go! OK, guys, now I'm done with the social issues bit, let's get to the love story part.OK, now - guys - how about some real fairy tale stuff. A rags-to-riches story that's so improbable. Guys, I have only ten minutes of shoot time left - quick, get him rich...hurry! It's here that I feel intellectually cheated.At one point in the movie, Robert De Niro asks Jane Fonda why does it have to be all or nothing for you? That's the same question I'd like to ask the director.I started by saying it's an intriguing movie. Intriguing because, despite all this, despite the predictable ending and the lack of character-building (the waster brother-in-law shows up once and then disappears forever, for instance) and general lack of depth - you cannot really dislike it. The sheer poignancy and the earnestness of the lead characters (they were battling a sorry script along with poverty, loneliness etc. - full marks to them!) makes you forget your cinematic senses for a while and keep on watching.If I get a chance, I'll probably watch this movie again, and it's not because of Mr De Niro alone.Drawing a somewhat (though very different in theme and treatment) parallel - a much more powerful film about middle-aged post-marital flirtations starring De Niro in a similar 'soft' role was 'Falling in love' with Merryl Streep. However, while FIL delivers perfectly, on every count and remains a mini-classic (IMHO), this one comes nowhere close.It could easily have. Pity. "},{"Title":"Good title, good acting, an enjoyable movie","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Liked Stanley & Iris very much. Acting was very good. Story had a unique and interesting arrangement. The absence of violence and sex was refreshing. Characters were very convincing and felt like you could understand their feelings. Very enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"Low-keyed blue-collar romance with pleasurable performances...","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Working-class romantic drama from director Martin Ritt is as unbelievable as they come, yet there are moments of pleasure due mostly to the charisma of stars Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro (both terrific). She's a widow who can't move on, he's illiterate and a closet-inventor--you can probably guess the rest. Adaptation of Pat Barker's novel Union Street (a better title!) is so laid-back it verges on bland, and the film's editing is a mess, but it's still pleasant; a rosy-hued blue-collar fantasy. There are no overtures to serious issues (even the illiteracy angle is just a plot-tool for the ensuing love story) and no real fireworks, though the characters are intentionally a bit colorless and the leads are toned down to an interesting degree. The finale is pure fluff--and cynics will find it difficult to swallow--though these two characters deserve a happy ending and the picture wouldn't really be satisfying any other way. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Good title, good acting, an enjoyable movie","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Liked Stanley & Iris very much. Acting was very good. Story had a unique and interesting arrangement. The absence of violence and porno sex was refreshing. Characters were very convincing and felt like you could understand their feelings. Very enjoyable movie.  "}{"Title":"A nice movie but not much more....","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A nice, sane movie that never quite gets off the ground is Stanley & Iris. Well-made and well-acted as it is, it seems unlikely to catch fire in any other context.The opening reels, which are richer and more sophisticated in tone than the rest of the picture, promise much. As a recently widowed New England bakery worker who is supporting her children as well as her unemployed sister and her loutish husband, Jane Fonda captures just the right tone of can't-be-bothered weariness.She's appalled at the behavior of her brother-in-law, who slaps her sister (Swoosie Kurtz) in front of the children, and she's shaken when her unmarried teen-age daughter (Martha Plimpton) turns out to be pregnant. But she's almost too busy grieving to react in an effective manner.The only distraction in her life is a budding friendship with a cafeteria worker (Robert De Niro) who turns out to be illiterate. After a series of personal disasters brought about by his inability to read, he asks her to teach him, they visit the library together, and one thing leads to another. His pride and her attachment to her dead husband occasionally get in the way, but everything works out.Nevertheless, Stanley & Iris is quite tolerable as a star vehicle. Fonda and De Niro, who reportedly didn't get along famously off-screen, keep an interesting tension going on-screen. Occasionally they pull off a good scene - like the one in which De Niro loses his way as he tries to read street signs - that suggests how much better this movie could have been. "},{"Title":"what? 5/10","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watch the great acting closely, and you might forget you are watching a very incomplete film.  It boggles my mind how disappointing this film truly is. You have two wonderful actors, smart dialogue, and a great premise, how could you screw up?  The problem with Stanley & Iris is that it feels like it is missing major scenes.  The viewer has no sense of time what so ever with this film.  It moves at a break-neck pace which isn't called for.  If this film would have slowed down a little, explained some scenes a little clearer, you'd have a wonderful little film.  The condition of this film is a mess!! What a shame. "},{"Title":"Fonda And De Niro Elevates This Harmless Romance Film","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stanley & Iris is a romantic drama that features two big stars in Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro. The screenplay by Harriet Frank, Jr. and Irving Ravetch is loosely based on the novel Union Street by Pat Barker.Swoosie Kurtz,Martha Plimpton,Harley Cross and Jamey Sheridan co- star to play key supporting roles. This movie is about an odd love story between a widow and an illiterate.It was directed by Martin Ritt. In this socially conscious drama with romantic overtones, Iris is a working mother with a job at a large commercial bakery who is still getting over the death of her husband, though her circumstances don't give her much time to grieve. She's sharing her house with her two children, Kelly and Richard; her unemployed sister, Sharon; and her thuggish brother-in-law. The tensions at home become even greater when the teen-aged Kelly announces that she's pregnant. One of the few bright spots in Iris' life is her blossoming friendship with Stanley, a nice guy who works in the bakery's cafeteria. However, Iris starts noticing a few odd things about Stanley and it slowly dawns on her that he can't read. When the boss figures this out, Stanley loses his job which is an especially troubling development, as Stanley has just had to put his father in a retirement home. Homeless and out of work, Stanley turns to Iris with a special request which is he'd like her to teach him how to read.The elements are in place but they don't add up to great drama in this well-meant effort to personalize the plight of illiterate people.But nevertheless,it's as honest and direct and entertaining as the considerable talents of everyone involved can make it.There is also a good supporting cast here, and Fonda is effective in her role. But it's DeNiro who shines with a very affecting performance, as well as a natural chemistry with Fonda.That is why this movie with many flaws is a harmless little romance that's elevated by the charisma of its two stars. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and excellent film.","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am korean.I love this movie of Stanley & Iris.Jane Fonda is beautiful this movie.Good performances by Jane Fonda and Robert DeNiro which made a person's cold heart, warm.Sometimes love makes me happy but sometimes it makes me sad.I think the best love is the love which we don't regret even after (Never lose the hope in) difficult situation.This movie show us everything. That's the true love.rate 10/10.. "},{"Title":"A Failed Adaptation","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I had not read Pat Barker's 'Union Street' before seeing this film, I would have liked it. Unfortuntately this is not the case. It is actually my kind of film, it is well made, and in no way do I want to say otherwise, but as an adaptation, it fails from every angle.The harrowing novel about the reality of living in a northern England working-class area grabbed hold of my heartstrings and refused to let go for weeks after I had finished. I was put through tears, repulsion, shock, anger, sympathy and misery when reading about the women of Union Street. Excellent. A novel that at times I felt I could not read any more of, but I novel I simply couldn't put down. Depressing yes, but utterly gripping.The film. Oh dear. Hollywood took Barker's truth and reality, and showered a layer of sweet icing sugar over the top of it. A beautiful film, an inspiring soundtrack, excellent performances, a tale of hope and romance...yes. An adaptation of 'Union Street'...no.The women of Union Street and their stories are condensed into Fonda's character, their stories are touched on, but many are discarded. I accept that some of Barker's tales are sensitive issues and are too horrific for mass viewing, and that a film with around 7 leading protagonists just isn't practical, but the content is not my main issue. The essence and the real gut of the novel is lost - darkness and rain, broken windows covered with cardboard, and the graphically described stench of poverty is replaced with sunshine, pretty houses, and a twinkling William's score.If you enjoyed the film for its positivity and hope in the face of 'reality', I advise that you hesitate to read the book without first preparing yourself for something more like 'Schindler's List'...but without the happy ending. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, Slightly Out-of-Focus Film","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess if a film has magic, I don't need it to be fluid or seamless. It can skip background information, go too fast in some places, too slow in others, etc. Magic in this film the scene in the library. There are many minor flaws in Stanley & Iris, yet they don't detract from the overall positive impact of watching people help each other in areas of life that seem the most incomprehensible, the hardest to fix. Both characters are smart. Yet Stanley can't understand enough to function because he can't read; he can't read because he's had too much adventure in his childhood. Iris, although well-educated, hasn't had enough adventure and so can't understand how to move past the U-turn her life took. In both their faults and strengths, the characters compliment each other. It may be a bit of a stretch to accept that an Iris would wind up working year after year in a factory, or that a Stanley never hid his illiteracy enough to work in construction or some other better-paying job. And while these mysteries are explained in the course of the story, their unfolding seems somewhat contrived. I assume no one took the time to rethink the script. Even so, it's a good movie&#151;just imagine what De Niro, Fonda and Plimpton would have done on screen if someone had! "},{"Title":"By the numbers romance","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanley is the illiterate employee of a bakery in a small town. Iris is a fellow employee. When the boss finds out Stanley can't read or write he sacks him because there's not much point having a chef who is going to put in three times the eggs and sugar the recipe requires. Stanley thinks it's all Iris's fault and blames her. Iris wants to teach Stan how to read and write but he's not interested, he still blames her for his sacking. You don't need a degree in English Literature to work out what's coming next when she finally talks him into letting her teach him. "},{"Title":"Life is tough","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very good drama although it appeared to have a few blank areas leaving the viewers to fill in the action for themselves. I can imagine life being this way for someone who can neither read nor write. This film simply smacked of the real world the wife who is suddenly the sole supporter, the live-in relatives and their quarrels, the troubled child who gets knocked up and then, typically, drops out of school, a jackass husband who takes the nest egg and buys beer with it. 2 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Great acting....","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I didn't like Stanley & Iris tremendously as a film, I did admire the acting. Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro are great in this movie. I haven't always been a fan of Fonda's work but here she is delicate and strong at the same time. De Niro has the ability to make every role he portrays into acting gold. He gives a great performance in this film and there is a great scene where he has to take his father to a home for elderly people because he can't care for him anymore that will break your heart. I wouldn't really recommend this film as a great cinematic entertainment, but I will say you won't see much bette acting anywhere. "},{"Title":"Subtlety & Outstanding Acting","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stanley & Iris is a quietly beautiful, poignant and simple film. There's no Bree Daniels or Jimmy Conway to be found here, just two regular people dealing with life's obstacles and finding each other along the way. As one would expect, Jane Fonda and Robert De Niro are wonderful as the title characters (can you think of any two greater actors of the last thirty years?), and the script is quite affecting. If you're looking for explosions, car chases, coarse language or raunchy sex, look elsewhere. Stanley & Iris the polar opposite of a huge Hollywood blockbuster, and I love it for that. Pure human emotion is the core of the story. It's all here... grief, hope, shame, fear, but most of all, love. This film will stay with you long after viewing.  "}{"Title":"a beautiful score","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I came in in the middle of this film so I had no idea about any credits or even its title till I looked it up here, where I see that it has received a mixed reception by your commentators. I'm on the positive side regarding this film but one thing really caught my attention as I watched the beautiful and sensitive score written in a Coplandesque Americana style. My surprise was great when I discovered the score to have been written by none other than John Williams himself. True he has written sensitive and poignant scores such as Schindler's List but one usually associates his name with such bombasticities as Star Wars. But in my opinion what Williams has written for this movie surpasses anything I've ever heard of his for tenderness, sensitivity and beauty, fully in keeping with the tender and lovely plot of the movie. And another recent score of his, for Catch Me if You Can, shows still more wit and sophistication. As to Stanley and Iris, I like education movies like How Green was my Valley and Konrack, that one with John Voigt and his young African American charges in South Carolina, and Danny deVito's Renaissance Man, etc. They tell a necessary story of intellectual and spiritual awakening, a story which can't be told often enough. This one is an excellent addition to that genre. "},{"Title":"The greatest actress. Good premise. Sadly, a flawed film. WARNING SPOILER","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie just doesn't work in the end, and that's a real shame because it's got a good premise and stars the greatest of all actresses.WARNING. SPOILER. I'll keep it vague, but I can't critique this film without discussing the ending.Keeping it vague, let's just say that this ending is so pie in the sky as to be totally unbelievable. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with happy endings, but they have to be realistic and this one isn't.It's a shame, because Jane Fonda is simply the greatest of all actresses. The only other actress who has the same breadth as a dramatist and as a comedienne was Kate Hepburn, and she lacks Jane's emotional depth. Jane's played her working class feminist roles as a comedienne in Nine to Five where she employs the facial English and wide-eyed astonishment of Cat Ballou. And in one of her greatest films, The Dollmaker, she plays the working class feminist dramatically in a film that has a happy ending but one that's also realistic.I see Stanley and Iris as the third in Jane's working class feminist trilogy, and it really is a shame that it's spoiled by a fairy-tale ending. The premise is really interesting, that Iris is just in such a funk of a depression and suffering from such low self-esteem after her husband's death that she winds up in a dead-end factory job and allows herself to be used by a no-good-nik brother-in-law who sponges off Iris and abuses her sister. That Stanley's caught in dead-end jobs because of his illiteracy. That Stanley and Iris finally make it together and that with Iris's help Stanley achieves some modicum of success.But keep the ending realistic. That's where The Dollmaker succeeds and Stanley and Iris fails. I can't say more without creating too much of a spoiler.  "},{"Title":"DeNiro & Jane Fonda Make It Watchable, But Nothing More.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Widowed mother/food factory worker Jane Fonda and illiterate factory cook Robert DeNiro come together one day and a romance immediately starts. However, nothing is going very good for Fonda at home with her relatives and DeNiro soon loses his elderly father and his job (the latter because he can't read or write). DeNiro wants to turn his life around and learn things that most of us take for granted. Fonda turns out to be an amazing teacher of academics and DeNiro also teaches her how to live, laugh and love again in the process. Stanley & Iris is really somewhat disappointing considering the star power here (DeNiro and Fonda are probably the two finest performers of their generation). Director Martin Ritt (who also under-achieves here) seems bound by an unsuitable screenplay that is really beneath his all-world performers. Still not bad (this was going to be above average regardless), but should have been so much more. 3.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"An oldie, but entertaining","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came across this movie one boring afternoon while flipping through my HBO channels. It was just starting, I had nothing better to do, then saw Robert De Niro and the deal was closed. I watched, not expecting anything too great.Actually, though, this movie delivered on a number of points. It was meaningful, a little heart-wrenching and ended happily, without a random death or injury to stand in the way of the main characters' happiness. I was so pleased with the ending.De Niro is classically himself--excellent, as usual. Jane Fonda, who I have never cared for, and never will, is good and tolerable in this flick.Basically, it's a well done feel-good movie. Watch it if you're bored or in need of a better outlook on life. "},{"Title":"A near miss","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The production quality, cast, premise, authentic New England (Waterbury, CT?) locale and lush John Williams score should have resulted in a 3-4 star collectors item. Unfortunately, all we got was a passable 2 star decent flick, mostly memorable for what it tried to do.........bring an art house style film mainstream. The small town locale and story of ordinary people is a genre to itself, and if well done, will satisfy most grownups. Jane Fonda was unable to hide her braininess enough to make her character believable. I wondered why she wasn't doing a post doctorate at Yale instead of working in a dead end factory job in Waterbury. Robert DiNiro's character was just a bit too contrived. An illiterate, nice guy loser who turns out to actually be, with a little help from Jane's character, a 1990 version of Henry Ford or Thomas Edison.This genre has been more successfully handled by Nobody's Fool in the mid 90s and this year's (2003) About Schmidt. I wish that the main stream studios would try more stuff for post adolescents and reserve a couple of screens at the multi cinema complexes for those efforts.I'll give it an A for effort. "},{"Title":"Fonda!De Niro!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fair drama/love story movie that focuses on the lives of blue collar people finding new life thru new love.The acting here is good but the film fails in cinematography,screenplay,directing and editing.The story/script is only average at best.This film will  be enjoyed by Fonda and De Niro fans and by people who love middle age love stories where in the coartship is on a more wiser and cautious level.It would also be interesting for people who are interested on the subject matter regarding illiteracy.......  "},{"Title":"A complete waste of talent and time","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the capsule comment said great acting. In my opinion, these are two great actors giving horrible performances, and with zero chemistry with one another, for a great director in his all-time worst effort.  Robert De Niro has to be the most ingenious and insightful illiterate of all time.  Jane Fonda's performance uncomfortably drifts all over the map as she clearly has no handle on this character, mostly because the character is so poorly written.  Molasses-like would be too swift an adjective for this film's excruciating pacing.  Although the film's intent is to be an uplifting story of curing illiteracy, watching it is a true bummer.  I give it 1 out of 10, truly one of the worst 20 movies for its budget level that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro plays the most intelligent illiterate of all time","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Robert DeNiro plays the most unbelievably intelligent illiterate of all time.  This movie is so wasteful of talent, it is truly disgusting.  The script is unbelievable.  The dialog is unbelievable.  Jane Fonda's character is a caricature of herself, and not a funny one.  The movie moves at a snail's pace, is photographed in an ill-advised manner, and is insufferably preachy.  It also plugs in every cliche in the book.  Swoozie Kurtz is excellent in a supporting role, but so what?Equally annoying is this new IMDB rule of requiring ten lines for every review.  When a movie is this worthless, it doesn't require ten lines of text to let other readers know that it is a waste of time and tape.  Avoid this movie. "}]