[{"Title":"Looks good but the plot struggles to hold before eventually just being hard work","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"64 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Port and Kit Moresby are travellers who come to North Africa to spend a year or so.  With them travels a friend, George Tunner.  Their journey hides the gradual breakdown of their relationship - a fact that is only highlighted when Port visits an Arab prostitute and Kit sleeps with Tunner after a drunken train journey together.Before you sit down to see this film, you really need to have asked yourself what sort of mood you are in.  Are you looking for a fast film, something entertaining and slick to distract you from life, or provide background noise in the room while you iron? If you are looking for such a movie then there must be thousands of action movies and comedies that you can watch. If you are in a contemplative mood or are able to accept the story that comes at you no matter how slow or difficult to get into then you may as well give this a stab.  The film focuses on the relationship between Kit and Port, a relationship that has been crumbling for many years before we are brought into the story.  The film then uses the journey as a journey of them both and, ultimately, Kit to find more about themselves, each other and their lives.If this sounds straightforward then forgive me, for it is not.  The film doesn't help; it is difficult to get into the story because at times it doesn't seem to really be about anything.  It is not so bad for the majority of the film, but Kit's wander in the last 30 minutes is difficult because it seems to be going nowhere and not be connected to the emotions that we only assume she might be feeling.  This is the main problem with the film - not so much the slow pace but the fact that it could be running but it wouldn't matter because it would still feel like it isn't actually going anywhere. It is possible to take something from this film but the actual intension was lost on me - when the final lines of dialogue came I hoped they would be as a torch in a dark room - but they only served to lose me that much more. I hate arty films when they seem to revel in their sheer impenetrateability, sadly that seemed to be the case here.Malkovich and Winger are both very good; they acted wounded and hurt very well within their veneer of respectability and normalcy.  It's a shame that, although their performances help us get into Kit & Port's relationship, they are unable to help us understand (or care) when the film begins to become `deeper' than that.  Scott is quite interesting but underused, although Spall and Bennett are reasonably good.  The star here is the desert, and it looks great.  For all his faults as a storyteller here, Bertolucci can frame a shot, producing a great sense of place as well as some really gorgeous travelogue moments.  If that's your thing (a `deep' and beautiful film) then you'll be OK, but I needed some emotional buy in or at least something approaching a narrative that could be easily followed with a bit of thought.Overall this is an interesting but ultimately frustrating film.  It looks great and it all seems very worthy, but where it goes was beyond me.  I enjoyed watching it as it forced me to think instead of just vegging out (like so many other films do) but at the end of the day I was left wondering if this was artistic posturing on a big scale or if it really did have an emotional core that I just couldn't reach. "},{"Title":"A feast for the senses","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"56 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to understand why this film doesn't get better reviews.  Yes of course it's a reflective arty film where evoking feelings is more important than narrative drive.  The amount of nudity, though in keeping with the story, does perhaps hinder its being taken seriously by some.Surely though it succeeds as well as any film has in painting a cinematic picture of the experience of being a stranger in a strange land?  The cultural barriers, dissonances, language, the maze of similar streets - everything comes together to create the feeling of utter helplessness Kit experiences when she tries to get help for the ill Port.  The confusing weird relationships, often only partially depicted in the film heighten the sense of being adrift in life.Together with some of the best ever desert cinematography rivaling even Lawrence of Arabia, North African music, noises, characters and colors this film is a rich feast for the senses indeed.  And what a wonderful final voice-over, one of the most deep and thought-provoking lines in all the movies. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"46 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies. But... and this is a major but... at least part of my appreciation stems from the fact that I watched it several times and that I've also read the book (by Paul Bowles) two or three times. So both works of art (since the book is most definitely a work of great art) tend to blend together in my mind.I started by watching the movie though, without any previous knowledge on the novel, nor on Paul Bowles. I was impressed by the powerful imagery (theater! not dvd) and chilled by psychological the harshness of the plot. I was charmed the first time I saw the film but I fell in love when I saw it a second time, which was after I'd read the novel. Maybe this means that the film doesn't 'make it on its own', but to me that's not a problem. And if you are, like me, gripped by the movie I can really recommend the novel for more 'in depth' .Some people here seem to think that there's no plot or just a very thin one. I disagree. It's not directly on the surface though. You'll have to concentrate and pay attention to dig it up. If you don't like that or feel that a movie should just willingly present itself to you, than this is not your movie. "},{"Title":"For me an initiation","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"53 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Please do not read this review if you have not yet seen the film, because I find it necessary to discuss elements of the film which reveal the plot.The whole film was for me a long introduction into the silence of myself. I like the desert a lot, am not afraid of the void, when the mind can finally be still. Port also actually came home to Africa.  He was ready to die, ready to leave behind his intellectuality, to get rid of the inner mess that was himself.  Although he seemed unconscious of it, his inner soul brought him by force to his own roots. When in delirium his hands dance happily, demanding the music to continue, to push him through and out of this existence, Kit is left aside and alone, madness kissing her forehead for the first time, unable to stop the approaching avalanche which will sweep over both of their lives, leaving one dead. Kit, ...how one must feel going to a foreign country to mate again with the mate with whom you, through so many silly, careless incidents, have lost essential contact - and to suddenly find him dead and silent lying in front of you in the vastness of an indifferent desert.  The desert we all live in unawares.  Oh, God, what have I done, how could I have allowed this to go so far? Suddenly she wakes up to notice the immense impact of nothingness.Her mind broken, she goes off with a Bedouin, and this is actually what I like most about the film. It allows me to let my mind break too, traveling with her through the desert, mostly listening to the silent sound of camels and bells and voices crying out in a strange unknown language.Some of the professional critics didn't to go down that path. They need their thoughts to run incessantly, .. for them it must have certainly been a threatening movie, or so their comments would suggest. "},{"Title":"Storaro's cinematography makes the desert appear blue&#133;","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Sheltering Sky is a road movie and a love story&#133; Its real subject is very simple Is it possible for two people to share the same dream and to exist as a couple? It's a simple story of two complicated people who love each other deeply, but can't be happy in love&#133; So in the first part of the movie we see how the joy of life vanishes, and in the second part how the joy of death begins&#133; Debra Winger identifies with lead Kit passionate and seductive character&#133; She, at least, feels the need to communicate&#133; At times she feels undesirable, even unwanted and unloved&#133; But this isn't easy to do with Port&#133; Malkovich has a completely different approach to Port&#133; He simply falls into the character&#133; In his dark eyes we can see clearly the suffering of the memory and the pain of remembrance&#133; Port's illness is an unspeakable solitude&#133; He doesn't need anybody or anything to face the challenge of life&#133; He feels he's sufficient to the task but we clearly feel his strong attraction to nothingness&#133; Kit and Port know that they dearly love each other, but they just feel condemned, condemned to be together forever&#133; Bernardo Bertolucci planned the film in two sections The solar part belongs to Port and the lunar connected to Kit&#133; "},{"Title":"a truly wonderful and poignant film that has everything.","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" At some point in the last 100 years.....there is one film that is likely to stand out as truly exceptional. Not surprisingly, such a film might not be well received by the critics or even be a great success at the box office. True brilliance finds its own place in people's hearts and this film has every ingredient to make it the kind of film people will talk about in a hundred years time. Unlike so many films created today with lacklustre characters and inept and one dimensional acting - the sheltering sky is moving and funny and ingenious because it offers true artistic and moving portrayals of the ending of a long term relationship amidst the kind of locations the most adventurous backpacker might not know about. Every film is about human meaning and should guide us to know what the author felt and experienced. Somehow the sheltering sky reaches into your heart by honestly portraying the emotions of the complexity of loving another human being. It isn't pretentious or dull as dishwasher art house cinema. It belongs in a category of its own and to anyone who loves beautiful art and poignant and moving story's that go beyond the solar plexus you will truly love and treasure the experience of this work of art that so many failed to get. Yes....good films happen. Great films occur from time to time....but the Sheltering sky is neither of these two things....it is the most honest and beautiful and emotionally mature work of cinema that I have ever seen. This film makes us feel good about being human...because it shows us how flawed and wonderful we are despite our lack of honesty even with ourselves. The sheltering sky will break your heart and and bring you to life. It will lift you and make you feel like repainting the cistine chapel. It is a brave and noble friend of a film...that wants us to see beauty and pain in all its glory. If you've never seen it......I wish I were you watching it for the first time again. Go get it.! Robert. ps. if you've read the book....don't watch it! no film is going to match your own interpretation of a favourite book...but this movie stands on its own two feet and with some grace at that. "},{"Title":"The Star of the Film is The Sahara","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bernardo Bertolucci co-wrote and directed the film of the classic post WW2 novel by author, Paul Bowles, who also narrates. The opening shot (after the credits roll over 1947 New York City and a ship disembarks from its port) is of Port's (John Malkovich) face as he awakens in a North African hotel room, the same scene that opens in the novel. Debra Winger is her most attractive as his young wife,'Kit.' They are accompanied by a randy travel companion, 'Tunner.'The casbah atmosphere of the Moslem city's narrow stone streets, flooded with Arab denizens, camels, livestock invites the viewer in.As soon as the odious Mrs. Lyle and her sweaty, overweight son came into the fly-ridden hotel lobby in the hot sultry desert nowhere, I knew I'd love to hate them. John Malkovich is seduced by a street-smart, young Arab who beckons him to follow through dark streets into a girl prostitute's desert tent. (live chickens inside are a wonderful touch.) The Sheltering Sky is a good representation of the novel. The book's narrative of setting, characters, and plot is dramatically envisioned and colored by the reader's point of view and imagination. We literally make the story ours; so when we watch the film version, we tend to judge the director's interpretation seriously.Bertolucci's vision was entertaining and realized well, especially the lead character the vast Sahara Desert, and exotic ambiance; the cinematography was beautiful. i look forward to watching it on DVD. "},{"Title":"one of the most beautifully photographed films of the 90s, though if amazing imagery isn't lacking, plot is","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I always wonder what it might be like to have a film set in a location that is explicitly specific, with this film, as example, the Sahara desert and outlining areas of North Africa, and to not have some kind of Lawrence of Arabia kind of epic story attached to it. It's a challenge for a filmmaker to attempt, and Bernardo Bertolucci did attempt it in 1990 with the Sheltering Sky, based on the book that seems to be massively popular (though un-read by me). Whether he succeeded completely or not will depend on how much the viewer can take seeing characters sort of engulfed by the director and cinematographer's own adoration of the strange and bizarrely exotic locales. The story is boiled down, probably more-so than was in the Bowles novel, about a husband and wife (Malkovich and Winger), and their friend (Scott), who go to travel in North Africa. For what precisely is uncertain, but it is clear that the focal point is that of their marriage failing after years together (both sides sleeping with others, distanced, not altogether honest in conversation).But this changes, of course, once Paul gets typhoid and has a fever for the middle chunk of the film. After this, when a change of events occur, The Sheltering Sky gets even more surreal and sensual then before, if still slightly obtuse in how to really relay a good story. And it's not that Bertolucci is whacked out, like with La Luna, as a storyteller per-say. He actually progresses what there is involving the characters pretty well, and Malkovich and Winger are up to the task of playing people who are sort of bourgeois malcontents who get their respective states of mind altered through their travels of the fly-ridden villages and poor towns in the Sahara region. But it seems like material, even for someone who hasn't read the book, to be more evocative as prose then as filmed, and the many customs and many little details of the villagers are left as more-so poetic aspirations than things relevant to the narrative. This all being said, The Sheltering Sky may possibly be Bertolucci's most astoundingly shot feature, with it coming right behind Goodfellas as the best cinematography of 1990 (via the great Vittorio Storaro). Shot after shot looks like it could come out of a truly exquisite book, and the dedication to compositions and long shots and how a close-up can be just as meaningful cinematically as a view of the desert, is the best that Bertolucci has to offer.But then again, like with Antonioni when he's at his most scatter-shot, without characters who even subtly convey a lot, or with strong enough themes aside from the despair amid an alien environment (to the characters), it becomes the textbook case of style over substance. I'd recommend it, especially to fans of the director and DP, but I can understand the dismay that fans of the book had at the adaptation, despite the convincing performances and (as a given) the wonder of seeing places not seen before, like the not-filmed-before-this-film location of Niger. "},{"Title":"Beautiful portrait of an American couple","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Bernardo Bertolucci does not really make fast-paced movies, let's face it. But very often (The Last Emperor, Last Tango in Paris, La Luna,) they're beautifully crafted character studies set in amazing landscapes. Bertolucci also handles his cast with great talent and the performances delivered by actors in his movies are always intense. Here Debra Winger is captivating, and aptly supported by John Malkovich and a strong supporting cast. The story slowly unfolds itself, and the nuances in the script, dialogue, cinematography and acting are splendid. The throughout subtle presence of Paul Bowles adds great melancholy. When I first saw it on the big screen, I left the theater in a state of total despair, because the characters are so miserable.  "},{"Title":"the challenge of adapting a movie after a book","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Sheltering sky was considered a heavy book, heavy as importance, for the so called beat generation...so in my opinion, taking the story of Paul Bowles and adapting it to a movie was a real challenge...despite the simple storyline that everyone notices, the book/movie has deeper meanings...i watched the movie a lot of times and having read the book made me see better the B.Bertolucci hand...trying to create the place for actually an internal bleeding, a deep hurtful feeling, both Bowles and Bertolucci have to use the symbolism of the desert's vanity...and the inner searches go very well with the message of the traveler who refuses to be just a tourist, setting a line to separate the meaningful from the meaningless...READ the book and then be impressed by the adds that Bertolucci makes, just to give you a very personal approach... You are so alone...- a beautiful way to end the journey of Port, Kit and Tunner... "}{"Title":"An unequivocally beautiful movie that shouldn't be faulted for not quite living up to the novel, but I can't help it","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Sheltering Sky is frankly a psychological masterpiece and one of the densest books I've ever read, but it has a fairly simple plot. The film adequately reenacts the plot. but can't really convey what it is that makes the novel so exquisite.That's not to say Bertolucci and his contributors, especially cinematographer Vittorio Storaro, don't deserve a lot of credit for their work. This should probably be accepted as the industry standard for filming the scenery of North Africa. The title alone should tell you you're in for rich cinematography and in my opinion this is absolutely necessary to the telling of the story, but the scenery does tend to overwhelm the story at times.Malkovich and Winger both give credible performances, but they seemed like strangers to me compared to the characters in the novel. Likewise the casting of the Lyles was excellent, but their role seemed abbreviated. I found Paul Bowles himself to be a captivating screen presence, though he's only on screen briefly as the narrator.Ultimately the film is worth watching but constantly reminded me of the discrepancy between the two media, which isn't exactly an endearing quality. "},{"Title":"Cinematographer Vittorio Storaro's love letter to Morocco","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not exactly a Biopic in the proper sense of the word, but an adaption of the autobiographical and massively dramatised novel by the American author, composer and translator Paul Frederic Bowles (December 30, 1910 &#x96; November 18, 1999). In 1947 Bowles settled in Morocco, with his wife, Jane Bowles (February 22, 1917 &#x96; May 4, 1973) who was an American writer and playwright in her own right. Not having read the book, it's too difficult to me to comment on its truthfulness, however we know that Paul Bowles was cooperating with the screenwriters, it is he who is narrating the film and even appears in a cameo role. It's the story about a couple's search for stimulation not only within their fading passion and closeness but also for their creativity and productivity. Ultimately, from the personal point of view, this turns out to be a sad enterprise, thinking that the constant traveling and external visual changes would rekindle their evaporated love and disconnection; it's a shortsighted forced-upon chase after illusions. John Malkovich and Debra Winger are not the usual Hollywood-like physically attractive love couple 'a la Barbie and Ken' nevertheless it was beautifully exciting to watch them perpetually connect and disconnect mentally and physically. As soon as the protagonist dies, that's when the biopic turns into fiction, as Bowles kept on living till 1999. I was wondering if he wrote this scenario as a sort of a metaphor reflecting on his own life and dismantling relationship.From the famous and truly extraordinary Italian cinematographer, Vittorio Storaro's view, this is a declaration of love to Morocco and its impressive and breathtaking landscapes, culture and nomadic life; a magnificent visual feast and one may even smell all the spices, swatting flies, feel the grit of sand between the teeth, start sweating and get one's blood boiling, not only due to the local heat but also to the carnal sultriness, whilst watching the screen! Full frontal nudity and a few sensual yet tasteful very erotic scenes and therefore I rate it 16+.The gorgeous main-theme of the soundtrack is a total tearjerker to me...for sentimentalists only!Noticed that they drink a lot of MUMM Champagne, oh! how French, and that Eric Vu-An, famous Ballet dancer and ex Etoile de L'Opera de Paris had a secondary very seductive role in this typical Bertolucci epic. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography and Winger's Best Performance","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Beautiful cinematography, incredible scenery, easily Winger's best performance. It's well worth watching for the eye candy alone. That said, I will note that this movie is not for everyone. If you want the usual Hollywood special effects extravaganza, then it's definitely not your cup of Pepsi. If you want excellent acting, a wonderful script, real character development, and some of the most powerful use of natural landscapes as part of the dramatic structure on film, then this movie is for you. I will add there is an accurate depiction of the progress of cholera and that is not pretty.If you love this film as I do, you will remember it for the rest of your life. It will be watched two hundred years from now just as we read Dickens today. It is great art.Be sure to get the UNCUT version. Netflix has it. "},{"Title":"it's not about tourists, it's about travellers.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When you travel as a tourist you have always a place to go back.  When you're a traveller, you just go. I love this movie because of the freedom it shows. Every path is possible when you are not going back to anywhere. the movie is a dream with a nightmare inside. It's quite a long movie, although very surprising and beautiful.  "},{"Title":"The Setting Were Gorgeous, The Film Was Unsettling","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel by Paul Bowles, The Sheltering Sky is the story of rekindling one's marriage is one of the greatest pieces of 20th century literature. When I rented the movie, I was even more flabbergasted when I saw the DVD cover sleeve and discovered that well-known Italian director Bernardo Bertolucci was behind the lenses. The desert settings were the perfect locality for a film of this calibre which resembles that of Lawrence of Arabia or cinematic classics like The English Patient. Even though Bertolucci and his cinematographer Vittorio Storaro have physically made this film visual eye-candy, there are other traits that have an equally proportionate share of hits and misses.As it hurts me to say this, the biggest flaws lie in the balance of the two leads (John Malkovich and Debra Winger) who play the roles of Port and Kit Moresby, a duo of self-absorbed wealthy New Yorkers who travel to Tangiers, Morocco to spruce up some adventure to fix up their progressively crumbling marriage. Port and Kit pompously refer to themselves as travelers over tourists towards their somewhat mutual friend George Tunner (Campbell Scott), who has a subtle attraction to Kit. The triad bring an unnecessary amount of luggage and that it becomes clear that style outweighs substance as the trifecta just wander about without any kind of purpose other than the fact that they're just reeking in their wealth.The Moresby's are caricatures that spell out F. Scott Fitzgerald, they're in their 30's, flamboyant, condescending and have no cares for any kind of moral decency. Poor casting choice for Malkovich as the cultivated intelligent trying to gather his ideas in a setting that doesn't quite comprehend to an atmosphere where every foundation of him is quickly crumbling before his very eyes. Malkovich has none of the physical characteristics described in Bowles' novel let alone the immaculate mannerisms portrayed there either. His light monotone voice and his use of throwaways are opposed to the well polished dialogue from Bowles' novel. Malkovich is great at portraying macabre characters and brings that level with him in a lot of his performances, but Port is not at all like that. Sure he's self-righteous and unsympathetic, but he's not in any way shape or form diabolical.Debra Winger as Kit is a tad bit better though as her narrative is the focal point of the story. But she also seems physically wrong for the part. Where was Meryl Streep at the time? Bowles' novel called for a fair, vulnerable, fragile woman in the opening scenes of the book. Winger seems too play off Kit as a bold, strong-willed character. Her efforts to play it calculating seems at times quite contrived and very ridiculous complete with her raspy laugh and her ample limbs. She seems too independent-minded that's contrary to the character of Kit from the novel. Her Midwestern ways are opposite and seems out of place to the upper-class traits Kit portrays in the book. Sure at first she looks authentic to the characters in the book, but once she and Port wander aimlessly in the desert, her physical and mental demeanor are more Winger than Kit as opposed to the other way around.The supporting characters like Campbell Scott, Timothy Spall and Jill Bennett are quite convincing in their respected roles and seems to upstage the leads at times. The score by Ryuichi Sakamoto is quite thrilling, but at the same time very jarring. The dialogue can be very overwhelming and their motives are blank. The author(who plays a blind man at a bar) provides the narration. But the story of his journey feels more inferior than exterior and the translation of what he's talking about is quite complex. To put in a nutshell, it's better to read the novel first before getting into the book so you'll get a better comparison of the differences between the novel and the visually satisfying, but poorly executed adaptation. "},{"Title":"Super story beautifully filmed.","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I discovered this film very recently and very soon after my first reading of the book. The book impressed me greatly, and the film too in other ways. The beautiful prose of the book is replaced by the beautiful cinematography, and wonderful soundtrack. The scenery is some of the most impressive I've seen, and authenticity appears in every shot. Acting is superb throughout, and all nicely controlled and even understated. From a fairly dense book there is of course there is a great deal to condense and there is much omitted, which might make it difficult for people who have not read the book to follow the progress of the central pair of characters. On the other hand, if you have read the book, you might be disappointed that many of the significant points are missing. But if you know the story and are prepared to accept this, you might be in for a real treat. "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I agree that this film is very under rated. I have seen this film 3 times. Once at the Chicago Film Festival, Second in General release, and third on Laser Disc. I have to say that the version that was shown at the Chicago Film Festival was about 30 minutes longer than the general release version, and the Laser disc version. (I am assuming that the tape and DVD Version are the same as the Laser disc version and general release version) I think it would be great if there could be a Directors Cut version released that included all of the parts of the film that was cut from the general release version. The cinematography was just great and the acting was superior! It should have won an Oscar or two! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I would like to say that The Sheltering Sky has the perfect combination between a movie and a soundtrack. The music of Ryuchi Sakamoto is perfect and really touches you specially in those great images of the Desert. I believe that this movie really shows you about those feelings that sometimes couples are afraid to talk about. What a wonderful relantion between them. For me, this is a great movie in everything. Bertolucci really show us why he is such a great director, you don't need a big deal of action and violence to have a great movie. Debra Winger and John Malkovitch (one of my favourite actor) play very well the roles and can really transmit peace and quiet and also strong feelings. Great movie "},{"Title":"Bertolucci at his BEST!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, after seeing this magnificent movie for the first on DVD, I blame myself for not going into the theater to see it! This film is best viewed on a HUGE screen! Almost a half of this movie is wordless, but the music makes it up to bring you in a strange mood. Regardless of some minor flaws, Bertolucci manages to transport you in world were love and self discovery are tight together in order to create a mesmerizing experience... Is very hard to be coherent about this movie, because is hard to comment on the simple facts of life, somewhere in Africa and not only. For me, this movie made me think a lot about what am I doing with my life sometimes, even though the director probably didn't plan this kind of effect on the viewers) Too many words saying nothing just take the movie and watch it in low dim light, on a BIG screen, and with loud sound, so you can recreate a beautiful world!    "},{"Title":"a complex artistic performance","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I like the alternative title of the movie, Il Tè nel deserto, for the movie tells something about the desert and its people. And it does it wonderfully through images that may remind those seen in The English Patient. The story however is special and I would say makes the movie not too commercial. The two artists Port (John Malkovich) and Kit Moresby (Debra Winger), feel free and at ease in this world, under the sky that protects them from the unknown space beyond. They leave behind the life they knew and they try to leave behind their friend, Tanner, which may represent the values of that life style. They travel almost without a plan, if the plan is not to meet the unknown. There is beauty, harmony and danger in the desert, which is worth seeing. And like a parable for life - even if it seems empty as the desert it is worth living, for there is always the ultimate attraction of the unknown. Highly aesthetical, this movie is like a complex artistic performance. "}{"Title":"An excellent film if youve an sort of an IQ and the ability to sit still...","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  all the complaints-this film was no more than it pretended to be-a window into the world of Kit and  Port Moresbys final days together in the Sahara. True, not told in the usual start story here fill in with STORY end story here mode of  Hollywood, but rewarding just the same, if you have any tendencies to reflect on life rather than just  sleepwalk through it. Beautifully shot-I would love to see this in 70MM-Campbell Scott is especially enjoyable as  Tunner-whose only known occupation is giving dinner parties on Long Island. NB The Warner DVD transfer of this film is of near HD quality. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Reflection","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" How many full moons have you seen in your life? After viewing this excellent movie, we have made a point of watching the rise of the full moon each month. Our count since viewing the film is 126. Weather conditions and where you live will limit your full moon count.The question is asked by BB. And the scene is set at the end of the film and BB plays himself. He is sitting on a bench in a low light, wood paneled, smoky barroom. BB is shown as a reflection in a large mirror when he asks the question. And we all know the moon's light is a reflection of our sun. Very brilliant parallel but only if you caught it!The film is on our number ten list and qualifies for many viewings to be fully aware of all the brilliant insights. "},{"Title":"The Stifling Sky!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Director Bernardo Bertolucci is the perfect choice for bringing Paul Bowles incredible novel -- one of the most finely crafted of the 20th century and one of my favorite books -- to the screen. Debra Winger and John Malkovich are fine as Kit and Port -- spoiled, bored, EMPTY Americans 'travelling' (NOT tourists) in Morocco just after WWII. Their journey -- one of self-discovery and an attempt to bring some life back into their marriage -- turns from one of idle fascination with an exotic culture (one in which Bowles, the author, immersed himself long ago, one which he loved unabashedly) turns into a trip to hell. Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it.Campbell Scott is also good in the role of their friend Tunner, and the Lyles -- the fawning Eric and his intolerably superior mother -- are every bit as disgusting as they seem. Some viewers have found these latter two portrayals to be a bit 'over the top' -- but they're completely irritating characters, whining and complaining constantly about the conditions in which they chose to place themselves. They are the biting fleas you cannot remove from your sleeping bag, no matter how long you search for them.Filmed on location in the African desert, the film resounds and shines with Bertolucci's touch -- if it seems long and slow in places, those characteristic accurately portray the atmosphere of life in desert Morocco. The unbelievable heat would tend to slow things down a bit. The director's use of camera angles, light, and those long, slow, sweeping shots are masterful and perfect. Bowles was consulted every step of the way -- a sign of the respect held for the author and his work by the director -- and he even appears in the film and supplies narration.A lot of people may find this type of film to be a bore, but you have to be consistent by watching it. If you want to fully understand the movie, you have to read the book, for the film itself, omits a great deal of material that would have the made the film longer than that of Gone with the Wind.I am amazed that a film of this scope, made by a director of Bertolucci's stature, with two of the most critically acclaimed actors of our time, has not appeared on DVD. There's a wonderful documentary called DESERT ROSES THE MAKING OF 'THE SHELTERING SKY' that would make a nice piece of bonus material for a DVD release. When the film was shown on BRAVO, that network had the good taste to run the documentary along with it. There's also a fine documentary on Bowles available from Mystic Fire Video, PAUL BOWLES IN MOROCCO, that gives an informative portrait of this literary giant.8/101990 140 minutes Rated R CC. "},{"Title":"Are We There Yet?","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Have you ever had one of those nights where you couldn't sleep? You wake up tired, but you know you have to go to work the next day. Everything you do makes you tired, but you must press on. That's the feeling I got from this film. Fatigue. As Winger and Malkovich make their respective ways through the Saharan obstacle course, I wonder what horror is around the next corner. Ultimately, we need to ask the question, Why are they there. The ennui they represent is hard to fathom. They have bought into this mess and have no intention of leaving it. The characters are exhausting in that they are reckless. They put themselves in constant danger. I guess it's to experience something that will bring them out of their self imposed comas. The acting is excellent; the scenery phenomenal. I felt like I was riding along with them on those awful buses. At some point, I guess, Debra Winger's character has some sort of epiphany and sexual fulfillment, but what lies ahead. Exhausting! "},{"Title":"A Metaphysical Proposal","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" One of my all time favorite films, partially because I lived the North African experience for a time in my twenties and it reminds me of that primal chaos hidden under a veneer of post-colonial pretentiousness.For those of you who love this film and those who don't get it, let me propose a way of looking at it. (Metaphorical) Shrooms may be necessary for this journey depending upon how attached you are to coloring within the lines and living a Stepford life.Three characters, representations of how many of us approach life. A traveler, a tourist and a half tourist /half traveler. (the quote is at the opening of the film and at the top of the page for this movie).In this film, North Africa represents primal life. It is messy, death is it's companion. Nothing is sanitized or controlled into the domestic animal that represents what we may be used to. The illusion of order.Court, the traveler, has no buffer, no expectations. He enmeshes himself in the moment to the depth of the moment. Ultimately, life eats him up for he has no boundaries with which to protect himself.Kit, his wife, is half traveler/ half tourist. Her tourist half is represented by her fears. She is held back by her reading of events as an omens of things to come. It is her way of making sense of the nonsensical.Tunner, a tourist to life, enters the journey, but never lets go of his way of seeing the world. Each moment is held up to be compared to and seen through the world he knows. He refuses to let go of an artificial order of things. He plays it safe.Kit is caught between these two men. Court wants to pull Kit deeper into life, while Tunner wants to rescue her from the chaos, bring her back to safety, be the one she can count on.In a way, Court wins by pulling her deep into the Sahara and dying, leaving her to fend for herself, in her grief, Kit spirals down the drain into the depths of abandon until she loses herself literally and figuratively. Her identity no longer has a hard edge, it has become one with her surroundings.Someone asked in the chat area, why did Kit walk away from Tunner at the end. I believe it was because she is not the same person that he once knew and he cannot see that and Kit's reality has not shifted back enough for her to see him, yet.I tip my hat to that great mother and son combo that flit across the surface of the film, untouched by the experience and thus not really living. Critics. You know them. They make a great contrast to those who live life.The moral of the film; there is a richness to embracing and fully living that journey called life but it just might kill you, in fact, in the long, this is just about a certainty.I'm not proposing one way over any other, nor the absolute adoption of any viewpoint. Each has its beauty but never forget that each carries a price.This movie made me uncomfortable, flinch, want to turn away. Not necessarily a great recommendation. Stick with it and it'll resonate within your psyche for weeks and perhaps add to who you are in the world. Maybe it'll even make you aware of choices that you've made and the to come.Just my opinion. Thank you for a moment's indulgence. If you'd like correspond - look for Jaemick at writing dot com "},{"Title":"Almost surreally beautiful Saharan movie","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" There's argument to be had with a number of elements in the film from casting to the narrative adaptation. It's almost impossible to imagine how Bertolucci might have captured North West Africa on film better though. You can see its going to be a remarkable thing to simply look as the principal couple arrive on a rusting pier a sweeping crane dolly, a long take, the dramatic change in light. Exhilarating.The Sheltering Sky is about this visual appeal and how we give ourselves over to it. The other great theme of the movie is sex, or the temporal incarnation of this great beauty. This is one of the most sexually appealing films I've seen, frank and flawed but often magnetic. No doubt casting the attractive Debra Winger as Kit was part and parcel of this approach - she acts very well too (although I'm a great admirer of Judy Davis who famously regretted being passed over). As Kit's wilful husband Port, Malkovich is arresting if unsympathetic. The secondary cast are good but the great coup for Bertolucci is the location casting and extras who are all wonderful.A film to marvel at. I could have done without the sporadic and unnecessary voice-over but misjudgements are always likely to creep into such a sprawl. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Narrator's quote","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The quote by the Narrator about life and death is also spoken by Brandon Lee in his final interview which was featured on one of The Crow DVD. I don't remember the edition or if it was deluxe or limited or whatever. The odd thing is that Brandon Lee speaks as if they were his own words without quoting the source, but having seen The Sheltering Sky and remembering that I knew where it was from. I don't know why Brandon Lee did not indicate where he got it from. The fact that he said it just before he died makes it seem like he knew or had some prophetic vision that it was his time to go. I wonder.... If anyone has that DVD that contains that interview, please review it. I no longer have the copy so I cannot review it, but I am pretty sure that he does not give credit to his quote. I am surprised that no one has mentioned this either on The Sheltering Sky page, nor on The Crow page. "},{"Title":"Hilariously pretentious...I loved it!!!","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Your know what you're in for as soon as you see the shot of John Malkovich's penis dangling in your face in extreme close-up. Bertolucci is a director who has always liked to shock with his subject matter and graphic sexual depictions. Last Tango sure caused a lot of controversy in it's day, although today that film comes across as terribly dated and pretentious. And with the gorgeous 'La Luna, one of his lesser-known works, and also my favorite from Bertolucci, his depiction of a highly sexualized mother/son relationship made many uncomfortable. So much so that the film has yet to get a video release in the States. To make things more controversial, the son is 15 years old, and a heroin addict. I realize the The Sheltering Sky is not a comedy, but for some strange reason whenever i watch this film i alternate between being transfixed by the films sheer beauty, and rolling fitfully on the floor in hysterics! Debra Winger is superb as 'Kit' and John Malkovich portrays 'Port' with sensitivity, even though he is a man given to self-indulgence and is not above cheating on his wife. Kit & Port are two Americans traveling through Africa, in search of some enlightenment, or happiness. They are adults, but seem sometimes as spoiled children, enjoying and grasping at life's pleasures, and this makes it fun to watch, and to be a part of their adventures. Their friend 'Tunner' travels with them, but he doesn't seem quite as thrilled to be in a land without the Western comforts. He is a good-looking chap as well, younger and perhaps more sexually potent than 'Port', and there is some interesting tension there. Port suspects sexual goings on between Kit and Port, even before something actually happens. When he returns home, (from a rendezvous with a prostitute) and finds Tunner in their hotel room, his reaction is similar to that of a little boy finding his mother breast feeding a playmate . Many have said that the final part of the film, where Winger's character loses her mind and is wandering through the desert with the caravan, is the most boring part of the film. I think this is when the film really takes off. With no dialog at all for the final 40 or so minutes, Kit's despair, isolation, and confusion at being left to fend for herself in a strange, and increasingly hostile land, is palpable. For some reason unknown to me, the scenes of Winger in the birka, wandering through the desert frequently had me in hysterics!?! The look of complete and utter despair on her dirty face was perhaps just too over-the -top for me. But honestly, the film has it's moments of intentional comic relief. My favorite line is when Winger slurs I'm weeping for my gin and tonic, and when she wakes up in bed with Tunner after a champagne drinking binge, and remembers nothing. She frantically throws him out of her room, then beckons him back and asks for another bottle of champagne. It was funny to see how each character dealt with their discomforts and fears. And i must say, it is hard to take matters seriously, in spite of some wonderful dialog, when Malkovich and Winger are making love outdoors, him speaking of life philosophies while his butt was pumping up and down. From the look on their faces, and the way they were speaking, they sounded like they were sitting in a coffee shop or a restaurant, instead of frantically banging away! But despite the unintentional humor i found in The Sheltering Sky the film's power and majesty did not slip by me. I actually love this film, on so many levels. With such characters it never gets boring, despite it's length. I found myself howling for joy whenever the creepy mother/son duo appeared! That sweaty, 40 something mommas boy, and that red-headed hag have my undivided attention every time i see this! And the end is beautiful and touching as well. I'm sure everyone who watches this film to the end comes away with their own individual understanding of what it all means. Few films leave so much up to the viewer to fill in the blanks for themselves. I think this is a good thing. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Movie for people who travelled in Morocco & the Sahara","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not an easy movie to understand, that's why it's not always seen in the right way. The cast is incredibly good. When you have been travelling for more than 10 years in Morocco & the Arabian peninsula, you'll understand what's going on there. Most of the people are poor & still they want to assist you when you have problems (as the actors). The scenery is breathtaking (like in reality). Take your time to see the movie on a big screen, once, twice and more and every time you'll discover more refined details about our lives. "},{"Title":"Slow? Yes; Boring? No","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the most visually beautiful movies I have ever seen, the Sheltering Sky really captures the awe and the occasional fear of travelling light in a completely alien land.Add to that a closing voice over that really said something new about life and you have a minor classic.  Be warned, however, that there are no explosions, no car chases and very little violence... also the Sudanese(?) people and society are painted with a great deal of affection and empathy so anybody looking for a racist portrayal of villainous Arabs will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Bertolucci","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie for a second time while traveling in Thailand. I enjoyed it even more this time. I love the quote in the beginning the difference between travelers and tourists is that tourists get to go home (paraphrasing). Me and my girlfriend asked ourselves which are we to the degree that we started our own website! (travellinfastandslo.com)I also like how the story takes a very provocative perspective on intimate relationships.Although i have yet to read the book, this film has everything for me and fires away on all cylinders acting, story, score, cinematography, direction, emotion, etc.Great work again by one of the masters of cinema, Bertolucci. "},{"Title":"Grand meandering story about aimless people","Date":"17 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" American couple Port (John Malkovich) and Kit Moresby (Debra Winger) see themselves as travelers looking for new experiences. They go to Tangier after the war with their friend George Tunner (Campbell Scott) who they see more as a tourist. Port is introduced to a prostitute and is robbed. Kit and George take a train trip. Port is jealous and follows them catching a ride with the Lyles (Jill Bennett, Timothy Spall).It's a grand meandering story about being aimless. It's not just about being aimless but there is also a pointlessness about the movie. The location shoots are wonderfully exotic. Malkovich is chewing up the scenes and Spall is being weird. However the movie struggles to find a meaning. "},{"Title":"Sympathetic Study of Characters Carrying Emotional as well as Physical Baggage","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" With more than a touch of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA about it, in its use of stunningly photographed sequences in the Sahara Desert, THE SHELTERING SKY is a sympathetic study of three characters burdened by emotional as well as physical baggage. Director Bernardo Bertolucci includes several sequences of Port Moresby (John Malkovich), his wife Kit (Debra Winger), and their acquaintance George Tunner (Campbell Scott) packing and unpacking their massive trunks as they move from place to place; their cumbersome lifestyles contrasting starkly with those of the local inhabitants. The contrast is emphasized later on in the film, when Kit travels alone across the desert with a group of nomads who manage to carry everything on their camels' backs. The emotional baggage that blights the protagonists' lives manifests itself in a restless desire to move from place to place; it seems that Port will never be happy anywhere. He is perpetually in search of something, but has little or no idea what it is; the only way he can deal with this is to indulge in visceral pleasures such as spending a night with a prostitute just outside Tangier, or paying some locals to make music while he lies sick on the ground with typhoid fever. Kit seems to be more level-headed, but even she sacrifices her self-control in favor of sexual gratification while imprisoned by the nomads. The film begins with Port insisting that he and his wife, unlike Tunner, are travelers, not tourists whereas Tunner might be likely to return home after a period of time, Port and Kit are sufficiently au fait with African life to stay much longer - maybe even live there permanently. As the action unfolds, however, we understand that this is nothing more than an empty statement Port and Kit will always remain outsiders, not so much because of their skin color, but because they are unable to adapt themselves to the rhythms of African life. They will always remain outsiders. Tunner remains a peripheral figure; while trying his best to conduct a clandestine love-affair with Kit, it's clear that he does not understand how African life, if lived to the full, can prove a life-changing experience. This is illustrated in the film's final moments where he hopes that Kit will be restored to him, yet discovers to his cost that she has wandered off.The author of the source-text Paul Bowles appears in the film, as well as acting as an off-screen narrator. While sympathizing with his characters, it's clear that he is as much of an outsider as Kit; he sits on his own in a Tangier café, observing what is going on without becoming involved. He pronounces judgment on the characters' foibles, yet seems unable (or unwilling) to offer any solution to their emotional predicament. Perhaps there is no solution - as a long-time resident of Tangier, as well as other places in Africa, Bowles was well-placed to understand precisely how westerners could (or could not) adapt to unfamiliar surroundings.THE SHELTERING SKY is not without its orientalist elements the nomad men are portrayed as savage, enjoying the unexpected pleasure of a white woman in a plot-line that would not seem out of place in early twentieth century White Sheik romances that proved so popular with western audiences. On the other hand, Bertolucci seems determined to treat his characters sympathetically, as people quite literally swallowed up by the desert landscape. This is underlined in several shots where the protagonists are shown in long-shot set against the desert, mere specks on the horizon. "},{"Title":"The other side of Last Tango","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" A film is made of story, direction, acting, location, music, photography. In all of these aspects, I think that the rating of sheltering sky is high; hence, the movie is good. Yes the story plot may be the weaker aspect, but this deserves an explanation.After becoming a Hollywoodian director, Bernardo felt the need of coming back to his origins, and asking for nothing ... His international career started with Last Tango in Paris (1972), and in a certain sense, Sheltering Sky is the other side of it. While Last Tango (an original story by Bertolucci) was urban, claustrophobic and obsessive; Sheltering Sky is open space, elusive and without a precise direction. Bertolucci said I wanted to follow the loose style of Antonioni (both come from the same region Emilia, in north Italy). Indeed the film resembles l'Avventura (where a person disappeared) or the Passenger (filmed in the desert) both directed by Michelangelo.As I said, Sheltering Sky is the other side of Last Tango, but it shares similar (good) ingredients good actors (John and Debra in place of Marlon Brando), good soundtrack (Sakamoto in place of Gato Barbieri), very good photography (Storaro, already present in Tango). As for Antonioni's films, Sheltering is not for simple entertainment, but its value will grow over time. "},{"Title":"Defiantly Non-Commercial","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" While good actors, Winger and Malkovich are not particularly charismatic. Campbell Scott, while good-looking, has a lesser role. We suffer with the Malkovich character for what seems like a long time. Then there are long stretches in Act 3 with no dialogue other than grunting. So this is a film that doesn't pander to anyone. That said, however, the photography is shockingly beautiful, the music is complex, and if one is never quite sure what it's supposed to be 'about', that enhances its art-house bona fides. Easy for me to confuse this with Antonioni's 'The Passenger', starring Jack Nicholson (hard not to like), another cranky desert saga with sparse dialogue. I prefer 'The Passenger' but 'The Sheltering Sky' is not easily dismissed. With caveats, recommended. "},{"Title":"Lyrical, somewhat romantic and existentialistic...","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Italian screenwriter and director Bernardo Bertolucci's eleventh feature film which he co-wrote with Kenyan screenwriter and director Mark Peploe, is an adaptation of a novel from 1949 by American author, translator and composer Paul Bowles (1910-1999). It was shot on location in Morocco, Algeria and Niger and is a UK-Italy co-production which was produced by English producer Jeremy Thomas. It tells the story about Port and Kit Moresby, an American couple whom without having made any plans and with the intention of working out their marriage, travels to North Africa with their single friend Tunner. Subtly and precisely directed by Italian filmmaker Bernardo Bertolucci, this quietly paced fictional tale which is narrated by expatriate Paul Bowles and from multiple viewpoints, draws an engaging and intimate portrayal of a composer and a playwright's increasing alienation whilst staying in a foreign country and striving to resolve their marital issues. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, sterling production design by Italian production designers Fernando Scarfiotti and Gianni Silvestri, cinematography by Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro and costume design by English costume designer James Acheson, this character-driven, narrative-driven, sensual, literary and dramatic love-story about the unawareness and lack of honesty and communication within a gradually dissolving matrimony where the half-hearted attempts to rationalize a dysfunctional relationship drives a man and a woman to the edge of their sanity, depicts two interrelated studies of character and contains a great score by Japanese composer Rhyuici Sakamoto and American composer Richard Horowitz. This atmospheric, psychological, at times humorous and internal journey where two travellers are heading in the same direction as their marriage, is set against the hot, dry and exhausting Sahara desert during the 1940s and is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, subtle continuity and editing by Italian film editor Gabriella Christiani and the fine acting performances by American actor, director and producer John Malkovich, American actress Debra Winger and supporting acting performances by American actor Campbell Scott in his second feature film role, English actor Timothy Spall and English actress Jill Bennett (1931-1990) in her last feature film role. A lyrical, somewhat romantic and existentialistic road-movie from the early 1990s which gained, among several other awards, the BAFTA Award for Best Cinematography Vittorio Storaro at the 44th British Academy Film Awards in 1990. "},{"Title":"Acting, characters and settings make it watchable","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of Bernado Bertolucci. I loved the novel, however as I knew this was in Bertolucci's hands - It was a risky one. First of all this is Bertolucci's take on the novel, its certainly not mine. It does not capture the spirituality of the novel, nor the sense of life, death and everything in between. it tends to focus on what a lot of his work tends to focus on and show lots of bush and sex. That said Debra Winger is a very attractive lady - but it is off putting when you're getting half a clown on while trying to come to terms with a sad and tragic love story. The trailer describes The Sheltering Sky as a womans 'dangerous and erotic journey' - sadly this is what the director opted for- stripping away the character of Kit down to someone who simply needs a screw. Debra Winger and John Malcovich are great in their parts and with a little more care and attention from a director trying to make the story tragic and beautiful instead of trying to show Debra Wingers body as much as possible, it could have been GREAT. I enjoyed it however, as I love the characters from the novel, so deep and rich and real and along with the setting and superior acting it did stir something in me apart from the obvious. I give it 7 out of 10 read the book instead. "},{"Title":"Last Tango in Morocco","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Two post-WWII Manhattan sophisticates who travel to avoid standing still embark on a soul-searching expedition into the Sahara Desert, where the beautiful but desolate landscapes provide a mirror to their own troubled relationship. The film is nothing if not exotic, presenting some of the purest visions of the desert since Peter O'Toole first rode a camel in 'Lawrence of Arabia'. But the scenario works best when presented as an ethnic travelogue, ushering viewers into an utterly foreign world. The messy marital plot conflicts are, by comparison, all rather vague, especially after Debra Winger goes native in a Bedouin harem. The story never really finds an ending, because there isn't anything to resolve the characters all exist in a (handsomely photographed) vacuum, and their motivations are even more mysterious than the Arab culture surrounding them. The intrusive (and, as usual, unnecessary) voice-over narration is by novelist Paul Bowles himself, briefly glimpsed in the film's opening scenes. "},{"Title":"The song Sukiyaki","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" No, it was the late Kyu Sakamoto (d.1985) who recorded what we know as Sukiyaki, not the same Sakamoto who scored Sheltering Sky. Sukiyaki was written by Hachidai Nakamura, lyrics by Rokusuke Ei. This is information is available on the internet, if you look for it.drjude wrote >>Exquisite film. All the other reviewers have said all that I can say. That it didn't do well at the box office affirms my belief that the BEST is often the smallest, easily overlooked detail with the least fanfare. Someone said it well, if you want graphic violence and car chases this film is not for you. And that suits me fine. I wouldn't want to share this film with someone who saw Star Trek five times. I was ecstatic to know that Paul Bowles played a cameo (the Narrator) in this film. I have always been intrigued by this mystical man.And wasn't Sakamoto the same person who wrote the so-called American early 60's hit Sukiyaki?<< "},{"Title":"beautiful and moving","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" the sheltering sky can almost be considered a work of art as much as a movie. the cinematography is staggeringly beautiful and the screenplay is excellent. apparently Bowles didn't like the film so much. having read his book and seen the film, i think that the film works better due to bowles's weak and sometimes distracting prose and odd 'plot' developments. another great sakamoto score. the film is a journey both for the protagonists and the viewer. i first saw this film when i was in Athens and was unable to understand what was being said due to the language difference but i did understand what was happening due to the sparse dialogue. this film is a film about actions, not words; both literally and metaphorically. "}{"Title":"Strangely transfixing","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Selecting Sheltering Sky from the quagmire of aging weekly videos, I was drawn in by the idea of the exotic locations, the Moroccan backdrop, the vast African interior. Watching the film, yes, it was easy to sit there and convincingly say, this is barely B-grade, self-indulgent with shifts in plot and story which move from the despairing to the bizarre, and an ending with the author narrating himself his philosophical underpinning to the whole journey, nay, the fly blown, turgid fan whirring meaning of life. Yet, strangely, for reasons which are perhaps merely personality traits leading me to the melancholy,philosophical or to the want for dusty fans and raw African experience myself, I found myself completely transfixed from beginning to end. It may even be that my own husband has dragged me to Tanger, and further inward, and that how it felt in the film firmly mirrored how the place felt to be there. Malkovich's character is hardly endearing; he seems a pretty selfish bastard, but maybe just searching, maybe for a partner, maybe for a male lover, maybe a shrink. Yet Malkovich does this so convincingly, it's hard not to be mesmerised by his droll protestations and the angst and torment he endures towards the pivotal scenes of his life. Deborah Winger (who I always think of as Wonder Girl and ET) is too whiny on one hand, but you've got to admire her for what she goes through with her husband 'Port' and her willingness to get on with being a sexual being when push comes to shove and he's never going to do it for her. The scenes in the deep African interior are transfixing for their wild terrain, the harshness of survival, the mystique and ritual of a world so removed from anything western that it's spellbinding. And, finally, Timothy Spall. This was my first introduction to an actor whose character roles are always unique, multi dimensional and captivating. As the lurid son, a little wonky in the head, and slobbering like an ever-thirsty dog, everything from his mannerisms, tone of voice and subtle implications of mother-son relationship are intricately woven to create a very odd, and frighteningly plausible, character. As for the existential ending, well, maybe you need to pop off to Tangiers and sit in a dull café room today, still with the heat and the flies and a tall glass of peppermint tea to get out of it something which gels for you. Perhaps then, life as Paul Bowles saw it, as Bertolucci imagined it, might well seep through your bones or weigh as heavily upon you as the vast, sheltering sky that is at once confounding and utterly liberating. "},{"Title":"Basically an art film","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film sets a deliberate pace. I never found it boring. Those who think that it was terrible need to stick to films with car chases and explosions. This is basically an art film. Debra Winger turned in a fantastic performance, as did John Malkovich, in spite of his trademark smarminess. The photography of North Africa is stunning, and the emptiness of the desert obviously mirrors the relationship between Kit and Port. I will say, though, that I really didn't get the ending.  "},{"Title":"Stylish and patient look at a time and a place - but clearly minority fare.","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Two American's are bored with their lives and - probably - each other so decide to travel to Africa to get some adventure back in to their lives.Hard to get a strong grip on a film that seems so full of vagary and entering and exiting characters. Few of which seem to have much to do with the wafer thin plot. Only when it is over do you get the master plan which seems to suggest that time travels slower in the dessert and that Africa might as well be another planet. And on another planet other rules apply.This is set after WW II, but this seems hardly relevant in this unchanging environment of flies and dingy mud dwellings. While a turn-off to me I presume that this is part of the experience that our central characters are looking for. This would seem a dangerous place, but are they ignorant of this or is this part of the experience? Maybe this reflects my personal ignorance or lack of observation skills but I don't really know what the couple are about or what they want. If you want my best guess - and that is all I can give - is that they don't know themselves. Travelling only broadens the mind if you have the willingness to have your mind broadened, rather in the way that two people can sit in the same French class and one learns to speak good French and other can't learn a word of it. In other words it is about intelligence and effort. There is nothing here to suggest that the characters are capable of change - no matter changed by a hot sun and sand dunes!This is so well filmed and the setting so believable that maybe this film thought it didn't need much in the way of a script. Indeed it must be one of the most plot-empty productions of recent times. If you can get inside the film and give it a chance then you could well be intrigued rather than entertained, but there is nothing really that special going on - cinematography to one side.   "},{"Title":"starts good then comes the relentless boredom","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK, it's beautifully filmed and one really feels the dirt, grit and flies on the face. It puts you there, but soon the viewer understands this is a sand voyage to nowhere. They delve into characters that one does not want to get to know. Pointless character analysis into people who will learn nothing and continue into worse and more tiresome squalor until they are stopped by death, insanity or futility. The last hour becomes a marathon for the viewer who has already hit the wall of pain and feels they can go on no more. Why did I continue to the bitter, bitter end? I became like the characters on the screen who would get to the finish line that was never there. Why did Winger's character take off with the Bedoins? Why did any of them do anything they did for no purpose whatsoever?! "},{"Title":"Exquisito","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Exquisite film. All the other reviewers have said all that I can say. That it didn't do well at the box office afirms my belief that the BEST is often the smallest, easily overlooked detail with the least fanfare. Someone said it well, if you want graphic violence and car chases this film is not for you. And that suits me fine. I wouldn't want to share this film with someone who saw Star Trek five times. I was ecstatic to know that Paul Bowles played a cameo (the Narrator) in this film. I have always been intrigued by this mystical man.And wasn't Sakamoto the same person who wrote the so-called American early 60's hit Sukiyaki? "},{"Title":"Interesting depiction of constrained ties, even if it is a bit on the long side, but this does enough to reward the viewer.","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ultimately, The Sheltering Sky is too long; a film that wears out its welcome when it removes, for its third act, what made it so interesting for its first two. This is before stripping its resources bearer still for the very final few dozen minutes when further dynamics and characters are removed thus killing it off even more. One senses Bertolucci should have pulled the plug earlier than he did, some time before we're left with hanging shots of the intense African desert and those that inhabit it; the likes of whom the lone central character still left in the film falls in with, someone who then somewhat oddly comes to find a degree of liberation once this has happened. It isn't a bad film by any means, quite the opposite. For the most time, it's engrossing; a film about a relationship being strained and tested in an equally testing climate and locale, but when it decides to remove its love rival to this central tryst, the thematic flags; when the comic relief is removed in equal turn, Bertolucci is no longer able to demonstrate his acute ability to switch from tone to tone. The film falls as a result; the performances take over, the thing becomes an acting piece more-so a directorial piece the marriage has been studied, played out and depicted - what we're left with is not as interesting.The scenario of matrimony in question is shared between Americans Port and Kit Moresby, played respectively by John Malkovich and Debra Winger. They are two people who arrive in a dusty, French speaking North African nation by boat from, what we assume from the use of found footage during the immediate opening, the city of New York. They do not see themselves as tourists in as much they see themselves travellers, but such a challenging of a specific definition between two things, of which may as well mean the same thing anyway, essentially sets up the gradual unravelling of the marriage via the same intrinsic thing the ambiguity over the definitions of whether Port and Kit any longer enjoy one another's presence. They are visiting this place with a friend called George Turner (Scott), a man whose presence threatens to wreck the Moresby's time here in so much Kit appears to take to him and Port is mostly suspicious of them as a pair.Propping up proceedings is a middle-aged Englishman named Eric (Spall), who's in and around our centred triangle with his mother, played by Jill Bennett a professional travels guide writer and comic relief Spain! she bellows. Nothing but soldiers, priests and Jews! Upon arrival, the Moresby's attempt to create share sort of intimacy is ruined when Kit brings up Turner and speaks well of his features. Things are not aided during this early awkward time when the general intimacy of the hotel is as prominent as it is, and Port feels the need to frequent a sex worker out of his frustrations born out of Kit's actions. Further distrust appears when both individuals take differing routes to a new hotel, a place to stay deeper still into this territory which gradually becomes more and more barren and away from any sort of urban congregation. Their scenes of philosophising and love making play out to a musical score consisting of a drum more broadly resembling a funeral death march, reiterating the potential their bond has to wreck itself.There is genuine room to enjoy the film as this piece of cinema depicting a love triangle as those involved trek across the unforgiving Saharan desert, and Bertolucci does well to correlate the people doing the mileage as the marriage itself struggles with the burden. There isn't much behind revealing that Turner and Kit do indeed connect with one another to an extent that would be thoroughly detrimental to any marriage should what transpire transpires here. The suspicions and such Port has for these two never explodes into anything overtly melodramatic, in fact we enjoy the film's maintain of it as this simmering object never allowing for immediate, obligatory dramatic resolution as one party goes mad at another over things we're already aware of for meek domestic, dramatic kicks; something that would render it more reminiscent of a soap opera than this sweeping, period set, a million-miles-from-home desert-based piece.Later on, when Turner is removed from the film, the weight of this distrust and anxiety can only carry the film for so long. As mentioned, one senses the film wearing out its welcome as thematic and dramatic concentration are substituted for a more wandering; less congealed procession of sweeping Saharan compositions and the strength of the performances. Bertolucci's direction is assured; someone who really grounds out this atmosphere wherein events are moving slowly and we trudge through this hot, lazy place with this marriage additionally appearing to do likewise; this is without the film ever really feeling as if it too is doing the same. No doubt the film will displease some, but this is worth sticking out in the long run &#x96; it's just a shame one has to use a term along the lines of long run in the first place. "},{"Title":"The Sheltering Tea !","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" So what's it about ? Ahh, it's about how the world after WW2 is going to be without love. No. It's about the woman being treated unfairly in the west and the east. No. It's about the human being who can't find love yet; namely the desperate moment of living lonely whether with a dying educated who stopped making love, or a stud uncivilized who doesn't stop making love! At any rate, IT'S UNBEARABLE FILM. So it doesn't have the slightest ability to make me interest in whatever it says ! I didn't find anything interesting at all. I hated to see (Debra Winger), one of her generation's best actresses and beauties, in wasted time like this. The sufferance of her character was incredibly overmatched by ours during the watching. The pace is dead with nothing going on and long shots for the dark deserts. (Bernardo Bertolucci) fell in such a ridiculous love with the Arabian nights, shooting the moon from maybe 90 angles (these shots, great basis for tourist calendar, are really the only thing here to call perfect!). I bet he originally wanted to make a movie about the east's magic and vagueness (his east's magic and vagueness), however with the totally wrong material.I don't need to say that this is the meanest place to meet Arabian characters. They're all  pimps, thieves, whores, sex maniacs, mad women; it tells you a lot about who were the persons that the author went to meet in his trips for the east, if there was any !On the other hand the western characters are badly portrayed too. The old lady, her pathetically gay son, ..etc. But anyway, if this film wanted to show an ugly world then it did, but for what purpose ?!! If it was about the search for satisfaction as endless, then it's where I was eventually unsatisfied indeed ! There is something to be said, however it's shatteringly said. By the way, it has no end. I mean it's not good or bad, it's not even there. And yeah, the appearance of (Paul Bowles), the author of the book, at the end is one of the most embarrassing moments in the history of cinema; I believe the film didn't demand to be more surreal !Some might see that (Bertolucci) is a genius. After watching some of his works, I don't. In fact he's far from being one. There is lust and loss in his films, but mostly a lust for the loss of any good meaning or art along the way too !In general, a good story it ain't. A soft porn it strongly aspires after. An arty film about alienation it could be, yet so heavily done. Now, let me depose my objective alter ego to declare it frankly; whether it's (The Sheltering Sky), (Tea in the Desert), or even (The Sheltering Tea) it ended up as boring and worst of all pointless. It's not I hate this film, rather this is a film to hate !P.S While the film takes place in north of Africa during the 1940s, at one moment we hear in the streets an Arabian song by the great Egyptian composer/singer (Mohamed Abd El-Wahab), it's Min Ger Leeh or Without Why which actually belongs to the year of 1990, being the last one he ever sang! "},{"Title":"Definitely Bertolucci 'Arty', weird, different - not the usual fare!","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Quite a strange movie.  I can understand why the comment below says 'the worst movie ever'.However, you may 'click' with this flick if you are an arty type or just want an excellent view of life in Algeria (or wherever it was).  There are some amazing scenes - that make 'backpack traveling' look luxurious and boring (I guess).If you find it slow and depressing, and want to eject the tape, be sure to fast forward to the end and soak in the last 30 seconds.  That must be Bertolucci himself sitting there, and he makes a very good (albeit brief) commentary about LIFE itself.Debra Winger Wow, what a loooong way from Officer and a Gentleman.  I did not even recognize her.If you want a DIFFERENT sort of flick, this is it.  Don't expect the usual Hollywood stuff! "},{"Title":"Poor performances and an overlong running time ruin this lavish production.","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Those who haven't read the novel will be left bewildered. A married American couple (John Malkovich and Debra Winger) travel through North Africa in search of themselves and the desert, and find their relationship threatened by the vastness of the strange landscapes - and by a lecherous companion.Director Bernardo Bertolucci captures the forbidding beauty of the Sahara quite stunningly, but while the film is utterly ravishing to look at, its characters are stiff, self-regarding and unlikable, their predicament is far from compelling, and the psychological drama of Paul Bowles's novel never quite surfaces. "},{"Title":"Impact Has Stayed with Me","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film about twelve or thirteen years ago. I have never been a fan of Debra Winger, and John Malkovich has often seemed to be one dimensional. Yet, the imagery in this film was very striking, and the line from which the title of it comes has often mesmerized me. I recently also read the Paul Bowles novel. I much prefer E. M. Forster if I am going to read a travelogue-type novel. I thought the plot unraveled after Port's death, and the ending was very unsatisfying. Yet, my head stayed filled with the imagery in the film, and, again, that notion of a protecting sky. Few films have stayed with me like this one, and, in this case, I'm not exactly sure why.  "}{"Title":"Tourism Gone Wrong.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie, I gather, is supposed to be about the eroding marriage of Kit (Winger) and Port Moresby (Malkovitch). Port Moresby? The writer of the novel, Paul Bowles, surely meant it as a joke but although I get the joke I didn't get the point.In fact, the point of the entire film was pretty much lost on me. Winger and Malkovitch arrive to do some touring in North Africa. Come wiz me to zah Casbar. And tell us where Rick's Cafe is located. Right. There is a hanger-on whom they've met on their journey, Scott Campbell. The trio do their best to make themselves at home in the strange city full of strange streets. They stay in a crummy hotel. They wander about and drink tea. No booze in Islamic countries, though my informants asseverate that there is usually some dynamite hash to be had.But if the point of the story is that Kit and Port feel their marriage dissolving, and that they're searching for something that will restore meaning to their bond, there's not much evidence of it. Yes, Port sleeps with a seductive and treacherous hooker. And Winger and Scott spend the night together after a debauch. But there's nothing to indicate that these were more than errant acts based on impulse, nothing resembling a recurring pattern. Kit and Port don't fight; they hardly argue. They may not be especially bright but they're not soulless either.They leave the city and travel to a smaller and shabbier tourist town. They manage to dump Scott somewhere. Then they board an overcrowded third-world bus and wind up with Port dying of some unidentified disease, a victim of the epidemic that has caused the closing of the only respectable hotel in town.She leaves his body on the floor mattress and wanders off into the desert's fringe, where she is offered a ride by some spooky looking nomads, who turn out to be reasonably human after all. They take her to a village compound made up of some unworldly looking multi-story adobe structures. Winger stays with the young head honcho for a while, getting to know him in a Biblical sense, until the other ladies begin to resent her presence and throw her out. She winds up at a Western outpost, tattooed but saved.Bowles, the author, makes small appearances at the beginning and the end of Winger's journey, voicing some pieces of narrative from the novel, which I didn't find enlightening. Somerset Maugham used to do it better.Bonus points for the photography. Bernardo Bertolucci may have let the story get away from him but he's got the desert and its denizens down pat. Some of the shots are extremely impressive, the ones that don't look like Bakersfield or Deming. Timbuktu, I was surprised to learn, is a small but flourishing city rather than a caravansary, no longer just Timbuk One. Another joke the point of which eludes me. If Terence Malick had been behind the camera there would have been inserts of the fauna, little lizards skittering around or a sawscale viper or something. Decent performances too.The first time I saw this I was swept up in the tale because I was curious about seeing where it would go, and then found myself engaged with the characters. It doesn't hold up as well on a second viewing. The mystery, what there was of it, is over. "},{"Title":"The Unsheltering Sky","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" In watching this film I had the same trouble while watching Babelof Alejandro Gonzales Inarritu.I couldn't help not to notice what was going on around them, rather than focusing on the American couple's misery.While for them this was a voluntary trip,for the natives it was an obligatory life sentence.For me the couple were just a means to show what was really happening in this world,what was really sick,and it was obvious that the couple couldn't avoid having their share of it.But I guess for Bertolucci it was vice versa.For him the desert,the people,the sickness...were like a metaphor reflecting the inner world of the couples. Kit and Port set off on a voyage to Africa thinking that by leaving New York they can leave the problems that they have with each other behind,not realizing that no matter how far you go, you can't escape from yourself.And when they do get to Africa they are so self absorbed,so detached from the immediate reality that surrounds them that no wonder they loose contact with themselves.But no matter how many advantages in an underdeveloped country they have as foreigners,for instance money,to find a better shelter or a proper food,but they are more vulnerable than the natives and not strong enough to escape the physical consequences,Port dies of a local illness,and Kit gets lost amid the blue sky and the yellow desert.ALthough this is a film about the lack of healthy communication between two individuals,but it is more about the distance and indifference of two worlds which are living door to door, under the same roof, the Sheltring sky. "},{"Title":"Great movie for cinematography and different views of life.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Bertolucci creates a dramatic cinematograhic composition as a feast for the eyes. More than 'eye candy,' the work also conveys important, different angles for viewing life. John Malkovich and Debra Winger are convincing in their parts and leave an impression on the viewer after the movie is over. The book and its author were fond of viewing and commenting on life far from the mainstream. The movie accurately conveys some of these messages. One is do not try to run from your problems because they are most likely within you and not a function of your surroundings. Another is that life is more fleeting than any of us realize and the beauty and pleasure we some times take for granted is more rare than we understand. Alexander Osterneck "},{"Title":"Two who are looking for their love lost in their relationship.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.My only problem with this movie is the version I bought is edited,some good scenes are missing.Mr. Bertolucci is a master at his craft.Both main actors did a splendid job.I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Almost pointless","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why movies like The Sheltering Sky are being made. The great photography is not enough to justify the creation of such a boring film. But, after all, Bertolucci is a master at creating movies that last an eternity talking about...well, nothing at all. I think he would be a great documentary director though. "},{"Title":"Watch it only for knowing how it was shot.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bernardo Bertolucci's cinematographic career is little bit similar to that of Wim Wenders.Both these European directors have made some of the most outstanding world cinema films in their own countries using their native languagesItalian and German.However there are some bad spots on their illustrious careers.They both failed miserably whenever they have decided to make films in English.If given an opportunity to disown a film is provided,without any hesitation most of Bernardo Bertolucci's admirers would surely like to abandon The Sheltering Sky.This film suffers from too many western prejudices against powerless people of various African ethnic groups.As far as this film's plot is concerned,it is just too superfluous.Apart from Malkovich and Winger none of the players have given any proof of their acting talent.The only reason plausible reason for which any sensible film admirer must watch this film is the film's photography.The next best possible reason for watching this film might be the promotion of tourism in Africa.The sheltering sky can be used as a tourist video for those unfortunate souls who have never been to some of the best spots in Africa. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, confounding, directionless.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fit for those for whom cinematography is the sole draw. The sweeping views, dramatic skies, and desert landscapes are impressive, and well presented with wind and shadow.  The story is frustrating.  The viewer is left to figure too much out for him or herself.  There is completely pointless nudity which seems to be there to draw viewers.  Who cares about a genital shot of John Malkovich or the pubic hair of Deborah Winger.  The acting is outstanding. Winger is phenomenal and probably gives her best performance.  Malkovich is appropriately type-cast and fits like a glove.  The story is painful.  It starts nowhere, ends nowhere, and leaves you baffled throughout.  Too many threads are left unexplained.  Characters appear and disappear without so much as hint of development.  Situations develop, then poof they end and you are left to try and forget them.  This film is artistically beautiful, but, not for those who love a good story.  I feel like I opened a book in the middle of chapter 5 and lost it while somewhere in chapter 12. "},{"Title":"70% travelogue, 30% story","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Sheltering Sky tells of a married couple (Malkovich/Winger) whose post-WWII travels in Northern Africa become an odyssey of self discovery. Beautifully filmed and imbued with the sights and sounds of Morocco while telling its thin, plaintive story, the film  makes a better travelogue than drama. A good watch for those into North African cultures, many will find this film's story weak, ambiguous, and unsatisfying with its message buried somewhere in the sands of the Sahara. (B-)  "},{"Title":"It goes nowhere","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched and watched this till it's end, waiting to be pulled into it, expecting it to improve. It never did thou and just left me feeling quite disappointed by the end as I believe this could of been a great movie especially with all the great scenery in it.It didn't even draw me in enough, for me to feel any emotion at all, in what should of been very emotional scenes.Im a person who hates Lord of the Rings as it seems to go on and on leaving me bored with plot.. this movie was similar as the plot just dragged on and seemed to go around in circles to me.The most exciting part of this movie to me was seeing some white camels in it! (warning.. don't expect this movie to improve) "},{"Title":"Stunning cinematography but meaningless and empty story","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm truly disappointed with this film, not in the sense of throwing something to the screen or cursing everybody involved, but in the sense of almost crying simply because when you heard the names Bertolucci-Winger-Malkovich altogether you want to buy the DVD, buy popcorn and more just to see how wonderful this is and the final result is a big empty in their lives and almost a waste of our time. The Sheltering Sky is like a great body without a soul, a tragedy. What's the point of having the most dazzling and beautiful cinematography of all when you don't have a story to tell, don't have something to say and a purpose? Nothing. It knows how to relax your eyes both in a good and bad way; the good way being the most fantastic images and scenarios you'll ever gonna see; in the bad way because after one hour it starts to get boring, tiresome, pointless and it goes nowhere. Again, here's a story of people from the high class world (played by John Malkovich, Debra Winger, Campbell Scott and others) that seems to find a beautiful and intriguing place to live in Morocco, Africa, to finally realize that life's not that easy in places like this. If the main premise of the film was to show the difference between travelers and tourists then what I saw was that travelers are dumber than tourists who simply enjoy all the things of a foreign country and then they'll turn back home (as Winger explains in the beginning tourists go into a journey thinking of returning home right after they got in the new place). The tourists will have bad luck, all kinds of disease, infidelity affairs and other bad things.It is a good film to look at it, its visual, locations, culture, you feel in a different place, but in terms of story it's very empty, with no profundity at all. I expected more from Bertolucci and this film. But when your previous film win 9 Oscars and it's a art and historical masterpiece called The Last Emperor is very difficult to quite recover from there, to release something that touches the same grandiosity. The Sheltering Sky tries to be an epic but fails by being meaningless, just images and bored talks between characters. I'm not gonna say nothing about the performances because they weren't good neither bad, just too low considering other works. Gladly I haven't bought the DVD, but sometimes I wish because the images presented are so unique and wonderful that you simply have to watch it and try to hold it in your mind, for relaxations purposes. Weak, weak, weak. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Sandy, Randy...but mostly Sandy","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bertolucci's superb The Conformist is one of my all-time favourites, meaningful, succinct, powerful and erotic. The Sheltering Sky is not quite up there with it, it seduces the senses with visual grandeur, rather than emotional significance. Set in North Africa shortly after WW2, not too distant in time frame from his masterpiece, it is not so much an epic without a plot or a love story as some have suggested, it's more a parable, but it needed deeper motivational elements for its' central characters to compel.The majestic dunes of the Sahara, stark beauty of a barren landscape, is beautifully captured, as is the slim sensuality of Debra Winger; she doesn't seem to mind too much about the sand and flies getting everywhere - in one scene, a fly surreptitiously wanders along her thigh and up her dress during love-making with her husband in the desert - an unpaid extra, who nevertheless, contributes to the realism. In my neck of the woods, flies always demand rehearsal fees.What is it with Italian directors and sex in the desert? Think Antonioni's Zabriskie Point, an artistic orgy, mind - not a fly in sight! Believe me, there are plenty here - not just up Ms Winger's dress, but buzzing around buses, in hair, on faces, attacking raw meat on sale in markets, everywhere.John Malkovitch, as the husband, doesn't provide any reason for his professorial ambiguity - married to a beautiful woman, trying to reignite their relationship, but as soon as the opportunity arises, exploring North African prostitution with a wholly non academic interest. And the character of George Tunner, their part-time fellow-American travelling companion, captivated and at the mercy of Debra's charms, seems unaware or unconcerned by at least one of the Ten Commandments - quite a big thing in those days - why, Cecil B. DeMille even made a film about them.I like meaningful films, I liked this one, in spite of - or maybe because of - it's significance being at best eclectic, and perhaps confused. When any movie character does anything, you have to ask why. Here, you shrug your shoulders and wistfully wonder, why not? Luscious landscapes are more for painters. The images here needed more cohesion and purpose behind them. But they are images to enhance your spirituality, eventually providing a warm glow, even in an ultimately dismal context. "},{"Title":"Tourist Trap","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" One dilemma faced by the artist is that the same advanced civilization that threatens the artist's soul also does a very good job at protecting the artist's body. There's a reason why we have advanced civilizations; people living in primitive civilizations didn't like it. I guess a better adjusted artist could take the middle ground, that there should be more to life than the essentials. Artists are particularly susceptible to ignoring the practical advantages of civilization; theirs is the most impractical of occupations. They build protection from the elements with their imagination. They can get away with it as long as society builds them shelter. But this makes for a lot of unhappy artists. Luckily for the rest of us, their unhappiness doesn't interfere with their productivity; some say they go hand-in-hand. At the end of the day, life is supremely impractical. Awesome Malkovich. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Advice to women don't marry a guy like John Malkovich. This means, some smarmy guy in love with nothingness who wants to wander around North Africa with no destination, who has a questionable sexuality and who gets it on with wild Berber women at night. You'll end up lost in Africa, raped by Dervishes, and other bad things will happen too.The cinematography is beautiful and the colors and people come alive in this film. Malkovich's love to his wife is the only thing keeping him in the land of the living and that love is increasingly in question. A third person enters into the picture, an American called Tunner, who follows them around no matter how hard Malkovich tries to shake him.At one point Malkovich takes desperate measures to get rid of him, even though Tunner has Malkovich's passport. But it seems inevitable that his wife will betray him with Tunner. He is fighting a doomed battle. Holed up in a French foreign legion base, Malkovich succumbs to typhus and his wife ends up hitchhiking in the Sahara. Refusing to betray her husband's memory, she refuses to meet Tunner even after having returned to civilization.A cautionary tale for all young women who are looking for a suitable companion.... and an interesting film. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever sat thought","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I have ever seen, it is all so the only film that I almost walked out of, the only thing that kept me there was the cinematography which was excellent. When I first see it I put the poor sound down to the cinema but I have seen it again an yes it did have the annoying background sound most of all when the chanting starts. It is also overly long and drawn-out but then again so is the book.  "},{"Title":"A spectacular journey","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not every single movie has to have a solid story to tell about, or give a certain, effective message... This movie is a strait expression of the destiny of three friends. Isn't life, itself, enough to infer what we need to understand?(I wanted to edit this comment which I wrote years ago. Unfortunately IMDb is forcing me to add some more lines up in order to submit)Now I hardly remember the movie details. I think it is time to see it again. I wonder my reaction, whether I would like it or not. How many times shall we see full moon? Maybe 20? Whereas any of us assumes that life will go on in this way... "},{"Title":"Notorious in my family for being the worst film ever","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen some bad films in my time, but this takes the cake. Bertolucci makes you fully understand what it is like to travel for weeks through the desert.  Arid, boring and tedious to the point of utter exhaustion, The Sheltering Sky also makes (I can't believe I am saying this) a tremendous argument against female full frontal nudity.  Debra Winger definitely should have refrained from taking off her clothes for the sake of art.  None of the 6 people I went with liked this movie, but they were all too embarrassed to express their desire to walk out on this Bertolucci classic. "},{"Title":"Endless, not timeless","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Unlike great movies which are timeless, this movie was endless, like a portion of food you don't like but are reluctant to throw away. The film would have been better with a Richard Kiley narration, under a National Geographic logo. There were wonderful shots of the dessert, gorgeous panoramas, and interesting character studies of the people. And I found the last half hour nearly intolerable. I like movies with a different take on things. I liked La Strada. But I did not like this film. The only saving grace is that I didn't pay to see it, and I didn't waste good popcorn money.The film started out with good intentions. It developed well, with Malkovich's character contracting typhoid. The sequence in which Kit is at Port's side, nursing him for what must have been days, was - in my opinion - the only redeeming scene in the movie. After he dies, and Kit hits the road, it seems to go downhill rapidly. The movie loses its continuity and its coherence. Perhaps the book was better, but after seeing the film, I have little interest in finding out. "},{"Title":"God, what a bore!","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":" Port says this, and I couldn't agree more! Some parts made absolutely zero sense! Kit and Port took the time to learn the language, but couldn't be bothered with knowing where to access emergency services or contacting the American Consulate? Kit asking for help in English made less sense. Then she leaves Port without so much as telling anyone! Guess she thought no one would care he was dead! I know I didn't!The more I watched, the more obvious it was English Patient totally ripped this off, right down to the locations, natives, cinematography, sand storms, nudity (I really didn't need to see Winger's and Malkovich's naughty bits!), thumb-sucking, a**hole characters, and sheer monotony! Bernardo Bertolucci ought to sue! Ha! Ha! "},{"Title":"Boring and quite racist in content.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The film is not only boring, but quite racist in content.  It is impossible not to take note of the fact that the local people in the film are simply there to carry the bags of the American travelers, beg for their money, shine their shoes, provide them with sex services, prepare their food, get them medicine when they get sick, and so on.  We do not even get to know any of the picturesque local characters.  The film, based on a story by Paul Bowles, conforms exactly with the pattern described by Edward Said, Professor of English Literature at Columbia University, USA, in his brilliant book Culture and Imperialism.             "}]