[{"Title":"Triumph For Fisher","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great performances by Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine.  They are both hilarious and poignant in this Carrie Fisher story about a show business daughter coming through the process of working out emotional trauma and baggage in relation to her mother, upbringing and subsequent addiction problems.  Also especially good is Gene Hackman in a small supporting role and a cameo by Rob Reiner. Streep and MacLaine carry this film with their talents and are very entertaining as they confront each other and themselves about personal flaws and foibles.  What makes this work so well is the smart and oblique humor that is employed to address the internal pain of the main character. I also liked the little jabs at the movie industry itself as well as its nonchalant way of revealing some of it's visual tricks too.    One particular touching and bittersweet scene is between Hackman (as movie director) as he comforts Streep (an actress he's working with) with a sort of lighthearted understanding and encouragement to overcome her drug addiction as he builds her up with appreciation of her talent.Considering the obvious autobiographical nature of this story for Fisher, it would appear to be sort of a catharsis for her. She does a good job in bringing painful personal issues to light with humor through her writing.  Personal pain and demons often seem to be the source of great art and entertainment as well as amusement for many artists and through their art, for the rest of us as well. This is a case in point and definitely worth the time.      "},{"Title":"Mike who?","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Postcards From The Edge is one of my all-time favorites. It's a truly addictive movie that's always funny and touching no matter how many times I see it. Some of the criticism I've read have always seemed just a tad off base, particularly the ones that say that Streep never seems to get a handle on her character--she just acts kind of comically frazzled. Well I think that's the point, isn't it? Streep as Fisher doesn't know what she wants or who she is, and while trying to discover these things, she must battle her drug dependence, rebuild her career against all odds and hope, in addition to trying to reconcile her relationship with her outlandishly domineering mother, who just happens to be a legendary star with issues of her own. In this scenario, frazzled would seem to be the way to go.In any case, those who have commented positively on the movie have mostly mentioned the great performances (as well as Carrie Fisher's wonderful screenplay), and rightly so since this is one the most smartly acted (and well-written) movies you will ever see. But it seems strange that the outstanding direction of Mike Nichols is rarely mentioned. I remember one Oscar ceremony when a producer whose movie had just won Best Picture, and, indeed, swept all the major awards--except Best Director--said apparently the Academy thinks that the actors directed themselves. It would seem that many of the viewers of Postcards From The Edge think the same thing. In my opinion, Nichols doesn't get enough credit for the seamless way this movie moves or for the crispness of the comic timing. At every turn, he brings out the best in his actors, most especially in the dynamic scenes involving Streep and McLaine. I also love the way he shows, through shifting background effects, how movie illusions are created, which he further uses to illustrate how we often hide our true motivations. (The great example of this is in the scene on the lot with Streep and Dennis Quaid where he was trying to convince her he has always been sincere in his feelings for her--and maybe they should even marry. Then suddenly the background, a house and white picket fence cardboard front, is moved away by a production crew.)This is a wonderfully entertaining movie, brilliantly acted and written and, yes, superbly directed.  "},{"Title":"Mommie Blearest","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Luke Skywalker is not the only member of the Star Wars gang with parent issues. Carrie Fisher, the actress who played Princess Leia, channeled hers into a novel that became another winning Mike Nichols domestic comedy, Postcards From The Edge.Meryl Streep stars as Carrie alter-ego Suzanne Vale, a once-successful actress trying to restart her career after a near-fatal O.D. Her mother, a screen legend in her day named Doris Mann (Shirley MacLaine), happily takes on the responsibility of overseeing Suzanne's recovery, especially given the attendant oversight she gets on daughter's life and career.I really hate that you have to go through this, Doris sighs upon visiting her daughter in the rehab clinic. I wish I could go through this for you. MacLaine gives, frame for frame, the best performance in the film, one of her best ever. She and Streep seem to feed off the best aspects of each other's prior screen work, Streep picking up on MacLaine's sass and comedic chops, MacLaine on the way Streep can give you a sea of sadness through just a flickering gleam in her eyes.Streep's comedy turn is the big surprise here, especially given how successfully she pulls it off. No dingoes running off with babies in this production. Nichols helps by putting her in situations that are very un-Streepish, like being threatened by cheesy Scarface extras or inhaling Fritos. Whatever the props, Meryl herself makes me laugh, something I never expected. Not that she lays back. Her gift for inhabiting others' skin is on fine display, as she gives Suzanne Carrie Fisher's wry intonations and wan half-laugh.You can hear the connection on the DVD commentary; a candid, amusing piece by Fisher in which she explains the background of Postcards, why she considers it emotionally autobiographical in the way it deals with her own past drug issues and especially her relationship with her movie-star mother, Debbie Reynolds. At the same time, it's fictional in many key details.Fisher's clever Hollywood-dream-factory send-up of a script gives MacLaine and Streep plenty of great lines that pop off the screen like cherry bombs. Instant gratification takes too long, Suzanne whines. I know you don't take my dreams seriously, even when I predicted your kidney stones, crows Mom.The film does get rather pat in the second half, especially when both bond by rounding on Suzanne's ancient grandmother (Mary Wickes). Given that Suzanne's the central character, and the one with the drug problem, more effort should have been made on exposing her flaws and weaknesses, rather than making her seem the most normal character in the story. Fisher makes this point herself in her commentary, wishing she was tougher on Suzanne.Postcards is most effective when it focuses on the paradox of how these people perform so well in the limelight and so clumsily outside of it. We're designed more for public than for private, is how Suzanne puts it at one point. Some comments here complain of too many musical numbers, but of course entertaining is what these women live for. Watching Suzanne watch her mother sing I'm Still Here, realizing for an instant that a throwaway line in the song is really a cry of pain over Suzanne's way of life, and finally responding, silently but in a nakedly emotional way, communicates all you need to know about how much these two people love each other, beneath their banter and blame.Such subtle touches allow Streep, MacLaine, and Nichols to keep the longer dialogues crisp and funny. You may have a hard time understanding the lives these people lead, but you will enjoy their company. "},{"Title":"One of the best American screenplay of the last 50 years.","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is easily one of the best American films of the 90s and certainly one of the best screenplays of the last 50 years.Carrie Fisher writes dialogue like nobody else in show business and she outdoes herself with this semi-biopic about her life growing up in the biz with her actress Mom, Debbie Reynolds.The film is loosely based on the novel of the same title by Fisher, and I say loosely, because Nichols asked Fisher to re-write several parts to make them more film-friendly. The book is more about drug addiction and the character of the mother (played brilliantly by Shirley MacLaine) is barely involved.The film focuses (smartly) on the relationship between mother and daughter and Maclaine and Streep have a field day and create some of the most memorable mother-daughter scenes in American cinema history, thanks to the able direction of Mike Nichols. Dennis Quaid is also wonderful as the narcissistic drug addicted man that plays with Streep's character's emotions.This is one of my all time favorite films, it's the only film on my top 10 list made in the last 25 years, and will be remembered for generations to come as the gem that it is. The screenplay is so amazing that about 80% of the dialogue is totally quotable and can be repeated ad nauseum to the delight of its fans (and annoyance of their relatives and significant others).Wonderful cameos from everyone from Mary Wickes, Rob Reiner, Gene Hackman, Annette Benning, Oliver Platt and more...if you can get your hands on the DVD with Carrie Fisher commentary, it's just as hilarious as the film itself. The woman is a genius and it's a crime she wasn't nominated (or won) an Oscar for Best Screenplay for this film. "},{"Title":"Terrific all around","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A really wonderful, funny and sad film with bravura performances by Streep, MacLaine, Quaid and a hilarioius cameo by Annette Benning (they give you and endolphin rush!).  One of Streep's best performances and won of the many Oscars she should have won but was passed over for. This film holds up each time I see it. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep is a comic genius!","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Meryl Streep, cast against type in a comedic role plays Suzanne Vale, an actress struggling with drug addiction and a difficult relationship with her alcholic has-been singer/actress mother played by Shirley McClaine. The film starts with Vale, making a film, high as a kite and making a mess of her scenes, then she overdoses and is put into rehab.Following her rehab stint, she is forced to live with her mother in order to be able to keep her job on a new film. Her mother tells her that she is making all the wrong career moves, stays up all night waiting for to come home from a date and generally otherwise makes her life very difficult. I won't give away anymore of the plot than that. Streep and McClaine are amazing here, and suprisingly, Streep can sing, very well.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Nutty","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Meryl Streep is just about the best actress around and this, I think, is one of my favourite performances by her. (so far). Why? Because she is not playing her usual self -- she is a total nut case in this film --- neurotic and downright hilarious. Much like 2002's Adaption she is playing against her normal dramatic type and is a wonderful comedienne -- a role she should play more often --- actresses usually playing actresses usually are not memorable --- this is a keeper role --- and what a voice. (had she not been an actress, she could give most singers these days a run for their money!) Do rent it and laugh --- it is worth the trip to the video store! "},{"Title":"Autumn Sonata Hollywood Style","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Debiee Reynolds/Carrie Fisher or MacLaine/Streep? It doesn't really matter. A comedy that swims around a theme without ever getting anywhere. To see Streep and MacLaine together is enough to make this a collector's item. The cheerful side of the Ingrid Bergman/Liv Ullman grim Ingman Bergman Autumn Sonata I know that Carrie Fisher with her American wit was telling us something, something personal but did it have to be so shallow? There is nothing about this characters with a hint of depth. Drugs and alcohol part of a culture in permanent denial. Maybe that's what it is. We're witnessing the replicas of what used to be human beings. The hurt is so flimsy. He may have told a million women that they smelled like Catalina, so what? Didn't she notice the phoniness in Dennis Quaid's smirk? I had to rush and see Plenty and stare into Meryl Streep's face to be reminded of her greatness. Not that she's bad here, not at all, she's wonderful, it's the character that made me recoil in horror. Okay, enough of that. the combination of MacLaine and Streep is terrific and the film will keep you entertained even if, like in my case, will leave you with a toxic aftertaste. "},{"Title":"This movie TWIRLED UP!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very addictive movie.  It got me hooked on its genuine and rich characters, sassy and intelligent dialogue that made fun of a serious subject.  The performances were spectacular, not only by Streep and Maclaine, but also by the veteran Mary Wickes, Dennis Quaid and Robin Bartlett as Aretha (my parents expected me to be black).  All of the cameos were enjoyable and added SO much to this fabulous film.  It's refreshing to see Streep do something where you don't need to buy out a store's tissue supply to get through the movie.  And Maclaine shines as this disturbed yet determined matriarch.  I like almost everything about this film.  Especially the singing at the end, and Maclaine's rendition of I'm Still HereGreat Movie! "},{"Title":"Nothing heavy here, but such virtuosic lightweight brilliance!","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Postcards from the Edge (1990)Mike Nichols is as close to a William Wyler as the New Hollywood (post-1967) gives us. His movies are both impeccable and emotionally taut. They feature the very best production values and impressive acting. And they take chances carefully, which isn't actually an oxymoron. Nichols knows he's pushing boundaries, but within the established forms. Even this movie, with its insider look at Hollywood, feels ingenious in a safe way, with echoes of The Bad and the Beautiful but with everyone toned down to a perfect realism.One of the tricks of this movie, which is a little over the top in so many small ways (again, careful restraint all around), is keeping the acting believable. And foremost is Meryl Streep, lovable and sympathetic but not quite admirable or otherworldly the way older generation actresses so often get portrayed. Streep as a drug-troubled actress is a wonder, and right behind, with deliberate hamminess, is the woman playing her mother, Shirley MacLaine. Add Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss in smaller roles, a cameo by Rob Reiner, and a pretty boy role for Dennis Quaid, and you can see there is something cooking here. So why isn't this a great movie? It has the trimmings of greatness, even beyond the acting. Story by Carrie Fisher, music written by Carly Simon (and performed by the cast). Photography by German import Michael Ballhaus (who by the 1990s was also working for Coppola and Scorcese). Well, some might say it really is great. Even though it is lightweight, even airy as a farce, and even though it leaves you only slightly glad, or happy, at the end rather than transformed, you could argue that Nichols intended something with this flavor, and achieved it. Could be. But for a simple example, take his second movie, The Graduate, and notice the same tone, humor and irony laced with important topical and emotional strains. How different the effect there, and maybe for a couple of reasons. One, I think, is the subject matter here is the famously glib, plastic, unsympathetic world of overly rich, tabloid saturated Hollywood itself. Another is the inherent plot. What happens? A woman overcomes her addiction to star in another movie, and she seems to move a little forward in her relationship with her mother. Enough? Maybe not.But knowing it's not trying to change the world, you might appreciate the illusory nature of the medium, exposed for us in a whole bunch of different ways (moving props, back projection, doubles used for blocking and framing, lights and camera in action, screening rooms and overdubbing, and so on. This is the stuff behind the drama enacted by Streep and MacLaine and the rest. It's worth watching in its own right.And Nichols and Ballhaus have filmed this to glossy perfection, layering and moving and keeping the long takes going as long as possible (with an apology by Hackman, as a movie director, to Streep, the actress playing the actress, for using such long takes all the time). It's almost as if Nichols is making fun of himself, and the excesses that cause the cast and crew to go a little crazy.Brilliant and entertaining? Completely. Probing or socially satirical in any way? No, not even into Hollywood, which is safely behind all these layers. Still, a film not to miss. "}{"Title":"Bitingly accurate","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Postcards From the Edge is a very funny movie, based on the biting novel by Carrie Fisher, about the pressures of being the child of a show business star.Director Mike Nichols is in top form as is Meryl Streep and an amazing supporting cast that includes Shirley McClaine, Gene Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss and Dennis Quaid.The movie is really quite short, and, to be honest, not a lot actually happens. In spite of this, it is thoroughly entertaining and a mighty good laugh. Owes a lot to the insightful, honest writing from Fisher's novel of the same name which was followed by two thematic sequels.Friday, March 1, 1991 - Forest Hill Chase "},{"Title":"Another great film by Meryl Streep","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I finally saw this film last night, and I really enjoyed it.  It was funny, and I could relate to the characters. Lots of great cameos too from Richard Dreyfuss, Annette Benning, Oliver Platt, and Rob Reiner.  The director Mike Nichols(Silkwood, Working Girl) is also great. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes Meryl Streep, or movies with a lot of well-known actors in it. "},{"Title":"Dependable effort from Mike Nichols","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Mike Nichols consistently makes films that stand the test of time. It's more a fact than an arguable point with a resume that includes The Graduate, Silkwood, and Primary Colors. Many of his films could conceivably become quite dated, but they always have such wonderful performances that it becomes easy to overlook bad choices. His 1990 feature comedy-drama Postcards from the Edge has been a little bruised by time, but it's still a formidable effort in many ways. Based on Carrie Fisher's semi-autobiographical memoir of the same name, it follows an actress (Meryl Streep) as she copes with drug addiction, her troubled career, an unstable relationship with her mother (Shirley MacLaine), and the requisite love interest (Dennis Quaid). The interplay between Streep and MacLaine feels like an advanced seminar in performance. Overall, it's an intelligently conceived and leisurely told story about the roller-coaster ride of life, career, and family. Although it has the tendency to meander, it's full of star cameos, one-liners, and a young Annette Bening even drops in for a scene with Ms. Streep. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"The Pressures of Hollywood Names and Talent","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE is based on the novel by Carrie Fisher which has certain traces from her own family background with her mother (Debbie Reynolds) and her father (Eddie Fisher). Ms Fisher has had a good career in movies, best for the original Star Wars Trilogy (as Princess Leia), but in other films, such as Meg Ryan's friend in WHEN HARRY MET SALLY. However, she has had many problems, including (presumably) the issue of a mother who knows the business and cannot avoid meddling into her life, and a drug problem. These have been somewhat settled in recent years, and her career is back on track. But the film shows the point when the problems became life threatening when she almost overdosed and had a downturn in her film career.Mike Nichols' directing is pretty good here, and enhances the performances of Meryl Streep (in the Fisher role), Shirley MacLaine (as the Debby Reynolds clone), Dennis Quaid (as the false lover), and (in cameos) Gene Hackman as Streep's director, Richard Dreyfus as the physician who pumps her stomach and subsequently tries to date her, and Annette Benning as an unexpected rival for Quaid. Mary Wickes appears as Streep's grandmother (as critical of MacLaine as the latter is of Streep), and does a good job as a lively old scold. Her husband, Conrad Bain (he was Bea Arthur's neighbor,Arthur, on MAUDE) is equally good as an elderly grandfather who may or may not be senile.The film even gives both it's female stars a chance to demonstrate their musical talents MacLaine in singing I'M STILL HERE at a party she is throwing for Streep, and Streep singing a country tune (as part of a film she is filming) at the conclusion of the movie. "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM OF THE NINETIES","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watch this movie an average of three times a week.  It's not often that small films dealing in relationships gets such big praise, but I honestly think it's close to perfect.  It's the combination of the wonderful, flawed, real relationship shown between the lead characters and the joy of seeing two thoroughbred kick-ass actresses just letting it rip.  God, the scene between the two of them in the manager's office and the scene at the stairs...they're just perfect.  The two of them have the ability to constantly command with their presence but not take from the other. Meryl's only weakness as an actress (at least in my eyes) has been that she's not strong as an ensemble player.  In films like Silkwood or Death Becomes Her, something seems lacking.  I think it's because it's too difficult for another actor to register any motivation when Meryl's around.  Who cares what Kurt Russell wants when Meryl Streep has things to do?  Here though, it's FABULOUS.  They do everything they want and focus always seems balanced.  I could honestly go on forever.  And ever.  I love this movie so much. Don't say that Suzanne.  Even in jest.  You just got out of a drug clinic.  People might take it the wrong way. "},{"Title":"Lots of style and canny one-liners, but too often the director is just winging it...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Screenwriter Carrie Fisher adapted her own book--about an actress in drug rehab--into this film about a drug-addicted actress and her alcoholic movie star mama, and the two barely resemble each other. No matter, because director Mike Nichols stages the behind-the-scenes/show-biz material very well (he's visually clever, with a humorous wink to the audience). However, it's momentarily disappointing that the film is so lightweight and doesn't strive to be more substantial, or that Meryl Streep hasn't really zeroed in on her character (she spends much of her time being comically frazzled). Streep's scenes with mother Shirley MacLaine are colorful and well-written, but her interludes with smug lover Dennis Quaid are embarrassing, with both stars spitting out silly lines of dialogue--and Nichols and his editor just letting them ramble. A plot-thread about Streep's shady business manager is brought up only to be forgotten about (we meet the man in question early in the film and he appears to be a forthright person of integrity), while the finale is a musical dead-end (is it supposed to be part of a movie or a music video?). Streep does an amiable Wynnona Judd impersonation here--and even resembles her!--but the picture is thin (it is exceptional, perhaps, only in its thinness). Gene Hackman as a director has a forceful moment at the beginning before he's turned into an understanding daddy, while Richard Dreyfuss plays a doctor who pumps Streep's stomach and sends her flowers the next day. Fisher and Nichols stay soft; they never get offensive or edgy--and maybe that's part of the problem. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Streep and MacLaine shine in witty script","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Meryl Streep stars as Carrie Fisher, which is a bit of a stretch-for Carrie Fisher, that is. Carrie Fisher never did anything for me, although I did see Star Wars. The younger generation, I understand, found her quite fetching. The TV show Friends had Rachel dressing up like her as Princess Laya to excite Zimmer... So I suppose if I had concentrated on her, I would have gotten a bit of a yen because she does have agreeable features. But her main quality, it now appears, is her ability to write dialogue (she wrote the screen play as well as the book). The dialogue made the book and is the heart and soul of the movie.I guess a few words about Meryl Streep are in order since she is one of the great actresses of our age. I always thought of her as flawless, but she's more than that. She just demands the camera, and she has the talent. In the finale she sings a country and western song (music by Carly Simon, by the way) and she can warble. But she is almost absurd in the police uni she runs around in (playing a part in a movie within a movie). She doesn't quite achieve a comedic effect and just avoids the ridiculous; however when the camera gets on her face, we believe her, as we always believe Meryl Streep.Streep has always made it on talent. She had to. Her eyes are not really good. And her nose is too thin. She has no figure. But her mouth is nice, and when she flashes her smile, it lights up the place. And she never lets go of the illusion. Particularly telling was the opening scene, nicely directed by Mike Nichols. I saw the PV cliffs and the shots of the ocean below and waited for the SoCal scene to unfold, only it was Mexico, and I thought Gee, this looks like a cheap MOW set, and I continued to be fooled as Meryl is hauled from customs by the customs officer and slapped. It is only when they go to cut! and the movie within the movie is exposed that I realized why the set looked cheap. (Because it was supposed to!) Meryl sold the scene within the scene, and irony, she was supposed to be doing a terrible job because of her drug dependency. Somehow a scene with Meryl Streep in it never drags. Maybe she guides the direction and the editing. Thinking back (this is the first movie I've seen her in in years) to Sophie's Choice, for example, (1982 best actress Oscar and other honors) she hasn't changed much except that she's a little more relaxed, and while her concentration is still total, there is a touch less urgency in her performance. I've heard people complain about her mannerisms, that head to the side so that the corner of the mouth goes up, a little defensive smile, and then the flash of eyes, comes to mind, and some others, but compared with say, Dustin Hoffman or (horrors) John Wayne, she's as pure as Olivier.Shirley MacLaine is, if anything, even better here as Carrie Fisher's mother, one part alcoholic, one part stage mom, and one part frustrated actress jealous of her daughter's youth and talent, all parts overbearing. I recall Shirley MacLaine as a young woman of course. I can see her in Can- Can (1960) showing off those gorgeous legs (she shows her legs here too, but I cringed). She was pretty, healthy and busting her bodice as a young actress, and I liked her, but she was never more than a popular actress. Then came many years later, Terms of Endearment (1983).Shirley MacLaine is the classic example of the actress who really learned how to act as she got older, not like Betty Davis, who was an accomplished actress from the get go and got better as she aged. Shirley MacLaine (Warren Beatty's sister, one recalls) was just another pretty face with some talent. She got an academy award nomination for The Apartment (1960), but it was undeserved. I liked the hospital scene here at the end, mother and daughter renewing their bonds, Shirley without her wig, and no make-up. Ah, now that's a serious actress who will just let herself look terrible for the camera!Some great lines endolphin rush. (Streep corrects with, You mean endorphin rush.) You smell like Catalina. (Makes me think of the song lyric I smell sex and candy.) I get to be hyper-conscious to the series of humiliations. (Carrie's life now without the deadening effect of drugs.) Streep's timing on the ..And you weren't wearing any panties line was great (talking about the embarrassment of her mother showing her legs drunk at a party in the past).(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"The Lighter Side of Substance Abuse","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have a good buddy, who some 20 years ago got tired of getting drunk, stoned and hung-over and began going to AA. Evidently during the meetings the participants open up and mention some of the calamities that occurred to them while abusing alcohol and drugs. (They do seem to go together!) He noticed that there were a few rather attractive women, who were also quite revealing in their tales of drinking, drugs and sexual debauchery that occurred while under the influence. He also realized that they also, like him, needed some kind of emotional outlet and while they could no longer drink or do drugs, recreational sex was still a way to have fun. So ,he began asking a lot of them out for coffee&#x85;Which brings us to 2 things that Postcards From the Edge show us1-Even a very serious subject, such as substance abuse, can have a lot of humor.B-Most men are pigs.As far as the latter, actress Suzanne Vale (Meryl Streep) discovers her Prince Charming, Jack Faulkner (Dennis Quaid) who is really an expert at getting laid. It's easier when they are drunk and coked up, but Jack is capable of delivering the romantic manipulation needed to seduce Suzanne when she is also stone cold sober. Although she finds out from another actress (Annette Benning, in a great cameo) that not only had Jack had sex with her in the afternoon before their date that evening, but he used some of the very same lines. Fortunately, she finds out before she's invested too much emotional baggage in the relationship.As far her substance abuse, the way that Mike Nichols avoids the heavy handed treatment of drugs makes this an entertaining film. There is virtually no background on Streep's character. We get introduced to her on a movie set, where between takes she goes to her trailer to snort up. After ending in an ER from an overdose, she has to go to a detox before getting released in her mother's care. Mom is Doris Mann (Shirley Maclaine) who was a big star in her day, but now in her 50's the roles are few and far between. Doris is a functioning alcoholic .And while none of this really seems too funny, there are some hilarious lines in a smart and well written script. Shirley is playing a character quite similar to Aurora in Terms of Endearment. She loves her daughter but is envious of her youth and while she realizes she can't get it back, she can't help but try to control every aspect of her life, whether it her professional or social life. She has a huge party to celebrate Suzanne's release from detox and ups wowing the crowd with a musical number. Although she had Suzanne open for her first with a song. There's not a whole lot that happens in this movie. For us who are neophytes to the workings on a film set it's fascinating to watch what goes on in production as we watch Suzanne the actress at work. This is a movie that moves at a fast clip, it's only 101 minutes and while some may feel that there could have been more background about Suzanne and Doris, Nichols really waits the end to tell us why Suzanne ended up in rehab. Incredible performances by Streep and Maclaine. Shirley also shows off a great pair of legs, even at age 56. Quaid does as great job as a sleazeball, while Gene Hackman as always is good as a tough, but caring director. Richard Dreyfuss and Carl Reiner have cameos and the great character actress Mary Wickes has a hilarious bit as Suzanne's grandmother.BTW, my friend is still clean and sober after 20 years. "},{"Title":"Bravo MacLaine and Streep","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shirley MacLaine is only 12 years older than Meryl Streep but played Streep's Movie Star mother -to a fare thee well. Closely resembling the real life story of Debbie Reynolds and her daughter Carrie Fisher this film has lot of inside baseball about Reynolds and Fisher. Ms. Streep is as always brilliant as the tormented Carrie and Ms. MacLaine is superb as Debbie. Liked Gary Morton as the agent. Gene Hackman, Dennis Quaid, Richard Dreyfuss, and Annette Bening give fine support to the Stars. Mary Wickes is priceless as Shirley's Mother much resembling the real Mom of Debbie Reynolds if you read Debbie's book.Mike Nichols deserves credit for brining this story to the screen and even has a great windup with Streep singing over the credits. Is there anything Ms.Streep cannot do?Shirley MacLaine belts out Sondheim's great song of survival I'm Still Here and no doubt Shirley MacLaine is still here with over 50 years a Great star working with great Directors such as Wilder, Hitchcock, Wyler, and co star with Eastwood, Lemmon, Sinatra, Bancroft, Newman, Hepburn, Garner, etc, etc. etc. "},{"Title":"Never seems to know where it is going or what it is supposed to be saying","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Postcards from the Edge represents one of Hollywood's occasional attempts to turn its cameras on itself by making a film about films and film-making. The central character is Suzanne Vale, a drug-addicted actress who is the daughter of Doris Mann, a leading cinema actress of the 1950s and 1960s. It is based on a novel by Carrie Fisher, an actress who at one time suffered from drug addiction and is the daughter of Debbie Reynolds, a leading cinema actress of the 1950s and 1960s. Despite these similarities, Fisher has denied that her novel was autobiographical. (Some, including Minnelli herself, have also seen parallels with Liza Minnelli and Judy Garland).The main theme of the film is the relationship between mother and daughter. Suzanne's drug habits have been affecting her career and even after treatment in a rehab centre she is warned that the studio's insurance policy will cover her only if she lives with a responsible individual, such as her mother. Suzanne, however, finds it difficult to live with Doris, who is about as irresponsible an individual as they come, and has her own substance dependence problems, in her case with alcohol. Doris is loud, selfish and manipulative, never missing a chance to interfere in Suzanne's life. There is also a sub-plot about Suzanne's relationship with movie producer Jack Faulkner, who professes passionate love for her on their first date, which she believes until she discovers that he is also sleeping with one of her co-stars in her latest picture.I watched this film largely because it stars Meryl Streep, one of my favourite actresses, and she is the best thing about it, even if I would not rate her performance quite as highly as the one she gave in Silkwood, her earlier collaboration with Mike Nichols. (I have never seen Heartburn, another film on which they worked together). Meryl even manages to do something which I would have thought beyond the capabilities of a first-rate actress- to give a convincing impersonation of a second-rate one. It is clear from the scenes where she is shooting her movie that Suzanne Vale is not meant to be an actress in the Meryl Streep class. Streep even gets to sing, and shows us that at one time she had a far better voice than the one she displayed in last year's awful Mamma Mia!. I wondered what has happened to it over the last couple of decades.I also liked Shirley MacLaine as Doris, which is strange as I disliked her in Terms of Endearment, another film in which she played a domineering mother who interferes in her daughter's life. I think that the difference is that her performance as Aurora in Terms of Endearment was such an over-the-top caricature that it seemed quite out of place in that lugubrious tearjerker. Her performance in Postcards from the Edge is no less a caricature, but then the film is less serious and lighter in spirit than Terms of Endearment, and Doris is written as the sort of larger-than-life character who is such a drama queen, offstage as well as on, that her whole life almost becomes a deliberate self-caricature. It is the two women who are at the centre of the film, but there are also cameos from three major male stars, Dennis Quaid as Jack, Gene Hackman as a film director and Richard Dreyfuss as Suzanne's doctor, who also seems to be romantically interested in her.What I didn't like about the film was that it was, at times, too static and that it never finished what it seemed to be starting. It starts off as what seems to be a serious film about drug addiction, but this theme is never really developed. It then turns into a satire on the ways of Hollywood, but this theme is not developed either, and the film then becomes a study of a mother-daughter relationship, without approaching that subject too seriously. It has been described as a comedy, although I am not sure that is the right description if by comedy is meant a film primarily intended to make people laugh. (I doubt if many of the lines in Postcards from the Edge would have had audiences rolling in the aisles). It is a film notable for two good acting performances, but it never seems to know where it is going or what it is supposed to be saying. 6/10 "}{"Title":"A Caustically Funny Tale of A Life In Holly-WEIRD!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this film, the main impressions I walked away with were a) there is virtually NOTHING in the world that Meryl Streep can't do, (including SING! Who knew?), b) that Shirley MacLaine will be ninety years old and still be able to act most of today's stars right off the screen, and c) that Mike Nichols, the great director of such contemporary classics as THE GRADUATE and CARNAL KNOWLEDGE was not content to just sit around and rest on his laurels, and thank God for THAT! Based on the witty, acid-tinged semi-biographical novel by Tinseltown princess Carrie Fisher, POSTCARDS casts Streep as an actress with an addictive personality struggling to come to terms with her drug problem and her flagging career and MacLaine as her fabulous celeb mom who is considered olde Hollywood royalty who has a steamer trunk's worth of her own psychological (and alcohol-related) baggage.With a terrific script by Fisher from her own book, all Nichols literally has to do is point the cameras in the right direction and let them do what they do best. And what they do is the kind of magic you can only get from actors who love their roles, and love the fact that they have carte blanche to play with them as they will.Not to mention that the laughs here are always honestly earned, never pandering to the audience to try and coax out easy guffaws. And with two leads doing such fantastic work, the result can only be a contagion that spreads like wildfire through an able-bodied supporting cast, who are equal to the challenge of matching performances with these two screen legends.And what a treasure trove of talents we have here Dennis Quaid, as a charming cad (does he play any other kind?) who represents yet another not-quite-healthy addiction that Streep's Suzanne has in her life, plus wonderful turns by Simon Callow, Annette Bening, Anthony Heald, Gene Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss, Robin Bartlett, Michael Ontkean, Mary Wickes, Conrad Bain and CCH Pounder! If for no other reason, watch this outstanding dramedy for what was my own personal world premiere hearing Meryl work out her pipes on You Don't Know Me and Heartbreak Hotel--not the Elvis version, but one that will linger in your memory, and bring a smile to your face upon recall as much as the rest of the film will.Oh, and just go ahead and buy the sucker. Repeat viewings will be imminent, if not highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Check out Streep singin'  I'm Checkin' Out","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Something sweet and subtle in this clever movie draws my attention Postcards from the Edge; Meryl Streep, Shirley MacLaine, Dennis Quaid; directed by Mike Nichols. Carrie Fisher is a talented author (this may be her best work) and Dennis Quaid is not to be missed as the handsome, most irresistible cad since Butch Cassidy. The material is fresh and original, and the actors seem to be enjoying themselves. Nichols' wonderful direction ensures that we are in on all the jokes. It is perfectly cast, the script is great, and there's not much I would change. Fisher's razor-sharp pen, Streep's comic timing, and MacLaine's most monstrous mother since Mommie Dearest equal one fine film.In fact, this movie is a blast, and Postcards from the Edge revels in irreverence without offending. Any social tic or sensitivity you might imagine is cheerfully lampooned, even if it hits some of us a little bit close to home. There is more than meets the eye in this insightful film. Certain poignant scenes, frighteningly familiar yet funny, may cause ancient and scary memories to stir. Horrors long forgotten and other hairy situations that left you bewildered and completely undone in your youth will be reduced to mere blips. You'll laugh a little when you see your life, or parts of it, accurately portrayed on screen and you'll wonder how in the world they got their hands on your shrink's secret files. Remembering the real but ultimately insignificant trials endured long ago will make you realize how happy you are, and how well everything turned out after all. MacLaine infuses her character with outlandish and sexually-aggressive behavior -- a shrew who overtly and shamelessly flirts with boys half her age, covertly undermining her daughter's sanity. Nichols cuts close to the bone as his characters deliver delightfully devastating dialog the likes of which could only come from someone who's actually seen combat. Such as this scene between mother and daughter on the staircase Suzanne's mom (top of the stairs; one hand gripping the railing for balance, the other brandishing a half-gone highball; voice shrill) Why do you always insist I'm competing with you? All I've ever wanted was your happiness!.Suzanne (weary and newly-sober; slouched along the bottom stairs, back against the wall; clothes rumpled, hair mussed; codeine craving unquenched for days) Mom, I wouldn't dream of competing with you. What if somebody won?In one of the early party scenes Suzanne sings the Ray Charles' song You Don't Know Me to piano accompaniment. I see it coming, I hit 'mute'. I could never understand why a major star would allow herself to be so badly exposed.At the very end of this film Suzanne sings I'm Checkin' Out, and I am captivated. Where did little Meryl Streep find that fabulous chest voice? She belts out a bluesy ballad that originates from somewhere deep and resonant. And when she moves that big sound of hers, leans back a little, and lays it on the line with a perfectly-timed, artfully executed, spot-on yodel to bring the piece home...it makes me smile. Every time. It is Streep's rendition of that song I want to hear, nobody else's. This young, troubled female has finally found her footing, and her once wispy warbling is now replaced by a bursting confidence and a sound so pure and beautiful that people will pay good money to hear her sing.When juxtaposed to her earlier half-hearted, off-key attempt with the Charles tune the audience knows everything's going to be OK. Even though her mother was right, she really can sing, as well as act. Being able to accomplish something beautiful and worthwhile just because she is finally convinced that it is completely possible and well within her grasp, and that it will be a piece of cake, is what Suzanne finally discovers about herself. By the end of the film we need no longer worry that drugs, domineering relatives, double-talking boyfriends or other dilemmas will drag Suzanne down or defeat her. Take down my suitcase and hand me my hat, 'cause I'm going' from sleazy to swell; Open up that door, I'm leavin' and I won't be back no more; I'm checkin' out of this heartbreak hotel.Maureen Adele Compton "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of all time.  Meryl Streep can be drop-dead  hilarious.  Watching this and any of her dramatic films in quick succession  should convince anyone that she is the greatest living actress today.   Carrie Fisher's writing is hysterically funny.  The screenplay is even  better than the novel on which it's based.  Don't let the fact that this  film is about drug abuse and recovery steer you away.  Anything can be  treated with humor, as this film proves.  Very, very funny. "},{"Title":"Streep's Comeback Film!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Postcards from the Edge (1990) Based on Carrie Fisher's semi-autobiographical novel, Streep plays a down and out actress on the comeback trail. Shirley MacLaine as her mom, is in the Debbie Reynolds-like Hollywood legend role. In a sense, the film was a bit of a mini-comeback for Streep who had not enjoyed the string of hits she was used to in the late '70s and early '80s. And although not great, it is enjoyable with MacLaine almost stealing the show out from under Streep's all too capable hands. Meryl does a bit of singing in the film, and while she gives a good performance, it wasn't the wisest of choices to sing for the first time in film when the legendary Shirley MacLaine also performs a wonderful singing number in the same picture. Comparisons are inevitable. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Hilarious","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Carrie Fisher's Postcards From The Edge is brilliantly hilarious. The screenplay is wonderful, I think she should have been nominated for an Academy Award. Meryl Streep, Dennis Quaid, and Shirley MacLaine turn in amazing performances. Streep's Academy Award nominated performance is particularly great as a substance-addicted B-movie actress who must move in with her mother, whom she's not particularly fond of. I can't believe Streep lost the Academy Award for Best Actress in 1990 to Kathy Bates in Misery, especially since Misery is a terrible film. I think one line in particular is especially hilarious. JACK I don't like this particular side of you. SUZANNE I'm not a box! I don't have sides! This is it, one side fits all! Might I suggest that you check the IMDb's Memorable Quotes section for more. I recommend this film for anyone and everyone. And the book's not bad either. "},{"Title":"some great scenes","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Drug-addicted Hollywood star Suzanne Vale (Meryl Streep) is working for director Lowell Korshack (Gene Hackman). She showed promise early but her career has spiraled down. Former classmate Jack Faulkner (Dennis Quaid) brings her to the ER after she OD'ed. Dr. Frankenthal (Richard Dreyfuss) pumps her stomach. Aretha (Robin Bartlett) is her roommate in rehab. Doris Mann (Shirley MacLaine) is her stage mom and a hard-drinking Hollywood legend. The insurance company for her movie demands that she stays with her mother.This is written by Carrie Fisher as a thinly veiled biography of her life with her mother Debbie Reynolds. There are great memorable moments like Suzanne overhearing the crew ridiculing her. The plot meanders too much and lacks a direction. There are terrific bits of scenes but the whole doesn't build to something better. "},{"Title":"They're both still here!","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A quarter of a century has passed since the teaming of two major divas of the past fifty years of cinema Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine, playing fictional characters loosely based on Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds. Streep is a B movie actress struggling with various emotional issues which has lead her to become addicted to not only prescription medication, but illegal drugs such as cocaine as well. She's rushed to emergency after a bad day on the set where somehow she ended up in the bed of a stranger, took an overdose of pills, and he literally carries her out, straps her into his jeep and gets her to the emergency room, dropping her off as if he was returning a library book. She must then deal with getting her stomach pumped, going through withdrawal, and then finally going to rehab. And guess what, ladies and gentlemen. This is a comedy, all told through allegedly real life incidents by author Carrie Fisher, once Princess Leia, now a sardonic commentator on her own life and not even quite the B actress that Streep plays here.Just as Streep deals with being introduced to her rehab group, she gets a visit from her overly made-up but still glamorous movie star mother (Shirley MacLaine), a legend of the golden age who is indeed still here. My mother drew up the contracts, so I'm here!, she sings in an altered version of Stephen Sondheim's brilliant I'm Still Here from Follies. Mom Shirley gave daughter Meryl sleeping pills as a kid, which Streep blames MacLaine for causing her drug addiction. Is it wishful thinking or wishful drinking on Streep's part, Wishful Drinking being the name of the very funny book which Carrie Fisher later did on Broadway and had filmed for cable T.V. as more comical observations about her life. Toss into the mix grandma Mary Wickes as MacLaine's own monster of a mother, lovable maybe to those who know her socially, but definitely somebody you'd think twice about as wanting for your mama. Conrad Bain (Maude, Different Strokes) simply retorts to Wickes' constant chattering with Yap Yap Yap, That's all you do all the live long day. Their delightful two scene cameo is an enjoyable commentary on the issues of different generations. Just like Jennifer Lopez had to tolerate a nasty mother-in-law to be (Jane Fonda) in Monster in Law, Fonda had to tolerate a former nasty mother-in-law (Elaine Stritch) who got revenge on her daughter in law by simply adoring Lopez from the moment she met her. Unlike Monster in Law, however, Postcards From the Edge utilizes the issues of two daughters dealing with mother issues in a realistic and understanding way, rather than adding hate into the plot line simply for uncomfortable laughs.While some of the script seems to focus on the blame game, it is more about two women who are trying the best they can to understand the other, move on from bitter memories, and get past issues that have taken their life out of control. MacLaine's character has a bit of a drinking problem, gets into a car accident and like Streep, ends up in the hospital, minus wig and make-up, and looking like Elsa Lanchaster in The Bride of Frankenstein after being caught in a thunderstorm. The two actresses let it all bare out here, unafraid to go into places most actresses might be scared to go, especially of MacLaine's era. Streep's attempts to even get through the simplest of movie shoots proves futile, with director Gene Hackman laying into her with all the crassness that Hollywood has to offer. Cameos by Rob Reiner, Richard Dreyfeuss and Annette Benning add to the realistic issues of Streep's tumbling life, with Dennis Quaid giving a very good performance as the actor who seduces the unknowing Streep, pretends to be an old high school friend when she doesn't recognize him, and ultimately a heel after Streep finds out that he had also been sleeping with Benning. Streep deservedly got an Oscar Nomination, but in one of the worst examples of Academy Award criminology, MacLaine was overlooked, that being the biggest shocker of the year. Fisher, too, should have been honored for her screenplay, as should have been Mike Nichols for one of the best directing jobs he had done since Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. Streep gets to show off her excellent singing voice here, performing two songs (including one triumphant declaration of independence in the finale) while MacLaine bangs the heck out of I'm Still Here (in D-Flat) as she explores her own regrets. It's ironic that a decade later, MacLaine would work again with Carrie Fisher and the real deal of who she plays here (Debbie Reynolds) in the amusing but mediocre T.V. movie These Old Broads. In both films, Fisher explores the adoration that these old broads receive from the gay community, as evidenced by an encounter that MacLaine has with a rehab patient who happens to do one of MacLaine's old movie characters (obviously based upon Reynolds' Oscar nominated Molly Brown) in drag. In typical comically bitter fashion, MacLaine gets in a bitchy line (You know how the queens love me, she tells Streep) while the gay man tells his lover how obvious MacLaine's plastic surgery is, although in a very affectionate but knowing manner. This film isn't perfect, and might strike some as a bitter attack on Hollywood's treatment to aging divas or has-beens, but if we got that with Sunset Bouevard, why couldn't it be done 40 years after Norma Desmond got ready for her close-up? "},{"Title":"A Witty Mother/Daughter Account","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Meryl Streep can be the villain, the hero, the sister, the daughter, the mother, the spirit, the icon. In Postcards from the Edge, however, she is a flat out mess. Streep portrays Suzanne Vale, a successful actress who is about to hit the post-I Know Who Killed Me Lindsay Lohan stage of her career. She relies on cocaine just to get through the day. She partakes in casual affairs she doesn't remember the next day. She is like a robot, barely able to function in her daily job. She doesn't want to hurt anybody, but her habits are about to.Suzanne is finally given a wake-up call when she accidentally overdoses on a deadly mix of narcotics. After getting her stomach pumped, she ends up in rehab, struggling to piece her life back together. But her shaky mind begins to rattle even more when her mother, Doris Mann (Shirley MacLaine), arrives on the scene. Doris is not just Suzanne's mother; she is a celebrated legend, a symbol of the '50s/'60s era of Hollywood musicals.Doris means well, but she's possibly too self-centered for her own good. When she throws Suzanne a welcome-home party, she opens the front door, mugs for the varying cameras, and, with dramatic emphasis, declares, My baby is home! When the party is hitting its last legs, she pressures Suzanne to sing in front of everybody. Yet, the second her daughter finishes, she pulls one of those don't-make-me-sing (wink!) acts and one- ups her without even realizing that it may be just a little bitchy.The rehab clinic advises that Suzanne live with Doris in order to have someone constantly watching her, but that probably isn't a good idea. Whether she'd like to admit it or not, Doris is an addict herself, popping champagne in the early hours of the morning or mixing in an absurd amount of vodka into her fruit smoothies. Within the important first months of Suzanne's recovery, the mother/daughter dynamic is challenged after years of repressed emotions and unexpressed opinions.Postcards from the Edge originally began as an autobiographical novel by Princess Leia herself, the self-deprecating Carrie Fisher. As a film (which was also penned by Fisher), it contains a darkly funny sting. Deeply rooted in time-to-get-my-life-together reality and over-the-top, Norma Desmond-like expression, it's a comedy that is solidly entertaining but also bitterly true. One can only wonder how much of the film is lifted directly from the lives of Fisher and her famous mother, the inimitable Debbie Reynolds.Mike Nichols has made movies that range from profoundly moving to breezily humorous, and Postcards from the Edge lands somewhere in the middle. It isn't as vigorously thought-provoking as many of his other undertakings, but it captures the mindset that, no matter how terrible life is, you can always find the laughter in it. Surely, Doris' diva attitude is sickening to the long-suffering Suzanne, but we see the events through Nichols' eyes. We're laughing, uncomfortably of course, but there's also unrelenting sympathy for both Suzanne and Doris. Suzanne has never lived a day without stooping under Doris' grand shadow, and Doris has never been able to meet the expectations of her ever-grumbling mother (Mary Wickes). Nichols films these women through a comedic lens, but there's an underlying anguish that he captures with enrichment.If Postcards from the Edge is more scathing than it is meaningful, we have Streep, MacLaine, and Fisher to thank for all of its successes. Streep and MacLaine immerse themselves in their roles, understanding the women they're playing with unforced ease, while Fisher's screenplay contains absolutely scintillating dialogue. It isn't without its faults, but Postcards from the Edge rarely misses the mark.Read more at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"Joyous Tandem","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although the natural assumption is that when Carrie Fisher wrote her novel Postcards From The Edge she took her own story and that of her mother Debbie Reynolds. I'm sure a great deal of that story got into Fisher's work, but God only knows as a Hollywood kid she had plenty of other examples and role models to choose from. For myself I saw a bit of Joan and Christina Crawford there as well.One of Meryl Streep's numerous Oscar nominations is for Postcards From The Edge and she's a working actress and performer freshly out of a drug rehab and she returns to the house of her mother Shirley MacLaine who is a former film queen whose day is passed, but still takes on the airs of a star. Once a star always a star.These two have generational and personal issues. They can see each other's faults quite clearly, but can't see themselves. That's a bad combination, it leads to a lot of heartache with men and with substances.MacLaine and Streep play beautifully off each other, it's unfortunate that Streep got the Best Actress nomination and MacLaine received none. These are professionals working in joyous tandem.A lot of colleagues like Gene Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss and others worked in small parts probably because they wanted to be associated with this project for one reason or another. My favorite was Mary Wickes playing MacLaine's small town hick mother. In just one hospital scene Wickes may have given her best performance since the put upon nurse in The Man Who Came To Dinner. A lot of territory between those two roles.Besides Streep's nomination Postcards From The Edge received a nomination for Best Song for I'm Checking Out. Streep delivers it in the best Patsy Cline type manner in the final scene. That woman has a lot of country in her. "},{"Title":"Glossy And Shallow Characters","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first five minutes are fine. And the film's eight-minute musical finale exudes terrific country/western spirit. But, in between, the characters reek of a glossy shallowness characteristic of a script that is not well fleshed out.Flighty, ungrateful Suzanne Vale (Meryl Streep) is a young actress hooked on drugs, and lorded over by her annoyingly controlling, alcoholic, show-biz mother named Doris Mann (Shirley MacLaine). Their bumpy relationship provides the main thrust to the plot, as pill-popping Suzanne tries to continue her acting, while judgmental Doris imposes herself on Suzanne, as a kind of career counselor. Around these two swirl an assortment of photogenic Hollywood types, who initiate or aggravate various conflicts between Suzanne and Doris.One would think this setup would imply a drama. Not here. The film tries to be a comedy. Some of the dialogue is indeed funny. But the comedy element contradicts the painful plight of the script's two main characters. In addition to their substance abuse problems, both Suzanne and Doris are so wrapped up in themselves, so self-centered, they're hard to root for.The film's acting generally is overdone, at times hammy, the most egregious example being Dennis Quaid. Production design is credible. Color cinematography is conventional, but competent.The story premise had merit. But Director Mike Nichols and writer Carrie Fisher needed to give a little more thought to the characters in this story, all of whom come across as glib, shallow, cosmetic, superficial, devoid of depth. Comedy can indeed be integrated with serious topics. But in the case of Postcards From The Edge, it needed to be integrated with a little more finesse. "}{"Title":"One of Meryl's best performances","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Postcards From The Edge is directed by Mike Nichols,has a screenplay by Carrie Fisher based on her book and stars Meryl Streep, Shirley MacLaine, Gene Hackman, Dennis Quaid and Mary Wicke's.The film is based Carrie Fisher's life and her relationship with her mother Debbie Reynolds.It's a good mix of comedy and sadness with powerful performances especially from Meryl as the insecure actress.Suzanne Vale(Meryl Streep)is one of Hollywoods biggest stars and is on top of the world,there is a snag though she has a drug problem.After taking an overdose her boyfriend Jack Faulkner(Dennis Quaid)rushes her to hospital where her stomach is pumped by Dr Frankenthal(Richard Dreyfuss)who might just be the man she is meant to be in love with.She goes through rehab and gets clean,the root of her addiction lies with her overbearing and demanding mother Doris Mann(Shirley MacLaine).Doris has made her life hell and although she loves her she just can't stop picking at her and driving her further away.The film revolves around Suzanne's struggle to stay off drugs and try and get into a better place emotionally.Her only true friend in all of this is her favourite director Lowell Kolcheck(Gene Hackman)although a bit severe at times he teaches her to be stronger and stand up to her mother and is there when she needs a shoulder to cry on.Deeply moving and featuring some superb performances, Postcards From The Edge is a wonderful film.Meryl also gets to prove her singing skills here and they are very good. "},{"Title":"Postcards from Carrie Fisher and Debbie Rey.....er....Merly Streep and Shirley MacLaine","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Carrie Fisher adapted her own book about the contentious relationship between a Hollywood mother and daughter -- hmmmm, wonder who this film is about? Postcards from the Edge isn't going to be remembered as a significant contribution to film history, but I do remember enjoying it well enough. It would have to be a terrible movie for Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine not to be able to do SOMETHING with it, and both actresses are in fine form. Mike Nichols directs with his customary light touch. He's never been one to force his hand as a director, but rather lets his actors do the jobs they were hired to do.Grade B "},{"Title":"Mediocre Fare From High Credentials","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Postcards From the Edge could have been a great character piece, considering its credentials. However, Mike Nichols went through a period of struggle with his work during the 1980s. His films lacked decent pace and proportionate screen time for all of its characters and subject matter and thus lacked focus. Postcards has this problem. It ends before you know it, it wraps up like it's tired and wants to go to bed, and the conflict has a short burst of presence till it completely diffuses.However, this film has an incredibly high point of enjoyment to level it off. This would be the appearance of a young and beautiful Meryl Streep in a snug police suit. Her curves, her maternal hips, her thighs, her overall thin yet plush softness radiates sensuality.As for her performance, she is of course very enthralling in her depiction of Carrie Fisher's depiction of Carrie Fisher. It's always fascinating to see how comfortable she is with repressing herself just enough to ooze those indescribable facial and tonal expressions that are trademark Meryl. "},{"Title":"Mother-Daughter Tensions Overshadow the Drugs in Carrie Fisher's Sharp-Tongued Hollywood Tale","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Carrie Fisher's bracingly candid and acerbically amusing commentary is definitely worth a listen when you watch this scabrous 1990 comedy, especially since she wrote the screenplay based on her first novel, which is turn, was based on her life as a drug-addicted movie actress who happens to the daughter of Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher. With the self-assured Mike Nichols at the helm, the picture is glossy and often smug in its insider's look of Hollywood, but it also has an emotionally resonant quality thanks mainly to the shrewdly observant interplay between Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine as mother and daughter. Streep plays Suzanne Vale, an actress successful enough to star in a cheesy action flick but spiraling out of control with her drug habit. In fact, she barely finishes a film for veteran director Lowell Korshack (an initially snappish Gene Hackman) who reads her the riot act on the set about her budget-escalating addiction.In the midst of a bleary-eyed one-night-stand, Suzanne becomes comatose from an overdose and is taken to the hospital where she gets her stomach pumped by a smitten doctor (a puppyish Richard Dreyfuss). She recovers and can work on her next picture only if she will live with her movie star mother Doris Mann to appease the insurance company. While the rest of the movie focuses on Suzanne's bumpy road toward recovery, the story really takes flight when it zeroes in on the prickly, dysfunctional relationship she has with Doris, a larger-than-life personality who means well as a mother but can't help being judgmental and competitive. Whether showing off her gams on a piano belting Sondheim's I'm Still Here or revealing her pathetically shorn head after an auto collision, MacLaine is spot-on in the role, probably the best among her latter-day performances after Aurora Greenway in Terms of Endearment.Liberated from her parade of accents and period costumes, Streep seems at first too accomplished to be playing a second-rate actress, but she makes the bedraggled Suzanne likeably flawed. She also shows off an impressive singing voice with a couple of country-western numbers. Beyond Hackman and Dreyfuss, Dennis Quaid effectively plays an errant lover with smarmy panache, and there are nice near-cameos from Annette Bening as a flaky actress, Gary Morton as Suzanne's agent, Robin Bartlett as Suzanne's sardonic rehab roommate, CCH Pounder as an unctuous rehab counselor and Simon Callow as a two-faced director. In the studio scenes, Rob Reiner, Oliver Platt, Michael Ontkean and J.D. Souther provide even smaller bits. I just wish Fisher could have explored Suzanne's recovery beyond the fatherly pep talk from Korshack and the final moment of vulnerability from Doris. Beyond Fisher's commentary, the 2001 DVD contains partial filmographies for the principal players and several unrelated trailers. "},{"Title":"A sparkling adult comedy that shines thanks to a first rate screenplay and two first rate performances from two terrific actresses...","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" POTCARDS FROM THE EDGE is a glittering all-star comedy based on the best selling book by Carrie Fisher that chronicles a particular difficult period in Fisher's life and her relationship with mom Debbie Reynolds. In this fictionalized version of the events in Fisher's life, Meryl Streep plays Suzanne, an actress who has just been released from rehab on the condition that she be under the custody and roof of her mother, a former actress (Shirley MacLaine) and what happens when she finally gets her first chance to work after coming out of rehab. This story is smart and funny and features a wonderful cast including Dennis Quaid, Gene Hackman, Richard Dreyfuss,Rob Reiner,Conrad Bain, Mary Wickes, Annette Bening, Gary Morton, and CCH Pounder, but it is really the amazing performances by Streep and MacLaine that make this movie work. Both ladies are also given opportunities to sing and make the most of them. The song Im Checkin' Out which Meryl sings at the end of the movie, received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song as did Streep for Best Actress. "},{"Title":"great film, see as serious more than humorous","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this film to be an extremely well-made depiction of a narcissistic mother and a daughter struggling to find her own identity and freedom from the needs and projections of her mother. Both mother and daughter are in a great deal of severe pain, which although I'll admit there were humorous moments, in general I found very hard to laugh in general.I cried much more than laughed (probably due to the fact that I could relate so much to the daughter). I hope that anyone who sees this film can empathize with what Carrie Fischer had to deal with and overcome! Mother had a lot of pain to deal with as well, and in spite of her behavior also deserves empathy. It's hard for me to label this film as entertainment but I'd say it is a must see because we all know people who have similar interpersonal dynamics. "},{"Title":"Happy to see this postcard.","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Films with such a hefty cast are often a letdown. Not this one! A tragic tale really, Meryl Streep played such a sad character and it hurt to see Dennis Quaid taking her for a ride. The movie moves along at a gentle pace but you cannot take your eyes of the screen and really care of Meryl Streep's character. Shirley Maclaine is a delight and there are wonderful performances from Streep, Quaid & Hackman along with a particularly effective cameo by Richard Dreyfus. The film is almost stolen by Mary Wickes as the Grandma, hilarious. Stick with this film to see Meryl Streep's musical number at the end, quite brilliant. A lovely film that stays with you way after its conclusion. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep shows her musical side but Shirley MacLaine steals the show.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lots of stars in this Hollywood snap shot where Meryl Streep struggles with substance abuse and her controlling mother(Shirley MacLaine).  MacLaine turns in a touching performance while Streep is at her quirky best.  The music is a high note here with Streep doing both torch song and honky-tonk rouser (at show's end).  MacLaine touches a nerve, however, with her rendition of I'm Still Around at the proverbial Hollywood party.  "},{"Title":"Another great story (funny) about the movies","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorites, Streep & MacLaine make a great team as Mother/Daughter. My favorite scene is the ending with the band, cast and crew; It's hard to tell who is who, which makes it great.  "},{"Title":"Not standard Hollywood fare, this is an excellent character study","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Much has already been said of this movie, but hopefully, viewers will read my review.Meryl Streep is excellent, as is Shirley Maclaine; this story actually is based on Debbie Reynolds, and her founding of L.A.'s prestigious Thalians rehab hospital; Carrie Fisher wrote the book, and Ms. Streep does an excellent job of representing the sporadic nature of a career as an actress.Primarily, the best part about this film is that it is not as superficial as one would assume. We see, for example, Meryl's grandma (Mary Wickes, in an excellent cameo part) and feel the alienation she is living. When speaking to her agent, her alcoholic mother overshadows her, and says I don't understand your generations humor; to which Meryl retorts I don't have a generation; her agent then interjects...then get one....There is also a cameo part with Annette Bening where she is quite funny, having an affair with Dennis Quaid ...for the en-dolphins... (endorphins) and the many affairs and infidelities of Dennis Quaid, a some-time boyfriend of Streep.It is a comedy, but it is intelligent; something that is hard to find. Maclaine alone has an excellent song and dance number I'm still here; I wish we could see more of her these days.Buy or rent this movie; it is an depiction of society, addiction, alienation, and American families, which, these days, seem to all be intertwined. "}{"Title":"What I liked about it.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having bypassed this movie in the video store for some time now, I was pleasantly surprised when I happened to come across it on cable last night. What surprised me the most was the great warmth and humour in the script that was so emphatically translated into such amiable characters by Streep and MacClaine. It reminded me of many Australian films which also have this quality.Despite each characters short-comings, it is abundantly evident that both could be who they were if they did not have each other. Streep and MacClaine's characters bounce off each other, hanging on every word each says to the other, forever seeking to find cracks in the armour and exploiting them to there own advantage. Yet at the same time, each find solace in the other's  flaws, driving home an all too familiar scenario in any family of the paradoxical relationship between parents and children.If ever there was a film that was so vivid, and yet so  accurate, in its portrayal of a typical mother/daughter relationship, then it is this one. "},{"Title":"Drug Dependency Sit-Com","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Postcards from the Edge under the Comedy section of the neighborhood video store.  Comedy?  What's so funny about drug and alcohol addiction in a dysfunctional mother/daughter relationship?  They played it up sit-com style, all one liners, without giving it the depth the subject matter deserves.  It was like watching Friends, if they were all co-dependent substance abusers.The film is directed by Mike Nichols, and the main characters played by MacLaine and Streep; and they have nevertheless created an entertaining movie.  I just expected a lot more from those making it.  The family gave it a 7, just barely, and then only for MacLaine and Streep.  "},{"Title":"Back when Carrie Fisher was","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Readers of my site know I often like to delve into the past for movies and books that are classics, at least to me. Postcards from the Edge is such a piece for a number of reasons &#149; Mike Nichols directs&#151;One of the true masters of Hollywood with such giants as Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966), The Graduate (1967), Catch-22 (1970), Carnal Knowledge (1971), Silkwood (1983), Working Girl (1988), and Primary Colors (1998). &#149; Carrie Fisher writes&#151;She was on her way to becoming an American sweetheart, a 70s sexed-up version of her mother, Debbie Reynolds, as Princess Leia in Star Wars (1977). She had less central roles in subsequent movies including The Blues Brothers (1980) and Hannah and Her Sisters (1986), and she also displayed substantial writing and singing skills. &#149; Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine act&#151;Playing Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds-like characters, respectively, these two provide a cinematic tour de force of the timelessly troubled Hollywood daughter-mother relationship. &#149; The times reveal&#151;Culture is partly defined by artworks undertaken by celebs, particularly movies. This movie sends up some largely hopeful signs of the times. While I'm on the subject of positive vibes, the culminating scene of Postcards is full of life-affirming emotional fuel, at least for several women I know and care deeply for. That scene features the rehabbed Carrie character (Streep) belting out the ultimate upbeat tune about conquering addictions I'm Checkin' Out... of this Heartbreak Hotel. It works for me. And I know it's meaningful on even a deeper level for a lot of women... maybe for this day and age in particular. For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2007 "},{"Title":"I was beginning to think Shirley had leukemia","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on Carrie Fishers screenplay this is a warmhearted film that carries it's own tune and symbolizes undying affection, even if it comes from the most unusual places.To me , as my opinion on this can be as humbled as it wants to be, I really don't know why McClaine didn't get a Oscar nomination...but Streep did, which I have to say in all honesty Shirley topped Streep in this. The Bannister scene where their having out in a classic daughter, mother fiasco was all but McClaine....the heart to heart earlier in the movie when Streep comes in(past curfew which she knows better being middle aged and just getting out of a drug clinic)however not she is drug free, but yet this doesn't surprise her mother, McClaine figures she was up to no good. And yet this is another thing that bothers me throughout the film is when everyone in the cast, at least each character mentions Streep had just gotten out of a drug clinic and she isn't thinking rationally or she needs to reevaluate this or that....it really got to the part I wanted to just to sit and take each fingernail out one by one, it was just tedious, but yet , it was really the only flaw in the movie....oh wait, it wasn't necessary to put Dennis Quaid in the movie since these two had no chemistry , and a love you and then a one night stand, or lets make this two night stands didn't dish out too well as a smart , intelligent woman like Streep would've saw this a mile away.As for Nichols, he kept it simple, as though he did in the late eighties and early nineties and even to today. I don't think age has anything to do with it, but he is a sucker for melodramatic stories and his characters out stage his directing here....not saying he isn't a good director, because he is a fabulous director , but he keeps it short here and lets Streep and McClaine have fun with their characters and keep it lively and real. But if you want to see a Nichols film, I would recommend The Graduate or Who's Afraid Of Virginia Wolf? Shirley dominates her role in every turn, from the part where the drag queens idolize her, well pretty much drooling over her, to the ending of the picture where she puts it in her mind at last, to see her daughter cocoon as she did, maybe even knowing in the deep and darkness of her subconscious her daughter had maybe the same , if more potential and ambition after all.Streep....well she did get a Oscar nomination....do I agree....as long as McClaine got one too, but she didn't, but it's OK, this is just more Hollywood nonsense! A movie that tells you that addicts can find love too, or that they can change and they can even go back from the beginning and search for that one thing that reminded them in the end what it was all worth.....love....and Postcards From The Edge determined to show addicts like Streep herself and lil ol' Shirley, the alcoholic that can control herself are indeed people and change is somehow in their process of rehabilitating!!! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable movie with a good ending.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Postcards From The Edge. I like Meryl Streep. I like Shirley MacLaine. I really liked them as daughter and mother. The movie was funny and it was touching. Fine small parts by Annette Bening, Rob Reiner, Richard Dreyfuss, Gene Hackman.My very favorite scene is the last one, Meryl Streep doing her own singing in a stage rendition of Heartbreak Hotel. She does such a marvelous job, I think she could have had a singing career if she had chosen that over acting.A solid 8 of 10 rating from me. "},{"Title":"Streep laughs","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The humor in this movie is never intentional, therefore it is hilarious. Meryl Streep once again performs her magic and is funnier than ever before or since.  The thousands of cameos do not distract from the main relationship between mother and daughter.  I love this movie very much because Streep shows you the despair of her character in a self-mocking way that is really consistently enjoyable.  And the conclusion is satisfactory as well.  "},{"Title":"Postcards From the Edge","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mike Nichols' film version of the real life story of Carrie Fisher and mother Debbie Reynolds, played here by Streep and MacClaine, who are quite good as the on and off again feuding mother and daughter. Nichols keeps a fine pace and assembled Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss in small, but vital cameos.  "},{"Title":"Could this movie be any more obvious? 4/10","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Apparently, Carrie Fisher and Co. decided to let all us common folk in on the big secrets of Hollywood.  All major celebrities are drug addicts and everything is just a big gimmick.  All kidding aside, Postcards from the Edge might seem ground breaking to someone who lives in Kansas and thinks that movies are made magically.  For people aware of how the Hollywood system works, the film just grows tiresome.Is the film about Carrie Fisher and her mother Debbie Reynolds? Probably.  Or perhaps some other doped up actress and her has been of a mother.  The film is filled with uncalled for cameos -- and two stiff performances by the two leading ladies.  Especially Shirley MacLaine, who seems to think she is cute no matter how annoying she is.  Dennis Quaid is quite good however. "}]