[{"Title":"Slaters teen master class . . .","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"53 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this filmWhen I was 17 I first saw the second half of this movie on TV, the next day I scoured my local video shops to buy the film so that I could watch the first half.I know that sounds a little sad but I really felt that at the time this film was spot on. Parents do seem to hate you, it is incredibly hard to talk to a girl that you want to ask out and school is the last place you ever want to be. This film had the emotions just about right.I now see its faults but I still feel that it is an excellent movie to its targeted age group, everyone who ever wanted to rise up in the cafeteria and stab them (teachers) with your plastic fork.I could fill this review with quotes, the speech on why teen suicide is a bad idea is up there with the Am I funny? scene in goodfella's.Christian Slater is excellent, apparently it's his favourite movie and you can see that he enjoyed making it. He does dark-teen like no one else, this is Nicholson at 16! In my humble opinion this film is at the top of the teen-flick chart alongside Heathers.Samantha Mathis makes an intriguing leading lady, she really gets her character spot on. Miss Mathis also provides one of the best sexual tension scenes ever in this genre. (it's all in the music)A young Seth Green also makes an appearance that I am sure he would rather forget, his acting is fine it's how he looks thats the problem !!This film is dark, funny and brutaly honest. If you are under 20 and still hate the world this will kill a couple of those boring 'too old to play to young to drink' hours.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Every teenager should see this film","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What a film!!, this is a film that very accurately represents how it feels to be unpopular, or the new kid in high school. Slater gained much respect from me for his terrific performance is Hard Harry, a new kid at a school where the staff don't seem to care about the students, Harry runs a pirate radio station as an anonymous student at the high school, and shares his feelings about the school, he gains a large following of students who feel the same way he does, but then trouble starts. This is a truly great film, with great performances, this is probably the Rebel Without A Cause, for our generation. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"movie magic","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When Pump Up The Volume came out in 1990, I wanted to BE Christian Slater.  Now that it's already been twelve years since it was released, I still can't believe how well it's held up.  Aside from a couple of things that make it dated (I'm referring mainly to the opening credit sequence and the way some of the characters dress...mulletts WERE acceptable back then), the message remains the same and I think that's what has made this movie stand the test of time.  Along with Heathers, this is some of Christian Slater's best work ever.  His performance alone is enough to reccommend this one, but that combined with the message, make it a cult classic.  They don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"great portrayal of postmodern angst & media issues","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie really captured not only the disillusionment and pain of adolescence but also the general malaise of our postmodern society.  Also brought out the tension between media for the people and free speech vs. media polluting the people and issues of censorship.  While the film clearly made the latter out to be the bad guy, a mature person might look beyond the pointed message and see the important issues on both sides -->  Does media come from culture and speak truth, having the responsibility to honestly represent reality, or does media influence culture and thus should it responsibly rise above mediocrity, challenging people to something higher in life?  Tough issues in media studies.  How to bring the two concerns together is the challenge, in a completely corporate-driven media culture that really stands for neither.  ummmm.... Christian Slater was also great in the lead performance.   "},{"Title":"I don't hate the world anymore, but I still love this film...","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I first saw this film around 1996, when I was 13 and just going into that 'I hate the world and everything about it' phase that most teenagers go through. I fell in love with it there and then and over the years I've owned 5 separate copies.Not just because of the unbelievably brilliant soundtrack, not just because of the real and relate-able characters, not just because of the engaging and original plot, but because I still feel now, what I first felt when I saw the film. Sometimes everyone feels that they're alone and it takes another voice, one coming from a someone you might not even ever have met reminding you that everyone feels that crushing loneliness and only you can change that.Even now that I'm nearing my mid-twenties and every time I watch this film I want to 'Rise up in the cafeteria' and 'stab my teachers with a plastic fork.' Being a teenager sucks, its probably the most free time of your life, but everything from parents, to homework, to hormones prevents most from truly enjoying the experience.I want every teenager to watch this film, I want every person who looks back on their teen years with regret to watch this film, I want every person who's forgotten what its like to be a teenager to watch this film. I think there's room in just about everyone's heart for it. "},{"Title":"one of the best teen movies of the 90's!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  pump up the volume is one of the best teen movies of the  90's! it's smart,and very thought-provoking. this is the second most thought-provoking teen movie of all time.  second only to the breakfast club. pump up the volume is  in the top 3 of the best teen movies of the 90's!  it's also very entertaining,and sometimes funny. but a lot  of the movie is serious. slater has never been better.it's a very good movie. i give pump up the volume ***1/2out of **** "},{"Title":"What a teen flick should be.","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm 28 now, but this film is still very important to me. PUTV is the best teen drama out there (though there aren't many to compete with it), it really grasps how so alone some teenagers can feel and how rejectedby the system they so often are. The film has dated some what, but if there ever was an early warning sign of the problems that face American schools today (columbine esque) this is it. You can only push teenagers so far before they lose the plot, end up killing themselves or other people, PUTV is about those feelings. Slater is the bomb in this film, he is truly awesome and Mathis plays a great sidekick. The fact she shows a bit of flesh makes the movie highly genuine, yes girls do get naked with boys whilst at high school. PUTV does now suffer with its meaning to the modern era, but modern kids still do get dejected and rejected and this film is a great message in saying.... You Are Not Alone! 10/10 Then.... 8/10 Now.  "},{"Title":"Teen rebellion + freedom of speech + talented young stars = all-time cult classic for me!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Pump up the Volume (1990) is perhaps one of the most inspiring films that ever found their way to the celluloid forum. Upon viewing the film for the first time as a ten-years-old kid back when it was released in cinemas, I remember feeling profoundly moved by the main lead and the events his character sets in motion. This genuine masterpiece doesn't only teach us about leadership and the ability of one individual to make a difference in the world; it is also a triumph of the human spirit in general and of the youth over decadent grown-up ideas specifically.The story presents us Mark Hunter (a then young and extremely talented Christian Slater), a teenage high school student that moves with his parents from the big city to the suburbs, when his father gets a new job as an educational consultant for a middle-America region. The days are the early nineties, when internet was probably considered radical science fiction at best, and Mark finds himself all of a sudden pretty lonely in the new school. Luckily, his parents buy him a ham radio in order to keep connected with his friends back east, and Mark finds a unique way of passing time by transmitting his thoughts about the suburbs and the lousy life of 1990 teenagers, using his ham radio as a local broadcast device. Upon gaining fame and listeners, Hunter adopts a pseudonym, one Happy Harry Hard On which brings messages of freedom of speech and thought to his fellow classmates at school. When stumbling upon information concerning illegal steps his school has taken regarding problematic students, things start to get out of control. As Mark, he tries to keep a low profile and doesn't blend in with the ongoing events, but as Harry he feels he must take a stand and speak up his thoughts and ideas. But can a voice be heard without its owner taking responsibility to its actions? The notions and ideas which arise upon viewing Pump up the Volume are intriguing and fresh until this very day, 16 years after its initial release. For the younger ones, it teaches how to stand up for what you believe in and try to right society's wrongs. For grown-ups, it serves an interesting conflict about the bounders of democracy and the part the media plays in each and every one of our lives. Look out for Samantha Mathis's powerful role as Nora DeNiro, Hunter's female admirer, and one of the only people around him that know he's behind the controversial broadcasts. Also look out for a very very young Seth Green (Austin Powers, Without a Paddle) as one of the students that helps spread Harry's tapes across the school.On a personal note, I have to say that I hold credit to this movie for a lot of who I am in my grown-up life. The film taught me I could use my words to make a difference, and for the past ten years I've been doing just that as a journalist and newspaper editor here in central Israel. For that I will always be thankful to the makers of Pump up the Volume, and I suspect it'll stay my all-time favorite for years and years to come! Naturally, I rank this one a must-see film, with a 10 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"the sixties meets the 90s","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've seen Pump a few times but recently got the DVD and showed it to an 18 year old last night...the film has great resonances for me of the 60s generation and it still has power for the youth of today...amazingly, since they mainly seem motivated by IT, gadgets and money.All the performances were first rate and this film also introduces Leonard Cohen to a new generation. I'm sure schools today are worse then Hubert Humphrey high portrayed in the film...this was before Columbine...but you can see the fertile ground for the violence to follow.This is one of my all time favorite 'teen flicks' and I recommend it to all who want to see social and political relevance in movies. "},{"Title":"Free speech, teen angst, small town, fun music (Spoiler)","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The story of a big city kid who relocates to a small town with his parents. He has really cool toys that allow him to broadcast his thoughts, and soon some folks start listening and responding to his outrageous music and rants. HHH is the DJ of a movement of teens who echo their version of the Network anthem I'm Mad as Hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore! When some folks cross the border of what is socially acceptable in expressing their frustration and anger, the community seeks to shut him down. Also a comedic, dark, romantic film. Christian Slater gives one of the best performances of his career, and the music is worth checking out - and I credit it for turning an entire generation onto Leonard Cohen and bringing a few bands from the fringe into the mainstream. "}{"Title":"A great Christian Slater film.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Pump Up the Volume really deals with the issues of being a teenager, I think this movie is as great as The Breakfast Club. The movie starts out with Mark Hunter (Christian Slater) a.k.a. Hard Harry running a pirate radio show, he is listened to by the students of Hubert Humphery High School and by a teacher, Ms Emerson (Ellen Green of Talk Radio and Glory Glory). The school is being runned by a corrupt principal Loretta Creswood (Annie Ross of Superman III) who weeds out kids who she thinks are losers. Harry becomes a reluctant hero to all the students in the school, he has some raunchy moments on his radio show but he reaches in the humanity of all who listen. A girl in his class,Nora Diniro(Samantha Mathis)learns who Hard Harry is, but won't tell anyone. Mark is so unhappy with moving out to Arizona, His father, Brian Hunter (Scott Paulin)who runs the school district and mother, Marla Hunter (Mimi Kennedy of Dahrma and Greg) try to help him but only push him away, Mark has some inner demons he has a hard time dealing with, one of his callers, Malcolm Kaiser wants to commit suicide and Harry does little to talk him out of it. Harry feels bad that he doesn't do anything to help him, he says somethings about being a teenager and also suicide, he made some real good points their. Harry falls for Nora, he opens up to her. Later on, the FCC are called in to find Hard Harry. Miss Creswood is later exposed and is suspended by Brian Hunter after finding out about her shady ways, thanks to Ms. Emerson. Harry tells his listeners to not to give up and live, he is nabbed and taken away.I feel that this movie really touched on some issues on being a teen and being to speak your thoughts. The cast really did a wonderful job, the supporting cast, Andy Romano (Admiral Bates of Under Siege 1 and 2) as Mr. Murdock, Cheryl Pollack as Paige Woodward, James Hampton (Teen Wolf 1 and 2 and Sling Blade) as Arthur Watts of the FCC. I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Great chemistry between Slater and Mathis","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a good movie let down by uneven direction and 1-dimensional characters (besides the 2 leads).  I would probably love this movie a lot, had I seen it when it came out in 1990.  Now, the teenage angst (Slater's rants) thing is getting tiresome and whiny to me.  Nevertheless, I want to point out how wonderful the scenes between Slater and Mathis are, in particular the scene where they kind of tangoed around each other and the scene where they had their first kiss.  These scenes are full of playfulness, seduction, anticipation and uneasy charms.  I hope there are more good movie roles to come for both of them.Lastly, I think the DVD release could really use some special features, like audio commentary by the director, Slater and Mathis.  Since this is Slater's personal favorite, it'd be great to hear his perspective. "},{"Title":"The real deal","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Dr. Jolly from Kansas State University completely missed the point. This movie did NOT try to recreate the 80's teen movie.Get your facts straight, Jolly. This is almost exactly what pirate radio was like in the late 80s/early 90s. I KNOW. I was a DJ during that time. And you have no idea what schools tried to get away with back then. Ask anyone who was in high school in the 1984-1990 time frame. This movie was dead-on with the kind of crap that was going on.Don't try to impress us with the I'm an actual disc jockey crap. If you don't know your own history, then don't try to comment on something you obviously know nothing about. Not only was it remotely possible, pirate radio was very real (although not always on the short-wave bands, as another review mentioned). If you never heard it, then you have no basis for an opinion on it. If you could jump into the Wayback Machine and travel back to the 1984-1990 time frame, you'd be able to listen to the AM and FM pirate stations of the time. Maybe then you'd understand what it was like growing up then.To all you punks who weren't alive when this movie came out -- you have no freaking clue what angst means. Slater personifies it. End of story. Until you get it, you'll never understand this movie. "},{"Title":"Pre-Podcasted Pump","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Some kids my age were defined by certain movies, namely John Hughes classics, though you probably can't get a lot of guys to admit that. The sadly underperforming Pump Up the Volume was mine.It was back in 1989 when I started taking movies more seriously, seeing them more and noticing that they'll eventually consume me. A year later, I saw my first Christian Slater movie (though, almost immediately following, I watched &#x96; and not for him &#x96; Young Guns II) as well as a star I would fall in love with for thereafter Samantha Mathis, coincidentally, her first movie.I remember loving the movie, the idea, the setting &#x96; finally a teen movie that was set in my current location, Arizona, the mood, the dialogue, the music and definitely the message. What also impressed me was the nonchalant take they had on homosexuality and how the main hero, Hard Harry (Slater) was so accepting of it. (Side Note I hadn't come out yet by this point, but this certainly helped verses all the negativity surrounding the gay lifestyle I heard around me.)And as independent as this was, it was certainly far before it's time. Christian Slater really plays Mark, but, in what also appealed to me, by night his Clark Kent image of Mark was transformed into the Superman Hard Harry on a radio program on an unused frequency. What he was doing would be considered a podcast nowadays, only he went the long, and probably only, way around it.Literally, he didn't think anyone was listening. So this lonely kid, Mark, who was moved by his parents to a small Arizona town, babbles on the air about how bad the high school he was attending as well as the small town. Although, it sounds like he's complaining, he's actually hitting on some direct topics the parents and school board are either ignoring or were ignorant of.Well, the kids are listening, one by one, growing by the night. Namely, Nora (Mathis), the obvious Lois Lane of the trio of characters (if you count Clark and Supe as two), who's trying to find the identity of the voice she hears and absolutely agrees with. Oh, and is it obvious she's also in love with Hard Harry?A tragedy, one you might not expect with the direction the movie was headed, occurs and now Hard Harry's a target for parents, police, the FCC and of course the school board for what he's saying might actually be true.They all want him shut down. Naturally, all the kids want him to continue &#x96; he's their voice, each and every one of them. Only, Clark, er, Mark's conflicted and the much more shy version of Hard Harry. Leave it to Lois, er, Nora, to save the day once again by giving the real hero a backbone.I rated this with the highest rating I give 10/10 stars. I do this for nostalgia purposes, obviously, but re-watching this movie now, after not seeing it for probably 15+ years, it really holds up today. Sure, the one message (revealed in the end) of why the school board is wronging the students is somewhat weak, the dozens of others thoroughly outweigh that revolution. Also, as mentioned, I did love (literally, I fell hard for) Mathis; she did a fantastic first job and bold &#x96; see well, her. Further, Slater equally did a excellent job. And the soundtrack remains as one of my all time favorites. I have probably listened to Everybody Knows by Concrete Blonde 660 times since this came out.This was the un-Hollywood independent film I will cherish for all time. It wasn't splashy, it was intentionally small, it was tight and it was right. All that I wrote above about my first impressions back in 1990 hold up and I stand by them. Watch this movie and know what it was TRULY like being a teen in the early nineties. "},{"Title":"late night favorite","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love this movie. I think its alot better than many movies of its time. I thought Christian Slater was perfectly cast in the role. I love his voice and I loved the character. It upsets me when people compare movies such as this to another movie. There are many movies that are quite simply copies of eachother. I have not seen the movie Network as mentioned in another comment so I cannot discuss that one. The idea of comparing this film to Heathers though seems a bit preposterous to me. I'm a huge fan of both films and fail to see the huge connection. Suicide occurs in many films, but it doesn't necessarily mean that the are all just copying eachother. Truly original films are difficult to find. and I found this to be one. feel free to prove me wrong. I enjoyed the film thoroughly and I awaken people to its glory as often as possible. "},{"Title":"an all-time favorite","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is my therapist whenever things couldn't seem worse, I pop it into the VCR, and feel a million times better for it. Last I knew, I understood that this was Christian Slater's favorite of his movies. It > angst, certainly, but with a kind of catharsis. Is it a great movie? H*ll no! But is it fun? Completely. And if you're a free speech nut like I am, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"great movie and music.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie and the music was a great help in getting me thru my early teenage years. I recommend it to anyone but especially for youths at the age of 13 to 17. Slater was excellent and this was one of the best performances of his life. If their were only more movies that could touch young people as this one touched me. Parents maybe this movie will remind you to listen to your children and pay attention more of what's going on with them. Being a teenager is very hard and nothing will change that no matter where you come from. If you have teenage children this is also a great gift idea. I think I still have my VHS of this and do get the opportunity to watch it. I do however still listen to the music. "},{"Title":"It's been a long time that a movie can drive me to sit down and write something out","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The best movie I have seen in last year.It's been a longer time that a movie can drive me to sit down and write something out to share my feelings with everybody. Christian Slater as a teenager who moved from New York to a small town, he got problem to talk to people he wanted talk to. So he ran a private radio station with the name happy harry hard on. His show became pop among the students in his high school because he spoke up the pain and suffer to be a teen, the rage and untrust against the adults, and the very truth no one want talk aboutwe are not made perfect, living a perfect life is boring.Day by day, the teachers and Miss principle got more angry about the Harry guy, while Harry and his listeners went farer. I'm not a teen anymore, and I feel so regret that I haven't seen this film before. And it still reminded me of that old me, the kid who was so sensitive about everything in that world. However, this is not a perfect movie, the supporting actors, some big scenes and the principal role are bad, but who cares? Nothing is perfect, perfect is the most stupid word in the world.This movie is still a powerful with all the truth it talked about.I added it to my all time favorite collection with Fly Away Home,John Woo's The Killer ,Casablanca,Earning,Blue,Michael Collins,Age of Innocence and A French Woman. SO BE IT. "},{"Title":"A good movie goes over the top one too many times","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie, in general. I liked the edginess of the direction and the performances. Mathis is great, she outshines Slater in every scene they have together, though he's good also. Much of the problem comes from the screenplay, which exaggerates every situation to ridiculous proportions. It doesn't have the cheekiness or audacity of Heathers to which this movie is often compared.Despite this, situations often go over the top, like the overreaction of the FCC police (pirate radio is legal within a specified broadcast radius) and the laughably tyrannical school administration. Where this movie gets most of its power is with the painful portrayal of teen angst, more realistically played here than in many other places. Wanting to communicate and connect with other people is a common theme, but it's done extremely well here. "},{"Title":"it's a great day for free speech","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Christian Slater, in the days before his roles got repetitive, got this cool role as a high school student running a renegade radio station. Obviously, the movie deals with many things - namely free speech - but it's mainly great to see someone pushing the limits, especially in an era of media concentration.Anyway, Pump Up the Volume is a movie that you're sure to like. The only other recognizable cast member was Samantha Mathis, with whom Slater co-starred a few years later in Broken Arrow. But no matter. THIS is what free speech is all about.I would have to agree that everything in America is completely f---ed up. "}{"Title":"Stab them with your plastic forks","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Everything is backwards; everything is upside down. Doctors destroy health, lawyers destroy justice, universities destroy knowledge, governments destroy freedom, the major media destroy information and religions destroy spirituality. - Michael Ellner Alan Moyle's Pump Up The Volume stars Christian Slater as Mark Hunter, a high school student who lives in a sleepy, Arizonan town. Looking to lash out at the world, Mark starts an FM pirate radio station. This station becomes an outlet for his angst and aggression. The film then becomes a teen version of Network or Rebel Without a Cause, Mark rallying fellow disaffected and alienated youths until he becomes the unwitting leader of a minor student revolution.In historical terms, Hunter's caught in the deadlock of late capitalism, or what Francis Fukuyama called the end of history, a time populated by what Nietzsche called the last men; pathetic, contemptible things. Fukuyama's position counterpointed that of Hegel and Marx, who saw historical development as a purposeful journey from primitive stages of consciousness to something better. This goes against the there is no alternative (T.I.N.A) mantra of late capitalism, a stance explicitly reborn in the mid 20th century, but which has bee around in various forms much longer, perhaps starting with Thomas Malthus, a nineteenth century progenitor of no alternative politics and its credo of permanent scarcity and necessary poverty. Malthus contested nineteenth century radicals who were steadfast in their belief that labour, properly deployed, could usher in a new society. Indeed, the initial need for elites to publicly announce the absence of any alternative to existing social arrangements was entirely a defensive move, in response to such radical ideas.One of the first to counter T.I.N.A was William Godwin. In his 1793 book, Enquiry Concerning Political Justice, he argued that the existing state creates a servile and truckling spirit, and that the cruel monotony of the system produces a kind of stupid and hopeless vacancy in every face. From Godwin can be drawn a line to libertarians, anarchist communism, socialism and even the labour theory of value. The British government then tried to prosecute Godwin for treason, but abandoned the idea. Godwin was instead attacked by Malthus, who in Principles of Political Economy essentially defended class structures and even went so far as to advocate starving the poor because that way they wouldn't breed too heavily. In anticipation of the permanent war economy of the United States, Malthus would even offer war and state debt as perfect mechanisms for enhancing value through the careful calibration of scarcity.So though white and privileged, Hunter's part of a long list of validly ticked off people. On air he calls himself Hard Harry, and begins his radio program with Leonard Cohen's Everybody Knows, the lyrics everybody knows the dice are loaded, everybody rolls with their fingers crossed heralding his audio rants. All the great themes have been used up and turned into theme parks, he tells his audience, as he begins to develop a sort of naive political manifesto. Where adults condescend, he empathises, where they ignore, he provides an outlet for the hopes, dreams, fears and tragedies of other youths.Elsewhere Hunter challenges the ethos of his college, which cares more about test scores and image than actual education. Unsurprisingly, his college is named after Hubert Humphrey, a despicable archetype of cold war neoliberalism and apologist for much violence (Vietnam, the police beatings of peace activists etc). The truth is a virus, Hunter tells his listeners, as he becomes increasingly subversive and empowering, shaking fellow students out of apathy. It begins with us! Not the experts, but the ones who need it most! Pretty soon he's changed from an object of hero worship to one of strategic appropriation, youths taking from him what they need to advance their own empowerment and emancipation. Elsewhere the songs he plays are politically charged, but in offbeat ways. There's Freedom of Speech by Above the Law, Ice T states I've no time to whisper in your ear, Hunter plays Wave of Mutilation by the Pixies, has Soundgarden say Accused and convicted for nothing and Liquid Jesus Stand, and they will make you crawl.Nothing is more important than a good education! adults tell Hunter. Except the basic right to it, he counters. Slowly he moves from isolation and individualism to community and collective action. He accepts that he has a responsibility to his listeners, understands that meaning and expression are terrains of political contestation, repeatedly fought over, but then quickly finds himself chased by the police and FBI. They want to shut him down. To silence him. The film ends with Harry on the run, romantic engagement finally deemed inadequate, until a final sequence in which every student in America starts their own pirate radio station. This is offered as something positive, but the internet/Facebook generation's told us otherwise the podiums afforded by technology increase atomization and tend to become just more outlets for narcissism.Traditionally, young people have energised democratic movements. But resistance to domination has been subdued and power has long created societal institutions designed to break resistance. The young, reflexively impotent, are perhaps now entirely acquiesced to the idea that they can and will be repeatedly screwed. Large debts, and the fear they create, have become a pacifying force. Elsewhere we psychopathologize and medicate noncompliance, a fact which led Erich Fromm to state that today the function of psychiatry and medicine threatens to become the tool in the manipulation of man. Indeed, schools themselves inculcate compliance not democracy, and routinely traffic standardisation and fear. The intelligent are shamed, surveillance is normalised and fundamentalist Religion and Fundamentalist Consumerism are exalted above all things. And so, like Howard Beale, Hunter yells from a radio, before being shut down.8.9/10 &#x96; One of the best teen movies of the 1990s, despite a weak, corny third act. "},{"Title":"A great high school film","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This 1990 film seems to be rather over looked amongst all the American high school films of the 80s/90s which is a shame as it is very good.Christian Slater plays Mark Hunter, a shy teenager who has recently moved from the east coast to a suburb in Arizona. He has difficulty talking to people in person but has no problem talking to people on his illegal radio station where he can hide behind the anonymity of a voice disguiser and become Happy Harry Hardon. His broadcasts are popular with all the pupils at his school and soon tapes of them are being traded and played at there much to the chagrin of the school authorities.Much of his broadcast is taken up pointing out the many faults of his school in particular the actions of the principal and the guidance councillor, he also reads letters from his listeners and attempting to give some advice. Unfortunately he can't always help and after a student he spoke to on air carries out his threat to commit suicide the school uses it as excuse to clamp down on anybody who might know who he is.Also trying to identify him is classmate Nora, played by Samantha Mathis, she however has more luck than the authorities. When he has doubts about carrying on his broadcasts she is the one who talks him into continuing.The acting in the film is fairly solid especially from Slater and Mathis and the story is both interesting and amusing. Like most good films it isn't without its weak points; the students seem rather too uniformly fans of the broadcasts and the authorities attempts to catch him seem highly amateur although I guess if he'd been arrested five minutes into the film it wouldn't have been as interesting.Even though it was made almost twenty years ago it still feels relevant today as it did back then the only things that really dates it is the fact that there is no internet and none of the children have mobile phones like they would today. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, both Un-Dated and Underrated","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I bought the DVD of this movie at the local rental place for just six dollars. I was tentative about the movie because the DVD had no special features whatsoever, and Christian Slater has made some bad movies over the last few years (e.g. Alone In The Dark (2005), Hard Rain (1998)). This film, however, is up there with Slater's best such as True Romance and Murder In The First.This film was made just as the decade of cheesy teen flicks had come to a close, which is why I originally thought this film would fall into that category. However, this film is remarkably good. It's so good in fact that I have already seen it twice, and will soon see it again a third time.So what makes this movie so good? For one, the insight of Hard Harry is often times hilarious, and the music he played on his pirate radio station literally foreshadows the ends of the hair metal days and the beginning of grunge. There are no hideous trends capitalized in this film, and no dated catch phrases. If this movie came out today, it would fit in pretty well aside from the fact that there are no computers in the film. Besides that, though, the film is timeless.Some people had some quarrels with the ending where you hear a collage of voices on other pirate radio stations. Some people said it was too cheesy, especially the part where the girl said, Can anyone hear me out there?. I didn't think so, though. I thought the movie ended on an inconclusive but appropriate note, and without being too over the top.If there was one thing I would have liked to have seen added to this film, it would have been more in the beginning about Christian Slater's character building the radio station. I would have liked to have seen how he did it, and also how he began building a huge following. But then again, that kind of beginning would have focused more on the rise and fall of the station than what Slater had to say as Hard Harry. It would make for a pretty good prequel though, if anyone wanted to make one by now.Overall, though, awesome film that is a vital component of my DVD collection. If you who are reading this review ever get a chance, pick up a copy at your video store. Not too many rental stores have it to rent, but Netflix probably does. Check it out for yourself. "},{"Title":"Ahh, the Early 90's","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a great time the early 1990's were.  It was still cool to wear some late 80's fashions like neon, tight acid washed jeans, (and unfortunately mullets), but at the same time NO ONE DARED use any 80's lingo like radical, fer sure or gag me with a spoon.  And Grunge was just beginning with the youth of America..  I really love the Goth/early Grunge look of the girlfriend in this movie.  I remember several girls had that look back in the early 90's.Pump up the Volume gets the very early 90's down pretty accurately.  And the message of this film still holds up, even if the fashions and music are dated.  The teen angst is so on target in this film.  This is one of Christian Slater's best films.  I highly recommend it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Timely and entertaining.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was 5 years out of high school in 1990 when I first saw this movie (3 times in the theater) with friends who were just barely out of high school, but it spoke to me in many ways that the 80's teen movies did not. During the 80's I felt that current teen movies were too fluffy. This movie was perfect for the 90's.While I have issues with some of the sub-plots and 2D characters, I felt it successfully illustrated the problems teenagers have, while allowing newer concepts that would have never made it to a Hollywood screen marketed towards teens during the 80's (homosexuality, and a more seriously portrayed alternative character) to be properly addressed. Oddly enough I became less closed minded about gender issues and became goth several years after first seeing this movie.I've seen most of Slaters films, and several of Mathis. I enjoyed the chemistry they share on film, and was happy to seem them together again in Broken Arrow. Slater's role in this movie was excellent, and certainly one of his best.I also appreciated the way they presented the voice that freedom of speech can take. It was a perfect prelude to the vast community of free speech that exploded around us via the Internet just a few short years later. It's sad that it would take a truly dedicated person to have such an impact online, considering how large the Internet community has grown.To all teens of this current age, I urge you to see this teen movie before any other made during the 1980's. Or even if you're an adult who recalls what it was like to be that shy, nervous teen who never fit in. The soundtrack is hip, the movie is serious (Heathers is like...a fairy tale on drugs), and Slater and Mathis are damn cute!  "},{"Title":"Great flick, Slater and Mathis carry this one WAY beyond the rest...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is for all those people that, for lack of a voice, didn't bother to ever speak their mind.  Teenage angst?  Yeah.  Adult corruption, boredom, the sense of being royally shafted by the world at large?  That too. I've seen this move a lot of times on cable, and purchased the DVD when I saw it in the rack. Why?  Mainly because I'm a fan of Slater's just-this-side-of-deranged intensity, and also because of Mathis's portrayal of a not-in-the-popular-group teenager who still has a soul to speak with. Apparently the two dated for awhile; I can see the chemistry in the acting, and think it a shame that they had a falling out.  The two clicked well on screen.  Oh well, So Be It.Having been a geek with a speech impediment myself (my tongue locked up and made incomprehensible noise in the presence of cute girls, really embarrassing) AND having been the Self-Assured Voice Behind The Microphone (radio operator for a search/rescue team in college), I really think that people like Mark/Hard Harry are a tonic for what ills us.Watch this Movie.  Find your Voice, and Use It.  Talk Hard. "},{"Title":"Fun and interesting.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have read some of the comments about Pump Up the Volume here, and can't say I disagree with many of them.  I happen to like the movie a lot, but I can see how some might find it silly or stereotypical in places, or just not their cup of tea.To me, though, this film does a great job of touching on a lot of issues in its 95 minutes.  Many of the characters are funny and memorable.  The editing is very crisp and the soundtrack is excellent.  Unlike 90% of so-called teen movies, this one doesn't rely on guns, violence or gratuitous sex.No, Pump Up the Volume raises questions - about our society, about being young, about questioning authority.  It doesn't pretend to have neat solutions to difficult problems any more than Christian Slater's character does in the film.  But it tackles more stuff than most movies, and you can laugh to it.  That alone puts it head and shoulders above most movies made for teenagers.  You'll sure finish this film with more to talk about than after Ferris Bueller.Slater is very good as Hard Harry, the pirate DJ.  I have a huge crush on Samantha Mathis, my favorite actress.  I think she's great in this film and is a wonderful actress. "},{"Title":"Film's Message Speak Your Mind","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is probably my favourite movie. Why? Maybe it's because I'm a teen, maybe it's because I believe in speaking up for what I believe in, or maybe because the film simply moved me.Maybe it's all of the above.This film is about a shy teen that moves to a small town from New York City, and has a radio type of device to keep in touch with his friends back in NYC. Instead, he decides to use the device as a pirate radio station where he spews spontaneous comments, responds to people's letters and speaks his mind about the school he goes to. Of course, the parents and teachers don't like this, so they try to do something about it.This movie was unfairly compared to Heathers, which it should not have been. Clearly, Pump Up the Volume is a better movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but loses allure over time","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out when I was 15, and thought it was really well done. I still like it better than John Hughes movies, which most people around my age were obsessed with. This movie was one of the few that didn't engage in the ritual glorification of high school life, nor the woe-is-me theme, but acknowledged high school as a discreet period that comes to an end, and shows an almost moby-dick like obsession with Hard Harry.On the other hand, after watching it again, many of the adult characters had their cardboard moments whose acting (or lack of acting) slightly stretched the limits of believability.The only other drawback was that some people take it just a little too seriously-- ironic because that was always what Christian Slater's character was trying to avoid...All in all, a good film I was happy to see again after so many years-- but i place it behind Heathers.-Dean  "},{"Title":"This is my most favorite film!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I recommend this movie to every teenager out there. It really speaks to teenagers about the problems we face. It's about a guy who has a pirate radio station. At ten o'clock he is Happy Harry Hardon and he shows the teenagers of Paradise Hills, Arizona a new kind of music, and a new way of thinking. During the day he's Mark Hunter, a painfully shy new kid who has trouble talking to anyone. Hard Harry's views on the highschool, Hupert Humphrey High, and life in general, cause an uproar from the adults. The cast is great, with Christian Slater as Hard Harry/Mark Hunter(one more reason to see this film)and Samantha Mathis as Nora Dinero, the girl that finds out Hard Harry's true idenity. The soundtrack is great,too. It has songs from Concrete Blond, Ivan Neville,Liquid Jesus, The Pixies, and others. This is a great movie, so check it out!! "}{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this movie on the Showcase late-revue back in December,and I must say I loved it !!!Slater and Mathis are great in the lead roles.Slater gives his best performance.The script and and direction by Allan Moyle are outstanding.Contains language and some nudity(Mathis topless).All around great.Rating***** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Talk Hard!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" *Pump Up The SPOILERS* Mark Hunter (Christian Slater) has just moved into an anonymous Arizona town from NY; he has no friends and the school sucks some serious a s s.He has a quite fulfilling hobby, though; he is none other than Happy Hard Harry, the DJ his schoolmates love to listen to.But after a schoolmate, Malcom, commits suicide after having misunderstood what Mark was trying to tell him, everything seems to snowball, and our hero will find himself in tough waters.The only help will come from classmate Nora DiNiro (Samantha Mathis), but will it be enough? And what actually is that nasty principal lady hiding? Once every generation comes a movie that represents it, and it seems that 'Pump Up The Volume' got the early '90s (and I can say it got the early 2000s too) teenagers, in their self-loathing, anger at the world and rage against the conformism.A strong script, solid directing and good actors (Slater in particular) turn 'Pump Up The Volume' into a real cult movie.Remember, 'Truth Is A Virus'.Pump Up The Volume 9/10. "},{"Title":"Solid teen-movie/ Slater vehicle","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Christian Slater does well with a good script in this smart teen-movie. I call it a movie and not a film because there are certain liberties taken, and it never tries to pass itself off as something it isn't, it's good entertainment with a point about free-speech to boot.Slater plays a nerd, he broadcasts a pirate radio show from home, unbeknown to his family and school, and everyone else who takes offence when listening (namley adults/authority figures who don't get it). It takes off when he starts getting noticed, then things spiral out of control.Not a bad drama, it has an excellent soundtrack, likable characters, and look out for a scene in the library where Slater picks up the book How to talk dirty and influence people, this is Lenny Bruce's autobiography, and is a must for all culture junkies/comedy fans; Bruce essentially died for opening his mouth, he was hounded by police and the Government because he dared to use swear words in his live act think about this next time you swear in public and be thankful Lenny died so we can say what we please.Pump Up The Volume was one from my teenage years, but its still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"One of the best scripts of the year","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you have ever heard the song Everybody Knows by Concrete Blonde and now Leonard Cohen, you will know what this film is about without ever having to watch it. I'm not saying not to see this film because this is one incredible movie. But what I am saying is Everybody Knows is a song about a bunch of things that people do to deceive, cheat, lie, coerce, judge by race and many other issues that virtuous people believe that they could never be a part of. Pump Up The Volume is an important film because it shows how difficult life can be for everyone. Whether you are rich, poor, brilliant, not so smart, loner or popular socialite, we all have our problems. And this shows it from a high schoolers perspective. I think Pump Up The Volume was perhaps the complete antithesis of fun teen movies like a lot of the John Hughes comedies that came out in the 80's. Not that his films didn't show kids with their share of problems growing up, but this one is much grittier, much darker and more angry than Sixteen Candles, Fasttimes and even The Breakfast Club. PUTV had a lot to say and those of us that did see it when it came out instantly related to it. Mark/Harry brings up a lot of issues that we should all pay attention to. And I think this film relates to people on a level that very few films can. It talks to it's audience. It has insight, it has advice and sometimes it just says that it understands.Every generation has their own version of stress When you are elderly, perhaps you are worried about when your number is up. Maybe you worry about if your retirement fund is adequate enough to survive on. When you are in the prime of your adult years, perhaps you worry about how your kids are turning out, if the mortgage is going to be paid on time, if your job is secure, taxes and such. But when you are a teen your worries may not seem all that great to some adults but when you are feeling secluded, or left out, or geeky or a failure because you can't live up to your parents expectations, or you feel like a loner because you don't play sports or you don't have as much money as some of the other kids, those are very traumatizing issues. That is what this film does. It breaks down barriers and shows that kids have a voice. Kids have a mind and if it is allowed to be used properly, then that voice can help others. Maybe even open other eyes to some of the inequities that surround us. Pump Up The Volume has so much to say and so much of it gospel. I really believe that this is more of an important film than people gave it credit for. It should be checked out. Besides all the hoopla that I just ranted and raved about, it does have a great cast, great music, a wicked story, and it is funny in many parts. So it does have something for everyone. But there is so much more to this film than what is first thought of. Maybe if films like this were more adulated, then we could see the warning signs for things like Columbine. Because when it comes down to it, all Columbine was, was kids speaking out. They did it the wrong way but they were speaking out. They could have been characters in Pump Up The Volume. They could have been. And maybe movies that talk and have something important to say about todays youth should be adhered to a little more.Steve Martin's character in The Grand Canyon said  watch the movies. they have all of life's answers. He couldn't have been more right, especially when it comes to this one. "},{"Title":"energetic teen rebel movie","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Mark Hunter (Christian Slater) is a loner and a quiet nobody during the day in an Arizona high school. During the night, he's the popular anonymous pirate radio DJ Hard Harry. His father moved the family from New York to become the youngest school commissioner. Jan Emerson (Ellen Greene) is Mark's beloved English teacher. Nora Diniro (Samantha Mathis) works to uncover Hard Harry's true identity. Hard Harry fails to talk down suicidal student Malcolm Kaiser who ends up killing himself. Soon principal Creswood, the police, the media and even the FCC are after the mystery DJ.This is a great title to a terrific teen rebel movie. Slater has the power and the pure energy. This and Heathers are two of the best high school movies with a darker edge. It is in line with a long tradition of movies similar to Rebel Without a Cause. Samantha Mathis has enough dark edge to match him. This hits the teenage angst right on target. It also has an eclectic mix of music. "},{"Title":"this is how the 90s felt","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Interesting to watch this movie 24 years after it was released. It really 'spoke' to me when I was a teenager. What I found interesting watching it as an adult was how much I agreed with Mark (Christian Slater) about how strange it is to live in Arizona. He keeps telling his parents 'People are weird here, I can't talk to anyone, they don't understand me.' I'm sure it was only a way to make him seem at odds with his classmates. But so peculiar that I feel the same way as an adult living in Arizona and coming from the mid-west. People in Arizona are strange, and very different...definitely not easy to get along with. Nobody gets me here...this was an unexpected feeling as I watched this again and was able to connect to the main character on a different level than as a teenager. "},{"Title":"The Truth Is a Virus","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Wow is all i can say to this movie - this will most likely be the only review I will ever write, after being a long time user of IMDb.This movie is my favorite for the basic fact that I saw it when I was a teenager, being 17 years old it spoke to me - In a little less dramatic way than that of the movie. The attitude of defining normal, in a society where conforming is forced. He becomes the voice he was himself searching for, touching the hearts and minds of his peers. And in doing so he goes from a quite, shy, confused out of place teenager to a strong bold lay it all on the line young adult.Slater has a reserved place in my retro nostalgic memories and I salute him and Mathis for the performance that will forever remind me how awesome young love was and the hope I have that all will experience it in whatever form at at whatever age. And forever reminding me that everyone has a voice, but take care - you are responsible for what you say, because you cant take it back once the words have left your lips.Peace. "},{"Title":"Do you care where your parents are?","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Mark has just moved to Arizona from the East Coast. His parents give him a short-wave radio so he can talk to his pals. But he sets up a pirate Station, going under the pseudonym of D.J. Hard Harry, and becomes a hero to his peers while inspiring the wrath of the local high school principal. When one of Harry's listeners commits suicide and chaos breaks out at the school, the authorities are called in to put a stop to Harry's broadcasts....Made in a time when Slater was at the height of his Heartthrob-ness, and to be fair he was a pretty big deal in the early nineties (if you were fifteen), The film is like a big sunshine Strawberry smoothie, with a little teen angst thrown in.Slater does channel a kind of profane, alcohol induced Spider-man in his performance. By day, a shy, spectacle wearing back of the class type student, by night, well, you get the gist.And he has never been better, and I really don't know what happened from there. His Harry is something many the targeted demographic could only dream of doing.He's honest, funny, sympathetic, and full of empathy, yet he still inspires anarchy across the very small town, and obviously, it irks the older population of the town.The soundtrack too, is wonderful, playing a kind of narrative in itself, and only adds a little more depth to the film.There are minor flaws in the film, stereotypes are rife throughout the film, but it wasn't aimed at most people, it was aimed at misunderstood teens, and at one point in our lives, we were one of those.Still cool 23 years on.... "},{"Title":"A Very Entertaining Movie","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Mark Hunter (Christian Slater) is a new student at Hubert H. Humphrey High School who recognizes some of the problems there and decides to vent his perceptions on his short-wave ham radio. Soon the students at the school start tuning him in and he becomes a cult figure to them by the name of Hard Harry. But the more his influence increases the more threatening he becomes to some of the staff at the high school who are more concerned with their own agendas than the students. Anyway, what I liked most about this movie was the passion displayed by Christian Slater who seemed perfect for this role. I also liked the performance by Samantha Mathis (as Nora Diniro) who really added some definite chemistry between her and Mark. Very remarkable. On the flip side, however, this movie has more than its fair share of vulgarity which some viewers may find offensive. That aside I thought it was a very entertaining movie and I rate it as above average. "},{"Title":"A Period Piece","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is definitely more a period piece than anything else but I thought that was fantastic. Angst is heavily present but I felt that the soundtrack really defined it. What happened in the movie to me didn't really matter, I felt that it was more about just the lifestyle and the time period of the late 80s. I think its a wild ride into the mind of a teenager at the time.Well-made and just really interesting to look at.Worth a view, you definitely won't regret seeing this movie; very entertaining and enlightening. I was changed by the end of it, I've never been the same. Ima a completely different person. i don't even know who i am anymore thanks to this film "}{"Title":"Review & Music Question","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Great movie, seen it in the theater when it first came out and loved it, still do. I loved the chemistry between all the character's and how the plot went. I felt similar to him during those years, so I connected really well with the the way the movie went.I advise any and everyone to at least see it once. I bought it as soon as it was released and have had it since, still watch it every now and then. There is a piece of music at the beginning during the bus scene that I can not find any information about. I have wanted that song since I heard it then, but can't find out what it is. If anybody know's (parden the pun)could you please post it for me, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank You. "},{"Title":"The darkness of the teenage years","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie, directed Alan Moyle, who would later go on to direct Empire Records, deals with the lives of teenagers in a small American Country Town. This movie grasps the pointlessness and meaninglessness of their lives at the turn of the 90's. It is not that they have no direction, but rather they are seeking an identity that is not forced upon them by their parents.I guess the main theme of this movie is the nature of one's identity, and the reality of freedom of speech. Both of these come together to help us understand the struggle that teenagers face today. Happy Harry Hardon, through a pirate radio station, is the voice of the teenagers in this town, and has enlightened them and given them a direction to go. Through his radio station, he simply speaks his mind and tries to relate to all in this town, whether they be a jock or a nerd. It is not the typical struggle between the teenagers here, but rather a united front as they struggle against their parent's rule.What we see here are not people who want to be fiercely independent but rather they want a voice. In years past, there was no such thing as a teenager. You were a child and then you were an adult, and the time in life between 12 and 18 was a time when you became an adult. Now, with the marketing ploy invented in the fifties, we have a group of people who feel grown up yet treated like children. They have their own problems, not just fitting in with each other, but fitting into a society that treats them like children, while they believe that they are no longer are children.The life of a teenager was not always as bad as it is these days. This movie does address the idea of youth suicide where one character kills himself simply because he has been isolated. Harry feels responsible because he was the last person to talk to him, and this was the beginning of what can be seen as his epiphany. The entire movie is him not only coming to terms with who he is, but more so what he has become. He is torn between closing down his pirate radio station and getting out while he still can, or continuing and leading the teenagers of the town in a united front against the oppression that the community puts on them.At one stage he attacks guidance councillors, and in fact is constantly slagging guidance councillors. Now, I actually agree with him to a point because I remember my guidance councillor from my school, and it was simply somebody who seemed to force people to do things that she wanted us to do. The thing that he is attacking here is the adults' habit of mapping out their children's lives. This is more so the case with the councillors because they will pick a job for the students and then force them to do it. In some cases, at that age, we really do not know what we want to do. We are being bombarded by images everywhere, being told what to think and do and not being allowed to think or act for ourselves. They claim that it is for our own protection because we don't understand, but sometimes it is good for people to grow through having their fingers burnt.I think this movie is important as it not only tries to open our eyes to the state that teenagers, and youths, are in, but also it tries to tell us that we have things to say, and as human beings, we have a right to have a voice. That is the essence of the end of the movie. The state is trying to shut out our voice, but we want to continue to speak because we have issues that we want to discuss. It is not that Harry was shut down at the end, but rather because before he was taken away, his message went out to all of the youth in America, and as he was taken away, he was taken as a martyr whose message touched the hearts and minds of all the youth around the nation who went off and followed him. It is not that we find out what happened to him, but rather than in the end the message got out. He went down a martyr, but martyrs live on and leave a legacy behind them. "},{"Title":"Not Too Loud Though!","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Christian Slater plays Mark Hunter, a shy teenager who has just moved from the East coast to Arizona. His parents give him a short wave radio set that he turns into a pirate radio station where his shyness evaporates, and instead he uses the handle Hard Harry, where he vents his frustrations and confusions to his fellow teenagers, who it turns out are very receptive to this message, and Hard Harry finds himself the most popular and influential person in town, much to his high school principal's consternation. Things take a dark turn when a troubled teenage listener commits suicide, and the authorities become eager to shut down his illegal broadcasts.Smart and appealing film has a fine performance from Christian Slater, that really speaks to the hearts and minds of teenagers, and still rings true. Dramatically uneven, but will resonate strongly with people who like to listen to talk radio. "},{"Title":"Pump Up the Volume &#x97; Teenage angst and raising your voice to defy the status quo","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Pump Up the Volume might have been the true opening salvo of the 90s, and the voice of Generation X, but it speaks to every teen of every generation.It is about raising your voice, being heard, but only with the advent of the Internet was its dream fully realized.This is the type of movie that will make you want to write your own blog, make a video journal, or do a podcast. It has that quality that grip people attention and make them do things worthwhile with their lives.It's an excellent performance by a young Christian Slater, and the rest of the cast. The whole story, every scene, each dialog, they all ring of authenticity. And the soundtrack is amazing.It might be getting old, but it doesn't feel like it. "},{"Title":"HHH High School gets its own Howard Beale","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In a career dotted with offbeat and quirky roles Christian Slater was at his most offbeat and quirky in Pump Up The Volume. Slater plays a young transfer student from an eastern high school to a new school in Arizona. His Clark Kent persona is a mild mannered wallflower type. But his father made the mistake of giving him a short wave radio set to keep in touch with friends back east who are presumably ham radio operators. What Slater does is create his own pirate radio station and starts with another whole personality of disc jockey Harry Hardon. Slater's other self isn't Superman, he's more like a teenage version of Howard Beale from Network.He's amusing at first until one of the students commits suicide after calling in and Slater does little to discourage his intentions. That's a hard call to make, even professionals miss telltale signs of that kind of serious depression.But when Slater starts disrupting the power structure in the person of principal Annie Ross, the hunt is on with even the Federal Communications Commission brought in to track down this broadcasting felon. Imagine Nurse Ratched from One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest as a school principal and you've got Ross. The main weakness of Pump Up The Volume is that Slater and Ross create the only two memorable characters. All the rest are strictly in support, we get no insights into any of the rest of the cast. But these two are memorable characters. A teenage mad prophet of the air and a school principal from hell.Pump Up The Volume is a staple for Christian Slater fans. "},{"Title":"It gets better, if you can talk to someone...","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" To me, it's the perfect companion piece to Heathers. It has the same message, but this time Slater's character is the voice of reason who the audience can side with, instead of an agent of destruction...Many of the same themes are touched upon in the two films; how hard it is to be an adolescent when you feel like you're being disenfranchised, and the sense of feeling shepherded into the uniform lines of conformity that produce the obedient workers of the future. However, in contrast to the dark tone of Heathers, Pump up the Volume strikes an optimistic note of people banding together to build something, rather than the savage nihilism that says to induce change, you have to completely obliterate things and start again.Ultimately, doing your best to get the message heard makes a heck of a lot more sense than simply putting a bomb under the problem, and then absolving yourself of the results. "},{"Title":"Pump Up The Volume is the best movie in 1990","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I like the movie, Pump Up the Volume, it's a good movie in the decade right now in 2011, this is my favorite film still, Christian Slater's brilliant performance in this 1990 comedy/drama, Slater played as Mark Hunter, a shy high school student who's a independent and quiet young student, but at night he became pirate radio VJ, Hard Harry, and Hard Harry had a voice sound like Jack Nicholson, Samantha Mathis in her film debut as Nora, Nora is sweet, but she is wild, the soundtrack in the movie is great, I like the songs in the film including Leonard Cohen's Everybody Knows, Ice-T, Beastie Boys, and Was Not Was' Dad, I'm in Jail, and the songs also was featured in the soundtrack album also including artists like Soundgraden, Liquid Jesus, Sonic Youth, Above The Law, Peter Murphy, and more, Plot is great, I like this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Can't Think of a Good Summary Line","Date":"24 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Pump Up The Volume stars Christian Slater as Mark, a shy high schooler who has an alter ego. In the evenings, he broadcasts from some equipment set up in his parents basement, creating a radio persona named Hard Harry. He is wild and profane, but talks honestly about that things that bother him as a young adult. Eventally, his classmates begin to discover his broadcast, and the word spreads among them until he is a local phenomenon. Except that no one knows who it is saying all these things, because Mark is quiet and timid in class.He starts talking about some of the questionable practices going on at his school, which gets the attention of the administration and eventually the authorities. The pressure builds as more kids rely on Harry for direction, and more adults are trying to find him and shut him down. It eventually ends with the principal of the school being exposed and fired, just as Harry is discovered and apprehended. We are left to make our own assumptions as to how the student body will respond and move forward now that Harry is off the air.I was pretty apathetic about this story. I didn't find it all that memorable. I think the stuff I enjoyed most was the inspirational parts of Harry's broadcast (mixed in with scatological humor). I thought a lot of it was well written, although not really believable dialog for a high school student. If I had seen this movie when it came out, it might hold some nostalgic value. Watching it for the first time this year, it didn't do much for me. "},{"Title":"Trials of Youth","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" So many movies echo of the days of youth such as Stand By Me, The Outsiders, and The Breakfast Club, but do they really speak to us? Is there one with such a strong, powerful voice that will pull us to our feet, open our eyes, and touch our soul? Is there one, who could talk on and talk hard, holding the world in the sway of his words and in the depth of his heart? What is it in a voice that captivates us? Is it the actor breathing life into fiction or the storyline filled with drama? Either way, we are listening, and the power of speech plays on in the movie, Pump Up The Volume.And Pink Floyd said it best, For millions of years mankind lived just like the animals. Then something happened which unleashed the power of our imagination. We learned to talk. "},{"Title":"Wonderful teen movie","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I write this after watching the movie on German TV. I first saw it somewhat around 1993/1994 and was impressed by it. I had just left my teenager period back then (being born 1974) and could still relate to many issues of it. The story is about a shy kid, new to a small town in the backwoods of Arizona, with no friends. Being a talented writer but too shy to speak openly, he used other ways of expressing himself, utilizing a short-wave emitter to pump his own radio show in the air. He talks about the inhuman politics of the local high school, whose dean was only obsessed with her grade record and not the kids. Many teenager problems get mentioned in this movie, which were important back then and will be as long there are teenagers. The problems of being not understood by the parents or other adults (teachers), the problem of dating, loneliness, homosexuality, free speech and suicide. The movie does not patronize or try to impose any opinion on any of these issues (maybe except suicide). The acting is superb, i count it to be one of the best Slater movies. And the supporting cast is excellent. The obligatory love story is played so sweet and shy that you have to love it. Slater and Mathis fooling around the next day after their first kiss (which is memorable in its own way) is so awkward and sweet like any fresh teen couple.I only give no full 10/10 because of some bad editing and i find the clothes not always correct to date. "}{"Title":"My number one teen flick","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I clearly remember the impact this movie made on me. I was a teenager when it came out. I saw a trailer for it and thought I've GOT to see that movie!. However, none of my friends were available to see it on the premiere night, so I went alone. That's how excited I was to see it. Funny how you can remember details like that, 16 years later. I guess this movie really spoke to me. I know it did. 'Cause I also remember barely talking to my parents for weeks after I saw it.Today I still remember it as the ultimate teen flick, perfectly describing teenage frustration and depression like only The Breakfast Club had done before it.Christian Slater does his best role ever as the introvert Mark Hunter. His family has just moved, and he is unable to make friends at his new school, which is strictly ruled by an uncompromising, unfair principal. At night, Mark sheds his shyness and lets his frustration out on his short wave radio set, believing that no one is listening to the ranting of his pirate radio alter ego, Happy Harry Hard On. He is soon to discover however, that Happy Harry has become the talk of the school.If you haven't seen this yet, you should, especially if you're a teenager. In my opinion, this is an absolute teen classic! "},{"Title":"Not a teen movie","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For me this movie is not so much a teen movie than a real attack toward establishment in small towns, against what is held to be acceptable or not acceptable by community standards. This movie tries to shout the desperation of a whole class of people who just do not want to follow community standards, who do not want to follow community standards, who want to be themselves regardless of all standards.It is, in my opinion, not a teen movie, because the subject of the movie is not so much the so-called high school hierarchy among teens that has been described at length in most of the teen movies but much more movie about the relationship between the youngs/teens and their environment (family, schools, university, etc) that try to restrain these youngs, regardless of their academics, in their life, behavior, relationship ; forcing on them their own beliefs - religious, behavioral - without giving any thought on evolution of society, desperately wanting to reproduce a way of living instead of exploring new ideas and new thoughts.and Pump up the VOlume does a very good job at depicting all this, serving by a great Slater and a good Mathis. The image is a little bit dated (fashion, technology) but the message is even more powerful now.For those who loved Narnia, go away, but for people who appreciate thinking about life and society, this movie is a must-see. "},{"Title":"growing up","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For me this movie meant a lot growing up - it helped me realizing that the most important thing is to listen to yourself and remain true to yourself. Even if you have a tough time growing up - it's better to suck it up than to sell out. That's why I'll always love this movie. It also has an excellent score, check out the soundtrack. Christian Slater is better than I've ever seen him in any other movie. He's a crossover between James Dean and Lenny Bruce. Also the movie is full of cool one-liners(a note book while watching is recommended)-) So check it out - and talk hard! Monika "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" the best movie i have ever seen, anyone who can not relate is just to old to understand or remember what it was like to be a teen. a great movie for those old enough to get the point. the movie is an amazing truth to the lives of teenagers that parents or older adults just don't understand or remember. parents, if you are having trouble understanding your teens, watch this movie. it should give you great insight in to the lives, not that you should but in, but help you understandgood movie, good plot, good actorsall make for a great movie "},{"Title":"No flat spots","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the strengths of this movie is that it maintains its pace from beginning to end. For that reason it is an easy movie to watch multiple times - you don't end up thinking I'd forgotten about this boring bit!Why it works well, is that it accurately expresses (I think) the frustrations and anger of 'teenagers'. As a group of people in contemporary society with plenty of time to think and question, they are denied the ability to participate fully in the life of their society (through the vote, meaningful employment, or even, as in this case, simply being heard).So it is ironic, though realistic, that even despite their decision to struggle against these restrictions, they need the help of adult allies to achieve their goals.Show it to your friends/children/siblings of that age - they deserve to see their angst has meaning! "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent soundtrack, pertinent social commentary, and Slater's knack for acid monologue made this movie pretty engrossing. The quick shot of Harry's stack of cd's tells you he has exceptional taste and is a sharp and enduring character. The Arizona community these kids were relegated to was not without it's deep sense of isolation, from civilization and in-between the inhabitants. You feel like it might as well have been shot in the Northwest Territories of Canada. The houses don't look like homes. Under Harry, there was a real sense of community. And that's what I remember, 'cause it's been awhile since I've seen this. Should it come up on cable again anytime soon, I know I couldn't stop myself from watching it. "},{"Title":"Brilliance, Pure and Simple","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie... words don't describe it. It's just the perfect movie. Everyone knows whats its like to feel like society doesn't care, and that you're lost and alone. This movie is a direct insight to what human nature is like. 10/10. go see it! "},{"Title":"A Movie To Relate To","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Seems that from time to time a really good low key movie becomes a cult favourite. Pump Up The Volume is one of them.  This is a movie I am sure alot of us can relate toand is why it has become such a favourite with the 30-something crowd. Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis play really good characters in this one. This being one of Slater's early pieces of work, he is actually a pleasure to watch as the troubled teen his parents do not understand. It is the rebellian that I think we can relate to when it comes to parents not listening and politician teachers not caring. I am sure that if you watch this movie more than once you will begin to appreciate it more. Lots of funny things we all have done in school and to our parents and lots of things troubled teens have done as well. This is truly a gem of a movie. Samantha Mathis is terrific in this and she is an under rated actress by far. "},{"Title":"Awesome High School Flick","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great flick about high school angst finding its outlet in a pirate radio personality, Happy Harry Hard on.  An  Arizona high school adopts him as their spokesman.  The PTA gets involved when things get serious.  One super cheesy character, the perfect daddys girl, is something I got a big laugh out of.   Slater is cool, Mathis is awesome.  The ending builds to something where most films like it  would fall apart sour, but this thing comes off sweet. "},{"Title":"Sorry for my English...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the movie when I was in my teens...and I couldn't stop thinking about it!! It was like for the first time, a movie could understand my generation. It talked about teenagers's problems, about sex, politics and love! What else to ask for?? Christian Slater at is best... "}{"Title":"terrific teen movie without naivet","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I saw the first minutes of the movie ,I thought what a boring low budget movie but when slater started his radio programme I got more and more convinced that this comes strait to the point in what kind of problems teenagers   have in these days - the same as in the 60`s... I favoured especially the criticism on the parents who were proud on the wild 60`s; I mean the 60`s had a great soundtrack and style but they didnt change to much in the society. I also liked his sharp comments on the mean headmistress and the school consultant.  "},{"Title":"the best teen movie ever !","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Far from those comedy we now see too often on screen, this film is the best teen movie I have ever seen. Maybe I'll change my mind in 20 years but I am not sure of it. The atmosphere is great, not too nave with a bit of a revolution-calling inside. Great acting and great music also (especially the choice of Leonard Cohen just at the right time...). Pump up is a Fight Club for teenager. "},{"Title":"SO BE IT!!!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the best films's of its type, Pump up the Volume shows that we are all alone, yet we all have a voice to be speak out with.I love the film, and I think I get the message Be your self, not a stereotype.TALK HARD! "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all time","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's not often that I can watch a film over and over again, without growing tired of it. Pump up the Volume? Viewed more times than I can remember.. Sit back and relax with your Black Jack gum, smoke a cigarette and rebel against society. Talk Hard! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a great movie. I've waited a long time too see it, before I finally went out and bought the DVD the other day. I've been interested in radio for many years and I think that Christian Slater's character was cool. I wish I had seen this movie sooner, but it was never on TV in my area. "},{"Title":"Message overtakes all film problems","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie had a (presumably) fairly low budget, but it is a movie that I can watch over and over and still think it's great.  Whenever I can't find a movie to rent, and I'm with someone who hasn't seen it, I suggest it and they all agree it's a pretty good movie, and it's got a good message.So, what is the message?  Well, this boy that is usually quite shy starts a radio program through his short-wave radio where he becomes 'happy harry hardon'.  The message of this movie is pretty much be yourself, and it (to me) is a quite powerful way of doing it. "},{"Title":"great movie, interesting to watch!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie and all the characters in it! Christian Slater was amazing and made the movie really funny. My favorite scenes were the scenes where Christian Slater was talking over the radio and I thought it was really clever how Christian's character changed from this agressive d.j to a shy school boy.  The only thing about this movie I didn't like was the ending but all in all i'd have to say it is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Great flick, Slater and Mathis carry this one WAY beyond the rest...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is for all those people that, for lack of a voice, didn't bother to ever speak their mind.  Teenage angst?  Yeah.  Adult corruption, boredom, the sense of being royally shafted by the world at large?  That too. I've seen this move a lot of times on cable, and purchased the DVD when I saw it in the rack. Why?  Mainly because I'm a fan of Slater's just-this-side-of-deranged intensity, and also because of Mathis's portrayal of a not-in-the-popular-group teenager who still has a soul to speak with. Apparently the two dated for awhile; I can see the chemistry in the acting, and think it a shame that they had a falling out.  The two clicked well on screen.  Oh well, So Be It.Having been a geek with a speech impediment myself (my tongue locked up and made incomprehensible noise in the presence of cute girls, really embarrassing) AND having been the Self-Assured Voice Behind The Microphone (radio operator for a search/rescue team in college), I really think that people like Mark/Hard Harry are a tonic for what ills us.Watch this Movie.  Find your Voice, and Use It.  Talk Hard. "},{"Title":"Christian Pumps the Volume up !!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is to be considered one of Chrsitian Slater's best movies. He really fits the character, as the shy new student, with a twist! Samantha is also quite good here. The story is new and interetsing, and will rise your interest to the very end. The Music is also great here! Check out Leonard Cohen! I have always considered this one of my favorite movies when I was younger, so I suggest you rent this and start watching ... you won't be dissapointed. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very good, but one flaw.","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very good movie, with teen angst that, in my opinion rings true. The flaw it has, is that the corrupt faculty sub-plot was out of place with the rest of the film, and it felt tacked on. Other than that, this is a very good teen angst movie. Christian Slater is superb. Overall, one flaw can't hurt this entertaining teen angst movie. *** (out of four) "}{"Title":"A great Teen Angst Movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hard-on Harry, Slater's angry-young-man DJ, is one of the great teen characters in film history.  As a bonus, Samantha Mathis and he really click as a couple (Lucky Her!).  The choice of music on the soundtrack is fantastic, but Slater's soulful performance is actually an improvement on James Dean's classic diffidence in Rebel Without A Cause.  This underrated gem of the film is not only entertaining and audience-pleasing and memorable, but works on deeper levels as well. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Excellent Foundation","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite films, it really speaks to anyone who has felt frustrated at their inability to express how they feel inside due to the strictures of their surroundings.Slater is excellent throughout giving a believable performance as the distressed youth acting out to express his inner rage.  Whilst some characters appear as cardboard cut outs that is inevitable in trying to deal with issues of this scale within the confines of a film time scale and budget (Heathers suffered from exactly the same problem).In many ways Pump Up The Volume laid the model that has been taken up and expanded on by shows such as Dawsons Creek and Buffy.  The role of the outsider in society can be a lonely one but, as this film and those series show, it is an all too common one. "},{"Title":"I love this movie,don't ask me why","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One think i've learned from this movie is that you can often identify with a movie or song even if your brain doesn't completely agree.For one this is the only movie i 've ever felt i had to share my thoughts with perfect strangers on the web.I won't even try to summarize  it as this is what everyone seems to be doing.Anyway i first saw it as a teenager and of course it was love at first sight.I won't try to convince anyone else,talking about Slater or the story,which has many faults.But this exactly what amazes even myself.I've watched since hundreds of movies,enough for me to be able to say that i can't be satisfied any more by a couple of good perfomances and a very good soundtrack,even with today's standards.But for some reason i still love this movie.So most of the characters(especially the adults)are 2-dimensional,there are too many sub-plots,some of which don't work and generally speaking this movie could have been much bolder but for some  ****ing reason this movie makes much more sense to me than othes,which i might have found to be more complete.So be it! "},{"Title":"Music to your ears","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I usually don't watch teenage flicks but when i saw this one i changed my mind.The plot is very new nothing you ever watched before and the actors are doing an excellent job and another great thing is the music which is always playing in the background.If you ask me this film is much better then the blockbusters like  American pie .So please watch this one not some chumpy new s***. "},{"Title":"I have fun with this movie every time I watch it!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a good show, I mean you get Christian Slater in almost every scene. That alone makes for a good movie but besides that you get that old forgotten high school rebellion feeling.  Its funny, it gets exciting at the end, makes you want to go back to high school and beat up your principal!!! Rent this now!!! "},{"Title":"The least timely film in the history of cinema","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Allan Moyle crafts a movie that boldly predicts the phenomenal growth of underground pirate radio stations to liberate the oppressed masses (children) from the scourge of the oppressors (adults) except for Ellen Greene, the only teacher that cares.  Moyle does this just before the birth of the Internet !!It's actually a cute and enjoyable flick, with Christian Slater in the role most comfortable for him, the charismatic rebel. And Samantha Mathis throws in some thoroughly enjoyable gratuitous nudity. Attaboy Moyle!!The irony of predicting growth in old technology just before new technology declares the old to be obsolete is really fantastic.  I don't think there are any films declaring CB-radios as the wave of change just before cell phones were invented.So Mr. Moyle, the prize is yours. First prize is a two week vacation in Colombine, Colorado, where you should be very happy helping young disaffected youths to find ways to rebel against authority.  Using the Internet, ofcourse. "},{"Title":"Copy Hard!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie seems to take elements of other movies, and pump them up, though some of them are tamed down a lot.  I really wish that the movie was more original than what it was, and had a better ending, because I liked to watch it.  It was a fun movie with semi-deep thoughts.  The moral of the movie always finish what you start or don't start what you can't continue.  The movie rips off the classic and amazing Network for its ending (which was called strangely prophetic).  Network came from the early to mid '70s.  It also had elements of the far superior and more meaningful Heathers. Plot  Teenage kid is loner who moves to Suburbia.  He makes up his own pirate radio show.  The show is controversial it gets really good ratings (see Network).  Suicide is involved (see other two movies).  This all leads to an almost fitting ending, which seems strangely reminiscent of Heathers.  *****SPOILERS*****SPOILERS*****SPOILERS*****SPOILERS*****  So, the ending it leads to is that the loner got a huge teenage following and an adult enemy.  He is arrested, sacrificing himself to change the lives and attitudes of the teenagers.  That is Heathers in a nutshell.  However, in Drama, everything seems so black and white, and uncomplicated.  In satire, you know that everything was made almost one-dimensional on purpose, and have to delve and think to get the depth of the meaning.    Acting  Better than usual quality for 80s teenage movies.  Look for Lin Shaye in a cameo (she was from the first three Farrelly Brothers movies i.e. Kingpin).  So, check this movie out, however, you really should see both Heathers and Network which are both far superior in their attempts to satirize a) the media, b) the followings of the public, c) teenagers (Heathers only), and d) self-sacrifice.  They are both better.  However, this movie is very entertaining, and should be seen by most people who have open minds about this type of movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not just a teen movie","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, message pictures with a teen-age protagonist normally aren't my thing.  But c'mon, this is a flippin' great movie! Great script, great acting, wonderful music, truisms up the yin-yang, it's the ultimate teen rebellion story, and so much more.  BTW, I'm 19 now.  I saw this 2 1/2 times on cable last year, and I'm ever so glad I did.  The movie's aged reallywell, too... in our post-Internet society, the ending is strangely prophetic.  In other words, go see it!!!  "},{"Title":"superb acting by Christian Slater - let down by Hollywood melodrama...","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Dont let my summary put you off - this is ONE superb film. Christian Slater simply OWNS this film - his acting is flawless, his presence is enormous, and he carries off the film with great panance - without his acting, this film would be a complete dodo in my opinion. The plot focusse's around a pirate DJ broadcasting late at night to a mid-west's towns schoolkids - only that nobody knows who the DJ's real identity is. The radio station is actually operated by Christian's character from his basement, and he tries his best to keep it quiet - until a girl from the school (who fancies him), finds out who he is.. that's the basic plotline, but the BIG letdown is really near the end. Full of typical hollywood kids and some really crap music (except for Christian's pirate radio bits - maybe he had a choice in the music in his scenes and not in others?????).... Considering that the film was made in 1990, the ending of it is SOOOOOOO hollywood brat-pack 80's - this shouldnt turn you off the film as it only happens near the end. 3/4's of the film is pure Christian giving it as best he can - and what a star....one of my favourite films of all time. A definite sleeper film that you should pick up at your video store....  "},{"Title":"One of The Greatest Movies","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I have ever seen,  It deals with so many issues and makes you think!  Slater gives a first-class performance as Hard Harry Hard On. I have adopted 'so be it' into my everyday vocabulary! What a philosophy! "}{"Title":"A thoughtful, liberating teen movie","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was one of the best movies about teenagers I've seen before or since. Christian Slater is marvelous and believable.  It's a shame we haven't seen him do any work similar to this and his other Heathers-era roles.  A good movie for any age over 14. "},{"Title":"So be it!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the film two weeks ago for the first time, first just because of Christian Slater, but I really LOVE it!!! Christian is perfect in his role as Mark Hunter, the shy guy who becomes Happy Harry at 10pm, and the plot is amazing! It really made me think, sentences like The truth is a virus and the whole atmosphere. So, don't read this comments, WATCH IT!(But, why is the song Everybody knows on the soundtrack by Concrete Blonde and in the film they play the version by Leonard Cohen???) "},{"Title":"israeli comments on a great film","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  and again christian slater gives a great preformance in a movie remeberable for generation. a movie which new generation new teenagers will grow upon a fascinating script of how to get in in the world that surrounds us. great job christian!! "},{"Title":"Laugh, laugh, laugh!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is probably the movie performance for which Christian Slater will be remembered forever. Already a cult classic, Pump Up the Volume is a great film about a shy teenager in a new town who comes alive at night to broadcast music he loves (which is totally new to the area) and DJ on a shortwave radio. Samantha Mathis plays the girl who discovers who Happy Harry Hard On really is, and there is of course the expected romantic plot there. This movie is hilarious, but more than that, it's a great movie for teens because of its Free Speech and uncensoring (and uncensored!) messages. I have watched this movie once a year since I was fourteen, and I have loved it each time. (Although the older I get, the more I mostly love it for nostalgic purposes). Talk hard, and don't see this movie with your parents if you are at all shy--he gets pretty graphic at times.  "},{"Title":"I think we should stop for a station identification.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just have to say that PUMP UP THE VOLUME is the best movie ever.  Every chance I get, I try to de-virginize people that haven't seen the movie yet. I have PUMP UP THE VOLUME parties with both people that have and have not seen the movie.  To everyone out there I suggest you do the same. If you know someone that has not seen the movie, sit them down and make them watch it. I promise they will thank you.  Talk Hard! "},{"Title":"TALK HARD STEEL THE AIR","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best films that I have every seen. Some of the lines are great. My favorites ARE probably TALK HARD STEEL THE AIR AND THE TRUTH IS A VIRUS now that's a powerful statement.   "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL!!!!!!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a WONDERFUL movie!! Christian Slater at his best!!!!  If you haven't seen this movie, there must be something physically wrong with you because this is the most awesome movie.  It stars Hard Harry, a quiet loner by day, a sex crazed free sprited pirate radio dj by night.  It correctly portrays the life of teenagers and their high school delimas, and it shows the reality of life during the 90's.  THIS MOVIE IS THE BOMB!!!!!!!!! It is a must see!  So Be It.  That is my motto. TALK HARD!! "},{"Title":"Don't forget to eat your cereal with a fork and do your homework in the dark!!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really loved this movie!  I especially love Christian Slater's performance!  I loved the plot, the acting, and the music!  I think this is one of Christian Slater's best performances (and trust me, I have seen most of them!)!   "},{"Title":"Awesome Teenage Angst","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The greatest film ever? It certainly was in my teen years.Allan Moyles' outstanding script combined with exceptional acting from Slater and Mathis beautifully portrays the real anxiety and fears of trying to live up to everyone's expectations through your teenage years.The dialogue, music and Arizona back drops truly touches deep into your soul, forcing you to question the continual pressures that succumb the youth of today.If you're aged 14 - 18 then rent this film asap as I promise it will change your life for ever. However, if you're past eighteen you might struggle to identify with the movie's core message.10/10 "},{"Title":"Christian Slater at his best.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Christian Slater may have some great performances but this is the one that I thought was his best.  There is so much in this film that you can relate to which makes it above average teen-appeal film some classify it as.  The speeches Slater gives at some parts of the movie are just great and it really wants to make you get your own pirate radio station.  This is easily the best in its type. "}{"Title":"TALK HARD!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the greatest movies out. Directed by Allan Moyle, who also directed Empire Records. This movie  is great from beginning to end. The Song Everybody Knows by Leonard Cohen is a smooth intro for Christan Slater's on-air antics. On the Rosie O'Donnel Show Slater said Pump up the Volume was his favorite film to make. he said Everyone seems to like seeing him play crazy. If you haven't seen it watch. If you have seen it watch it again. This is one movie for the youth of America. If you like Crazy Slater shines in this one, just like in Heathers. "},{"Title":"its strengths shine through its faults","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I was young and thought it was incredible and very powerful.  Now with more experience, I can see that film does have some serious faults.  The evil principle plot is weak and cliched.  It makes the entire film seem like a bad plot to a bad sitcom.Yet that is not at all what is memorable about PUMP UP THE VOLUME.  No, what stands out is the attitude put forth by Slater's character.  It speaks in the language which just about everyone can relate to as it says that just because your life may be judged as worthless, that does not mean that it is so.  When describing this, it is striking how cliched that sounds and one might conclude that the film is the same.  But it is not.  Rather the film explains that message without ever saying so. "},{"Title":"TALK HARD!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everybody knows that the dice are loaded....Everything original's been done....Hello Dad, I'm in JAIL!!!!....Can I take your order please....... "},{"Title":"So Be It!!!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Pump up the Volume is full of morals that any teenager should check out. Christian Slater provides us with an excellent role as Happy Hard Harry and this film is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"Talk Hard!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of my personal favorites. The movie contains Christian Slater's best performance to date as a shy teen who comes alive at night as a the anonymous host of a one-man illegal radio station, harassing the corrupt officials of his high school. Samantha Mathis plays 'the eat me beat me lady' (don't ask) and has since proven that her fresh performance wasn't a coincidence. Although the film in not perfect (the subplot about the 'evil' principle is unnecessary), it's an uplifting experience for everybody who thinks life as a High School student wasn't that great. The soundtrack deserves to be mentioned, especially Concrete Blonde's version of Leonard Cohen's 'Everybody Knows'. In all, a '10'. "},{"Title":"Real life pump up the volume!","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In an unknown area of Clearwater Fl There is a real life Pump up the volume Middle and High School kids on air from 730pm EST to ? 7 days a week! Sometimes the shows are really funny and sometimes there really boring, but the letters and phone calls make up for it. Heard them calling teachers the other night and it was pretty funny. They were very polite and professional but caught a lot of them off guard with questions. It's always fun to stump a teacher with a question about there subject that they teach. Anyways tune in sometime at 96.7 FM in a small area of Clearwater or they also stream the net at www.wkid967fm.com Nice website and studio also! I listen in on there website but you can also search for them at many web radio sites like audiorealm.com, v-tuner.com, or shoutcast.com just search wkid. I've also seen stories on them by yahoo searching wkid 96.7 "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a shame that so few have seen this resplendent film. The acting is stellar, the storyline profound--everything about this movie is splendid. It channels the atmosphere of being a teenager better than any film I've ever seen and gives better advice to them than any therapist I've ever met. Go crazy, Steal the air, The Earth needs healing. Not only should every teen see it, so should every parent of a teen. The music's great too. While made in the 90s, the film takes on a similar to that of those wonderful 80s teen movies, like Pretty In Pink and The Breakfast Club. If you can find this movie, rent it. Hell, steal it if you have to. It is pure genious. "},{"Title":"Pump up the volume","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen this movie not once and i must say I'm getting stunned by it's massage every single time. It's really amazing how grown up people who claim to be smarter oftenly go to the easy way of blaming others in the problems they created by their very own narrow minded hands. I hope that everyone who saw it took it's massage with him forever.Love, Liv. "},{"Title":"Pump Up the Vietnam","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Recently I saw the movie Good morning, Vietnam, and I understood this was much like Pump Up The Volume, some kind of its ancestor, you know. But since I saw PUTV first, I liked it more that GMV. May be that's because I'm from generation of 80's, nether of 60's. Anyway, you know, I got a job on a radio station after seeing PUTV. It was fun, but... Couldn't do what Mark deed in the movie. (Sorry guys). As for me, PUTV in the best Slater's movie. The guy's young, still has urge to fight... Unfortunatley, these times passed. Such tricks never gonna work again, But... who knows...10/10. Actors work, screen play and the real spirit of late 80's-early 90's. The wind of change! "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed Pump Up The Volume quite a lot. Christian Slater's performance was dead-on and Samantha Mathis was well cast. The film gives kids who feel they're different an outlet, letting them understand it's okay to be different. The film reminded me of being in high school very much. "}{"Title":"Terrible name for an excellent film","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sums up all the angst of being young..who wouldn't want their own pirate radio station in which you can do whatever you like? Christian shines in this one..and Samantha Mathis isn't bad either.The soundtrack is most excellent as well. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie - Brilliant Actors","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Excellent Movie - Brilliant Actors. The only defect of this film is that there is no DVD version other than the US one. This is the best movie I had ever seen on Teenager life. Each teenager in the world has to see this movie. The movie is a lampoon on the way of being opposed to the authorities and of feeling free. For a teenager, that can be a beginning of emancipation without any violence or subversive act. The film shows well the limits of the first amendment concerning the freedom of expression especially for the teenagers. To see absolutely for the subject, the actors performance and the quality of scenario. I Hope we can have an international version in almost or all languages. "},{"Title":"A Late great for this Why-Bother Generation...a decade late","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If I could have been there to see this movie in theaters-I would have been. Being that I was only 2 years old, it really wouldn't of had much effect on me, like Cinderella did at the time. Little did I know that from my ages of wanting to be a Disney Princess, in the make believe world of the happiest place on Earth, that I would view this film and be hit hard by the Hard Man himself, flying me into a f-you state of mind that would change my life forever. Even more than the hopes of meeting Prince Charming and wearing glass slippers. It wasn't until about two years ago that I watched this film for the first time. My stepmother, a true member of the why bother generation of the 80s decided that now that I was entering High School, it was time for me to watch the movies that really counted way back when. So, she got started, the 80s became my Bible-thank god for that. Being a freshman, I started to assume the roll as a blah blah life sucks kid- because thats what you do. I sat back in complete silence and watched this film, stupified, touched, p***ed, sympathetic, humored and everything else relevant to the teenage world in this movie. Suddenly, the high school world I had tarted to see became a hell of a lot more clear, and a hell of a lot more worthy to fight. After the movie was done, I got dressed into a rebelling outfit, cranked up my stepmoms pixies album, and ran around the house screaming. I was injected with this raging excitement that I could be a Harry and Talk Hard. Steal the Air. I can't truly explain what it was, but in one word-liberation. PUTV became my life. I asked everyone, have you seen it? Barely anyone remembered-I was amazed. Of course, every single one of my friends HAD to see it-they year 2002 and I am having a PUTV party. No, seriously I did. We discussed it in our movie club. I talked to all of my teachers to see if they remembered. Hell, they were lucky I was too occupied to go to the Principal and demand that he suggest it for the learning criteria. I wrote a piece with Harry flowing through me, which has stirred trouble and gotten somewhere every where I take it. And everywhere I go, Hary comes with me and infests a few more kids. What else more is there to say? This incredibly compelling film gives you a straight shot of Adrennaline as the mindset of the world where nobody cares, nobody listens, and every word from you is a rebellion bitch and complain-the world of a high school student. Being one, I give this film 10 fingers up, with 8 of em down and gues which two up. Really-if you have grown up to be one of them-check this out-and remember what its like. I'm all over the place! I am inside each and every one of you! "},{"Title":"Set in Arizona, echoes of River Phoenix","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is an engaging and original take on the High School is Hell theme. But for me the most striking element was the performances of the two lead characters, Christian Slater as Mark, and Samantha Mattis as Nora -- not just for themselves, but for what they reminded me of.My all-time favorite movie is Running on Empty, by Sidney Lumet (1988). The story, style, tone, and production scale of that film is entirely different than Pump Up the Volume. But...But the two teen characters of Running on Empty, River Phoenix as Danny Pope, and Martha Plimpton as Lorna Phillips, were evidently the inspiration for Slater and Mattis in PUTV, so much so that I wonder if Pump Up the Volume was originally written for River Phoenix.Slater is a fine actor in his own right, yet his Mark is an echo of -- or tribute to -- Phoenix's Danny. This is true on a broad scale, both characters' isolation as the new kid in high school, with lots of profound secrets; both characters' pursuit by, attraction to, and turning away from, the alienated pretty but crazy girl in the class -- who yet proves to be the woman who makes a man out of each of these boys.Vaudeville quote Life has a way of evening things up. For every woman who makes a fool out of some man, there's another who makes a man out of some fool. It's even more true in detail Mark's manner of walking and talking, his self-effacing modesty around his peers, even the way he flips his hair and fidgets with his eyeglasses, all echo Phoenix's Danny.Mattis's Nora is a stronger character than Plimpton's Lorna. Her role in the story is more active, and so her performance is more dynamic -- not better, just different. Her look is also very different, unlike the uncanny physical resemblance of Mark and Danny, but this mainly reflects differences in the stories and their settings. Mattis's Nora does seem to have borrowed many of her mannerisms, and her articulate manner of speaking, from Plimpton's Lorna.Is this character emulation a bad thing? Not at all, at least not here, because it works. Of course when you have a seen Running On Empty as many dozen times as I have (hmm, I think I'll go watch it again -- yup, still great), it is more than a little distracting.This sort of character emulation is not unique in Hollywood. Another example that leaps to mind is Jeff Bridges in Arlington Road, playing a sort of downbeat Harrison Ford. I expect you can think of others.As to the movie itself, Pump Up the Volume is no more realistic a depiction of high school than most of the movies in its genre -- for the very good reason that a realistic movie about high school would be too boring and too depressing to watch. The best high school movies (e.g. Dazed and Confused Bring It On Foxfire) don't show more than a few moments of classes, because no one cares about or remembers most of their high school classes. This is a good thing -- my high school biology teacher said in 1960 everything we are teaching you here will be obsolete in three years (she was overly sanguine. Facts were either already obsolete by the time they sifted down to high school, or were wrong to begin with). If anything, PUTV's vision of high school is even darker than most, and to me this is a plus. Are there really high school administrators out there who are as vicious and depraved as the characters in this movie? Sadly, yes, quite a few, and some even worse. So although this movie is a fantasy, its message should resonate for anyone who was, or is, a teenager.If you have dug this deep into the website, you probably have a pretty good idea what this movie is about, so I won't recap. I am both picky and eccentric in what I like in movies. PUTV is no classic, but I liked it a lot. If you find you like it, too (or even if you don't), by all means take a look at Running on Empty, which is certainly a classic. Both films' DVDs can be found in Walmart's $5.50 bins. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Alan Moyle's Pump Up the Volume is a kitchy teen comedy that is pumped up by an effortlessly endearing performance by Christian Slater. It explores the pains of high school pressure by centering unrealistic situations around honest, human themes. Moyle's style challenged me, because while every scene of the movie was uniquely entertaining, it was also corny. However, Moyle keeps it so fresh and fun that the camp is forgivable. Bottom line, Pump Up the Volume is a whole lot of fun.Christian Slater's character has a very unique duality that he makes excellent use of. Almost like a superhero and his secret identity, he plays a timid, scared and paranoid high school student by day and a foul-mouthed phantom disc jockey by night. And what discs he plays. Tracks from the best of the fading new wave scene and the re-birth of alternative are deployed beautifully as Peter Murphy, Was (Not Was), Concrete Blonde, Stan Ridgway and many others enrich the film greatly.He comes alive as Harry, emitting his angry and confused demons with raunchy, electrifying broadcasts. It's no wonder he attracts increasingly large numbers of classmates who become loving and loyal fans. Little by little Harry starts stirring up controversy because of the obvious influence he has on his listeners. Soon an epic revolution is at hand with Harry on the very top of it.Pump Up the Volume is an essentially fun movie. With a performance like Slater's and one of the best soundtracks of all time, it is an endlessly enjoyable high school farce that you'll be quoting for years. "},{"Title":"A piece of me?","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" as a gay man i found this film excellent. as i watched it i felt as though someone had reached into my head and made a movie about me. the cast selection was excellent from Slater right down to that really naff arrogant school principle Annie Ross (Creswood). they touched on so many subjects from homosexuality, suicide and why some kids are driven there by over expectant parents to not being accepted cos you might look funny. this movie might be 15 yrs old now but to me it is still totally accurate. the one other thing that scared me was that i found Nora (Mathis) to be very sexually alluring even though i know that i'm 100% gay so try and work that one out, hmmmm. when i was the age that Slater played here, i was the rebel, the vandal of the airways and i only had one teacher friend who was, surprisingly my English teacher. even though i was only 30 when the movie was released, it brought out the defiant part of me that i thought had long gone with age which proves that the brain does not age with the body. now that i'm 44 i still find this movie a great way to let out how i really feel. do i feel any remorse about some of the things that i did when i was a teenager? i can honestly say no way. this is a movie with a message that just because you're a teenager you don't have rights. (who can remember a sign that said i got a right to a education in the movie? there are a lot of Creswood's out there in the education system. how do i know this? i experienced it first hand. the hatred, the injustice, the violence and we must never forget that aspect of education......ever. parents must treat their children in a realistic way or things will never improve in the real world. the Michael Kaiser's of the world are still out there with no real hope in their hearts. this film shows us how to act to stop it. TALK HARD AND STEAL THE AIR.....HARD HARRY, TRY AND TURN HIM OFF. "},{"Title":"Good premise; too much plot","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of those movies where the first hour is great, but then the need for a plot building to a climax gets badly in the way. A lot of films come up with a really good premise, but lose it when the need for plot devices rears its ugly head. Slater does good work here, but I suppose that too many years have passed for me to identify with the enormous significance of teenage angst.  "},{"Title":"Ugly","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Ugly American teenagers in an ugly American suburb force an ugly plastic rebellion against the ugly authority.The music aside, this is a poor film. The story is stupid, the direction is laboured, the characters have zero depth and I ended it yawning and wondering if it was over yet. It has the none of the darkly comic moments of its supposed peers and is directed in a sub Back To The Future style without any of the genius or even coherence those films have.People claiming this as some sort of lost classic in the same vein as Heathers are just trying to make themselves look cool. "},{"Title":"Like Two Different Films Inside the Same Feature","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Probably the weakest of Allan Moyle's films, Pump Up the Volume lacks unity at a very basic level. What starts out as an irreverent teen comedy, with some serious social undertones, morphs during its final 20 minutes into something self-conscious and simplistic. Characters who had been shades and gray suddenly become black and white expressionistic (i.e. not realistic) caricatures without adequate explanation for the transformation. So Pump Up the Volume is really two very different short films within the same feature.But while this disconnect is a fatal flaw it is also the biggest reason for studying this film. Your first impulse is to assume that Moyle, who was both writer and director, had to tack on the lame ending when he got well past the midway point and discovered he had nowhere to go with the story. But upon reflection it seems more likely that the tone of the final 20 minutes was what Moyle wanted for the entire film, that he was forced to concoct a lighter slant on the situation for commercial reasons. Taking that speculation still further, Moyle hoped to unify the two segments by making the first part less upbeat and the second part less downbeat, which only managed to hurt both parts without providing the unity he needed.Had Moyle been able to actually make the expressionistic version he wanted it might have been a real treasure. Had he stayed with a relatively light-hearted escapist teen movie it would have been quite entertaining. Unfortunately the compromise is neither treasure nor especially good entertainment.Which is not to say that Pump Up the Volume is totally unwatchable. Moyle gets an electrifying performance from Christian Slater (arguably his best ever) and a young Samantha Mathis is perfect as his semi-goth love interest. The first part of the film is entertaining and the second part does make make a powerful statement. Mark (Christian Slater) is a new kid at an Arizona high school. He has no friends and rarely interacts with anyone at school. But at night Mark rules to air-waves with his pirate radio station which soon turns his radio character into a local cult hero. The high school is a teenage version of Stepford and Mark's radio program begins to agitate the students who in turn assert their individuality, abet collectively.Moyle's film is honest in that it does not provide easy answers so much as offering challenges to his target audience. Like all of Moyle's teen characters, the students remind the viewer of just how awkward and rotten the young adult phase can be. They connect with the audience even as his adults are missing the mark by a wide margin. It was not until New Waterford Girl that Moyle began to consistently get his adult characters right.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"No deeper than the kiddie pool...","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Pump up the Volume is a very good feel-good movie and an attempt of hopping on the 'Breakfast Club' and 'Fast Times at Ridgemont High'-bandwagon... Slater performs well as the anarchistic 'Happy Harry Hard-On', the anonymous Pirate Radio DJ who invokes rebellion amongst the local high school youth and gets them to find their own voice in a world where they seemingly can't trust adults anymore... Although the characters have little depth (except maybe Slater) and the movie's plot isn't that difficult Slater's performance makes you want to go out and change the world yourself...it certainly provoked some feelings in me about my own angst.....but it falls a couple of clicks short of being an in-depth movie about teenage angst...it brisks the surface (and delivers very well) but never goes deeper than the kiddie pool...And I love the song 'Wave of Mutilation' by the Pixies! "}{"Title":"Is this the missing link between REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE and MY SO-CALLED LIFE??","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not really. But nice try.The problem with this movie is that it tries to juggle so many serious teen issues and still make a Hollywood movie. Take the teen suicide, for instance, which comes early in the movie. It's so underdeveloped that you see it more as a plot point than a tragedy. The movie tries to handle topics like homosexuality with one student, but like the kid that shot himself, there isn't really much to say. It's more like the writer-director wanted to make his movie as interesting as possible, but all we get is this gay kid with a sad story and that's it! The actor who plays him has such an attitude that we can't even sympathize for him.I thought the idea was cool. A highschool loner who just moved in from the east starts a pirate radio show and becomes the teen messiah of his angst-ridden public. But too bad all the characters are practically cardboard cutouts of punks, yuppies, shy geeks, and jocks who all have one thing in common they can't express their innerself or something.The only character that comes out with more than one dimension is Sarah Matheson as outgoing Nora. Her character might have been thought out more than the others, but Matheson still pulls it off masterfully.I don't want to give this movie a total negative review, because it's on the right track. It's just too bad it's all played safe. "},{"Title":"Remake With a Dark Theme Added","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the low budget 1979 movie On the Air Live With Captain Midnight and I feel Pump Up the Volume takes the basic premise of Captain Midnight and then adds a dark theme and a bigger budget.  It's similar to the way the studios took The Return of the Secaucus Seven, added a bigger budget and a somewhat darker theme and created The Big Chill.  I feel Captain Midnight is more fun than Pump Up the Volume and Tracy Sebastian's character is more fun than Christian Slater's character.  "},{"Title":"Not half as good as Empire Records","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I decided to see this movie cuz im a huge christian slater  fan and also a huge empire records fan. I wasnt as good as empire records and its not chirstian slaters best work (heathers,interview with the vampire,very bad things etc.. are some of his best in my opinion) "},{"Title":"enjoyable if not for its flaws","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   Christian Slater gives an electric performance as a quiet kid who secretly broadcasts a radio show fuled by his views and his outlook on society and youth. Mathis is the girl determined to figure out Slater's on air persona. The @#%& hits the fan when a student caller announces he's going to kill himself and follows through. The community goes in an uproar. I think the movie is pretty dated already and comes across as corny in alot of ways in which it tries to be serious. I think its pretty hard to believe that everyone listened to his show considering he just moved into town. He broadcasts one night and then poof....every student in the school relates and the adults just dont get it. Not enough gusto but the cast delivers good enough. ** 1/2 "},{"Title":"Not Shakespeare, But Still Fun","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie isn't exactly a brain film, but it's certainly worth the time it takes to see it. Christian Slater is, as always, rather stupid, but this is offset by the fact that he's perfect for the role; Angst-ridden teenager. Samantha Mathis (Nora) is also quite hot. One wonders how she managed to go from this fairly decent movie to playing the Princess in Super Mario Brothers. "},{"Title":"Utterly, irritatingly dire. An eminently silly film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is an eminently silly film. It's only pretension to acting is Slater's ego-strokingly OTT histrionics as he tries to pass off overblown pretentious monologues as (oh-so-heart-rending) teen-angst pseudo philosophy.The plot is as ridiculous as Slater's lines and arched-eyebrows performance. A misfit young man (who, like the rest of this unlikely suburban high-school populous, is very good looking) moves towns and joins the local school. This immense brat-breeding ground is run by a Draconian headmistress intent on weeding out students who she considers sub-standard (and her standards are high). Slater - the unlikely misfit becomes an anonymous pirate radio shock-jock and is quickly elevated to a benign cult hero (take note Cahrles Manson). He is loved by the young and hated by the old, including his totally unobservant, unaware parents who it is clear he will eventually become.His idolising students at the school rise up at his unwitting command and fight back against a system that didn't really deserve such a fuss being made over it. The kids triumph, DJ Harry Hardon goes mobile to avoid the cops, Slater gets laid and all this to a wicked soundtrack.Utterly, irritatingly daft, in fact dire. It may have been redeemed as a film if Slater's character was fat, ungly, pimple-riddled and a genuine nerd but his flimsly pretence doesn't fool anyone for a second.The aptly rebellious songs he plays as his DJ alter ego Harry Hardon are pretty good (Leonard Cohen, Sonic Youth, Rollins Band and the Pixies) but a good soundtrack a film doesn't make.  "},{"Title":"The soundtrack is the only plus .","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I think of all the teen flicks during the early 90's, one that will stick in my head as an example of how this decade tried so hard to recreate the 80's teen classics, is Pump Up The Volume. This movie was a sad attempt in trying to create a teen-flick with a message and turned out to be a really bad mix of Good Morning Vietnam, Lean On Me, and MacGiver all roled into one. Slater shows little of the acting potential that he supposedly has and you quickly find why Samantha Mathis joined Mary Stuart Masterson and Molly Ringwold in that where did they go? list. Considering that I'm an actual disc jockey, I can say that most of what you've seen in this movie, while remotely possible, isn't in reality. Plus, I'm having a real tough time believing in the school getting away with what it has been doing. Please, allow Slater to leave this movie as a forgotten step in his superstar-in-the-making process that seems to never end. The upside to the movie is the soundtrack that has the universally heard Concrete Blonde song, which never appears in the movie, sadly. This flick barely got a 3 out of a 10. "},{"Title":"Rebel without a clue","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Pump Up the Volume is an ignoble and obvious fabrication which tells of a bookish new student (Slater) at an Arizona high school who is tongue-tied on campus by day but articulate by night while operating a pirate radio station from his basement under the pseudonym Hard Harry. His rabble rousing broadcasts of rebellious antiestablishment rhetoric and crotch talk makes him a cult hero among the student body turning them against the school's fascist principal while his lame parental units remain utterly clueless and he falls for the campus babe and preaches silly teens are people too sermons until everyone from the cops to the FCC are trying to track him down. Stupid stuff only a teenager could love. (C) "},{"Title":"Mediocrity in celluloid","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Christian Slater has something of an interesting history in Hollywood. Originally a teen idol with studio heads grooming him to follow in the footsteps of fellow Brat Packers such as Emilio Estevez or Anthony Michael Hall, Slater has instead floundered in a sea of indecision as to which path he is taking since around the time Pump Up The Volume was released. Films that attempt to state the plight of youths living in the time of production are literally a dime a dozen, those that make this their sole focus even more so. When one looks back on the deluge of films in this mould that were made in the 1980s or 1990s, however, one notices a bit of a commonality between the ones that are remembered today. Classics such as Heathers or Repo Man put a spin so unique on the genre that they become almost a genre onto themselves. Pump Up The Volume, however, has a script not even a hundredth as clever as Heathers, and its artistic sensibility is completely flat when measured alongside the total anarchy of Repo Man.In 1990, the idea that school administrations and staff could be so flagrantly abusive and neglecting of students was literally taboo. Going after a teacher for child abuse was the equivalent of running a four-minute mile. Especially if the needs of the student were not already categorised and defined. Needless to say, hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions, of teenagers from the 1990s are now adults with major psychological difficulties that continue to interfere with their ability to fit into society in a productive manner. I say this not because I wish to highlight that what happens in this film happens in real life with even great outrage. More, it is because I wish to point out that treating the subject in such a shallow and childish fashion tends to do much more harm than good. In the time when this film was released, a popular defence teachers put on when confronted with accusations of mistreatment was that the accuser got this idea from films like this. The problem being that such accusers were often making rock-solid accusations.Another problem that severely discredits Pump Up The Volume involves the hero's taking of calls from listeners. Legitimate radio stations do this all the time, of course, but they also screen callers in order to keep their proverbials covered. A talk show programme, when confronted with a caller asking if they should kill themselves, would contact health services in all haste in order to ensure the caller does not successfully go through with it. Not because they wish to save a life, mind you, but because they want to cover themselves in liability terms. I point this out because when Harry attempts to speak with a suicidal teenager on the subject, just about every move he makes is the wrong one, and the film commits a grievous error in attempting to elicit sympathy for his position after the police begin to pursue him for criminal solicitation. Still, if you are curious to learn why your local radio station will not let you on-air as soon as you call them, this is a good place to look.Some occasional performances stand out and give a platform on which to highlight some serious hypocrisies. After the aforementioned suicide, we are told by one FCC man that unregulated radio would result in programming of the lowest common denominator, the rule of the mob. Even way back when I first saw this film, I stood flabbergasted at how anyone could possibly listen to, or say, something like this and believe it. The difference between what he is describing and what we had then is so non-existent that it would have made this part of the film funny, were the matter not so serious. Sadly, the film never goes beyond scratching the surface of this subject, and a retort from Harry that I would have loved just never comes. Still, if you are looking for reasons why the MP3 explosion of the late 1990s all but killed radio as a place to find new music, then this is a good place. But again, instead of digging a little deeper and really blowing the mind of the audience, Pump Up The Volume gives us a display of fashion victims reciting lines.One area where Pump Up The Volume does stand out is that when it calls for moments in which the kind of music people who have commonality with Harry would want to hear is played, they actually get it right. Classics from The Descendants, Was Not Was, and Bad Brains display just how big a gulf there is between what the youth of Western society listens to or makes, and what mainstream media would have you believe the youth of Western society listens to or makes. That is the sole selling point that Pump Up The Volume possesses in spite of its shallow treatment of what has recently been revealed to be a very deep problem in the age of the Nuclear Family. So you can imagine how much of a conflict exists between the part of me that wants to condemn this film and the part of me that wants to praise it. Sadly, if you have seen Repo Man or Heathers, then you really have no compelling reason to even give Pump Up The Volume a second look. A much better, although much more painfully subtle, examination of how clueless society has become in terms of addressing the needs of those in vulnerable places or transitional phases exists elsewhere.Pump Up The Volume is a five out of ten film. It had such great potential but ends up falling so painfully short. "},{"Title":"Mis-directed","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This Christian Slater vehicle, which follows hard on the heels of Heathers, is along the same lines as his 1989 hit, but it is nowhere near as good. Slater is smart-mouth D.J. 'Happy Harry Hardon', who broadcasts on his pirate radio station from 10 p.m. nightly. His rebellious attitude is soon adopted by his many teenage listeners, and the once troubled High School is soon in mayhem. 'Mark' ('Happy Harry') never quite does the right thing, as he continues to transmit even though he knows he should stop.Allan Moyle's film only succeeds in being irresponsible. It does not give our youth a message of hope, but a message to stick it up everyone and do whatever they please. Hardly sensible!Sunday, August 16, 1992 - Video "}]