[{"Title":"I'll Make Ya Famous...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  YOUNG GUNS 2 was a stunning achievement, a sequel that managed to surpass its brilliant predecessor, 1988's YOUNG GUNS.  YOUNG GUNS 2 follows the story of Billy the Kid, already an outlaw and now riding with the cow thief Pat Garrett.  Garrett is offered the position of Sheriff by the Governor, who finds himself constantly cowed in his efforts to catch Billy the Kid.  In the Governor's mind, you must hire a thief to catch one, hence Garrett is the perfect choice.  Pat Garrett, who has long planned to go respectable, siezes the opportunity and turns on his friend and partner.  What follows is a great western adventure, rich with themes of sin and redemption and the tragedy of brother against brother.  That alone makes a great flick.  But then YOUNG GUNS 2 offers the question... what if Pat Garrett was conflicted about his choice?  What if he still had feelings for the Kid?  What if he let him go?  This is good stuff, folks.  The leads do the material justice, with Estevez jumping back into the role of Billy like an old and comfortable suit that still fits perfectly.  William Petersen gives a nuanced performance as Pat Garrett, a man driven by both loyalty and selfishness.  Of course no review of this film should fail to herald the talents of Lou Diamond Phillips.  Phillips is an actor who constantly seems to raise the bar for himself, and YOUNG GUNS 2 is no exception.  His Chavez is MORE spiritual, MORE effortlessly wise... dare I say MORE Indian than he was even in the first installment.  Hopefully, Phillips will be with us for a very long time.  Kiefer Sutherland, Christian Slater, Balthazar Getty, and Alan Ruck round out the talented cast.  So finally, do yourself a favor with this one, YOUNG GUNS 2 is an amazing film experience.  "},{"Title":"Acted wonderfully and better than the original...","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  For a movie it thought would be shallow and made for popular culture, Young Guns II really surprised me. ALL the actors were GREAT in this movie. I especially loved Lou Diamond Phillips and Kiefer Sutherland (of course). Emilio Estevez was wonderful and for once I didn't hate Christian Slater. Also, as a fan of Ferris Bueller, you have to love Alan Ruck, even though he doesn't have a huge part in Young Guns II. I saw the first movie, and it was okay, but I seem to get into and feel for the characters much more in the sequel--they have more depth and there's not as many, so you can focus more on the important relationships. Not to mention a core musical identity of my era named Jon Bon Jovi, who did the theme song (which had some awesome lyrics). Alan Sylvestri did the rest of the score, and I always love his music, too. I ended up buying Young Guns II because it's hard to get through it without tearing up. The tragedy of Billy the Kid is told well in the movie, and if the screenplay had just been a little less choppy, I would have given the movie a 9. I'll have to go for an 8 on this one, but see it anyway, the actors are definitely the highlights of Young Guns II. "},{"Title":"A sequel worth seeing","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  No matter what people say, I think this sequel is very well written and scored.  It may not be the best movie ever created, but some of the events that occurred in the sequel are fact based. i.e. the Bob Ollinger shotgun incident, Billy actually busted out the window and yelled a Hello Bob! before he emptied both barrels into Ollinger's head and chest.There are the Hollywood add-in's as in most movie production, but i thought it was worthy of praise.  There will be people who say that sequels shouldn't be made, but everyone is entitled to their own opinion.  I believe that as long as the sequel provides ample entertainment and you don't have 50 sequels on the same subject that sequels are fine.NOTE  For the last commenter, they didn't kill Billy in the first Young Guns, they stated that he was caught in the Old Fort Sumter by Sheriff Pat Garrett and killed, but we never actually see him die and according to the sequel and different accounts of what occurred over 100 years ago, we may never know exactly who is buried in William Bonney's grave except for the individual that is entombed there. "},{"Title":"I liked it just as much as the first","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" No doubt anyone would question Christian Slater coming into the gang, but he works so well as a bad ass. Gee, I wonder why? ) He and Emilio play as the new rebels of the town, while Billy's old gang is moving on with their lives, but are soon arrested for walking with him, he wants the old gang back together to once again reck havec on the scene. The chemistry worked well again as the first one did, with some promising new cast like Christina Slater, Jon Bon Jovi, and an unknown Viggo Mortenson. I think if you enjoyed the first Young Guns, you are more than bound for another off your seat action western! Yee haw! OK, sorry, I can be a little over-dramatic at times. -P 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Kid going down in a blaze of glory....","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  There have been only a handful of films to try to put the immortal story of Billy the Kid onto film. Among them was Gore Vidal's Billy the Kid with Val Kilmer and Young Guns I.This is the sequel, of course, to the latter film, and it just might be the finest Billy the Kid film out there. True, some of the dialogue is shoddy (I guess you don't know the true meaning of the word PALS!), but that's not the point. The point is, this is the only film of all of them to really capture the spirit of Billy the Kid. There has always been a thin line in between characters such as the Kid, between legend and fact. Of course, this film reflects mostly on the legends, and it takes the attitude that in the midst of all the legend and stories that were told about Billy and his gang of cohorts, there was a very real, very human leader who allowed all the legends about him to get to his head. As a result, he must suffer the consequences.The cast is at the top of its game, especially Esteves as the Kid, Sutherland as Doc and Diamond Phillips as Chavez. Slater and Ruck also lend their support as Arkansas Dave and Buckshot George, respectively. This motley group make up the Young Guns, and their quest to get to the Mexican border and escape from former gang member Pat Garret. The film follows the standard Billy the Kid story, with only slight moderations, but this is the only film in which the spirit of Billy the Kid is alive and you truly feel like this character is what he thinks he is some kind of god. This was exactly what the story needed, and it works for the same reason films like Braveheart worked they don't try to do an accurate, historical retelling, but rather, they pay tribute to the legends centered around the character.The soundtrack is also nice. Even if one hated this film, they have to admit that the Oscar-nominated song Blaze of Glory by Bon Jovi is a winner, and it captures the spirit of the whole film and the message that it was trying to make that legends are forever.Without a doubt, this is the best Billy the Kid film, and therefore it is one of the western genre's greatest achievement.Yoo hoo....I'll make you famous. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Whether or not the movie is 100% historically correct should be irrelevant in this film. The story of Billy the Kid and the Lincoln County Regulators is so sketchy to begin with, it would be hard to pick through every piece made about it. Despite what may or may not be factual in this film... the movie really is a good one. It's even better than the first, with a better all-star cast, better writing, and better acting. Emelio Estivez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christian Slater, William Petersen!!! It doesn't get any better than that. They all deliver wonderful performances, and this movie will keep you on the edge of your seat, dodging bullets and laughing right along with the gang. This movie is very entertaining, and even historical, even though a few points may be slightly off. "},{"Title":"So much better than its rating says","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film is far superior to the first part and I can't get enough of it.  The actors are likeable and work very well as an ensemble, the action and story are very immersive and the score (by Alan Silvestri) is simply awesome.  (The music on Young Guns is totally different, very inferior, and does not help to accentuate emotions at all.)  On this note anyone who says that Jon Bon Jovi did the music for this film is very mistaken.  He wrote a couple of songs that appear on the end credits (and an album that was *inspired by* the movie) but Silvestri is the one who created one of the best movie scores I've heard, which is nearly as good as his Back to the Future music. (Shame it isn't available to buy anywhere.)Now back to the film. It's both entertaining and moving, and also very funny and I highly recommend it.  Like a previous commenter said, there's no need to see the first film as this one stands on its own very well and totally surpasses its predecessor.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Ah, good times, good times","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Well, I have to say I loved this movie when it first came out.  It has a beautiful desert set, a wonderful array of actor driven characters, and the kind of gun fighting you could only imagine from a movie about Billy the Kid.  But now that I've watched it more recently, it's highly amusing.  To watch current stars like CSI's William Peterson and The Lord of the Rings' Viggo Mortensen at the dawn of their careers is something that can't be missed.  Along with them are a flock of excellent 80's actors who will have you loving them all over again.  Emelio Eztevez provides what is probably the best performance in his career along with the likes of Christian Slater, Kiefer Sutherland, and Lou Diamond Phillips.  I recommend this as one of the best good time westerns that recent years have to offer, though the first movie of the series is a bit better.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Even better than the original...","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This one is even better than the original. This one shows what happened to the gang after the first movie, and it tells how they finally ended up. Not as funny as the first one, it is nevertheless a good movie for other reasons. This movie does an even better job than the first one of portraying outlaws as young heroes, and I dare anyone to see it through to the end with dry eyes.  "},{"Title":"Exciting sequel  with the same main cast and similar style full of violence and action","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is the sequel to successful film titled 'Young Guns'(1998 , by Christopher Cain) with similar players and concerning about Billy and his band heading toward the Old Mexico and pursued by a posse. Revisionist and contemporary study about William Bonney, alias Billy the Kid . Billy(Emilio Estevez) became a cowboy in Lincoln County (New Mexico) for cattleman Tunstall allied to Chisum (James Coburn) , but Tunstall is killed and started the Lincoln County war against Murphy as main enemy . Billy seeks revenge for his death and he converted an outlaw and nasty gunfighter with a price on his head . Then Billy along with a young group (Kiefer Sutherland, Christian Slater, Lou Diamond Phillips , Balthazar Getty) have their own ethic codes and undergo a criminal spree . The bunch is besieged but they went out firing his gun and made his escape . However , the Kid was caught and convicted of killing and sentenced to be hanged ; though shackled foot and hand , he managed to getaway from prison by shooting dead the deputies (Leon Rippy) guarding him. Pat Garret( William H Petersen), a former friend, was elected sheriff and set off in pursuit to capture him and on 1881 tracked at Fort Sumner and there shot him dead by surprise. It is said that Chisum was instrumental in making Billy the Kid an outlaw killer, he used his considerable influence in getting Garret elected Sheriff of Lincoln County in 1880 and it was Pat who hunted down and killed the young outlaw . Garret and his gang pull off a hot chase against the outlaws. Legend says that Billy murdered 21 men in his 21 years of life but is really thought to be much less. After Pat Garrett was not reelected sheriff of Lincoln County, however he was commissioned a captain in the Texas Rangers. On 19 February 1908 he was driving his buggy on a lonely desert road, he stepped down to urinate and was shot in the back by a hired killer. A man stood trial for the murder but was acquitted. Controversy still surrounds the end of Pat Garrett . This is an in interesting look about the known story of the West's greatest bandit. Contemporary-style Western with acceptable performances and professional direction by Geoff Murphy who creates some good action scenes. The Kid is well played ,though sometimes overacting , by Emilio Estevez, he plays as a likable, sympathetic, attractive young and favourite with girls. This passable Western packs lots of action, shootouts, and explosive violence . Taut excitement throughout, beautifully photographed and with spectacular bloodletting but realized with some flaws . The story is exactly like ¨The young guns I¨ with loads of noisy action and violence. The film gets spectacular shoot em'up , thrills , exciting horse pursuits ; it's entertaining , although nothing new but displays an ordinary pace and with no originality . The movie contains some moment of grisly violence and even touching on the relationships between the fugitives . Colorful and great cinematography by Dean Semler. Modern and unfitting musical score by Alan Silvestri with songs by Jon Bon Jovi. The motion picture will appeal to Western fans. "}{"Title":"just as fun  as the original","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  this sequel follow up was just as fun as the first. returning emilio estevez, kiefer sutherland lou diamond phillips reprising their roles, as what they performed in the original.  it was fun to see christian slater, alan ruck and balthazar getty as the new guys. william petersen does a convincing, hard edged job playing pat garrett. (patrick wayne in the first) i  was surprised this film is PG-13, but, could have been close to being R to me, cause of it's sexual scene, and violence. James Coburn was also in this movie, as well as the lord of the ring's viggo mortensen.  film is just as fun as the first, and  has many fun action scenes throughout the entire film.  "},{"Title":"effortlessly brilliant","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" In my other IMDb reviews I have lamented several things which broadly fall into the same two categories of complaint 1. That because of the marketing practises of the industry, TV is slowly but surely producing a higher quality of product than theatrical film; and 2. They don't make em like they used to.Broadly, the sequel (and the 1988 original) fall into the second category. Effortlessly brilliant. So many many attempts at telling the Billy The Kid story using the star power of a single lone actor (Paul Newman comes to mind) and here someone had the wit to take a handful of actors at their historical peak (Lou Diamond Phillips never looked so good) and just made the thing work.Notes 1. As good as or better than the first, because, lacking the story of how Billy became Billy, the writers worked harder to keep things moving. And it shows.2. Great soundtrack, better than the first 3. William Petersen in another solid portrayal, this before the success of CSI (his idea!) make him wealthy enough for early retirement 4. Great idea to incorporate in the opening shot the notion that Billy (and indeed Jesse James) survived to a ripe old age. There are individuals who have devoted their whole lives to researching this topic and their efforts are impressive, if under-reported. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I don't know why this movie has a 6.1 rating. This movie is a classic. The acting is great the story is classic. If you like westerns this is the movie for you. Twist and turns keep you involved. The only downside is that you are not Billy the Kid. As a child every one wished that they were the bad ass cowboy. This movie brings you there and answers your dream. Life, love, violence, sex, destiny, betrayal is all in this story. It is in my top ten favorite movies of all time. It it second to my favorite movie Last Man on Earth. I am not a huge fan of westerns but this is my top ten movies. Emilio should have won an Oscar for his acting in this movie. "},{"Title":"Pals","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" With Emilio Estevez, Kiefer Sutherland, and Lou Diamond Phillips continuing in the roles from the first Young Guns film, Young Guns II depicts the continuing saga of Billy the Kid. In continuing his part Estevez is probably closest to what the real Billy was like, a charismatic young punk who was good enough with a weapon to back up any brag.What new territorial governor Lew Wallace, played by Scott Wilson decides to do eventually is turn one of Billy's friends against him. Taking the place of Patrick Wayne from the first film, William Petersen plays the former buffalo hunter and outlaw and is made sheriff of Lincoln County and he's got carte blanche to do what he has to.Missing from the first movie was the presence of John Chisum the New Mexico cattle king. He was allied with Billy's boss John Tunstall, but James Coburn makes an imposing Chisum, as imposing as John Wayne who played the part before. Billy's now alienated all factions and they want him. But among other things Chisum would actually die before Billy did in real life.As for the characters of Doc Scurlock and Jose Chavez y Chavez played by Sutherland and Phillips unlike what the film has those two survived Billy by many years. Ironic considering both had very moving death scenes in the film, especially Lou Diamond Phillips. But ironically enough the two really died in bed.A highlight for me was bordello madam Jenny Wright doing her Lady Godiva act after some self righteous citizens burn her establishment down, led by Petersen after giving aid and comfort to Billy. Billy gets all kinds of aid and comfort from her.Christian Slater joins Billy's gang as Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh and he plays it in the quirky Slater manner. His grisly end is something that the film actually got right. I also did like the knife fight he had with Lou Diamond Phillips.The whole film is actually narrated by Estevez in some remarkable old age makeup from the year 1950 when he tells a young lawyer about his past. The idea is that Billy may not have been killed by Garrett and the film is vague enough on that score. Estevez is looking for an overdue pardon promised by Governor Wallace years ago.Young Guns II got an Oscar nomination for the song Blaze of Glory written and performed by Jon Bon Jovi who also did a bit part in the film. The music is definitely apropos to the western genre.Young Guns II takes its place beside the first Young Guns as a modern western classic. For western fans of every generation. "},{"Title":"The continuing story of the western legendary outlaw called Billy the Kid","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns II picks up the story of the outlaw capers of Billy the Kid, after they escaped the clutches of the law in the Lincoln County war of New Mexico Territory in the 1870's. There is one unique part of this film that Young Guns wasn't able to use, and that is, in the 1950's, an old-timer named Brushy Bill Roberts claimed to be William H. Bonney, better known as Billy the Kid. Brushy Bill desires a pardon, says that the governor of 1870's New Mexico, Lew Wallace, promised him one, but never came through on that promise. Now, he is willing to tell his story to the media, in exchange for a pardon from the current governor. The reporter is, of course, skeptical, wants some proof of Brushy Bill's story, and therein lies the story of Young Guns II. Told in flashback style, the film recounts the few years following Billy's escape from the legal factions in Lincoln County, New Mexico, and his new gang's outlaw capers.The cast returns several of the actors from the prequel film, and adds some new faces, as well. Besides Emilio Estrevez, Kiefer Sutherland, and Lou Diamond Phillips, the gang adds Christian Slater, who wishes to make a name for himself in outlaw legends. James Coburn adds some class to the film in the role of John Chisum, big ranch owner in the New Mexico territory, and William Petersen plays the role of Pat Garrett, who is hounded by the legal authorities to bring Billy in to justice, dead or alive.There's the story, and one has to decide for himself, was Brushy Bill really telling the truth as to his being Billy the Kid, or was he simply trying to make a memorable place for himself? The film also features a Golden-Globe Award-winning Best Original Song,Blaze of Glory performed by Jon Bon Jovi. A good film to fill an afternoon with, but not quite up to the height of Young Guns. "},{"Title":"One goof in the film","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The second Young Guns film is good. There's good humor, action and even some drama. My favorite line from the film is when Billy hands Doc his gun after the latter says, Let's finish the game. That is definitely one of the best lines in any Western I've ever seen and I've seen quite a few. I wanted to post my comment because there is one major goof in the film. In a scene towards the end of the first Young Guns movie, Billy has a conversation with Pat Garrett (played by Patrick Wayne in that film). In that scene, Pat tells Billy that they're asking him to run for sheriff to which Billy replies, Well, I'm asking you to run...that way before I take your stinkin' hide down like I did Brady's. But the second film opens with Pat (played by Bill Petersen) as a member of Billy's gang! In Young Guns II, Pat isn't offered the position of sheriff until halfway through the film and Billy doesn't find out that Garrett is the new sheriff from Pat himself but from a newspaper clipping! That's a serious lack of continuity. "},{"Title":"Attempt at repeating the first","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I realized I just saw an attempt at recreating the original Young Guns.  Three members of the posse are the same, and the 3 new guys (Arkansas Dave, Henry, Tommy) bear resemblance to the 3 other guys in the first one (Dirty Steve,Dick, Charlie).  Arkansas Dave doubles up as the guy trying to lead the gang like Dick did in the first one as well as being the guy who hates Chavez like Dirty Steve in the first one.  Henry and Tommy share Charlie's role as the innocent memebr of the gang who didnt belong as outlaws and have no idea what they have gotten themselves into.The music is decent in this one (especially Bon Jovi's Blaze of Glory) but I still feel the main musical theme of the first one was more touching and resembling of the characters in that one.  Overall, this movie was inferior to the first one, but is still worth watching to relive the first one. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not great","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" YOUNG GUNS 2 is an entertaining if wholly unnecessary sequel, with several members of the original cast still robbing and whoring and generally causing a ruckus. It takes place a year or so after the original, which is to say at the end of the Lincoln County Range Wars, and Emilio Estevez as Billy the Kid is still riding with some of his old pals, including Lou Diamond Phillips and Keifer Sutherland. Along the way, they pick up several new members who essentially echo members from the original who have gone on to meet their maker. Once again, Billy must face down Pat Garrett (played here by a menacing William Petersen, taking over from Patrick Wayne in the original), although the script plays fast and loose with the history and time line established in the first film. What the hell, it's all fantasy anyhow. Billy in reality was a homicidal (and incredibly homely) punk from New York who liked to shoot men in the back and was dead before his 21st birthday. The shootouts are terrific, and the costuming and sets feel very authentic. But the film fall far short of greatness, and doesn't really go anywhere. As I said before, it is an unnecessary sequel -- and it knows it. Christian Slater plays a new member of the gang, and is by turns annoying and funny. Lou Phillips is once again the Noble Savage of the group. Thinking of which, I'm surprised they didn't add a token black this time around. Watch it on a slow Saturday. That's what I did. "},{"Title":"Dumb young guns with guns","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Released 1990, Young Guns II details events as told by 90 year-old Brushy Bill Roberts, who claimed to be Billy the Kid in 1950, shortly before his death. The plot revolves around one of Billy's gang members, Pat Garret (William Petersen) being hired to track down Billy (Emilio Estevez) and his gang, which includes Chavez (Lou Diamond Phillips), Doc Scurlock (Keifer Sutherland), Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh (Christian Slater) and Henry William French (Alan Ruck). James Coburn is on hand as John Chisum while Viggo Mortensen plays one of Garret's men. This sequel to 1988's Young Guns is at least as good and maybe a little better. The absurdly anachronistic rock score of the former is replaced by excellent music from Alan Silvestri. Speaking of rock music, Jon Bon Jovi has a couple of songs on the end credits. Billy the Kid was only 21 when he supposedly died in 1881 and Estevez does a good job of capturing the wild axx punk. Chavez and Henry are the most likable characters by far. The SW cinematography nicely captures the Old West. Besides these positives, the highlight for me was Jenny Wright's scenes as Jane Greathouse, which are topped off by an unexpected Whoa Mama part. This is the first and only time I've heard of her or seen her. Her career unfortunately fell apart shortly after this film due to substance abuse, but I hear she's healthy now, albeit no longer interested in acting. In any case, you don't have to view the first movie to enjoy this one.The film runs 104 minutes and was shot in Arizona and New Mexico GRADE B "},{"Title":"A superior sequel","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" This was the movie I remembered the first 'Young Guns' to be. More energetic, focused. Tighter direction (Geoff Murphy replacing Christopher Cain) and a much better score, this time by Alan Silvestri.New cast members fill in more than adequately, particularly Christian Slater as Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh and William Peterson (replacing Patrick Wayne) as Pat Garrett. The most fascinating aspect is integrating the tale of Brushy Bill Roberts, who came forward in the 1940s claiming to be the real Billy the Kid. A claim never fully disputed, and with its share of evidence and supporters to this day. That said, the history here is dubious, with Pat Garrett being re-imagined as Billy's former friend and cohort so as to make it all more personal. Still, it's a moderately entertaining Western-lite and a definite improvement over the original. "}{"Title":"I'll make ya famous.......","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Brushy Bill Roberts claims that he is the famous outlaw William H. Bonney, alias Billy the Kid, who was supposedly shot and killed by Pat Garrett in 1881. The old man gives a very convincing story on how he and Garrett, along with a few others led the outlaw life and avoided the law, as wanted men. Garrett, a friend of Billy's, was paid by John Chisum, a cattle king, to eliminate Billy the Kid. So, Garrett and Ashmun Upson set out on a journey to find Billy the Kid.....This must be one of the first instances were a movie studio decided to cash in on the success of the first movie, and bring the rating right down in order to get as much cash in as possible. These days it's quite common for a movie to have a lower rating like Die Hard, or Terminator, but back then, it was extremely rare.And the result, while still pretty watchable, is just pointless and an excuse to get more young and upcoming stars to appear in a film together. This time Slater, Getty, and Ruck are the new additions to Billy's gang. Why? They just are, that's why.So the gimmick is to have an old man claim he's William H. Bonney, and tell the films narrative. So we spend the first act getting the gang back together, the second act having them stab each other in the back and argue a lot, and the third act to provide us with as much overacting from Estevez as possible.And if you look really closely around the hour and ten minute mark, you can pause it and see the exact point where Estevez ruins his chances of becoming an A-list star. All the work he put in the first movie is ruined by making his Billy the kid seem as comic book as humanly possible, and it takes away any drama or urgency the film has with Petersen on his trail (he's the best thing in it by the way).So all in all it's totally watchable, with a wonderful cast, but you find yourself asking the question.....Why? every now and again.And I still can't find Tom Cruise in this. "},{"Title":"Twice the Guns.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns 2 (1990) Dir Geoff Murphy / Cast Emilio Estivez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christian Slater, William Petersen Decent sequel examining the life of Billy the Kid while never revealing the source of his survival. He narrates the film explaining his escape from the law and regrouping with his gang. They head for the boarder with Pat Garrett closing in on them. Structured with several gunfights well filmed by Geoff Murphy who previously made the futuristic The Quiet Earth. Emilio Estivez reprises his role as the Kid with crazy comical daring. Kiefer Sutherland and Lou Diamond Phillips return as gang members who eventually have a dispute that concludes with Phillips holding his arm out stretched offering Sutherland back his embedded knife. Christian Slater is added to the cast as a journalist out to discover the truth behind the Kid's existence as well as try to visualize what it must have been like. William Petersen plays Pat Garrett who is tasked with taking down Billy the Kid and his gang of outlaws. Entertaining sequel full of gun fire highlighted with Bon Jovi theme Blaze of Glory. One could say that the film is out to answer questions but since Billy's mortality isn't explained then that pretty much defeats the purpose. Otherwise this is a flawed but well produced entertaining sequel that sparks humour and old fashion western gunfights. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Shot doooooooooooown in a blaze of glory!","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" So sings Jon Bon Jovi who was hired to sing the sound track to the original 1988 'Young Guns' film. Perhaps 'Blaze of Glory' shouldn't really have been mentioned in the title, as it does give more than a clue as to the cast's fate.Blaze of Glory is set a few years after the 'young guns'' first outing. Since we last saw them, Billy the Kid has killed yet more people (but they probably deserve d it, so we still like him anyway) and stolen yet more cattle (I guess we have to assume that they deserved in, too). So, naturally, he's even more wanted by the law than the last time we saw him. But it's not all bad news for him &#x96; he's got a new posse and, in the first third of the film, he's got his two former pals, Doc Hollywood and Chavez back in tow.However, just when our little Billy's happily getting reacquainted with his mates, his former friend Pat Garrett only decides to accept a massive pay-off to bring in the band of outlaws. So Billy finds himself on the run again (to the grinding guitar sound of Jon Bon Jovi &#x96; some might say that makes his situation even worse).Basically, Young Guns II Blaze of Glory, is more of the same. Now, that could have been a bad thing if the first film had been pretty dull, yet, actually it's no bad thing &#x96; assuming you liked the first instalment. There's nothing particularly new here. The plot is almost identical, just with a few new baddies and a few new members of Billy's gang. There is a kind of sub-plot involving the (almost) modern day where a man claims he actually was Billy the Kid and a journalist is trying to deduce whether or not he's telling the truth, but that probably could have been left on the cutting room floor if the producers had been pushed for time.If you liked the original, you'll probably like this, too. It's definitely more of the same and is a fun *modern* cowboy romp. If you don't like cowboy films in general, this one probably won't win you over.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Group chemistry never settled down","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" An old William H. Bonney (Emilio Estevez) retells his life as a young Billy the Kid. At first, he's running with Pat Garrett (William Petersen) and Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh (Christian Slater). A settled Doc Scurlock (Kiefer Sutherland) is now a teacher, but he is taken prisoner by the law as well as Chavez (Lou Diamond Phillips). Billy the Kid eludes capture despite a hefty bounty. Governor Wallace wants him to testify and promises him a pardon in a secret pact. They fake his capture but it turns all too real when D.A. Rynerson (R.D. Call) double crosses him. He helps Doc and Chavez escape from lynch mob. Despite wanting to go back east, Doc finds himself being chased along with the rest on their way to Mexico. They go to former ally John Chisum (James Coburn) who is the richest man in the new territories. However things don't go well and Chisum hires Garrett to kill the fugitives as the new sheriff.I really don't like the old man narration. It takes a little too long to get the gang back together. The three remaining originals still have a great deal of chemistry. However the group is too much in flux. People keeps coming in and leaving. The group doesn't settle down until 3/4 hour in to develop its chemistry. The other characters also keep showing up and confusing the story. This should be much easier as a simple chase movie. "},{"Title":"Bad sequel to fun movie","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The first Young guns movie was hardly a classic , but definitely a good movie worth watching. It was aimed at MTV teenagers and quite a refreshing take on western. It also made enough money back in the 80's (when western movies weren't really popular) for studio to make a sequel. The audience like the simple revenge story and charm of the young stars of that movie.This movie lacks solid story. The first one had a good motivation for our heroes &#x96; revenge. Here they are running and arguing between each other , but the whole movie lacks a hook. The conflict between Pat Garrett and Billy The Kid is too thin to keep the viewer interested. The movie seems to more like a collection of short scenes (sometimes good ones) instead of well written story. Young guns 2 doesn't go anywhere from the beginning to the end. I also didn't care if the story of Roberts was real or not.The movie is also rather awfully directed by Geoff Murphy. The pacing is dreadful. The whole movie feels like it's 3 hours long , despite a rather normal running time. It makes the movie hard to watch and boring on re-watch. The movie lacks the freshness of the original.Young guns 2 is mainly concentrated on Emilio Estevez (Stakeout) , who is walking the thin line of being likable and annoying here. Kiefer Sutherland (The lost boys) and Lou Diamond Philips (Stand and deliver) don't really have much to play. The newcomers &#x96; Christian Slater (True romance) , William Petersen (To live and die in LA) and James Coburn (Iron cross) aren't really interesting.The music by Alan Silvestri is nice and the movie has some nice scenes, jokes and dialogues. The songs by Jon Bon Jovi are good too (Blaze of glory anyone ?). It doesn't change the fact that this is a very forced sequel made without any idea for good story. I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Passing Into Legend","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Geoff Murphy took over directing duties for this sequel, which opens with Billy The Kid(again played by Emilio Estevez) as an old man trying to tell his story of how he escaped the fate recorded by history to survive, as John Chisum(played by James Coburn) hires lawman Pat Garret(played by William Petersen) to track down Billy and his gang(returning Kiefer Sutherland & Lou Diamond Philips, along with Christian Slater & Alan Ruck) and kill them, as they are wanted outlaws he in particular wants eliminated, but Billy tells a different fate for them then previously described... Adequate sequel isn't as good as the first, with a contrived new story, but it is still put across in an entertaining fashion. "},{"Title":"I never stole a horse from someone I didn't like.","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Across a span of decades, the character of Billy the Kid has been portrayed in film by quite the eclectic group of well known actors - Roy Rogers, Robert Taylor, Bob Steele, Buster Crabbe and even Paul Newman in an early film role, The Left Handed Gun. I'm repeating myself from other reviews I've written when I say that for my money, Emilio Estevez does the best job of bringing Billy the Kid to life on the big screen. He just has this ego-maniacal way of portraying The Kid's malice, but with a charisma that's kind of appealing when he's taking it to his enemies.Young Guns II isn't a great picture, but it's generally a fine follow up to the original Young Guns, seeing as how a sequel was going to be made to capitalize on the first. I liked the idea of book-ending the story with the Brushy Bill Roberts appearance to add a bit of a mystique to the legend. I'll have to read up some more about that whole piece of history, since it's not that well known. I only came to learn about it when I saw this picture the first time back in the Nineties. I guess it's an interesting controversy to get wrapped up in, but I'm not that invested in the idea to get all worked up about it.What I liked about the story was the way it brought in some of the historical nuance to the legend of Billy. The Kid made it a point to say that the Lincoln County War was a merchant war, not a range war. It had all to do with commerce and the awarding of government contracts to supply beef to the Army. There was also the mention of the other names Billy used throughout his life. William Henry McCarty, was Billy's birth name, and he used the name of a step-father, William Antrim as well, though not often. In fact, Billy used a number of aliases throughout his outlaw career, presumably to conceal his true identity while on the run; William H. Bonney is the name that survives history the most memorably.Returning for the sequel in notable support roles are Kiefer Sutherland as 'Doc' Spurlock, and Lou Diamond Phillips as the Mexican-Indian Chavez. I wasn't particularly fond of William Petersen's casting as Sheriff Pat Garret, he didn't seem gritty enough in the role to take on the assignment from the Governor. Lew Wallace by the way, in real life was also the author of 'Ben-Hur', an interesting bit of trivia that totally astounded me when I found out he had a history with Billy The Kid as governor of New Mexico.As with most of these Hollywood treatments based on history, purists will take issue with the fictional elements thrown in to make the story engaging for a modern audience. If you can get beyond that, this one is entertaining enough for Western fans with some catchy dialog and skilled cinematography. As an added bonus, you have James Coburn in a neat cameo, and Jane Wright with that slinky Lady Godiva bit as she mounts up and heads out of White Oaks. I hope it wasn't too cold that day. "},{"Title":"Billy Git Yer Guns!","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" I have to say Young Guns (the original) was a better movie based more on the facts about the life of Billy The Kid. However, Young Guns II, is probably more entertaining than the it's predecessor.Young Guns II is more based on legend than fact about the life of Billy The Kid. Billy The Kid aka William Bonney can be probably said to be the most legendary and beloved of all the western outlaws. The beginning of the movie starts in a first person narrative--and I'd say beware of movies that start with these character voice overs--but however, that doesn't mean that you are in for a bad movie. The Ten Commandments also has the same set up---and it is campy and kitchy but one of the best movie spectacles of its time. Just like the mysterious life of Billy the Kid, it starts out shrouded in legend. The first person we meet (also played by Emilio Estevez) is Bushy Bill Roberts, a man who lived in the harsh Death Valley climate that claimed that he was Billy The Kid himself. Bill who was considered a harmless oddball homeless man who ran his own Billy The Kid museum in some tiny Southwest town. Bill Roberts claimed on his deathbed that he was the surviving outlaw himself but it was later proved by some facts and disputed dates that he was not the gunslinger.Youn Gun II mostly tells it's story through legend than facts. After the Lincoln County War, Billy was tried for murder and did escape but shooting Bob Bell And Bob Olinger. He did not do a ala Helter Skelter/ Charles Manson act by writing Garrett's Place in Bob Bell's blood on the wall. There was also a dispute on how well he knew Pat Garrett. Most say that he may have met Gerrett or knew about him but they were not as best buddies shown in the movie. However, the ending scene where Garret tracks down Billy The Kid and is seen to kill him is also disputed as legend. So since a lot of legend is mixed in with the facts of Billy The Kid's life, the plot or story entertains us like the old romatized dime novels that were sold at the time....What better way to enjoy a Western. The only fly in the ointment is the character of Billy The Kid changes somewhat from a fun but sometimes serious outlaw, to a non impressive giggling joker JackNapier. The dialog can probably be said as the most memorable than the first movie. Also, besides the rocking Bon Jovi album and song that displayed at the end, please check out the soundtrack by Alan Silvestri. It has a definite Mexican Southwesten flavor---one of the best that has been ignored by critics.So go forth and saddle up and enjoy! But again, due to the prevalent legend that shrouds Billy The Kid, you might be heading to the library or Wikepedia for more information afterward. "},{"Title":"Best western of all times!!!Go see it!!!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Don't get me wrong I like the Good,Bad and the Ugly, The Unforgiven, 310 to Yuma and all the classic westerns, but this movie is different. It' s a movie with heart and an incredible moral value, and it has a lot of funny moments too. You can't run to the end of the time, once you have to face things, and you must have loyalty toward your friends. I have seen it like 5 times, but I enjoy it every time. It has a great soundtrack, the compositor did a great job. Go see it, you won't be disappointed, it's far better than the first one. I hope one day will be a third part, till than I will see the second part over and over again. "},{"Title":"No living in the shadows.","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The follow up to Young Guns is just as entertaining, if nothing more. As for accuracy look elsewhere, because this quick draw teenage (looking to be hip) aimed western is a passable gung-ho outing by director Geoff Murphy. It's not tough, but it's buoyant. One thing I noticed more was the comical angle being in full force with a lot of smarting quips and the blaring image of seeking fame or making a name for yourself as it seems to take priority over ones own life. All glory, little else in seeking to make a name to go down in history. Even Jon Bon Jovi chips away with his tune Blaze of Glory and contributes to most of the scorching rock soundtrack. The performances are variably delivered in a dead serious or sardonically cheeky manner. The likes Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips and the lively Emilio Estevez as Billy the Kid return. Estevez dons on some make-up to age him, which only looks ridiculous and so is his croaky narration running through the feature. Some new faces with Christian Slater, Alan Ruck, Viggo Mortensen and William Petersen's steely conviction giving the best performance of the lot as Pat Garrett. When he takes up the offer to hunt down Billy, there's something imposing about Petersen's figure dressed in black and those glazed eyes. Also you got small parts from Tracey Walter and James Coburn (who played Garratt in Sam Peckinpah's Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid) to chew on his lines to quickly spit them out. Murphy does a stylish job delivering on theatrically set-up gunfights and adding some scope to his craftsmanship. Outside the witty exchanges, there are also plenty of spirited visual gags too. I didn't mind the humour and found it rather fitting. "}{"Title":"Billy get your guns I see trouble brewing like a Hurricane and it'll never change.","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns II takes up a year later from the original movie. Billy has become a Hunted Legend and the government is determined to put the mess called the Lincoln County war behind them by burying the surviving regulators. Billy has formed a new gang with Arkansas Dave Rutabag and Pat Garrett a man who is perhaps Billy's closest friend. When Word reaches him that the New Governor General Lou Wallace is willing to pardon the kid for his crimes if he testfies about the events of the Lincoln county War. Billy doesn't know but Wallace has already rounded up all of his old friends and put them in a pit they're waiting for Billy to join them then they'll all be put to death. Billy goes and uncannily escapes death frees his friends and begins a New war this time against anybody whose against him. Pat Garrett superbly played by CSI's William Peterson provides maybe one of the films best performances he's watchable and his Pat Garrett is sympathetic to Billy but he's not immune to the madness Billy brings with him. All Garrett wants is to be at peace retire and open a eatery until The Government and Wallace and John Chisum persude Garrett to their way of thinking that it would be more of a mercy if Billy was killed by a friend who actually loves him then a faceless Executioner. The Film Explores Billy's final months and delivers a heart pounding finale that will leave you wondering after the film ends. "},{"Title":"Rolling Rolling rolling, Rawhaw!","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns 2 Part 2, is as much an ensemble piece as the first film was. Survivors from the first film (Shat Pack favourites- Charlie 'Mr' Sheen, Ann Diamond Phillips, Emilio 'I wish I was Michael J Fox' Extevez, and Keifer 'Lost Boy' Southland) come together again with a host of new pups including Jonathan Bon Jovi, Chuck Norris, Muslim Slater, and Conrad Dorito. The plot follows the gang coming together again after the exploits of the first film- they have all been on the run from legendary law man Wyatt Ear who believes they are responsible for several murders and atrocities. Since the first film most have gone their separate ways. Billy The Boy has been rampaging through Texas robbing from the rich and giving to the poor, then killing the poor, and eating the rich. Doc has been on holiday in Mexico, has got himself a gal and spends his days making poetry, his night making sweet love. Neil Diamond Philips has been off on some sort of Spirit Guide affair, finding his inner Peyote and living in peace. They realise though that White Herpy is getting close and absolutely will not stop, ever, until they are dead. Or arrested. They need to ride once more, not Runaway, they may go down in a Blaze of Glory, but at least Someday they'll be Saturday night.This film is basically a remake of the first, albeit with a new plot and characters. It teaches you a lot about the Cowboys that used to roam about England before it was renamed America. There are shoot outs, drinking, women, and horses- everything you would expect in a good Western/Blue movie. We learn that Jimmy The Kid is actually one of the few remaining Demi-Mortals- humans who age anything from 2 to ten times slower than the rest of us. Whether or not this has been proved to be historically true is open for debate as no body was ever found and some claim to see him giggling and jumping through their wheat fields at night while they sit on their porch rocking chair sipping Sasparella.Best Scene When they are trapped with their backs to the wall and decide to charge out firing their guns in slow motion as the picture fades to sepia, and Living On A Prayer plays in the background. It makes me wish I was a Cowman and roam the desert shooting hippies! "},{"Title":"Yoo hoo, I'll make you famous.","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns II is directed by Geoff Murphy and written by John Fusco. It stars Emilio Estevez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christian Slater, William Petersen, Alan Ruck, Vigo Mortensen and Balthazar Getty. Music is scored by Alan Silvestri, with contributions from Jon Bon Jovi, and cinematography is by Dean Semler Brushy Bill Roberts, old and crusty, claims to be Billy The Kid. Which is quite a claim considering the Kid was long thought to have been killed by Patrick Floyd Garrett in 1881. Roberts tells a listening historian that after the break up of the Tunstall Regulators, the remaining members hooked up with Garrett and Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh and still lived the outlaw life.....Young Guns was released in 1988 and became a big enough hit to warrant this sequel two years later. Reuniting gunslingers Billy the Kid (Estevez), Doc Scurlock (Sutherland) and Chavez (Phillips) from the first film, Young Guns II follows the same formula that worked two years previously. Billy is still a borderline nut case and his gang, for better or worse, follow him into a number of escapades. This time around, though, we have some added interest in the form of Christian Slater's cocky Rudabaugh, who, as an egotist, wants to run the gang himself. Things are further given a lift when Garrett (a darn fine William Petersen resplendent with major face fuzz) leaves the gang and is persuaded to become a law man. His first job being of course to catch Billy!Both Young Guns movies are frowned upon by many old school Western purists, which to a degree I understand. They lack any sort of psychological aspects outside of a brat packer like cast shooting and quipping with care free abandon. Character depth is lacking so there is nothing on which to hang your hat on. Here, much like the first film, creative license is used with historical facts but the core basis of story is solid, with many of the events leading up to the documented death of Billy the Kid holding true. Major problem here, though, is that the makers are spinning off from the iffy claim of Brushy Bill Roberts that he was Billy the Kid and did not die at the hands of Pat Garrett. Knowing Billy survives the pursuit and show-down with Garrett at the start of the film kind of dilutes the wonder and impending drama! Film also at times feels like a composite of Little Big Man, Butch Cassidy & the Sundance Kid and of course Sam Peckinpah's Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid.However, both films, and more so with this sequel, have such a sense of fun like homage to them it's not hard to forgive the obvious flaws. Action is plentiful, with much blood shed during the course of the story, while the story always remains intriguing by way of the character dynamics. Semler's photography is more in tune with the Wild West this time around, as is Silvestri's score, the latter of which lifts parts of his Predator arrangement to blend with more traditional cowboy harmonies. Great song from Bon Jovi to close the film down as well. There's also a nice link to Peckinpah's movie with an important cameo for James Coburn as John Chisum (Coburn played Pat Garrett). But most of all it's just great fun to be in the company of Estevez's Billy, true enough to say it comes at the expense of the other characters around him, it's a film owning show, which also dubiously swerves us into cheering for the baby faced outlaw hero, but it plays out as a rollicking good ride in spite of grey area thematics and roll call of clichés. And boys, oh boys, Jenny Wright pops in to raise the temperatures considerably with a Lady Godiva moment. If for nothing else, the Young Guns movies got people talking about the Western in the MTV age, that has to be a bonus to the discerning Western fan. Acknowledge the faults by all means, but viewing them as gunslinging fun wrapped around real Western folklore might just help you enjoy the experience. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Buddy flick.","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" The perfect movie to watch as a kid and understand the buddy term in pop culture, well, in Western.The action is great but the movie's best feature is it's fast pace. The events are all extremely entertaining if you really get into the plot. You know, it deals with the good against the bad guys.The acting is also pretty good specially from Lou Diamond Phillips and Emilio Estevez. Both were my childhood heroes! Well there's not much to say about the movie except that it deals with good against evil and the Western problematics that have to be solved with plenty of guns!Watch it in order to understand the early 90's way of film making. "},{"Title":"a much better movie than the first one","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" i have to say,i thought this movie was way better than the first one.i felt the there were more action sequences,and they were better done.i also thought this one was more fun.even though most of cast returned from the first one,i felt the acting was better here.maybe the 3 year wait between films really matured some of the actors skills.plus,i really liked the addition of William Peterson,and Alan Ruck.as well,i really liked the music in this one.beyond that,though,i just thought the story was better,and flowed much more smoothly.this is actually what the first movie should have been,in my view.for me,Young Guns II is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Brat Pack Western, Part Two Young Guns II","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Young Guns II (1990) takes place a few years after the first one. But this films contradicts the end to part one and ret-cons all of the characters epilogues (sans Billy the Kid). Surprisingly, the sequel is more historically accurate than the preceding one (that's no great shakes because this one has it's flaws and flubs). What I like about this film is that it's not only better than part one, but the direction, acting and writing is a notch above as well. Maybe it's because the film is a quasi remake of the Sam Peckinpah classic Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid.If you want to see the further exploits of Billy the Kid, then look no further than this one. Emilio Estevez is great as Billy the Kid, Kiefer Sutherland and L.D.P. return as well. Recommended for action fans and those who can't get enough of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Young Gunspart 2.","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" After having seen the first Young Guns film and enjoyed it,i felt it was worth watching the second one,and I'm very surprised how the second one was able to improve on the first one. The PlotWhen looking back on his life,Billy the Kid thinks about the period when the Lincoln cattle war was coming to an end,and the government felt that due to the war ending soon,that they need to kill-off the outlaws.When Billy and the other Young Guns hear about this,they feel the only choice they have is to try and cross the boarder to New Mexico,But to Billys surprise an old friend of his called Pat Garrett has excepted to become the new sheriff and Garretts job is to make sure that not all of the Young Guns will get to see the end of the war.. View on the Film While Slater and Sutherland give good performances,the main two actors are Emilo Esteve as Billy the Kid and WilliamCSIPeterson as Garrett.Thought i found Esteves performance in the first one as being to cocky,hes really in proved for this part.He does a great job at showing Billy finding it very hard except that things are changing and a real sadness for his friends that did not reach the end.Peterson as Garrett is able to play It as having a dark presence but also showing someone finding it tough to be a sheriffFinal view on the filmA really great part 2,taht massively improvise on the first one,and has some great performances by Peterson and Esteves. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel blazing with action!","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":" Billy the Kid, played once again by Emilio Estevez, has found other allies, and is riding through New Mexico, pursued by the law, and those outside the law. His new friends? Pat Garrett and Arkansas Dave, played by William Peterson and Christian Slater, respectively. Also joining Billy's side is a young boy by the name of Tom O'Folliard (Balthazar Getty). However, there is news to Billy his testimony is wanted against Murphy's old goons from the first film. He accepts, in exchange for a full pardon of his crimes.What he discovers is that it was a setup by the Irish politicians of Lincoln. Breaking free, Billy releases the remaining Regulators from the last film. Doc (Kiefer Sutherland) and Chavez (Lou Diamond Phillips) return to Billy's side after a breakout of Lincoln.Preparing to go for Mexico, Billy's group is swelled by Henry William French (Alan Ruck), and it is then that Pat Garrett heads off his own way. The group heads out, and Garrett is hired to shoot Billy the Kid dead. What follows is a blaze across the West, a race between two groups, and internal conflict between the individual characters in Billy's group.The film is truly a good sequel one might think it is not as good as the original, but there is something new about this film. With the additions of such good characters as James Cobourn, Alan Ruck, and Christian Slater, coupled with the talents of the old cast, the film is vitalized to a level excelling the original. The music is definitely superior to the first film, and Jon Bon Jovi truly made a classic song for this film (Blaze of Glory). The characters are as colourful as in the first one, and the acting is great. Plus, the storyline of the sequel opens up new fields to explore, and expand on those left behind by the first film.Say what you want about the film, I believe that it is certainly equal to the original Young Guns, and maybe even pulls ahead in certain area. Certainly the music is much better, and the action is just as fiery and electric, and the actors are young and very talented.Truly a classic film. "},{"Title":"Great Follow up.","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEWYoung Guns 2 picks up about a year after the Lincoln County War.The bad blood from the war remains.The surviving Regulators are being hunted down as they are wanted men cause of the Lincoln County war.Billy(Emilio Estevez) is still hanging around New Mexico with a new gang.Doc(Kiefer Sutherland) who now lives in New York is captured, he is thrown in a pit where he meets up with Chavez once again for he to has been captured.When Billy learns of this he sets out to free Doc and Chavez which he does.Like the original the scenes with Billy and Doc are well done.And what about poor Chavez first it was Dirty Steve who would start with him now it's Arkansas Dave Rudabugh(Christian Slater)The outlaws are now being hunted by the new Sheriff Pat Garrett(William Petersen)I love the scenes between Billy and Arkansas Dave.They always argue over who's gang it is.And i have to say that Doc's death scene has too be one of the greatest deaths in a movie.Doc sure as hell went out in a Blaze of Glory.I didn't really care for the way Chavez got it, i feel it could have been better, but hey he also put up a fight just not like Doc.I like the way Young Guns 2 shows how how maybe Billy wasn't killed by Pat Garrett.If you do you're research you will see that there is some evidence too support Brushy Bill Robert's claim.When Garrett and Kid meet up at the end was not the way it went down in real life.That was done to raise the drama.I feel Young Guns 2 is every bit as good as the original.But i do prefer the first.Alan Ruck,James Colburn,Balthazor Getty and Viggo Mortensen also star.I give Young Guns 2 9/10 "},{"Title":"best actor","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The best acting-job ever done (by an extra), was definately in this film. Young Stephan Kraus is amazing, stunning and excellent as the little schoolboy Pietro. He makes the other so called actors bow before him. Friday is my new favorite word..... "}{"Title":"Not Billy's Blaze of Glory","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" After the end of the Lincoln County War a new governor comes to town - one gen. Lee Wallace. He is here to bring order back to the region and plans on doing so by hanging whoever was connected to the war (nevermind what history tells us). Amongst those captured are Doc Scurlock (Kiefer Sutherland) and Chavez y Chavez (Lou Diamond Phillips). Meanwhile Billy the Kid (Emilio Estevez) is roaming the state rustling and hustling. Even tries to get pardon from the new governor, only to be tricked and put in jail. Billy soon manages to escape and breaks out his old pals with him. Together with some new pals like Arkansas Dave (Christian Slater) and Hendry William French (Alan Ruck) the come back as the scourge of Lincoln County. But this time a former friend and ally Pat Garrett is hired as the new sheriff...When taking on this movie Emilio Estevez stated it would be closer to historical fact and more gritty. And I would have to say he lied. As far as the original part took some historical liberties this one just rapes them. Naturally some of the changes made in the first part had repercussions in the follow-up (like the death of Charles Bowdre), but I find no logic behind recasting Sutherland and Phillips in the follow-up and even less in them being killed off (given that both Chavez and Scurlock actually had relatively long lives for gunslingers).The main problem with the movie isn't however the history, but the general tone, which basically attempts to make a cool western. Characters are supposed to be savvy, funny and fun, while none of the grit of western movies makes it to the forefront. The whole Billy the Kid character is very poorly thought out by Estevez and his portrayal is one of the weakest. The movie (as in the first part) lacks heart and plods out from beginning to end with no real attempt to entice and engage. The biggest flaw is the lack of a proper counterpoint to Billy's character, someone who would put sense to his actions. There are a few brief scenes, which attempt to do this, but neither Pat Garrett or Doc Scurlock are given good enough lines to actually be able to pull it off. Instead the scenes just dissipate without any dramatic consequence.Given that the action is also not worth of any note it is not surprising that the movie has not stood the test of time and is slowing dropping into oblivion. Nonetheless the movie does have a brilliant score, although I did find myself wondering at times if it actually fits a western. "},{"Title":"Could've Been Better","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I honestly liked this movie, but it just didn't seem to reach its potential.The acting was up to par and the right actors seemed to fill the parts but I just had this feeling that something was lacking throughout the whole ordeal. There were without a doubt some awesome quotes...the best one's made by Emilio Estevez hands down. Come to think of it the worst part about this film was its lack of direction. Some things didn't seem to fit at all and left me wondering where the director was trying to take us. The action was definitely desirable and some great shootouts were portrayed especially one of them involving Kiefer Sutherland. Some viewers tore this movie apart but I have to say that it wasn't all that bad. While it certainly wasn't the best I've ever seen it was a fun watch and am glad I finally got around to viewing it. It also added a touch of real life history to it which always makes it more interesting if it is in fact based on a true story. I can't help it but I usually love those anecdotes!Final HelpingMovies That wouldn't be necessary.DVD Purchase Good, but not that good.Rental Yes, especially if you're a fan of the first installment. "},{"Title":"Better than the first","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film is an improvement over the first. The acting improves, and William Peterson shines in his role. The writing, and directing remains average. Nothing stands out special in this film, and I would rent it on a 99 cent day, at your local video store.  6/10.   "},{"Title":"Unashamedly, my favorite film.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I love this film. Seen it about 65 times. Used to have the entire movie memorized. Sure, it's Emilio and other 20ish actors, but this film changed my life. Got me interested in the Old west and I spent two summers in N.M. Want more info...ask me. "},{"Title":"If You Liked the First, You Will Like the Second","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Young Guns II is basically the first film with slight changes.  Billy the Kid (Emilio Estevez) is still running from the law and so are his henchmen (Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christian Slater, Alan Ruck, among others).  However, this time Billy must contend with old-friend Pat Garrett (William L. Petersen).  Young Guns II also examines the possibility of Billy escaping the grips of the law and living to be a very old man in New Mexico in the 1950s.  Overall the film is watchable, but it never has the feel of anything truly impressive.  Watch for James Coburn in a short cameo appearance.  2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Chitty chitty PANG PANG!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Okay, let me be honest I don't like westerns. But this one was not so bad. Maybe because the hero is a young boy, instead of the wiseguys played by Clint Eastwood. Emelio Estevez is the right person to play the Kid - check out the Breakfast Club and you'll know what I mean - and like Nitehawk-8 said you have to like  Alan Ruck. ( I do, so that's not the problem )But like all shoot-em-up-and-then-run-like-hell-movies, the bad guys don't give up until the whole gang is murdered. I saw a lot of my favorites (Lou Diamond Phillips and Kiefer Sutherland) die. Why can't they just stay alive, I thought. The answer is simple only thé hero lives on.In fact, there are two  members of the gang still alive at the end, although the old men said that 'most of my men are now dead or hiding somewhere.' As I recall, those two members where Billy da Kid and Hendry William French. And oh yes, Arkansas, but he was in Mexico... So who did I forget? "},{"Title":"Not two bad of a movie","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  At first I didn't think that Young Guns was the type of movie to have a sequel.  I was wrong.  Young Guns II is an awesome movie!  The story of Billy the Kid could not be complete with both movies.  The first movie kept me on my toes.  It was funny and amazing. The second movie was more intriguing and in depth.  Most sequels don't live up to the original but this one does!  If you want the whole story, see both movies. "},{"Title":"Great Film ... Nice Sound Track","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  this film expands on the first one and cuts out some of the characters, makes it simpler but provides more depth. there are some really moving scenes and some clever ones too, the funniest one being an indian ritual...This film is backed up by one of the best Original soundtracks by a famous artist of the early 90's (Jon Bonjovi) really captures the mood and provides a powerful background for a powerful film "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  If the first Young Guns film was not historically accurate, so much more was this one. As a Billy the Kid enthusiast, I'm still able to enjoy the first Young Guns film, but unless one is unfamiliar with the history of Billy the Kid, this movie is so grossly inaccurate that it gets in the way of being able to enjoy the film for its entertainment. The first movie closed with a good ending, so there really was no need to continue the story with a sequel. While the first one didn't try to be serious and would be sometimes comical, the film makers took a different approach this time and tried too hard to be serious and bring about conspiracy, which I think dampers the story. I'll also add that this sequel conflicted with the first movie in some areas, so don't expect it to hold true to the original. Estevez, Phillips, and Sutherland reprized their roles and their portrayal of their characters is disappointingly different then the first. The new characters and the actors that played them don't improve the story either. If I was totally ignorant to the history and wasn't a fan of the first, maybe then I would find it to be an okay movie, but as it is, I found it quite disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Not very good at all...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Unnecessary sequel to the Brat Pack original starring Emilio Estevez, Kiefer Sutherland, Lou Diamond Philips and an early Viggo Mortensen (Aragorn from The Lord of the Rings). Not very funny, although decent enough for a late Friday/Saturday night in. Pretty corny.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Terribly unnecessary...","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ...Young Guns II is an example of bad Hollywood sequels.  Despite the ending of the second proclaiming that Billy the Kid (Emilio Estevez) died a few years later, the writers seemed to find a way around that by having an old man appear in the twenties and claim that he is William Bonnie.  The old man tells the story in flashback, which is pretty original, but the way the ending plays out just makes you mad.Bonnie reunites with Doc (Kiefer Sutherland) and Chaveuz (Lou Diamond Philips) and a bunch of other characters whom you're sure will die.  They go on another long killing spree for reasons too complicated, and are pursued by Bonnie's former pal, Pat Garret (William L. Peterson).The acting from everyone but Sutherland is ludicrous.  Philips walks around and looks deep.  Estevez laughs and kills people.  Peterson looks reluctant, which would work if he didn't have the SAME LOOK ON HIS FACE FOR THE ENTIRE MOVIE.There isn't even action!  Oh, sure, there are a few horse chases here and a shootout there, but nothing as glorifying as the original.  The bad guys point and shoot and the good guys do the same.  It's like watching one of those Civil War movies where the armies take turns.  Just taking turns.  Boring.Young Guns II is unoriginal, and far from entertaining, 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could have been","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Darker and starker than the original film, this movie really tried too hard to be legitimate. Much  like Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey, a bigger budget may have ruined this film considering the power  and energy was lost from the original. Sadly, this  proves to be the real reason for sequels make the first one look so much better. While the  performances were good and all, this movie  proved to be something of a letdown. "},{"Title":"Average western, only serves to remind you of better films","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A journalist meets an old man out by the side of a road in the desert.  The man tells him that he is Billy the Kid and that he wants his pardon.  To prove that he is who he says he is, Billy tells the true story of his interaction with Pat Garrett.  As a young man, Billy is tricked into giving himself over to the authorities before escaping with his old gang.  However one of the gang, Pat, leaves to settle down before accepting a generous offer to become a sheriff and hunt Billy down.Looking back on it now, a sequel to Young Guns seems all very unnecessary &#150; in fact it may even have been unnecessary at the time of release, I can't remember.  This film uses a flashback approach to set up the main action, but manages to take away any drama out of whether or not Billy lives or dies (slightly messing up a well known story at the same time!).  The telling of this version is quite slow at times but does have the odd touch of humour.  The shoot outs only served to remind me of better westerns with similar situations.Much of the film's flaws come from it taking itself far too seriously, it should have been more fun but instead it is rather heavy and full of grandiose at times.  Death scenes are overdone and overlong and the film itself could easily been edited tighter to be a much faster paced and enjoyable animal.  The cast have a hand in this over-seriousness too, they play their characters without spark on the whole.  Only Slater seems to be having fun, the rest think they are doing a worthy piece of cinema as opposed to a brat-pack sequel!Estevez is an average leading man here, but is worse when wearing the old makeup and speaking in a comedy croaky voice!  Sutherland and Phillips both play it too seriously.  Some big talent is wastes here as well; Petersen is good as Pat, in fact I'd say that he gives a better performance than the rest of the film deserves.  Coburn is given an amusing cameo given that he played the most famous Pat Garrett (in my opinion), but he has nothing to really do other than show his face as an appropriate cameo.  Other well known faces include Mortensen and Walter.The film lifts from the genre heavily and in the end it feels like a rather heavy retread of better movies.  The material is too heavy and it is not as much fun as I expected it to be.  The fact that it twists a famous legend is a problem for me and this type of film is not the place to try and do a serious rewrite of history &#150; the montage conclusion is silly and the subtitles again reveal it to be taking itself all to seriously.  It's an average film that is OK to watch but it really should have been more enjoyable than this. "},{"Title":"Not Bad for a Western Flick","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I admit, I'm not one for movies set in the ol'west, but so many people recommended it, I figured id give it a try. It was one of the better westerns that i have seen. Emilio Esteves was really funny. This was a great movie for him. the two actors i thought did the best job were Kiefer Sutherland, and Lou Diamond Phillips. Thier characters were the most convincing, and i enjoyed thier performance thoroughly. The only actor I had a problem with was Christian Slater. I thought he could have done a much better job, but he just came off as being an annoying little bugger. the story was believable, if a little outrageous, and there was enough action in it to satisfy any one. People recommended it to me, and I will do the same thing back. Worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Brat Pack Cowboys","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This movie can't even be classified as a Western. Emilio Estevez was not convincing. Then, we were subjected to viewing his naked butt. The guy is just not a good actor...Then, someone is always calling after him....Beellaaay...Beellaaay... Not, Billy; Beellaaay. Puhleeze. Then, there's the part where Lou Diamond Phillips' character gets stabbed right through his forearm. Can you imagine the pain and bone breakage associated with such an injury? The severed nerves, tendons..the inevitable infection? Nope. The knife was simply pulled out without so much as a wince. Then, he's just fine in the next scene, as if nothing had happened. Nobody was convincing in this film. It just seemed like a bunch of short Hollywood types hamming it up. "},{"Title":"Needed a Better Ending !","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Thought I was going to like this film, and it was not bad, with Billy the Kid, (Charlie Sheen), acting wild and crazy as ever and shooting everything in sight along with some of his sidekicks. Noticed WIlliam L. Peterson,(Pat Garrett), who knew Billy in the past and had a great get together in a Whore House, which turned out to be a complete circus. It was strange viewing Bill L. Peterson on the screen, I kept thinking about CSI, Las Vegas, and how he has become a big star on TV. James Coburn, ( John Chisum), gave a brief appearance as a nasty character who had plenty of money but did not want to share it with anyone in need, namely, Billy The Kid. This film did not measure up to the first film and really needed a better ending, I must say, Billy the Kid looked pretty SAD ! "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I was a 9 year old boy when I saw this movie for the first time, and it came with much acclaim. I barley remember what happened in it, but I'll never forget a few scenes and how great it was. I recommend this film and give it two thumbs up, though I can't be certain if I'd like it as much today. (I'm gonna find that out soon)Though I'm not a big fan of Emilio, I have to mention the awesome lineup of actors. The Bon Jovi song during the credits was pretty good, though I didn't care for the rest of the score. Definitely a different kind of western. The history involved was nice food for thought as well.9/10  "},{"Title":"Being outlaws is explored more deeply in the sequel","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The sequel happens to conclude Billy the Kids story, and focus on outlaws being the hunted alot more then the first film which the Young Guns were at a point the hunters.  With Blaze of Glory, we get more of a spiritual element to death thanks to Lou Diamonds character Chevez, rubs off on Billy and the gang, as their runaway riding has the eventual end nearing, life and death along with friendship played brilliantly with the Young Guns, which makes the appeal of these characters as such to root for, so it should be as back then outlaws were hero's and Billy the Kid sounded like someone you would not mind riding with just for the thill of the chase and being a outlaw, although it has to end sometime, the brutal truth to all outlaws. Highly emotional, but enjoyable action western sequel, especially seeing characters back from the original. "},{"Title":"yoo hoo i'll make you famous","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  great follow up, after the Lincoln county war Billy The Kid continues to ride in New Mexico and is still the troublemaker we love. but now Billy and his gang is being hunted by new sheriff Pat Garrett. i liked the original Young Guns more but Young Guns 2 is almost as good, the sequel has some fact turned into fiction, i give Young Guns 2 8/10, i liked the way they use Brushy Bill Roberts in the movie making it look like the Kid never was killed by Garrett. and i do believe Brushy Bill Roberts was Billy The Kid "},{"Title":"Another sequel bites the dust.","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This film is definitely not up to the calibre of the first part. The music is terrific, courtesy Jon Bon Jovi, however, the screenplay seems to be lacking in direction. As usual, Estevez, and Phillips do a great job and Slater, for once, is not too bad. But even their acting cannot save this film from turning out to be a disappointment. The direction is really poor, and the screenplay leaves a lot to be desired. In particular, the changing of scenes can leave you totally confused. I wouldn't watch this one if I were you.  "}{"Title":"Good potential, unrealized.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Having seen and enjoyed Young Guns when first released I rented Young Guns II when recently in the mood for a good action shoot-em-up.  This could have been a much better movie, even though it does entertain.  The actors seem willing, the characters intriguing.  The screenplay, and direction unfortunately seem to lack core and direction.  The film rambles, does not find its center, and much potential is lost.  I can not recommend this movie for rental, there are much better around. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The score and the way in which it was filmed are absolutely amazing. Maybe not the best western ever made, but definitely one of the most interesting. I've seen it many times and I never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"About as accurate as a stormtrooper","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" There are films that negate themselves in their final twist, or during the credits. The Usual Suspects is a classic example of a film in which the final five minutes negate the entire rest of the feature. Young Guns II, on the other hand, negates itself right in the opening sequence. Of course, the teenage girl market that it was aimed at wouldn't notice at first, but once one does a little research into who Billy The Kid was, holes start appearing faster than adolescent females used to appear at Emilio Estevez films in the early to mid 1980s.In the 1950s, a man by the name of Brushy Bill Roberts (who had already tried to claim he was once a member of Jesse James' gang) contracted a lawyer and went before Governor Thomas Mabry. The film claims in its closing credits that Roberts was discredited in spite of identification by surviving friends of the notorious outlaw. In reality, the only people with any real connection to Billy The Kid in attendance were sons of Pat Garrett, Kip McKinney and William Brady. Oscar Garrett, when asked if he had any questions to ask of Roberts, simply stated that he did not wish to dignify the claim. Which is understandable when you compare Roberts' story with the facts. Or a photo of Roberts to the singular known authentic photo of Billy The Kid.There is, in fact, a site at www.aboutbillythekid.com, which I recommend to all those who want to know the truth of the Kid's life story. One page there documents the Brushy Bill case a lot more thoroughly than the writers of this film obviously did. Photos are shown of Brushy Bill and William Antrim, side by side.Once you've read this page and seen the photos, you'll no doubt agree that Emilio Estevez has a better chance of passing for Billy The Kid than Bill Roberts ever did. Estevez is the right height, eye colour, and hair colour to impersonate Billy, although the aforementioned photo makes it appear that even Estevez might be too heavily built. Still, Estevez gets the physical and verbal performance right, so we can let minor details like that go.What we cannot let go is that the Brushy Bill Roberts story is not the only area where major errors of fact are made. Young Guns II is clearly based upon Pat Garrett's account of the gunfighter's life. The reality is that Garrett was a coward, and the moment where Tom O'Folliard (who, incidentally, was actually older than Billy The Kid) is killed was much more consistent with his style. There is a quote about Garrett that sums it up You know what they say about Pat Garrett. He killed men like he killed buffalos, but at least he didn't ambush the animals in the dark. Garrett was also very much a nobody before he shot Billy The Kid, unlike what is shown here.In essence, this is not even an inaccurate retelling of someone's life. This is an attempt to cash in on someone else's inaccurate retelling of a life they never led. What Young Guns II does have going for it is some of the best Western gunfights outside a Sergio Leone film, sumptuous cinematography from one of the few people whose name deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as Leone, a scenery-chewing performance from Emilio Estevez, and an equally scenery-chewing performance from Christian Slater. On that basis, I gave Young Guns II a four out of ten. Just don't see it before you have read the real story - you'll be able to take it for what it is that way. "},{"Title":"Probably the best Western movie I've ever seen, period!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I really haven't enjoyed many Westerns since those heady days which could best be described as Clint Eastwood's Spaghetti era. But this one is without doubt The One which comes to mind for me as the quintessential Wild West movie. I particularly enjoyed the beginning and end as they tie the movie together very well and leave the viewer wondering whether or not it is all fact or fiction. No doubt, just as in many retellings of history... there's a good mixture of both.Billy the Kid's role is convincingly played to the hilt by Estevez, who manages to be both frivolous and serious at the same time. The Kid is more than just handy with a gun and knows it. So he carries a huge ego and a wicked sense of humor that can turn deadly in a heartbeat. He is really just a naive, rebellious teenager - but with easy access to firearms and of course he has no respect for societal norms, including the law! I can't think of anyone else playing this role as credibly, so kudos to whomever was responsible for the casting.There's an impressive cast - many of whom were just appearing on the acting horizon when this film was made. Not one of them puts in a lackluster performance, but Billy steals the show. Highly Recommended viewing. Even for those who don't usually watch Westerns. "},{"Title":"Shockingly Good","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Young Guns II, in my opinion, is a very good movie. The choices for Billy the Kid, Arkansas Dave and Pat Garrett are well done. Emilio still had that wild spirit that made him different from the rest, that made him Billy the Kid. Arkansas Dave seemed to mirror the same sucidal JD from 'Heathers' which Christen played. The once famous-now-famous William Petersen lit up the screen. As many now known Mr. Petersen from his famous character Gil Grissom from 'CSI Crime Scene Investiagtion' and Rick Chance from 'Live and Let Die in LA'. These actors have been given a second chance, and by goodness they shot it full of holes, taking all it's worth (no pun intended). I was thrilled and pleased with much history they incorporated into this movie. Also the empathy you feel for the characters are their friends fall, one by one. I give Young Guns II a 10/10. Amazing. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Awesome follow up to Young Guns and it takes off where it had left off...This time Billy and the gang have Arkansas Dave Rudabaugh(Christian Slater) Hendry William French(Alan Ruck who is from Ferris Bueller's Day off! then we have Tom who is a 15 yr old boy played by Balhazer Getty and then also Pat Garrett but then of course he decides to stay on and open up a place called Garrett's Place but then he decides to become sheriff after he is offered loads of money to hunt William H Bonney and his gang. This one is kinda sad because Doc and Chavez die but the scene where Chavez falls was really emotional because throughout both movies you feel sorry for him. I loved the part where Billy breaks free from Bob and Bell and he shoots Bob and then says Best dollar 80 i have ever spent! Overall both movies are great!!! I give this movie 4 stars ****!!!!! "},{"Title":"Didn't Billy The Kid die in the first Young Guns?","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I thought Billy th Kid died in the first Young Guns,but they have managed to make a sequel which explains that he didn't actually die.In this movie Billy the Kid gets a new gang and we get to see a lot of new actors that we didn't see in the first movie. Some of them are Christian Slater and Viggo Mortensen.The first movie is build on fact about the real Billy the Kid and how he died in battle.So it's to weak to say that he didn't die an make a sequel.They should never have made a sequel to Young Guns,but since they did I have to say that the only one worth watching is the first. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie on this earth!!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Without a doubt young guns 2 is the greatest movie i have seen so far. It is much more entertaining than the first one and the characters have more depth and style. The scenery is unique and true to the style of the old West. The plot follows the true story of Billy The Kid more closely than many others I have seen so far, such as Vidal's Billy The Kid. I would highly recommend this movie for any Western fan and I would guarantee an entertaining hour and a half. The actors play their parts well, and Emilio Estevez even looks like Billy The Kid in some ways. This film is a must for Emilio Estevez fans.The movie makes good use of light and effective camera shots especially towards the end of the film. I would also recommend the soundtrack by Jon Bon Jovi, the songs are catchy and are true to the storyline, unlike many soundtracks. The only thing I do not like about this film is that it is too short, but well worth watching every time. The film opens with action shortly after it begins, keeping your interest from the start and giving you an in sight of what is to come. Young guns 2 is the perfect movie if you want action, adventure and a good story that's mixed between fact and legend. "},{"Title":"Best dollar eighty I've ever spent!!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This one I've seen a lot more than the other one cuz this one rules!! They added more good cast with Christian Slater playing Arkansas Dava Rudabah and Balthazer Getty as Tommy. This one was kind of funnier than the other one. Also it has a very good soundtrack to it. Bon Jovi is cool. I loved the whore house scene White Oaks you can kiss my ass!! Alright you whitecats we are coming out shooting get ready for war!!!!! Both these movies will always be the best western movies to me!!! "},{"Title":"If you have seen the original, you probably won't like this.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Why kill Doc and Chavez? Why have Ferris' best friend Jack Nicholson Jr. as new Brat Bunch replacements? I don't know for sure, but I think it has something to do with a dead horse. Emilio Estevez is still fine as Billy. William Peterson is good as his conflicted friend. The script and direction are about the same as the first. The movie is a little fun, but the first one is better. Fans of James Coburn, Viggo Mortesen, Leon Rippy, Bathesar Getty, Lou Diamond Phillips, Kiefer Sutherland, Alan Ruck, William Peterson, Jenny Wright, and Emilio Estevez may like this as all are OK. I prefer to ignore this movie, although it is not bad when you need a quick, easy western fix.P.S. Oh, Jenny, you are so right. "}{"Title":"ctomvelu What are you talking about?","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is a poor movie, the original Young guns, (whilst not entirely accurate) at least had some semblance of realism when compared to what actually happened in real life. Young Guns II is purely fictional and stinks of Hollywood cash in.Also i would like to say that the reviewer ctomvelu has no clue what he is talking about, as billy the Kid was never a murderer or a homely punk that liked to shoot people in the back and if he did any real research on Billy the Kid he would know that.This movie isn't bad as bubblegum Hollywood entertainment, but Christian Slater is quite annoying, and the plots involving Garrett being a member of Billy's gang and Brushy Bill being Billy the Kid are totally laughable "}]