[{"Title":"Screw the critics, pop the top on a brewski, kick back and enjoy.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Navy SEALS is a fun escapist Hollywood testosterone rush packed with action and built around a thin story about a SEALS team which goes after some Stinger missels which have fallen into  the hands of mid-East terrorists. The film features some great stunts, lots of pyrotechnics, and firefights galore as it shows SEALS in a variety of combat missions including high altitude and undersea insertion platforms. A critically panned flick but a great watch for military action junkies. "},{"Title":"Mindless but Entertaining Action Flick","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a rah-rah, gung-ho actioner and as long as that's what you're looking for, you'll have a good time watching this fast-paced story of the white hats versus the black hats.Sheen, Biehn, Whalley, Kadi, and Paxton do workmanlike jobs with stereotypical roles. The plot is all formula but treated in a slightly unusual way and the action sequences are excellent. U.S. Navy SEALS (The good guys) stumble on a cache of weapons in the hands of mideastern terrorists (the bad guys.) The first attempt to get the goods fails, and in the process of tracking down the cache, everybody's best buddy dies (see if you can guess who THAT would be!) There are more tragic deaths before the finale, which, of course, includes hand-to-hand combat between boss baddie and our hero.This is very definitely a promo for the U.S. Navy, with terrific shots of U.S. weapons, heroic depictions of our boys in action, and simple, demonized baddies. But if that kind of thing sets you off, it should be pretty obvious that this is not the film for you! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Like the previous person's comments, this was like the Top Gun on the ground.  He just forgot to also mention that it was also done in the Sea and in the Air.  I feel that it was similar also to Chuck Norris' Delta Force; however, it was alot more realistic.  Well, the actors in this film did a wonderful job of portraying the actions of the elite Navy SEAL teams. This movie should serve as a testament to the courage and valor displayed by all of the great Special Operations and Special Forces teams of the Armed Forces.  The characters were really believable and the script was top-notch. Those who are from the Hampton Roads area of Virginia (like myself) will definitely notice many of the stateside locales.  You could definitely watch this movie over and over again!  It definitely provides a boost of adrenaline to all couch potatoes and action junkies, not to mention any of those who have either served in the military or were born in military households like myself! "},{"Title":"A very watchable action movie","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK, I'll try to comment mostly on the music cause enough has been said about this movie. I think it's a very watchable action movie (despite some flaws). Yes, it's not too realistic, but such a movie would most probably be boring (check how it worked out in The Finest Hour). Yes, it's not too deep, but come on, which action movie is (e.g. what's so deep about characters in Die Hard? nobody complains about that and they shouldn't)? Please take into consideration some other action movie involving the SEALS e.g. The Rock - the unwatchable Michael Bay/Nicholas Cage exploding blockbuster escapade which somehow has over 7.0 rating. The most positive thing about this movie are the great action scenes which look pretty realistic (the gunfights in Beirut, for example). Nice use of the camera (although it looks a bit 'TV' in some places) and very authentic looking scenery (with some nice details, e.g. like that destroyed Israeli M113 in the background).But the amazing thing is (personally) one of the best music scores in an action movie ever (which unfortunately I can't seem to find anywhere). I mean, Sylvester Levy really did his job right. Every time they head for action, they are followed by excellent instrumental scores which give this film and the scenery much more depth (my favorite one plays when they are running for the shore). Unbelievably good.So, must have seen it a couple of dozen times and still like to watch it for the above reasons. It's not a deep movie, just good war action and great music. I enjoy(ed) it. Maybe you will, too. Personally, I'd rate it as 6, objectively at 5, IMDb 7 at least (should have more since atrocities like The Rock get 7.3 average). "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those action films I can watch with any of my guy friends and everyone's happy. It's a good, old-fashioned action-adventure movie. Michael Biehn delivers the same kind of reliable performance he always does and Charlie Sheen does just fine as well. (I won't comment on the director except to say that I've also seen his previous claim to fame, The Lady In Red, a simply abysmal film starring Pamela Sue Martin and Robert Conrad.) Thanks to the stubbornness and tenacity of the cast, though, Navy SEALs went through a lot of revisions (which you'll see if you ever see any of the script drafts, reader's coverage, or the novelization) and actually came out as a straightforward, enjoyable actioner that's still watchable after more than 10 years.  "},{"Title":"Good as an Action movie","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Lewis Teague has made a bunch of average movies. This movie doesn't offer anything new, but as an action flick, it might be a legend for somebody. It's a great story about  America's secret weapon, Navy Seals. Casting is very impressive, including stars like Michael Biehn, Charlie Sheen and Bill Paxton. character development is minimal which is very understandable, after all it's all about action and little humor. Michael Biehn makes the most realistic performance from the cast, as a tough lieutanent. On the other hand, Charlie Sheen concentrates on joking in his role. Bill Paxton has got sadly only a minor role with hardly no lines at all. Movie is all about action, but good kind of. Worth watching.***/*****  "},{"Title":"Not great, but decent","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First off, I'd like to correct the poster below me who said that God Had a sniper rifle that fired tiny grenades. God was armed with a Barrett M-82A1 .50 caliber BMG. It is a current special forces rifle and is fully capable of (and often used for) putting a bullet all the way through a truck's engine, a foot of solid metal plate, or, as often shown in the movie, wimpy little concrete or cement block walls.Anyway...This movie is certainly not a feast for the brain, but neither is it intellectually devoid. The issue with the journalist in the movie is startlingly relevant in today's world, for example. I doubt it was intentional; it's likely that it was put in as a weak attempt at adding conflict and depth to a flat script. But hey, take what you can get, right?The real strong point of this movie, for me, is the set design. This was shot back in the old days, when neat backdrops couldn't just be drawn in with computers over a bluescreen. The Beirut scene at the end of Navy SEALs has some of the best *real* urban combat sets I've ever seen, right up there with the Hue scene at the end of Full Metal Jacket... though not quite as good.I don't know if the sets alone make this movie worth watching, but they do for me. It's generally mindless action, but that doesn't mean that it's without substance; just because Navy SEALs doesn't meet the standards of a great movie, with well-developed characters and all that junk, doesn't mean it's awful. Navy SEALs doesn't include much script depth because it really doesn't need to. That isn't the point. Do you think that real Navy SEALs would make well-rounded characters in the Hollywood sense? These soldiers *can't* have strife within the team, *can't* have little internal conflicts that, in most movies, would be considered interesting. That just isn't realistic.  "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While one can poke fun at Navy SEALS all day, the fact remains that it is a classic in modern military movies.  Of course it's cheesy, and of course it's unrealistic at times, but I've known several SEALS who resemble these characters.  The first half of the movie is great, especially the first 10 minutes.  The second half drags a bit.  Charlie Sheen and Michael Biehn are at their best.  Bill Paxton, though under-used, shines as God.  The soundtrack is killer.  I saw this movie several times at the theater, and the best time was when I saw it at Fort Bragg where the crowd erupted during the airdrop scene!  I love this movie, despite it's obvious flaws. "},{"Title":"Michael Biehn is amazing","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The film was better than I expected, I didn't think I'd enjoy it that much. I only bought it because I knew Michael Biehn was in it, but I really enjoyed the film. The highlight being when Biehn has had the morphine, he is a joy to watch in that car chase. Charlie Sheen's character was annoying and Bill Paxton was wasted. A good blast! "},{"Title":"OK action navy movie...","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 4/7/2010 -- 4 out of 10 (Dir-Lewis Teague) OK action navy movie about a group of Navy SEALS that find some missiles at a location where a terrorist was holding an American hostage. They get the hostage out but fail to blow up the missiles which causes them to have to do a few other missions to accomplish this major task. The movie stars Charlie Sheen and Michael Biehn as members of a small Navy SEAL group. Sheen's character is a little more rambunctious and tends to make quick decisions while the leader, played by Biehn, is the one that follows the book. Biehn's character is the one that decided to not blow up the missiles initially despite Sheen's character wanting to. Sheen later makes some bad decisions as well that makes them even and they both carry a little guilt into their next assignments. That's really about it for this movie. There are other characters like one member who is about ready to get married, reluctantly(but it never happens) and a part-Lebanese reporter, played by Joanne Whaley-Kilmer, who helps provide info for the cause but otherwise doesn't provide much for the movie, unfortunately. Pretty bland characters overall despite some good action sequences. The lack of character development doesn't make you care much for the characters and that's where it fails. An OK waste of a couple hours if you like these kind of movies and don't mind the cardboard characters. "}{"Title":"ok, it's not that bad","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  you can't watch a commandos film and expect to see a godfather with SMG's. It's quite different to any other film of this kind; there are no nukes or chemical or bio weapons on this one they chase simple stinger ground to air missiles, what any terrorist nowadays can have. Also there is no big explosion at the end or a pumped up villain or troopers, they're the average man, and their operations and equipment should be the one the real SEALs use. But i believe that Charlie Sheen's character is out of place, i really hated him from the beginning, and even more after he caused the big black guy's death. What a jerk! A court martial over there! He believes he can do anything he wants and nothing can stop him, also it was a very exaggerated perfomance by Sheen, i rather see him telling jokes than shooting arabs. A good film anyway for someone who needs a doses of testosterone, average than it's brothers. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie that people will enjoy for Decades","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Navy Seals is really enjoyable to watch. Charlie Sheen looks over the top in a way that Football playing Jocks like. The Character of God with the .50 caliber sniper rifle is interesting. As American Shadow Vice President I was just told the new code to the American Nuclear War Football, its so long that it now has to be written down. If Russia launches a nuclear first strike against America then I Brad HD Morgan in advance give the order for a defensive nuclear strike by the United States of America against the aggressor Nation. The code for the American Nuclear War Football is Motivation is a big word forge R EAM Day U Stoners Orcas I Seal Just. Connfidence JFK is high. There's trouble in Russia Pattern. Strike. Strike. Strike. I apologize in advance to my boss American Shadow President Jack Kennedy for writing F I dense JFK. JFK did well repeating Latin like I did well repeating French. I apologize to Green Day for hinting that they are stoners. The Stoner is the name for an old Navy Seal assault rifle as well. I am law abiding. Its the old story, what if the American Leadership was in a foreign nation and had to issue nuclear strike orders and that foreign nation tried to arrest the American leadership. The American and British nuclear deterrents are the only thing keeping the free world free.There are other Charlie Sheen Movies worth watching also. "},{"Title":"Top Gun on the ground","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe why some people hate this movie that much? I really can't.It is Very entertaining. And it is very action-packed-pewee.But all the feminist also shall have some masculine movie to hate, I think it is this one.Why can't you love this action-packed piece of work. Yes, it is not 100 % realistic. BUT IT IS A MOVIE.But in these terror-times this movie gets even better.I will call it Top Gun on the ground - for it is that, which it is. It is made at the same time (80ties). And it is about a small team of guys, doing Americas work against the evil elements.It is very entertaining. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special But Entertaining","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Ah, the 80s, watching this movie I never felt gladder to leave that decade behind. There's not much to get about this movie from the start. It was mad simply to be loud and entertaining. It fumbles in so many aspects, notably that many of the service men's' antics would lead to court-martial in reality. The 80s music that plays constantly is annoying, ruining even the supposedly tragic moments. Michael Biehn is no doubt a good actor, but the writing doesn't offer his character anything emotionally. Charlie Sheen is enjoyably over the top in his shenanigans, from jumping off bridges to avoid weddings to leaping onto a tow truck to get his beloved car back. Naturally, he's too cool to die in this not so convoluted story.The only character I really enjoyed was Bill Paxton as God, how awesome. A ridiculous movie by all means; just how so many stars were sucked into this low level production I'm not entirely sure. "},{"Title":"I agree, mediocre filming, but good acting and story","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The cast was perfect, things moved a little slow at times, but the character development of the MAIN cast was done very well.The battles were also chaotic in their look and feel which is a lot like reality. So many times in movies things as scripted so well that battles look organized and clean. In reality very few times does anything go even close to how it's planned. Soldiers need to improvise and think on their feet. People you've known for years are killed or wounded right beside you.I won't give away anything, you'll have to see this movie for yourself. But once again, Biehn is excellent as the leader of the squad of SEALs. Sheen also plays a good role as the headstrong rookie who years for combat. And the amusing thing is there's always one like that...and he either wins the Silver Star, or he gets all his friends and/or himself killed...or both.The one problem with this movie is, in an attempt to capture the true chaos of battle they lose some realism. If you want a good blend of both chaos and realism I would recommend Saving Private Ryan.This film was too ambitious and way ahead of its time, but I have to give it an A for effort! "},{"Title":"AAWWEESSOOMME!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good movie with style, action, and amusement! I'll never forget it 'cause Michael Biehn is my favorite actor. Even though he played very well in Terminator, he played much better in this movie! He stopped showing his jaw as much! Anyway, I got sucked into the story quickly but the only bad part was that they brought some stuff up out of no where!!! Besides that, it's a movie that u've gotta see! "},{"Title":"Fun film to work on!","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had a great time working as a background actor in the two Pentagon scenes. I got the chance to meet Michael Beihn; a very talented and giving actor. I am glad the producers and director decided to shoot on locations around Virginia Beach, Norfolk, Portsmouth, and Richmond,VA. Overall, the film was entertaining, exciting, thrilling and plain fun. It was good to see some of the characters, especially the one played by Charlie Sheen, learn a lesson in a way. I really enjoyed the directing, art-direction, photography, locations, story line, plot and character development along with performances. It was interesting to take a look back, and see some foreshadowing to the current events of today. You can see the frustrations the Navy Seals had regarding Naval intelligence. Very good film all around. "},{"Title":"In the Navy","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As far as some action films go, Navy Seals, the 1990 film directed by Lewis Teague, doesn't deserve most of the criticism that some contributors to this forum have expressed. While it doesn't add anything to the genre, it is a movie targeted to a certain audience, who will no doubt react to it.On the other hand, watching it on cable the other night, it proved to be the entertainment it's meant to be and nothing more. Let's hope the real Navy Seals will be more selective in picking someone that is as misguided and egocentric as Lt. Hawkins, who disobeys his orders and causes the death of a man that shouldn't have died.This film appears to be a vehicle for Charlie Sheen who was at the height of his intense period. Michael Biehn plays the man in command, Lt. Curran with flair. Joanne Whalley is seen only briefly. The rest of the cast, notably, S. Ephata Merkerson and Dennis Haysbert contributed to make the film better than it is.All in all, this is a film for action fans with not a lot of expectations. "},{"Title":"The genius of Charlie Sheen","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you're interested in seeing Charlie Sheen in one of his most coked up, one-liner driven performances, I highly recommend this film (if not you have problems) Also, behold the greatest, and only action-movie/golf-course hijinks scene of all time. This of course leads directly to Sheen in hot pursuit of his towed convertible while riding a Schwinn. Pure NAVY Seal adrenaline. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the elitists","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Navy SEALS is a personal classic for me.  If you can ignore things like plot, character development, and just be content to watch a bunch of explosions and macho gun fighting, than you can do no better than SEALS.Yes, the movie is intelectually devoid (just like Randall says in Clerks), but it's supposed to be that way - it's an action movie.  Go rent it, and do not feel ashamed, hell everytime I go into the video store I always grab the video off the shelves and in a real loud, nasal voice, I say WOW, NAVY SEALS! "}{"Title":"Too long and too boring; think of it somewhat as Top Gun with Navy Seals, but without the entertainment","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is not one of Charlie Sheen's finer moments. I'm a big fan, but this movie is a major misfire. It doesn't have nearly the dramatic impact that it was going for. I really do feel it had Top Gun in mind while doing this one. (A friend dying under Charlie Sheen's watch, doesn't that sound familiar?) The difference between Top Gun and Navy Seals is that Top Gun never had a boring moment. Navy Seals is a long film, almost two hours of boredom! The character development is very rushed and we don't get any proper insight on what makes these guys tick. All we know about Michael Biehn is that he's a tough guy who has regrets about what he does. Charlie Sheen is a cocky young kid with no real depth to his character. I didn't care about him or his plight. What was the point of the inclusion of Whalley's character here? She doesn't have many scenes, and adds nothing to the proceedings other than brief flirtation and to add moments of clarity for Biehn. Her character could have easily been cut in my opinion. Dennis Haysbert is supposed to be torn on his job and marriage, and I didn't give a damn about any of it. It's just very, very, poorly written. It also tries to add tension between Sheen & Biehn near the end to no avail. What's amazing about this film is the impressive cast. Even Bill Paxton has a role in this movie. We also get a lot of boring shootouts as well if that intrigues you. Final Thoughts Poorly written, underdeveloped characters and a slow pace sink this one. The whole cast suffers from poor material and so do the viewers. I wouldn't go near this one, unless you feel like almost two hours of boredom. 3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Above-Average But Half-Baked Actioneer","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Jewel of the Nile director Lewis Teague's fast-paced military actioneer Navy Seals qualifies as an above-average, but half-baked exercise in male testosterone with Charlie Sheen, Michael Biehn, Rick Rossovich, Dennis Haysbert, and Bill Paxton as members of an elite unit that accept what are essentially suicide missions. These guys fight hard and play hard, but the odds whittle down their numbers by fade out. Lensed partially on location in Spain, this is one of those anti-Middle Eastern terrorist rants that pits our heroes against die-hard Arab fanatics who have acquired Stinger missiles. Teague keeps the action moving fast enough to satisfy the action junkies, but the Chuck Pfarrer & Gary Goldman screenplay, loosely based on former Seal Pfarrer's exploits, is thick on plot but thin on characterization. Sheen has more character to work with than his co-stars. He is an adrenaline junkie who would rampage into Hell with a bucket of ice-water before he realized how he had imperiled himself. Meanwhile, as Lieutenant Curran, Michael Biehn is the cool under fire cucumber who knows when to evacuate.The film opens with a U.S. Navy helicopter crew trying to rescue personnel from a burning civilian ship. Unexpectedly, an enemy gunboat plies through the clouds of smoke and unleashes a hail of gunfire that kills two of the crew and riddles the tail rotor. Down goes the chopper and the terrorists take the crew hostage. In Norfolk, Virginia, Graham (Dennis Haysbert of The Unit) is about to get hitched when his buddies and he receive an alert to report to work. His bride to be cannot believe that they are walking out on her before they can exchange their marital vows. The Seals show up in time to catch the Arabs just before they can kill all the hostages. They save the pilot and the badly beaten co-pilot, but Hawkins (Charlie Sheen of Platoon) follows his instincts when he should be obeying Curran's orders. The team stumble onto a full-scale terrorist operation as the villains are about to move a shipment of deadly American-made Stinger missiles. These weapons are particularly lethal because they are not only portable but also hand-held. Suddenly, terrorists pour out of nowhere to attack the heroes. Curran decides to evacuate his men after the terrorists gun one down.When they reach headquarters, the big wigs decide that Curran should have stuck around to destroy the Stingers. Eventually, when their own intelligence community cannot furnish them with answers about the whereabouts of the terrorists, Curran persuades a beautiful half-Lebanese journalist (Joanne Whalley-Kilmer of Scandal) to help them.The thing that dates Navy Seals the most is Cobra composer Sylvester Levay's 80's style music. John A. Alonzo's photography is an asset. Teague orchestrates the action so that it builds to a climax when our heroes invade Beirut to blow up the Stingers and Hawkins gets to redeem himself. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Navy SEALs' receives a fair amount of undeserved hate. It doesn't try to be anything other than a fairly mindless and entertaining action movie - surely it can't be criticized for that, can it?Michael Biehn and Charlie Sheen play the commander and 2IC, respectively of a US Navy SEAL team. The movie starts with them having to rescue some Navy pilots who were captured by the bad guys. Correction - it starts with Charlie Sheen jumping off a bridge from a moving car. Anyway, when the SEALs go in, they discover a terrorist cache Stinger-missiles and find one of the world's most wanted men. After rescuing the pilots, our heroes spend the rest of the movie chasing these missing missiles and the terrorist leader, all while blowing stuff up and killing lots of bad guys. What more do you want?Character development? Not likely. There is very little among the good guys, and the bad guys are barely even introduced, but thats probably because they spend so much time getting blown up and shot-up. I can live with that, even if I can't remember anything about the terrorist leader.Check out 'Navy SEALs' if you're up for some mindless action and entertainment - 6/10. "},{"Title":"A classic to me...","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know...I don't share much of all your hostility towards this film....I guess it's because I grew up watching this film many many times...as a kid I was enthralled with US Spec. Forces and the SEALS in particular...this film also helped solidify in my mind the reality of national security and who and what threats are...My favorite scene is the air insertion at dusk...very cool...As a kid I used to absolutely love watching that scene over and over!It's now 10 years later, and the movie is still vivid in my mind as I'm watching it on AMC...I thought the scene where Hawkins chases after the truck on his bicycle was indeed very humorous... It's purpose was neither to be the best scene ever...nor the worst...but to show how crazy one of the main characters is....Hawkins, that is...leading of course up to the death of one of the members...One of the reasons I like this movie a lot is because it is one of a very small amount of movies that actually take you along with an elite team such as the SEALS on their missions...in action...most action flicks these days are so cliche and incorporate too much Hollywood special effects and little reality...this film was very real and also very relevant in today's world....I should probably go and grab the DVD to replace my old VHS... "},{"Title":"Non Stop Fun","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie so much it's my favorite it doesn't have  a lot of flash to it. Like a big budget movie but it's still fun to watch over and over again. To me it's one of those great old action movies that not too many people know about. "},{"Title":"What a waste of celluloid!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Oh, man, I hated this movie. Granted, the site locations were great, but that's about the ONLY positive thing I can say about it. Now, I'm going to state right at the beginning that I am VERY critical of the way weapons, especially firearms, are both portrayed, and handled, in movies. Being a war flick, portrayal was fine, but the shoddy weapons handling in the movie would have NEVER been tolerated by a real SEAL Team. The acting was more wooden than my first sailboat, the equipment carried (or lack of it) was laughable, and the dialogue was, shall we say, lacking in ANYTHING interesting. Well, with the exception of the journalist, which was actually prescient. Watching this movie was comparable to watching Palmetto with Woody Harrelson, where each scene was so bad you just couldn't turn it off, because you had to see if they could get worse with the next scene. Like Palmetto, they certainly did. The scene in the water, where, after shooting the first of the enemy, they BLOW THE DAMN BOAT UP, thereby having to face possible drowning, made me laugh so hard, that for a millisecond, I almost thought it was worth waiting through the movie for. Then Charlie Sheen decided to drag the surviving enemy down to the depths of the ocean (the way it was filmed, with the many camera cuts, it looked like they went down about 80 feet. Nice continuity there....) before slashing his throat was so damn stupid, I was stunned. Then again, so was the whole damn movie. I enjoy action movies, but not this one. NOTE The version I watched was a TV version, pan & scan. I can't imagine that made a difference, except for making the whole thing blessedly shorter! "},{"Title":"One Of THe best!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.... Charlie Sheen, Micheal Beihn are like the greatest action actors ever. This movie had lots of funny and lot of gory explosion scenes too. I reccomend this film. I like how they go to Beirut. Its very realistic. NAVY SEALS IS A 10! Navy Seals are one of the most hard working and toughest position in the Military... "},{"Title":"Dumb But Fun","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Fun popcorn action flick about a team of Navy SEALs with attitude out to stop some terrorists. It's about as deep as a puddle but undeniably entertaining. That is, if you like cheesy action movies. Which I proudly admit that I do. The cast is pretty good. Michael Biehn is always great. Anything with him in it is automatically worth seeing at least once. Charlie Sheen plays the same asshat character he was typecast as at the time. I don't think he minded the typecasting much. Bill Paxton, Rick Rossovich, and Dennis Haysbert are all solid. The kind of movie that critics hate but fans enjoy. Testicles aren't required to like this movie but they help. "},{"Title":"Good action-adventure.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, Sheen's character should be court-martialed, but I did enjoy the straight-forward action without the usual worldwide calamity as incentive. The precision teamwork of Navy Seals is thrilling to observe. It is also believable. You may recognize the wonderful voice of Dennis Hasbert (Our President in TV's 24) as Chief Billy Graham and the wonderful Epatha Merkerson (TV's Law & Order District Attorney) as his only love, Jolene. Bill Paxton (not to confused with Bill Pullman...as he always is) again turns up as a leading man in a supporting role. As the hero the audience likes to identify with, his character is stronger than Sheen's. Overall, I'd say the writing is this flick's chief strength. "},{"Title":"Well...it was still entertaining.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I remember when this movie first came to VHS I watched it with a friend and I liked it.  So many many years later when I got into DVDs and all, I saw this movie for 9 bucks and I couldn't pass it up.  Well to make a long story short, it wasn't AS good as I remembered it to be.  Ah well. "}{"Title":"An ok film that is pretty cheesy at times.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is o.k. Rent it if there isn't much else to see and you want to see Charlie Sheen and Michael Biehn running around shooting at stuff. Most of the other acting is kind of  boring and the scenes don't lead to very much character development, but what it lacks in story telling it makes up for in action scenes.   "},{"Title":"substance abuse made this movie possible","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" At least one kilo of uncut cocaine was required for Charlie Sheen ( call him 'the machine' or 'machine' if you are into that whole brevity thing ) to accept the role of Total Jerkwad, the main character. This movie is about why the military industrial super-complex is ultimately bad for the whole of the human race- as demonstrated by tax payer monies put forward so a coked-out Charlie Sheen might get to play army man in one long commercial for the U.S. military. Michael Biehn, was quoted as saying making this movie was one of the worst experiences of his life- I'm assuming its cause Biehn was not a coke-head and had probably never seen anybody consume as much blow,meth,horse tranquilizers, and booze as Charlie Sheen did/does on a regular basis, I mean when you see a human consume an eight ball of yayo as if it were a mere cheeseburger it can freak you out. Your'e thinking 'dude, you got your whole life ahead of you, pace yourself', then you watch Charlie wash down his cheeseburger with a bottle of Jack. Yeah, its called acting. "},{"Title":"Been there, seen that","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pure nonsense. A waste of time, energy and money. Besides the film being predictable from the first frame, it is also unrealistic, embarrassingly juvenile, and highly racist, a piece of anti-Arab propaganda whose only redeeming factor is to remind us that the anti-Arab thing is deeply embedded in our so-called culture. The plot makes no sense, the Great SEALs are depicted like a bunch of frat boys, the journalist is not a journalist, not a self-respecting one at any rate, she is what Hollywood thinks journalists are like, or the way it would like to think of journalists.... Hollywood, oh when will you ever come up with an original idea? "},{"Title":"If you Like your Soldiers Drunk and Irresponsible, This is the Movie for you","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Charlie wakes up from a drunk in the surf. He steals a bicycle. He steals a car. He rips up a golf course. Beer cans thrown around. Carts dumped in the water hazard.This is the way our fighting men are portrayed on their days off.Charlie shoots a man who is holding a gun to the head of a woman. Charlie makes a joke. Charlie is asked what is happening during combat. Charlie makes a joke. Later in another battle, Charlie is asked to assess the situation. Charlie makes a joke.This is the way our fighting men are portrayed during combat.I like Charlie. But I'd slap the stuffing out of him for his part in this movie. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  4.9 rating that must be a mistake.  This movie too much fun. Unbelievable in spots, but that is done for an entertaining story.  Interesting plot, with a never before done ending, great stunts(ie the 1 mile parachute drop) strong cast, perfect acting, and the last twenty minutes keeps you on the edge of you seat.  This movie is well researched, I liked the detail of using the Russian assault vehicale in Beruit, who ever researched this movie did their home work.  It is very original.  "},{"Title":"As real as Hollywood gets.","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is PURE Hollywood. Sheen's character, (Ens. Hawkins), would not have completed SEAL training with his lone wolf attitude. From day one, SEAL candidates are trained in TEAMs, as TEAMs. No one will complete the training if they show ANY signs of not being able, (or willing), to follow orders. SEALs need to know that they can depend on each other in combat. And that means that they follow orders and watch each other's back. This film is NOT a representation of real SEALs in action, or real SEAL attitudes. "},{"Title":"too stupid to qualify as dumb fun","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" No, it doesn't concern those cute, aquatic mammals at Marineland; the film is about an elite team of cute, aquatic Navy commandos whose patriotic zeal is matched only by their hair-trigger mentality. Essentially it's nothing more than a waterlogged 'Top Gun', with all the appeal of an armed forces recruitment ad, showing those daring, fun loving boys doing all kinds of neat things, like shooting up half the Middle East in search of elusive rag head terrorists, to use Charlie Sheen's description of their Arab adversaries. The script may have been co-written by an ex-SEAL, but any claim to authenticity is camouflaged by a third-person action fantasy scenario designed to thrill undiscriminating twelve-year-old gun freaks. Quoting the press kit The challenge was to...reflect the SEALS true spirit without compromising national security. In other words, no explanation is given for how those American made Stinger missiles got into the hands of Arab terrorists in the first place. "},{"Title":"Great cast, standard plot, solid action","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Charlie Sheen and Michael Biehn star in this surprisingly serious and relatively realistic action story, no invincible-one-man-army heroics here, it's all about the team, man. Other than an isolated goofy music-laden golfing scene to show the guys bonding while not killing terrorists, the film is pretty slow and somber by action standards. Some fundamentalist Islamic types steal some arms from an army base in the middle east and it's up to the SEALs to recover them. A couple plot twists here and there and some well done urban guerrilla warfare scenes make this a solid film if not a bit of a downer in scenes. Recommended for hardcore Charlie Sheen fans. "},{"Title":"Charlie sheen","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Note to self. Never ever ever again watch a serious movie with Charlie Sheen in it. Great comedian, horrible seal. This movie makes Navy SEALS look like a reckless group of rangers when, in fact, they are the most elite form of military in the world. Charlie Sheen helps destroy the Navy SEAL reputation. Thank you for making such an incredibly select group of individuals look awful in one of the worst action movies I have ever seen. This is a great story which could be made into an amazing action movie, but why Charlie Sheen? There are possibilities for a very passionate story here, but Sheen decides to wreck them with funny comments. "},{"Title":"goofs","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" hay i found a goof in the movie about half way through the movie when they are jumping out the plane at 6000 feet in the air and into the water... when they are in the plane and all geared up they have swimming flippers on their feet then when they jump and are falling in the air the flippers are gone and they are wearing boots but when they land in the water they have the swimming flippers back on again... other then that i think the movie is great and i have seen it many times... i only wish that there was more action in the movie... i like the woman that lost her man thanks to Charlie sheen's characters actions... she is now in law and order and i love her there too shes a great actor... "}{"Title":"A great film...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great film, I CAN'T BELIEVE Randal said it was intellectually devoid in Clerks, Because it wasn't what he said it was, It was a great film, I especially liked the music and characters. I highly recommend it to anyone that's a fan of action films. "},{"Title":"Diluted buddy movie","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Top gun without the in-house animosity. Or class. Or money. Or Cruise. An excuse for an upwardly mobile cast of next-big-thing actors to market their ability to lead a matinée this doesn't really have anything anyone can get their teeth into. It's a shame because the opening shot of Charlie Sheen opens out with great promise which is squandered almost straight away with a preposterous wedding set piece. Barking.Dennis Haysbert is a changeable actor for me but in this film he is fine, particularly the action sequences. Michael Biehn is a first-class action hero but not a leading man Charlie Sheen is, to all intents and purposes, the leading man but never quite an action hero. There's a stunt cast of hundreds who are also mentionworthy. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Smooth film","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this film it is not so caught up in hollywood crap as Top Gun which i like, but lets face it isnt the best of films despite the acting, the feel good factor makes the film. Navy Seals is cool well made but suffers from being a bit too predictable and cliche heavy, angry leader, reckless trooper gets a Family man killed but comes through in the end. A good film to watch and enjoy it is not too pretentious it is good fun and real looking enough to satisfy. "},{"Title":"Top Gun on the ground","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't as big as Top Gun but it still had all the style and flair of that movie.  This is really fun to watch and it's a good one to watch a few times.  The jokes are really funny and you can get into the action scenes.    "},{"Title":"Pretty good action flick","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I caught Navy Seals on the Encore channel and sat through the whole movie. Navy Seals is actually pretty good war-movie flick that wasn't too over the top or serious. It has lots of action, some civilian life of the seals, and overall enjoyable performances including from the ever so controversial Charlie Sheen. There's not much more to say about this film. It's got a pretty generic storyline involving hostage situations and the atypical car chase scene with some with many other action-oriented moments. This movie doesn't shine so much in story as it does in just being an exciting action flick. An engaging action movie with an intense soundtrack and a film that has overall stood the test of time. It's not the greatest war movie ever made, but it definitely looks like inspired many movies (and videogames) alike. A 7/10 slightly above-average score for me and recommended it if you like war movies or Charlie Sheen. "},{"Title":"A predictable action romp that fails to impress","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What can one really say about this movie except that it is about a group of highly trained US soldiers who go after some middle eastern terrorists. The movie opens with the origin of the Navy Seals - namely a force developed by President Kennedy to act as counter terrorists. These men (as only men are allowed in such occupations - though GI Jane attempted to address that) are highly trained and can handle any situation. Unfortunately this movie proves to be predictable and is little more than a copy of the Delta Force.The movie opens with an American helicopter being shot down by some terrorists and the crew taken hostage. The Navy Seals (one of whom is in the process of getting married) are instantly called out to retrieve them. This marriage scene is predictable because we know that he his going to be killed partway through the movie and the men are going to have to come to terms with his death, and his fiancé is going to be mourning because she never got to marry him.The movie is little more than an action romp. It is good if you like action and better if you like war movies (as I do), but in reality this movie has little else to offer. The good old evil Russians have been replaced with the boring old Middle Eastern terrorist. This works better with this movie though because it dates back to the early to mid-eighties where middle eastern terrorists where running havoc with the US overseas. This movie, made in 1990, comes at the tail end of the cold war and as such the terrorists are not replacing the Russians, they are the bad guys in their own right. "},{"Title":"Cuts the mustard as mindless entertainment, but that's about it","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Navy Seals is just another action film, for mine. It's not a bad way to spend a couple of hours or so because the action scenes are entertaining enough and Charlie Sheen's 'loose cannon' shtick is oddly compelling, but it should have been better. It has a cast that looks pretty decent on paper Sheen, Biehn, Paxton, Rossovich, Haysbert and even Law and Order's Merkerson. However, with the exception of Sheen and Biehn, they are underutilised, especially Paxton. Paxton is a good all-round actor, but here he barely gets to say anything at all! Even Sheen and Biehn play fairly shallow characters. For example, what turned Sheen's character (Hawkins) into the loose cannon that he is? As for Biehn's character (Curran), is he motivated by the loss of his friends in Beirut or by his sense of duty? I'm not sure the movie makes it entirely clear. Another weakness the movie has is that it lacks a particularly strong villain. Kadi, as Ben Shaheed, tries to paint a vaguely sympathetic picture for Shaheed's cause, but he simply doesn't appear enough. The main villain appears to be the Stinger missiles, if anything.The plot is a bit thin, but substantial enough to keep the movie going. Basically, Hawkins and Curran lead a bunch of Navy SEAL's in a quest to find some Stingers that are used against civilian aircraft. Curran woos a half-Lebanese reporter so she can help them out. One obvious plot hole is how this reporter can know more than the CIA, but I digress. The plot is good enough to be a vehicle for firefights, some obligatory friction between Hawkins and Curran and for Sheen to act stylish. For an action movie, that's probably enough. Also, although none of the actors have that much to work with, Sheen and Biehn almost make the film worth watching by themselves. Sheen does his 'loose cannon' act well, reeling off the odd vaguely humorous one liner (though his character is thoroughly unrealistic for a SEAL), while few people are better than Biehn at playing military characters. Indeed, he received praise from the US Navy for his calm, composed performance. As for the dialogue...well, who cares? Lots of profanity, some bravado, some one-liners - standard action movie stuff most of the time. Biehn does provide the odd noteworthy line you just toasted a man you put in the grave, but that's about it. It doesn't make Navy Seals a bad movie though. As mindless entertainment, it delivers. However, considering its nearly 2 hour movie length and reasonably strong cast, it should have been better. 2.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"See it for what it is...and it's great","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A definite childhood fave of mine (first saw it at 12), Navy SEALs was definitely one I purchased when, at about 26, I found it on the bargain shelf at KMart. Still stands up well after all these years, as I watch it about as often now, as I did way back when. To this day it has one of the most exciting opening sequences I've ever seen in action fare. I won't spoil it.Charlie Sheen is typically light-hearted (this performance is more akin to say, Hot Shots or Good Advice, or Men at Work, than say, Platoon), but that's fine, I personally love him in these sorts of roles, I think he has great comedic personality.Michael Biehn, as always, is great. It is a wonder to me, and many other fans, why he was, and indeed still is being underused. He's a versatile, charismatic actor who has definitely been overlooked for some roles (perfect for him) given to lesser actors.S Epatha Merceson rates a mention, because even though this is definitely B-grade all the way, it is easy to see why she picked up a recurring role in Law and Order not actually too long after this film was made. She plays the wife of Chief the guy that gets killed because he's the obligatory i have a wife and a life guy. Anyway, Michael Biehn aka Lt James Curran, goes to deliver the bad news to her, and when she breaks down, it's really believable and you can feel her sadness in one of the most anguished screams i've ever heard on film. Okay, she's no GREAT actor, but i think her performance (she has about, say, 10 minutes total screen time) is the best in the entire film.Some of the others on here, who unfortunately have taken this film seriously, and label it racist, derogatory to Arabic people, are inaccurate I think. This is a dodgy action movie that is NOT trying to make a statement one way or the other about America's politics, military or their involvement in the Middle East. You want a racist movie? See Black Hawk Down and how it portrays the Somali people...and that's a movie that you are SUPPOSED to take seriously. I say lighten up and see this for what it is, an action B-movie set amidst the Middle East conflict. If it was a movie about the British military, it would probably be set in Northern Ireland...is there REALLY any difference?? It's not ultra-violent, it has some comedic moments and a bit of a love story, some intrigue, and some fine performances. What more could one ask from an action movie anyway? Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not THAT great, but a good blend...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Navy SEALs isn't Oscar material, but it is a decent film, with its ups and downs. (mostly ups, I think)The story revolves around a Navy SEAL (I'm sure its been mentioned many times, but SEAL is SEa Air and Land)unit sent in to rescue the crew of a US helicopter taken hostage. However, while escaping, two SEALs come across a cache of Stinger missiles, but there's no time to demolish them. As well, the terrorist leader, disguised as a prisoner himself, is accidentally allowed to escape. The movie focuses in on the team's search for the weapons on their suspect, and it also gives audiences a glimpse at what SEALs do.Overall, I found this movie very entertaining (The opening hostage rescue scene being the highlight of the movie). I also enjoyed the fact that this movie showed all the different ways SEALs get to their target. (parachute, swimming, etc). There's some comic relief to it (its lame, but its pretty funny), and it delivers some great SEAL action throughout (especially the training and killhouse scene). The music is very catchy, too, giving an overall patriotic feel.However, this movie is not without its inaccuracies, which there are many of. First of all, each soldier has the same weapon, an MP5 Silenced, yet each soldier's gun makes a different sound. (One even sounds like a shotgun...what's with that?)As well, Charlie Sheen's character, a bit of a renegade, would never have been allowed as a part of a SEAL team with that attitude.Its worth checking out. If you like it, might as well buy it from the under $10 DVD rack. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Funny how relevant it seems now","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie first came out, it came across as a Top Gun on the ground. After the terrorist massacre in NYC last week, suddenly it seems much more real. No doubt real SEAL teams will be dispatched to the Middle East in the coming months to exterminate terrorists. Originally this movie seemed like Rambo-esque cheese. Now it seems prophetic.  "}{"Title":"Very Realistic","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was a bit skeptical about seeing this film because most Navy SEAL movies don't depict the real actions of the men in combat.When I was in the military I would often be surrounded by my fellow men joking about the certain terror we were about to engage in.  Even in a debriefing room after a mission we would gripe and moan about how Intel would be putting our butts on the line.  What was most astounding was, similar to my squad, these men brought a camera on a mission in order to film their top secret government organization in the opening fifteen minutes.  Such a whacky montage of playing golf reminds me of the old days.It brought back such memories that I had to shut it off after twenty minutes thinking of my old pals.  I am haunted by SEALs. "},{"Title":"More entertaining then Top Gun by miles!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Michael Biehn's performance and loved him after he got shot... Oh woow Long story. When you see the movie, you'll get it. Anyway, I liked the little macho scenes as well and think it's better than Top Gun. "},{"Title":"80s Hangover","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This came out in 1990 but was a flop at the cinema which is something of a surprise . It's certainly not a great film but you can under the studio heads making a feelgood Reagenite action movie where a bunch of bad guys threaten American interests and pay the price when the US unleash some good ol' American macho pretty boys to put the world to rights effortlessly killing said baddies and deciding who has first call on the hot chick love interest Actually this is perhaps the main problem with NAVY SEALS . Action movies in the 1980s were only guaranteed to be a major success if Sly Stallone or Arnie Austrian Body Builder was starring in them . It's not really a question of politics that the likes of RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 was a major success but one of casting . Tom Cruise might fly a jet in the 1980s but if he was riding a bicycle every hetrosexual 17 girl would queue up at the cinema to watch him . Charlie Sheen never had that same pulling power . Michael Biehn was another rising star in the mid 1980s and one is left puzzled why he didn't go on to bigger things . Perhaps the fact that he got his break in two of the greatest films from that period namely THE TERMINATOR and ALIENS gave the impression he was able to pick good roles in good films but 25 years later the evidence is overwhelmingly against Biehn's eye for a movie The other failure is that it's sometimes very difficult to market this type of cross genre action/romantic type of movie . There's not a lot of action happening apart from the opening ten minutes and the last twenty minutes . Supposedly the romantic middle third would have appealed to a female audience but both the on screen chemistry and the writing is very weak which means being composed of an an audience of 50 per cent bored males and 50 per cent bored females . Certainly when the film does very occasionally work it's down to the action and the producers should have abandoned any pretence about appealing to everyone and just made a kick ass action fest "},{"Title":"This movie wasn't very good even on its first run","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm a fan of good, plausible, action movies. And I'm a huge fan of the elite military units such as the Navy SEALs. Finally, I'm a huge fan of Michael Biehn. Sadly none of those allowed me to really enjoy this movie at the time. I gave it another chance more recently when I bought the DVD. Here's the problems with this movie in a quick list 1. It's a poor mans top gun, for example including a virtual music video of the SEAL team playing golf with a soundtrack of The Boys are Back In Town, which concludes with Charlie Sheen doing an inane chase to get his towed car back.2. This is quite simply a Charlie Sheen movie, when Sheen was trying to be famous before he started doing stuff like Hot Shots. Reports I've heard indicate that Sheen was a baby on the set and it affected the roles and Direction the rest of the actors in the movie got.3. Biehn is the head of the SEAL team yet Sheen seldom obeys him. Any SEAL showing the lack of discipline that Sheen's character does, or who endangered the team as he does, wouldn't even have made it through BUDS training let alone gotten on a team.4. SEALs are cross trained on weapons. Yet in one part of the movie a SEAL has to figure out how to use a U.S. Stinger Missile.There are a few good scenes in the movie. The assault entry at the beginning, Bill Paxton as God, and some of the footage in what was supposed to be Beirut at the time. Overall though this movie is a loser. "},{"Title":"warning!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely terrible... Definately a bull***t story and even worse acting. Too bad Charlie Sheen is involved in something like this since he is a decent actor and has done a couple of really good movies.The special effects are 'A-team'-standard with the classical car gets shot and then flips over with a little fireball under the hood.Of course the enemy are portrayed as total idiots and die as fast as they can say '-Die evil Americans'.Unless braindead movies are you game, don't spend 113minutes of your life on this rubbish. Pick up 'the Platoon' or 'Apocalypse Now' instead. "},{"Title":"Very Similar to Real S.E.A.L.s I have known.","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Someone commented that Charlie Sheen's character should be court martialed for doing whatever he wanted. You may be right, but that is how SEAL's truly are. I served for several months with a SEAL team out of Norfolk, VA. Actually, I should say they used our ship to deploy themselves around Europe for a couple of months. I was the postal clerk on board and everyday these guys would try to get their mail. Since only one person was allowed to pick up the mail each day we issued one pass to one person. Each day a different SEAL would come up pretending to be someone else. Well, after the third time I said no to them until I had proof who they were. They went NUTS!!! I thought they were gonna bust through my cage, gag me, and then steal the mail. Luckily I had not only the President on my side (The Navy), but the Federal Government (US Mail). That was the only time I saw the SEALs stopped from having whatever they wanted. They were allowed unlimited shore leave, where we had to be back on ship at a certain time. They killed and tortured a woman in France and the two SEAL's only got a 1 week detention on ship, whereas a Seamen was caught stealing a bottle of wine from a French wine shop and he got a court martial. Is it any wonder why the SEAL's retention rate is over 85%? As a SEAL you are god. So this movie does a pretty accurate job of portraying how a SEAL acts and thinks... unfortunately it is so unbelievable to normal people that it comes off as being fake. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is the reason why I've always wanted to become a Navy SEAL. There's a lot of action and a little bit of comedy and drama. This movie has one of the best fire fights that I've seen in Hollywood. Charlie Sheen, Michael Biehn, and the rest of the cast did an amazing job. I've lost track of how many times I've seen this movie, it would have been nice if there was a sequel. There are a few mistakes made in this movie that are unrealistic & incorrect, and a few things I would have done differently which would have made this a 5/5 star movie. This will always be one of my all time favorite movies, it should be at least 7.5 stars in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Unreal story elements screw up more realistic action","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Lt. James Curran (Michael Biehn) lead a team of Navy SEALS that includes Charlie Sheen, Bill Paxton, and Dennis Haysbert. On a mission to rescue a Navy helicopter crew from terrorists, they find a cache of Stinger missiles. They fail to destroy the missiles before evacuating. Subsequently, they go on missions to search and destroy those missiles.Two things that struck me as cheesy manufactured storyline. First is the frat house atmosphere of the team. Charlie Sheen is an especially wild loose cannon. It feels like a Hollywood manufactured character. Second is that Curran extracts the intel from reporter Claire Varrens (Joanne Whalley). Again it feels very manufactured and fake.What goes right is the more realistic portrayal of combat. It's not perfect but it's a far improvement from Sly or Arnold. They do things that are within the real SEALS. It's still ridiculous how a handful of SEALS takes on a ton of terrorists in the middle of a hostile city. But at least, they're not bulletproof. If the story had an ounce of realism, the action wouldn't have been wasted. "},{"Title":"I could've sworn I've seen this movie as a kid","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm pretty sure I did, but I couldn't remember a single detail. Oh well, I got to watch it like a new movie. I'm a big fan of Charlie Sheen, and love his works from Platoon to Wall Street, from Good Advice to 2.5 Good Men. I decided to rent this one after reading some reviews that compared it to Top Gun, one of my all-time favorite classics. Unfortunately it was VERY wide off the mark, but that didn't stop me from moderately enjoying this film.Navy Seals could only be compared to Top Gun in the way that there's a very thin storyline, lots of mindless action scenes, and an in-your-face cast of characters. It is, however, extremely wise to compare head to head with Top Gun because it is severely devoid of the style and class that Bruckheimer adds to his movies. The first scene in Navy Seals (not the marriage scene, the action scene) kind of disappointed me because it wasn't very well choreographed, and did not wow me at all. Some reviews of Top Gun were spot on, it was like an hour and a half of MTV. Navy Seals tries to include a bit of storyline and there's too much talking, too little rock songs, and insufficient testosterone. Sheen is great but instead of cocky, he's reckless. A bit different, which isn't bad, but I guess I love Top Gun too much to have fully enjoyed Seals. Another minor gripe is the stereotype cast here might've been alright for the 90's, but made me cringe. I can understand Sheen shooting arabs because they're just a type of bad guy, it could easily have been Germans, Chinese, Japanese, North Koreans, Filipinos, Thais, or even crazy extremist Americans. But what I do have a problem with, is the racial slurs he blurted about the middle eastern people, totally unnecessary and doesn't really build his character, rather it just showed his lack of class. I blame the scriptwriters for this.All in all a decent movie for its time, I would've given a 6 as I found myself a bit bored in between the missions, but it gets an extra point for the tow truck chase and insertion scenes. Not quite as breathtaking as watching an F14 Tomcat taking off, but still very good and I liked how each mission was a bit different. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing and predictable","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Navy SEALS is about a team of (you guessed it) Navy SEALS, and their mission is to stop a bunch of Middle Eastern terrorists, who have got their hands on dangerous Stinger missiles. Our heroes have to make their way through sea, land and air to stop the terrorists, will they succeed?Approximately ten minutes into the movie, Charlie Sheen´s character spontaneously decides to jump off a car in high speed and down from a bridge, just because he refuses to go to a wedding. When you see this, hopefully you will understand how stupid Navy SEALS actually is and turn it OFF. Too bad for me that I did not do that.How believable are these Navy SEALS anyway? They behave like complete morons in their spare time and seem downright dumb, are they really suitable for these kind of important missions? Charlie Sheen´s character behaves like a confused little rascal, if he played a mental patient it would be believable, but a Navy SEAL? Nah.Michael Biehn and Charlie Sheen have both been in far better movies, and especially Sheen makes a shockingly lousy performance, even for him. The supporting actors are not interesting enough, even the great Bill Paxton can´t help this up. The script is very predictable and the action scenes are monotonous, even if they are well made.If you despite my warnings decide to see this piece of crap, at least try to forget it when you have seen it. It´s probably best that way.* out of * * * * * "}{"Title":"the worst experience of my life?","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Navy Seals team is sent to rescue some Americans who are being held hostage (middle east somewhere). During the rescue, a few dozen Stinger missiles are discovered but not destroyed. So the team is sent back in to destroy them.Ordered to let their hair down first, they play golf, Boy these guys know how to have a good time. Then it's out again in search of the missiles. They seek out an attractive female journalist who seems to have more accurate information than the CIA. And I sort of lost interest after that.In an interview, Michael Biehn stated that working on this film was probably the worst experience of my life. Was watching it one of mine? When I was 14 I would have loved this and related to the 14-year old mentality of the leads. A few decades on, and not being part of this culture, I found little here I could watch easily, and lots that I found annoying. There was no problem with the technical side of the film, and the actors were good. The problems are more fundamental and are due to the script. "},{"Title":"Wannabe Top Gun Crud","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Caught this turkey the other day from the library and it's almost a complete dud. It's fairly obvious this 1990 Navy commercial is trying to glamorize and put a Hollywood stamp on Navy Seals. Why the Navy cooperated with such a poor script is beyond me. It has awful dialog and an absolutely trite story. It's as bad as cardboard. Sadly, it's trying to emulate Top Gun, not a pinnacle of movie-making but certainly higher adrenaline and a movie that sort of set the bar for 80s high octane flicks. Here we are reminded of what poor movie-making cruds out. Only a few scenes hold much entertaining value, and the supposed finale is half-hashed. The direction is laughable and the Seal Team taking on what seems like a whole town. Anyway - save your time and miss or waste and watch. "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal of Seals in combat.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of this movie. As a trained SEAL, I served 100s of missions throughout the Middle East. I used to go by the code name of the Cobra Wolf. Let me tell you, this movie is totally realistic. I know first hand. Charlie Sheen's character really hit home. I too did not like to play by the book. As a renegade, I would disobey orders, but always get the job done. Sure team mates were killed because of it, but hey, thats part of being a Seal. If you want an nonstop, adrenaline filled, action packed movie that kicks ass and shows what its like to be part of the world'd most elite soldiers, than Navy Seals is for you. "},{"Title":"This is what bad is!","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Be very afraid of anyone who likes this film.  They probably inhaled too many paint chips as a child.  Its so awful I refuse to relive a plot.  O yeah, there wasn't one!  This movie is a true definition of what Hollywood creates for people who don't want to think at a theatre.  Do the bad guys win? Do the good guys win? Who cares! "},{"Title":"A Great Action Blockbuster","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've always believed that certain actors only make good movies and with a cast like Michael Biehn, Charlie Sheen and Bill Paxton Navy Seals couldn't had turned out to be a bad one. Many have said this is much like Top Gun but on the ground, however i disagree since Navy Seals although far from realistic is a lot more realistic than Top Gun ever was (the ones that know about aircraft know what i mean). I must have seen this movie over 10 times and i already own it on Blu-Ray and will probably see it 10 more mainly because of the way Sheen and Biehn act in it. Could it had been better ? Sure it could, which movie can't ? But to me Navy Seals is up there with The Rock another one of my favorite movies with Michael Biehn in it once again. "},{"Title":"Believable","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pretty good action flick that certainly beats the likes of similar movies starring Chuck Norris from the same era.There's story, real acting, and good delivery in this classic Charlie Sheen movie. But other casts are on the equal footing on this one gem of a movie.The setting is actually intriguing, and pretty exciting. It's believable as a navy seal's story.Overall, I liked this movie. It's one of the best modern war movies around.There wasn't a part that I didn't like, and strangely, every movie that Michael Beihn is in seems to have that quality. "},{"Title":"Why do you love it so?","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ****MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS***** MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS***LOOK OUT**LOOK OUT***** This film is rubbish. I am genuinely surprised at all the glowing reviews shown here. I remember being bitterly disappointed all those years ago as a kid. Having just caught the movie again on TV after all this time it has merely confounded what I originally thought. The action is poor. Most of the SEALS are meaningless throwaway characters who aren't explored in anywhere near enough depth to make us care about them. Yes its only an action film but what's the point in having Biehn,Sheen and Paxton if you ain't gonna use them? Christ, after doing Aliens Biehn and (especially)Paxton should have been allowed to flex their acting muscles as well! I was only 8 or 9 at the time this came out and even I could see that they were wasted in this. The rest of the SEALS barely got a line between them, except for Dennis Haysbert and they killed him early as a punishment for having been allowed some dialogue. Buy Top Gun instead. It's basically the same film done way better. Poor 2-dimensional characters, uninspiring action sequences, and lack of a decent script have regrettably marred a film that promised so much. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dumb US-Navy-TV-Ad!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a boredom. What a waste of good actors.... ...and of my timeAfter watching this movie, you must be crazy, not to join the Navy. Interesting people, action, hightech-equipment and whenever a Navy-Seal makes a mistake, it is caused by his good-heart. Funny lads and good parties...Never seen an Advertisement for war? watch this  "},{"Title":"It can't be any worse","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is so bad that if I would puke at everytime it was being unrealistic, i would be swimming. Half the movie was spent brainlessly rolling around, while shooting a gun with infinite ammunition. Charlie Sheen was a drunken bum.GOD Had a sniper rifle that fired tiny grenades. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Piece of crap...expect it...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In spite of all the gung-ho machismo exhibited here...cinematically, this is a typical, cheesy, macho, bone-head geared flick.  Sorry.  If you want macho and intelligent, try G.I. Jane.Some Seals are smart cookies.  Some are just like the macho super ego operators shown here.  I went to school with some so this I know.I'm not sure what the director was going for in this work in showing these guys to be portrayed as all brawn (which it appears) versus a combination, but it just comes off short.I did find it mindless entertainment and can dig a good shoot 'em up like the next guy, but as far as rating this great, reserve that classification for the cannon fodder type that are more into flicks like the fast and the furious.I agree that this had some real potential, with a great cast and awesome scenery...Lebanon was the best, but still, it definitely falls short of Citizen Kane, which doesn't impress me awfully much these days either...  "}{"Title":"Pure evil","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pure evil. Manipulative Hollywood action movie that tries to manipulate the viewer into rooting for a worthless, racist sh*t. The main character is so vile that most rational viewers will be sick. Most bad movies are kind of funny, but Navy Seals will only make you angry. "},{"Title":"Pure crap...","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It had potential, but then again, it never really did. Michael Biehn and Charlie Sheen (hey, their names rhyme when you say them fast in whatever order you want to!) are the foul-mouthed Navy S.E.A.L.S. (no periods in the title, though) who like to blow things up and get in trouble. Go figure.I've tried sitting through this multiple times and only managed to once. I don't plan to ever again.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"not worth watching","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" the movie is not anything like Navy Seals in real life because in the movie they do a lot of things the military would not do. The film is not military accurate so if the stars were really Navy Seals in real life, they would be court Marshalled or discharged. The stars of this movie including Michael Biehn do not give good performances, Michael Biehn is okay but he does not fit the tough guy/action hero image, he's good but don't put him in the same category as Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Stallone or Chuck Norris. As for Charlie Sheen he's okay but does better in other genres he is more commonly in. I would recommend films from any of the big name action film stars. "},{"Title":"Action stinker.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  1/2 out of ****It took me three sittings to sit through most of Navy Seals, and I still dozed off through a few minutes of it. Yes, boredom is the movie's biggest problem. This is by far the dullest action movie I've seen in years, maybe even of all-time.What's the plot? Who cares? It's just bare bones enough to string up some action sequences, but unfortunately, the action scenes smell of made-for-TV quality. Heck, some of the stuff that's made-for-TV these days features better action (i.e. Band of Brothers). Director Lewis Teague obviously doesn't know much more than the good old point-and-shoot method, meaning he's got no style or, for that matter, a sense of direction. People shoot, get shot, and it's a basic, routine pattern that continues for all the gunfights. There are no cool stunts, outrageous situations, or edgy tension during all these scenes.The way it is for me is that movies involving commando teams are rarely ever exciting, mainly because it's a bunch of tough guys who seem invincible, even when a couple of them get killed. Oh, don't get me wrong, there are notable exceptions (such as the nail-biter Executive Decision), but Navy Seals sure isn't one of them. The film never builds up any suspense because the villains never seem like a threat. None of the bad guys are even the slightest bit menacing. Already, at least half the movie's effectiveness is gone.But the heroes are just as lame and uninteresting. For these parts, acting's what you'd expect. Charlie Sheen plays himself, annoying and idiotic as usual. Michael Biehn is the tough-as-nails commander, a role he can do in his sleep, though he plays the part so straight he might just induce some sleep in the viewers. Nobody else makes an impression, not even the usually funny Bill Paxton.I don't have much more to say about Navy Seals, other than its third-rate, silly crap that fails on every intended level. It's dull plot and premise won't make this an enjoyable movie to trash in a crowd, and its boring execution will put a lot of viewers to sleep. Definitely one of the nadirs of awful modern action filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned and somewhat corny but still fairly entertaining action thriller","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits A team of Navy SEALs are sent to free US hostages from the Mideast. As well as freeing their men, the team discover some deadly Stinger Missiles that are in the wrong hands. Hot-headed and petulant, Lt. Hawkins (Charlie Sheen) opts to destroy them, only for the sober Yin to his raging Yang, Lt. Curran (Michael Biehn) to suggest they concentrate on making their escape. But when the fanatical terrorists start using the weapons on civilian aircraft, they are left with no choice but to take them down using whatever means necessary.This is one of those films that a lot of Americans must have lapped up after 9/11, with it's themes of middle-eastern terrorists and American soldiers jumping in and kicking butt. Indeed, the film offers some very iffy politics through-out, with it's gung-ho, all American heroes and typically nasty foreign villains. That aside, there is some good action to enjoy in parts, as well as having lead star Charlie Sheen delivering his best crazy wildman persona in a role that requires it.Director Lewis Teague (Wedlock, The Jewel of the Nile) has never made a film (that I've seen) that has really risen above the fairly enjoyable, and Navy Seals doesn't change that at all. The film is old-fashioned and, 16 years on, looks rather corny. But if you're in an undemanding sort of mood, this might just pass muster. ** "},{"Title":"A pointless waste of time","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm sure this is a film that sits very well with people being inducted in to the US military.I can easily picture a darken theatre somewhere at Camp Pendleton with a few hundred spotty oiks all cheering as towel head is uttered, and a few natives get blown away. Sadly, it's this type of idiocy that has the US in the woeful position it's in right now.Stupidity IS contagious, and this film, along with other members of the mindless military genre such as Top Gun, does nothing except further the belief that America is a buff dood with a huge gun, and the rest of the world is fair game. "},{"Title":"A Dragging Film That Wishes It Was Top Gun","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When you find a film with Charlie Sheen and Bill Paxton in the military, in 1990 (still the tail end of the 1980s), you might expect some crazy antics and some smooth pimping. But if these are the things you're looking for, you should watch Top Gun or Hot Shots, because this film is nothing more than a cheap knock-off.Sheen plays a loose cannon who will talk aggressively to women, steal his own car, jump off bridges for no reason, wake up hungover in the ocean, throw golf clubs and wear bold shirts. But he's also a member of the Navy Seals, who must rescue a powerful weapon from Lebanon and keep it away from terrorists who want to shoot down airplanes.With Sheen and Paxton, you'd expect humor and some good fights. But the Paxton character is not a major one, and the other two guys that get focused on are very bland and no one really has a memorable name so the whole time I just thought There's those guys again. The romantic undertones are weak and never really amount to anything, even though the film opens with a wedding.The only thing that kept me entertained was the fact this took place in Lebanon and there was some mention of Hezbollah. Watching this in 2006, the film had a certain relevance it might not have had for me five years ago. And if I watched it in 1990 I would have way too young to understand the politics of it.I don't recommend this film, as it's bland, drags and has nothing lovable about it. Maybe it would make a good recruiting video if you played Godsmack over the top of the sky jumping scene.Oh, and unless I'm mistaken it seemed that Charlie Sheen's stunt double was played by an Asian man. Which, um, seems a bit of a stretch. "},{"Title":"A truely great film","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I cant believe what some people are saying about this film, Its s kool film and i dont care what anybody says, i love this film so much i bought it. So go on, hire it out, its great to watchwhat makes this film so good is the comedy, Action, Drama all mixed in one, "}]