[{"Title":"Terrifying if watched alone late at night","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the top horror-story anthology movies out there (albeit that isn't saying much).  Will scare the pants off you if watched late at night by your lonesome.  Stories are cleverly placed from least terrifying first to most terrifying at the end.  Acting leaves much to be desired, however, with the first story containing the most watchable cast (Steve Buscemi, Christian Slater).  Wraparound story is cliched and predictable, but it doesn't really matter.First story is one of the more interesting mummy tales out there, with Buscemi playing an outsider in a yuppie university who discovers Lot 249. Lot turns out to be ancient preserved mummy who, of course, wrecks havoc. Twists at the end are good but not exceptional in any way.Second story is a fantastical tale regarding a vicious cat that never seems to go away.  Old man hires hitman to kill cat.  Tale is entertaining and unnerving but altogether ridiculous as well.  Only for fans of horror, really.Third story is gem of anthology.  Concerns a young man who witnesses a gargoyle savagely kill a man in a dark alley.  Man makes vow to never speak of gargoyle to anyone in exchange for his life.  Romantic tale ends in shock and horror.  Likely to give nightmares.Overall, this movie is laughable and boring in daytime but can be terrifying at night.  Personally I have a tough time choosing favorite tale; each one brings something different to the table.  Horror buffs be sure to check this one out if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"All the Better to Eat You With My Dear","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tales From the Darkside  the Movie was a very entertaining film.  It has four stories in it.  The first is a wrap-around story about a woman going to cook a ten year old boy for dinner, yet the child reads stories to her to try and delay his death.  In a way, this is related to tales of the Arabian Nights.  The three other stories are the ones told by the young boy.  All of them are actually very interesting, have elements of fright, are generally well-acted, and have some kind of message.  One deals with an ancient mummy out to avenge a smart yet socially outcast student at a college. Another story deals with a malevolent cat out to duel with a hitman paid $100,000 to kill a cat.  Gruesome but great story with some real good acting, especially by William Hickey.  Love that voice!  The final story deals with a relationship between a gargoyle and an artist.  An intriguing tale and has Rae Dawn Chong in it(a nice asset).  All the stories are well-made and well-written, the wrap-around story being the weakest due to its resolution.  Nonetheless, Tales From the Darkside is a fun horror film in the vein of Tales From the Crypt and Creepshow. "},{"Title":"Lover's Vow deserved a full-length movie","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Darkside The Movie is a delightful collection of three horror stories. While the first two in the film are good, the third and last story in the collection, Lover's Vow, is nothing less than superb. Lover's Vow would have, quite appropriately, been made into a full-length film. It would have been wonderful to have seen this as one installment in a series of Tales from the Darkside films.Lover's Vow is a love story borne out of the womb of darkness itself. Carola (Rae Dawn Chong) is beautiful and seductive, and her overwhelming maternal energy and beauty nicely compliments the persona exuded by Preston (James Remar), with his obvious yearning for security and stability.The build-up to the quite tragic ending is lovely. Penniless New York artist Preston is confronted with a living horror. He witnesses the death of a friend at the hands of a gargoyle. The gargoyle spares Preston's life in exchange for keeping his knowledge of its existence a secret. He can tell no one what he saw and heard. On the way home, he meets beautiful Carola, and he beckons her to come with him, fearing that the creature may be lingering about.But, unknown to Preston, he has just taken the monster with him. This fact is in no way made apparent to the viewer; Preston exudes his compassion and blankets a seemingly innocent woman. Immediately attracted to one other, they consummate their blossoming passion in a truly wonderful love scene. A bluish light engulfing them, coupled with lovely music, they kiss and caress. Knowing how tragically the story ends, the scene becomes all the more beautiful.Toward the end, Carola and Preston are engaged in discussion about their future. Preston suggests a myriad of possibilities; he, ultimately, just wants the one woman that he loves to be happy. There is nothing you can give me that I don't already have... she says. His answer Yes, there is. He then divulges his secret to her, while handing her a handmade statue of the gargoyle he'd seen. Carola slowly grasps it and begins to pace away. Clutching the statue and weeping, she turns and says, in anger and pain, You promised you'd never tell!Carola's humanity is lost; the broken vow becomes the key to death's door, for both him and their love. In a macabre scene, Carola begins to transmogrify into a gargoyle; their children do like wise.Preston beckons her to change back, and, mid-stride between humanity and nonhuman monstrosity, Carola states I can't. Hearing the heart-wrenching sounds of his children in pain from the change, he asks her to halt this horrifying procession. The gargoyle states It's too late, you betrayed your vow. The gargoyle embraces Preston, and when she does so, he says Carola, I loved you, his voice seeming to hiss the word love. Uttering that she had loved him, too, she kills him. Resting his body gently on the floor, she weeps in pain.With her children in tow, Carola flies into the night. She becomes a frozen statue atop an old building, clutching her children, to wait for the moment when the cycle of love and death must reiterate itself.I cannot stress enough what a wonderful job the filmmakers did with this particular story. If you are a horror fan and would like to see some fine horror stories not laden with cheap, low-budget CGI (I'd rather see low-budget puppetry), then at least rent it if only to watch Lover's Vow. Horror and romance are entwined in a very delicate story about simple humanity, the yearning for love, and love's sometimes all-consuming pain. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining Horror Anthology","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In director John Harrison's adaptation from the 80s TV series, four horror stories are told (one of them as a wraparound story) with different results, although the movie leaves the audience with a feeling of pure worthy entertainment.The wraparound story stars ex-Blondie singer Deborah Harry as Betty, the typical next door woman, the only difference is that she hides her cannibalistic habits a a secret. Matthew Lawrence is Timmy, a kid who was kidnapped by Betty in order to be her dinner tonight. Timmy begins to tell her stories from the Tales from the Darkside book in order to gain time while he plans his escape. The stories Timmy tells are the other three stories in the movie.First one, Lot 249, stars Steve Buscemi as Bellingham, a misfit in a yuppie university. Bullied by Andy (Christian Slater), Lee (Robert Sedgwick) and Susan (Julianne Moore), he works as assistant in the Museum. When he receives Lot 249, troubles will begin as he revives an ancient mummy to do his will.Second one stars William Hickey and David Johansen in a tale of a devilish cat that seems to haunt Hickey's character. Johansen plays a professional assassin hired to kill the feline.In last one, writer Michael McDowell develops a love story loosely based on a Japanese tale. James Remar stars as Preston, a failed artist who is having the worst day of his life, as he watches his best friend being brutally killed by a mysterious beast who makes him promise that he won't tell anyone about it; everything looks worse until he meets Carola (Rae Dawn Chong), and his life changes for good. What would happen if he reveal the secret of the monster? The four stories have very good performances, particularly those of Buscemi and Hickey. The downside is that while the three main stories present a very adult horror style with very gory scenes, brief nudity and foul language, the wraparound story looks tame and more similar to kid's horror like Goosebumps. That doesn't mean that it's a bad tale, is just that it seems out of place in the film, but still the movie is good enough to keep the attention of the viewer.Very good movie that it's almost forgotten today. The very good acting and the good SFX (although outdated for today's standards) create a very rewarding movie that surely will give entertainment. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Better Horror Movies Of The 90's!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If your a fan of Tales From The Crypt or Creepshow then Tales From The Darkside The Movie is a must see! All three stories are highly enjoyable the last story Lovers Vow is great a honor to the now late Michael McDowell. Lot 249 also features great performances from Christian Slater,Steve Buscemi,and Julianne Moore. The second story Cat from Hell is enjoyable and is one of William Hickey's last roles.A great horror movie to watch over and over one of the best ever made. "},{"Title":"aka Creepshow 3","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, not officially, but basically this Romero/King joint effort is a successor to their Creepshow movies as much as a movie-length version of the TV series Tales from the Darkside.  Maybe they avoided calling it Creepshow 3 due to the poor take from the second movie?  Regardless, while the framing device is merely adequate, all three of the stories are chilling enough. The first two stories are in the fine old EC Comics/Creepshow tradition of bad people getting their comeuppance in memorable style.  The third is a rather touching romance, all things considered.  The best segment is probably the first, with performances from Christian Slater doing his best Jack Nicolson impression, and cult-fave Steve Buscemi as a murderous grad student.  But it's all pretty enjoyable if you like that kind of thing. "},{"Title":"Horror fans should love it","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've watched this movie mainly because Deborah Harry was in it. I've seen some other her films like Hairspray or Videodrome and I must say that yet this is the best her role of those movies i've seen. Althau it is quite obvious that she is a better singer than an actress but still I liked her character very much. The only bad thing about it was that she appeared for only ten minutes (or maybe less) of the film. Anyway there were a lot of other good actors like Steve Buscemi or Christian Slater. All three stories were great, especially the third one. Steven Kings fans should also see it because the second one was based on King (actualy not one of the best his stories but still OK). I was kinda surprised because I expected that this movie will be dumb and childish but it appeared to be really creepy. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is really three shorter movies, bound together by a fourth tale in which the other three stories are read. The first segment features an animated mummy stalking selected student victims; the second tale tells the story of a cat from hell who cannot be killed and leaves a trail of victims behind it; the third story is about a man who witnesses a bizarre killing and promises never to tell what he saw and the in-between bit is the story of a woman preparing to cook her newspaper boy for supper. Not the best king adaption, but hey, it ain't bad either. A good cast and some nice special effects. The Gargoyle was nasty! Plenty of gore here, but used in just enough moderation to be effective. A couple of tense moments, some god scares (Especially in the story about involving an elusive, seemingly immortal cat.) and pretty good music. Pretty good movie, just nothing really spectacular or life-changing. My rating for Tales from the Darkside The Movie--6/10.  "},{"Title":"Don't You Just Love Happy Endings?","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Little Timmy (Matthew Lawrence) is arrested in the kitchen of Betty (Deborah Harry) that is preparing a dinner party for eight guests where Timmy is the main dish. Timmy tells three horror stories to buy time and try to escapeLot 249 &#x96; The riches Andy (Christian Slater) and his best friend Lee (Robert Sedgwick) use Andy's sister Susan (Julianne Moore) to trick the nerd Bellingham (Steve Buscemi) and get his place in the university. Bellingham brings a Mummy (Michael Deak) to his room and uses a scroll to revive him and to take revenge against Lee and Susan and later against Andy. Cat from Hell &#x96; The millionaire Drogan (William Hickey) hires the hit- man Halston (David Johansen) to kill a cat that has murdered the three other people that lived with him in his mansion. But soon Halston learns that the cat is from hell.Lover's Vow &#x96; The washed up artist Preston (James Remar) goes to the bar of his friend Jer to meet his agent Wyatt (Robert Klein) that tells him that does not want to be his agent anymore. Preston drinks booze until Jer closes the bar and they walk through a dark alley. Out of the blue, Jer is attacked and decapitated by a gargoyle and when Preston is going to be attacked, he promises to the gargoyle that he will never tell what has happened that night in the alley. The gargoyle flies away and when Preston is walking back home, he sees a woman, Carola (Rae Dawn Chong), near to the place where Jer was murdered. Preston invites Carola to go to his flat to call a cab and they begin a romance. Ten years later, they are happily married with two children and Preston decides to disclose his secret to his wife with tragic consequences for his family and him.Tales from the Darkside The Movie follows the format of Creepshow, with a wraparound story and three segments. The wraparound story is funny with the fate of Timmy. Lot 249 and Cat from Hell are good segments with the debut of Julianne Moore in a feature. But the unforgettable and heartbreaking Lover's Vow is among the best horror stories that I have ever seen with the surprising conclusion. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Contos da Escuridão (Tales from the Darkside) "},{"Title":"Fun Saturday night scare-fest","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What is it with George Romero and weird little animals crawling out of people...I mean, we got cockroaches in Creepshow, a monkey in Monkey Shines (remember the dream sequence??) and now we got a cat in TFTD! I really liked the Cat from Hell story...I found the old man creepy and the hit-man very amusing...his tough guy monologues had me giggling uncontrollably at times, and the cat was a deliciously evil yet nonchalant little character, although I must say I was scratching my head a bit when it crawls INSIDE the guy through his MOUTH...bizarre.The whole movie is a bit on the silly side, but fun nonetheless. In Lot 249 it was great to see Christian Slater, Julianne Moore and Steve Buscemi before they were big stars. It was even better to see Julianne Moore stuffed with flowers by a mummy performing his own macabre poetic justice on people who ticked off the geek who brought him to life with an ancient scroll! Great stuff! Cat from Hell...go the kitty! That hit-man was a loser and the old croney in the wheel chair was a cat-killer! Ha! Serves you right, you b*stards! Lover's Vow...hey, it's Ajax from The Warriors and Rae Dawn Chong (who not only has a cool name but starred opposite Arnie in Commando a few years before this) playing the lovers...what an original and deliciously horrific little tale this one is...I won't spoil it, except to say...never realised how cute Rae actually is...anyway...The wraparound story is pretty cool, despite Debbie Harry's abysmal acting abilities...she had an okay voice, what possessed her to start acting...? Anyway...she does alright I spose, looking a little like Michelle Pfieffer, but Timmy steals the show in this one.All in all, as far as horror anthologies go, Creepshow is heaps better, but this is a fun Saturday night scare-fest, and would be good to watch with Creepshow or Creepshow 2. "}{"Title":"Not Bad, OK for Slumber Parties","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not a bad film, although it could have been better.  The wraparound story was good, as a kid tries to stall time by reading scary stories from a book. The first one dealt with a nerdy student seeking a revenge by raising a mummy from the dead.  It was the best one. Julianne Moore, who appears in this story, has come a long way.  The second one Cat From Hell was frustrating.  The last one, which dealt with a gargoyle that came to life, was predictible.  Good for Halloween parties.  2** out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Three Tales before Dinner","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** Betty, Debbie Harry, a local witch has the newspaper delivery boy Timmy, Matthew Lawrence, locked up in her house and after giving him all the cookies that he can eat to fatten him up for her and her fellow witches, who are coming over later that evening, to have him as the main course for dinner. Giving Timmy a book Tales From The Darkside to read as Betty makes the preparations for him to be cooked Timmy tells her if he can read her some stories from the book so it would take his mind off of whats going to happen to him. Betty agrees to listen to Timmy reading the stories from Tales From The Darkside because it's also her favorite book and would make the mundane task of getting everything ready for the meal go a lot faster.Timmy starts with the story about a group of collage students entitled Lot 249. Edward, Steve Buscemi, gets a parcel, Lot 249, delivered to his collage dorm room that has a 3,000 year old mummy in it. Edward's fellow students once tried to get him expelled from school by planting a rumor that he stole an Aztec artifact and he knows who they are Susan, Julianne Moore, and her boyfriend Lee, Robert Sedgwick, and Edward is planing to use the mummy to get more then even with them for what they did to him. Finding a secret scroll hidden inside the mummy Edward interprets and recites whats on that scroll to bring the mummy back to life who ends up killing both students. Susan's brother Andy, Christian Slater, finds out about Edward's actions and after he knocks out and ties up Edward to a chair he dismembers the mummy with an electric carving knife. But instead of killing Edward for what he did to his sister and his best friend Andy runs Edward out of the campus. Andy feeling that he took care of Edward and his mummy for good didn't realize that the mummy wasn't the only thing that Edward brought back to life. The next story Cat From Hell that Timmy reads is about a rich old man Drogan, William Hickey, who hires a top Mafia hit-man Halston, David Johansen. Drogan gives him $50,000.00 up front and will give him another $50,000.00 after he can prove that he killed a black cat that has been terrorizing the old man and that killed his two sisters and butler and is now targeting him for elimination. Halston at first thinks that Drogan is nuts but soon sees that this seemingly harmless kitty cat is an indestructible and ferocious monster that's far more dangerous then any of the scores of gangsters that he hit during his long and successful criminal career. The cat came to avenge what Drogan's Pharmaceutical empire did to develop a very expensive and successful drug called Tri-Dorma-Phenobarbin-Compound G. The drug is for people with heart trouble like Drogan as well as a legal stimulant like the drugs sold on the street by the mob for whom Halston works for. Drogan took the lives of 5,000 cat's over four years to perfect that drug. This mysterious cat was somehow sent to make Drogan and his family pay for what they did in regard to all those cat's that were experimented and killed to make Drogan and Co. very rich because of it. In the end the little kitty not only took care of hit-man Halston but the scared and guilt-ridden employer Drogan as well in a really gut wrenching and stomach churning final. The last story that Timmy reads Lover's Vow is about a struggling artiest Preston, James Remar, who one night in a dark alley sees his friend Gage, Mark Margolis, savagely killed by some demon. The demon makes Preston promise never to tell about what happened and anything that he saw that night for the rest of his life of else. Later that evening Preston meets a strange and mysterious woman Carola, Rea Dawn Chong, who he falls in love with and marries. Later Preston's artistic luck begins to change with his art work starts to get noticed by the public with him becoming a rich and very successful artiest. On the tenth anniversary of him meeting Carola Preston feels that he has to tell her this secret that he kept from her all these years and that by him not telling her that he thinks that he was somehow not being truthful with her. It turns out by him doing that Preston finds out that sometimes the truth is not the wises and healthiest thing to tell; even to someone that you love and feel should know about it. With that Timmy both out of time and stories and everything ready for him to become the main course for dinner for Betty and her witches friends there's suddenly and unsuspectingly a slip in the plot and what's for dinner that evening turns out not to be what Betty was preparing. Very good anthology of the TV show Tales From The Darkside that turns out to be much better the you would have expected on the big screen. "},{"Title":"The fact that this movie was originally supposed to be another Creepshow sequel helps me understand.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Understand what you ask? Why this movie to me just does not have the feel of the television series it is named from and does seem to have more of a Creepshow feel to it. None of the three stories seems like it would ever have played on the television show with the introduction story of the little boy being held by the crazy woman probably being the most like it came from the show. The first story seems straight out of the HBO series Tales from the Crypt with the second one having more of the Creepshow feel and the final one almost having more of a Twilight Zone quality to it. The first story has one guy killing people with the help of a mummy, not really much to it, but it does have the most stars in it as you will recognize quite a few of the people featured in it. The second one is my favorite, but not really going to garner to much mention as a hit-man is requested by a rather eccentric old man to exterminate a rather strange target. The target in question is that of a cat. The final story is about a man who witnesses a strange killing and is told to keep it a secret, his life seems to be going well, but he is still haunted by what he saw that evening. This story is really to tame with the exception of the beginning and the end. Then of course the story of the boy and his captor is wrapped up. It has a few ups and is far from awful, it just is not that good either as the show had much better stories. "},{"Title":"A Fine Horror Anthology","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The fact that two of the stories in this fine thriller are based on works by Stephen King and Arthur Conan Doyle promises good things for the viewer. Tales From the Darkside not disappoint; it is a far better than average horror anthology. Typical of 1980's horror movies, it is an entertaining combination of humor and thrills.The segment that frames the other three segments is about a witch who wants to serve up a little boy as a meal. The boy distracts the woman by telling her stories from a book with the same title as the movie. The woman, Betty, is played very well by Debbie Harry in her prime. Her almost cold, flawless beauty is perfect for the part. It's a shame that Harry did not capitalize on her physical beauty and apparent acting ability to appear in more movies back in the day.The first standalone story is Lot 249 by Arthur Conan Doyle. It's about an ambitious young museum curator who purchases an Egyptian mummy's casket. Steve Buscemi brings the right amount of creepiness to the role. Christian Slater and Julianne Moore are also featured in the story. It's entertaining to watch a critically acclaimed actress such as Moore play the hot young coed. This must be one of her first film roles. Despite her attractiveness, it is very clear from watching that she's more than just a pretty face.The second story, called Cat from Hell, belongs to Stephen King. It is the simplest of the three. A wealthy pharmaceutical company president hires a hit-man, amusingly played by rock singer David Johanssen, to dispose of his cat. The cat has other plans. If viewers are looking for blood and guts, this is the story. The last story, Lovers Vow, is Th most emotionally involving of the three stories. It is, after all, a love story of sorts. It is also the best developed of all the segments. A struggling artist (James Remar) witnesses a murder, but is compelled to keep quiet about it.On the same night, he meets a beautiful woman (Rae Dawn Chong) who becomes his wife and the mother of his children. The woman, however, is more than she seems. Chong and Remar both do a fine job in their parts, as does the rest of the cast throughout the movie. A good cast, along with well-done makeup and effects, make this a fine anthology. "},{"Title":"A nice and tasty treat of mixed horror a ghoulish bag of horror anthology memories.","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales From the Darkside The Movie is certainly one of my favorite horror anthology films it's one that's well remembered I really know it by heart having seen it numerous times. It was only natural that I liked it so well since I was a fan of 1982's classic Creepshow and I loved as a kid the Tales from the Darkside TV series along with HBO's Tales from the Crypt so this film was right for my taste as it was one of 1990's most memorable films. Done like a modern day fable with a cute and neat wraparound story that takes a twist the film was very well done with suspense and gore and it's tales and segments featured the work of many veteran acts like Deborah Harry, James Remar, William Hickey, and Rae Dawn Chong. While it showcased the early work of future talents like Christian Slater, Julianne Moore, and Steve Buscemi.Starting out in the northeast I believe in the outskirts of New York the wraparound begins with a woman named Betty(Deborah Harry)who appears good on the outside only inside her and her home lies evil she's a real modern day witch. She's holding captive little boy Timmy(Matthew Lawrence)who she plans to eat for a dinner roast! Timmy delays it though by telling his favorite stories from a book, and this gets us into the film.First up is Lot 249 based on an old Sir Arthur Conan Doyle tale, it involves a university set somewhere in a New England state in which an odd and strange but bright student Bellingham(Steve Buscemi in an early role) obtains a most unusual and old friend in the form of an ancient mummy. This is what he lives for after he was cheated out of a university prize and all of this mess was brought on by a female student body the cold and snobbish stuck up yet sexy Susan(Julianne Moore with some early work)she framed Bellingham for a wrong doing. Never fear revenge is in the works in the form of reading script and rising up an ancient mummy! As it's nice to see poor boy Bellingham have the last laugh as Susan her boyfriend Lee and brother Andy(Christian Slater) learn the meaning of final exams! Good revenge tale.Second and most disturbing it's gross with blood and gore yet a little far fetched but I guess not if you believe a cat has nine lives! Cat From Hell a short story from the great Stephen King is a tale of a black cat that simply will not die! It features a northern billionaire a pharmacy executive Drogan(the wonderful and legendary William Hickey)as a lonely and on his last leg old man who's final days are numbered after the years of torment and harassment he's seen from this black cat. And despite the hired help of a hit man Halston(David Johansen the veteran character actor)this cat will not go down no amount of money in the world can take out this cat. Unbelievable cats have more than nine lives.Last and maybe the best tale at least in terms of the moral lesson it teaches is Lover's Vow. Written by the late Michael McDowell it involves the life of a struggling New York city artist and sculptor Preston(James Remar)who simply cannot make ends meet his agent gives his work the brush. Until one night late outside a bar on the city streets something horrible and strange happens it's very unspeakable something that will change his life, yet Preston makes a promise and he lives. Then he meets on the streets a strange and exotic erotic beauty named Carola(Rae Dawn Chong)this is the girl of his dreams. For ten years peace and happiness is brought only the past haunts him. Sadly and very hurtful to watch in the end is to see Preston break his promise. In the end his vows, life, love and family is all taken away so sad. It proves that secrets are better off and to be kept hidden don't tell it and don't break a promise.Then the wraparound ends with a surprise happy twist an ending of a surprise roast the modern day witch has to eat her own medicine. Overall director John Harrison directed a great film one that's a highly memorable classic a horror anthology that I will never forget it's bag of mixed tales were a tasty treat for my taste! "},{"Title":"Three Tales Of Terror Which Will Keep You Awake All Night Long.","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you liked The Twilight Zone The Movie, Tales From The Crypt, Tales That Witness Madness, Trilogy Of Terror and Body Bags, you're sure to love this one. This film consists of three horror film segments 1. Lot 249 (Based On A.C. Doyle's original short story which is adapted by Michael McDowell).2. Cat From Hell (Based on a Stephen King short story and directed by the master of horror George Romero himself).3. Lover's Vow (Written by Michael McDowell and based on yuki-onna, a spirit or yōkai in Japanese folklore or more specifically Lafcadio Hearns version in Kwaidan Stories and Studies of Strange Things.) Full Plot The movie opens with a housewife (Deborah Harry) planning a dinner party. The main dish is to be Timmy (Matthew Lawrence), a young paperboy chained up in her pantry. To stall her from stuffing and roasting him, the boy tells her three horror stories from the book Tales from the Darkside.Lot 249 &#x96; In the first segment, Michael McDowell adapts Arthur Conan Doyle's short story, Lot No. 249. A graduate student, Bellingham (played by Steve Buscemi), reanimates a mummy and uses it to take revenge on a pair of crooked college students, Susan (played by Julianne Moore), and Lee (played by Robert Sedgwick) who conspired to cheat Bellingham out of a scholarship. Their actions 'framed' him for theft from a museum, which results in his expulsion from the college. In vengeance for his master, the reanimated corpse kills both in rather gruesome ways. After discovering the cause, Susan's brother Andy (played by Christian Slater) kidnaps Bellingham, and burns the parchment and mummy that was the cause of it all. It is later discovered that Andy had burned the incorrect scroll, as the reanimated corpses of Susan and Lee close in on Andy in his dorm room, controlled by Bellingham.Cat From Hell &#x96; In the second tale, George A. Romero adapts a Stephen King short story (of the same name). It is the story of Drogan, a wealthy elderly man who uses a wheelchair, (played by William Hickey), who hires a hit-man, Halston (played by David Johansen), for one of the strangest jobs of his career kill a black cat, which Drogan believes is murderously evil. Drogan explains that there were three other occupants of his house before the cat arrived his sister, Amanda (played by Dolores Sutton), her friend Carolyn (played by Alice Drummond), and the family's butler, Richard Gage (played by Mark Margolis). The cat was adopted by Carolyn and Amanda, who ignore Drogan's claim that he can sense that the cat is evil. Drogan claims that one by one, the cat killed the other three first it tripped Amanda, causing her to fall down a flight of stairs; then it clamped on to Carolyn's face until she suffocated; and finally, after Gage managed to capture the beast and tried to take it to the vet to put it down, it scratched his face, causing Gage to get into a fatal car crash.Drogan believes that he is being punished because his pharmaceutical company killed 5,000 cats while testing a new drug. Halston doesn't believe the story, but is more than willing to eliminate the cat since Drogan is offering $100,000. Halston soon discovers that the cat is extremely difficult to kill after he tries to kill it several times. Eventually the cat kills the hit-man, forcing itself down his throat and into his stomach. Drogan returns and finds the hit-man's body; the cat climbs out of the hit-man's mouth and jumps at Drogan, which causes him to have a fatal heart attack.Lover's Vow &#x96; The third and final segment is written by Michael McDowell and based on yuki-onna, a spirit or yōkai in Japanese folklore or more specifically Lafcadio Hearns version in Kwaidan Stories and Studies of Strange Things. In the story, a despondent artist named Preston (played by James Remar) witnesses a gruesome murder by a gargoyle-like monster. The monster gets Preston to swear to never speak of what he saw in exchange for a promise to spare his life. After making the promise, Preston meets a beautiful woman named Carola (played by Rae Dawn Chong). Preston marries Carola, the two have kids, and Preston has a revival of his art career. But Preston was still tormented by guilt about his silence, and started reconsidering the promise he made to the monster.Preston then tells Carola about that night ten years ago when they met after he had witnessed the killing of a man by a monster which he sculpted to show her. After releasing a heartbroken screech, Carola reveals herself to be the very same creature he made the promise with, lamenting that the promise Preston made to the monster had been broken. As such, she reverts to her previous form, and their children transform into similar monsters as well. Within the shock and despair of such revelations, Preston is killed at 'her' hands, and she escapes through a skylight with their children. The final scene shows that the gargoyle and children have turned to stone upon a building ledge, staring down at Preston's body in remorse.The Epilogue &#x96; As the woman makes preparations to cook Timmy he trips her by throwing some marbles on the floor. The woman slips and falls on her butcher's equipment, stabbing herself in the back. Timmy releases himself and pushes her into her own oven. The film ends with Timmy helping himself to a cookie and breaking the fourth wall by asking us Don't you just love happy endings? Verdict Go out and BUY it. This is superb horror. Also DON'T FORGET to buy the 4 season TV series Tales From The Darkside as well. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was sure to find the usual negative for the classic'80s horror film. This site is safe meet in negative judgement on a horror film. All horro movies suck, we do not save one, is crazy. Detestate prom night, Creepshow, society exception etc. The film is very nice. A good comedy horror 80 years, beautiful women, good special effects for the time, we are just irony and the classic'80s horror film. This film in Italy was also known as the home of Helen. A good film for the period. In the movie house II, I wrote that the judgement on this movie was not good and so was, I knew. Next time to you when you remember that the horror film on the site are all rejected. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales... is an excellent entertaining movie. The wraparound story is about a woman who is going to eat a boy. So this boy tells her three stories to delay the purpose of the lady. Lot 249 updated from an Arthur Conan Doyle story is really funny. Watching Steve Buscemi, Christian Slater, Juliane Moore and others in the story about a mummy covering life. The second story (Cat's from hell), written by George A. Romero from a Stephen's King story, has some frightening moments when you look at the eyes of the black cat who was the object of murder. A millionaire hires a hit man to do the job. But the best comes towards the end with Lovers Vow where an artist deals with a very terrifying creature in order to save his life. He is awarded with a beautiful wife if he does not tell a word that this devil exist. Amusing. I shouted a lot. Really, gave me the creeps. And the conclusion is great. 10/10. Andrés. "},{"Title":"A great horror movie!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tales from the Darkside The Movie is a great film with three great stories.The wraparound story Its pretty good and it has a good ending.LOT 249 Julianne Moore looked so different. This story is a good mummy tale with a lot of gore!Cat From Hell William Hickey and David Johansen put on very good performances.Lover's Vow Excellent story,excellent music,excellent monster,excellent acting by James Remar and Rae Dawn Chong.This story gives Me the creeps.It makes you wonder what if? This story right here is worth the rental or purchase alone!Tales from the Darkside The Movie is a great movie and I recommend all horror fans to check it out!  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Young boy (David Forrester) is kidnapped by a modern day witch (Debbie Harry) who plans on making him dinner. To try and keep the witch distracted and buy himself some time the boy tells the witch three scary stories, the best being the final one. While all of the tales are rather unoriginal, they are extremely entertaining and provide just enough spooky moments. The cast is much better then usual and the visual effects are top notch. Much better then the awful TV series on which this is based on. "}{"Title":"I need not explain anything, but I will.","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Funny how these horror anthology films all manage to include a black cat somewhere in the proceedings. I'm thinking of Vincent Price's Tales of Terror from 1962, and 1985's Cat's Eye based on a trio of Stephen King short stories. Actually, King wrote the middle story here, Cat From Hell with a screenplay treatment from George Romero, a couple of horror masters. No need to get into the individual stories, a fair amount of reviewers on this board have already done that. The final one of the trilogy, 'Lover's Vow' probably had the coolest twist, although if you've watched enough horror flicks you might have seen it coming. The opener is notable for featuring a handful of actors before they became well known like Christian Slater, Julianne Moore and a rather geeky and very young Steve Buscemi. The finale of the second story was rather gross in it's execution, with the titled cat from hell going to extreme lengths to pay back hit-man Halston (David Johansen) for his attempts to take him out. To say that the cat got his tongue would be bordering on the cliché, but no more so than little Timmy (Matthew Lawrence) getting the drop on Debbie Harry at the close of the wraparound story. Don't you just love happy endings? "},{"Title":"A decent horror anthology that relies on underwhelming stories","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror anthologies can be a tricky beasts. You have different stories that depending on its execution can make or break the whole movie. It really is a balancing act that can make it hit or miss most of the time with these movies. Tales from the Darkside The Movie is an example of a lopsided anthology film that is entertaining enough to succeed as an afternoon watch.Good The second story involving the cat and the hit-man was the most successful for me because of how ridiculous it is. It is goofy and is presented with a lot of gore that made it entertaining for me. The first story involving the mummy was also decent in that it also has that Creepshow feel and it also showcases some good kills and a good cast with Steve Buscemi and Julianne Moore. The third story was OK, but it had a good twist ending. The effects are also really good.Bad The movie's story segments while entertaining never fully rise to great or memorable. They work for what they are, but they never truly frighten or stand out. The wraparound story wasn't that great either.Overall, it works as an entertaining horror movie with good effects, but it never strives to be anything more. "},{"Title":"Fine for what it is, but not that spectacular","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Preparing for a dinner party, a witch starts to cook a young boy for the party, and when is told what will happen to him, decides to stall for time by telling her three stories while a local priest searches for a way to stop the whole thing.The Good Stor(ies) Lot 249-Receiving a special package, a professor enlists several friends to open his newest prize, lot 249 from a special auction that contains the remains of an ancient Egyptian mummy, and becomes obsessed with trying to bring it to life using the magical scrolls sent along with it. Went a string of murders around their college campus appears to have them befuddled, they learn the secret of why the lot was bid on and try to get away from it. This is a light and breezy tale, mostly centered around the mummy's antics, as the few killings are quite eerie and creepy. The attack in the dorm, which includes the graphic killing where it removes the brain with a wire hanger through the nose, and a later one inside a living room is really great. The special effects on the mummy are great, making it look effectively rotten and crumbling, and it's destruction scene is great, playing that off as well. It ends predictably, but that's a minor after-thought here.The Bad Stor(ies) Cat from Hell-Summoned to a giant mansion, a hit-man finds that his charge wants him to kill a cat. Surprising and a little befuddled over the request, he explains that the creature has had a long-standing habit of killing those in its path, including the former inhabitants of the house. Left alone to deal with it, he finds that killing the cat isn't the easiest assignment of his career. This here had a lot of potential, with an intriguing story and some really inspired ideas, notably the idea of the cat's motive for coming back. The flashback scenes are good fun, and the fact that a major attack sequence is shot through the cat's POV is really great. The main thing that stops this one is that it's way too long. The majority of the segment consists of the two talking about what the cats' done to deserve the punishment, taking a lot of drama out of the chase. The conclusion is also foretold from the beginning, which all of the stories consists of and makes it feel really uninspired.Lover's Vow-Trying to create new artwork, a struggling artist is told by his agent that his work can no longer be represented through his agency. Walking through an alley, he runs into a strange woman out alone in the night and offers help. Becoming obsessed with a strange creature he saw that spared his life for the secrecy of its existence, he allows it to become his sole desire to his own detriment. What really hurts this one is the inordinate amount of cheese on display. The design of the gargoyle, with the large eyes, big mouth and intricate designs on the side of his head, make it more cute than fearsome. The easily determinable rubber used for the creation makes it another strike. There's also the fact that it takes way too long to get to its really good parts, concentrating on the romance angle way too much, and the way they get together also is a little unbelievable. As with the others, the ending is way too predictable and doesn't really get the chance to become the possible shock it could've had.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity and children-in-jeopardy. "},{"Title":"A Trilogy of Comedy Horror","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is not to bad - it's pretty good entertainment for fans of horror. It will liven up any 'dead' evening with a few laughs and thrills.Lot 249 is a fun Mummy story - pretty creepy but quite fun to watch. Cat from Hell is really good. I love cats and have three of my own but I don't think I want a cat like this one. Lover's Vow - Gargoyles. I love Gargoyles - and you don't see them as living horror creatures in films very often so this story gives the film a bonus point for me.If you like short story horror films (anthologies) like Tales from the Darkside The Movie then you might enjoy similar type of film anthologies such as Creepshow, Twilight Zone The Movie, Cat's Eye or even Gallery of Horror.7/10 "},{"Title":"Tales from the Darkside","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The alternative (competitor?) to the Twilight Zone movie but not quite in the same league in my opinion. The film consists of three stories within a wrap around story told by a boy who is going to eaten by a witch of all things.First tale see's a man use a 3000 year old mummy to kill a few select people (an adaptation of a Arthur Conan Doyle short). Not a bad story and handled reasonably well with good makeup on the mummy and some bloody deaths dealt out. Big cast names in this story with Buscemi and Christian Slater and a nice ending make this tale the second best of the three.Second tale is an adaptation of a Stephen King story and the weakest of the three, an old man is sure he is cursed by a cat which is trying to kill him after it supposedly killed his sister. The reason behind this being the old mans pharmaceutical company killed many thousands of cats in testing a new drug. Pretty lame story really which isn't particularly spooky in the slightest. The cat is obviously some sort of demon which is cool and this is shown in the way it kills the hit- man who has been hired to get rid of the cat, I just think it could of been more scary or eerie basically.Third and final tale stars James Remar and is about a guy who witnesses the death of a man by a gargoyle type creature. The creature lets the witness live if he promises not to tell anyone of what he saw. Easily the best story even though its not explained too well and leaves you asking various questions by the end. Some great makeup and effects in the finale as we see a transformation similar to finale in 'The Fly' with Jeff Goldblum, really nicely done without the use of CGI, no surprise with Dick Smith being involved.Overall not as good as 'Twilight Zone the Movie' and a bit more adult with its content, more blood 'n' gore on show and some creepy monsters lend itself to some light scares. Still two of the stories are solid and quite sinister which I'm sure fans will enjoy if you like these type of horror anthologies. The overall quality just doesn't quite match the Twilight Zone standard that raised the bar originally.6/10 "},{"Title":"Creepshow 3","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Darkside (Technically Creepshow 3) is a great horror film, and actually better than the decent Creepshow 2. This film has a mysterious fantastical tone, with spikes of horror, and (surprisingly) romance. Tales from the Darkside has much better effects than the Second film, and great characters/actors. The stories are also very compelling and The second segment- The cat from hell written by Stephen King and George Romero, is quite scary. Not as scary as the Creepshow 2, but close. On camera views/cuts, this film also does well. Lots of comic book angles and coherent cuts. So Tales from the Darkside is a classic horror film, and I recommend it to horror fans. Also, Just like Creepshow 2, this got a low (35%) rating on rotten tomatoes, but is much better than two stars. "},{"Title":"No Cat's Eye, but Still Good","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Much like Cat's Eye was a series of three short stories, Tales from the Darkside is done similarly. In this Stephen King work a boy tries to avoid being cooked and eaten by a witch by occupying her with fanciful stories.There were three total stories featuring some well known actors. Some were already established, like Rae Dawn Chong and William Hickey. Others I don't believe were as well known at the time, such as Christian Slater, Steve Buscemi, and Jullianne Moore.I thought the three stories were solidly done. I can't remember the order but the order of preference for me was 1.) Mummy story, 1A.) Gargoyle story 3.) and a distant third was the cat story.None of the stories were very spooky or scary, in fact you could say they were somewhat comical (especially the mummy story), but they all had an intriguing premise. The three stories all wrapped into the initial story made for a good movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Horror Anthology","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror anthology movie spun-off from the Tales from the Darkside TV series. It features three stories plus a bookend piece. The first story is Lot 249 about a nerd (Steve Buscemi) who is cheated out of a scholarship by an evil girl and her boyfriend (Julianne Moore, Robert Sedgwick ). He seeks revenge by using an ancient scroll to send a mummy after them. Christian Slater plays Moore's brother and is an inconsistently written character. Buscemi is enjoyable though and it's nice to see an old-school mummy.The second story is Cat from Hell about an elderly millionaire (Wiliam Hickey) who hires a hit-man (Buster Poindexter) to kill a cat. This is the weakest story of the bunch. Hickey and Poindexter are fine but it's kind of obnoxiously dark and I didn't really care what happened to anybody, including the cat. The third story is Lover's Vow, about an artist (James Remar) whose life is spared by a gargoyle as long as he never reveals he saw the monster. He falls in love with a woman (Rae Dawn Chong) and after many years together the temptation to share his secret becomes too great. This story pretty much rips off the Woman of the Snow story from the superior horror anthology film Kwaidan (1964) but is still well done and probably the best story in the movie.The bookend linking story is a take-off on Hansel & Gretel, with a witch (Debbie Harry) preparing to cook a little boy (Matthew Lawrence). To stall for time, the boy tells her stories from his favorite book, which leads into the three other tales. This is an amusing and enjoyable part of the film, though nothing exceptional. Overall, it's a surprisingly enjoyable film, helped in large part by a good cast. The stories aren't particularly strong, but somehow it manages to keep you entertained. The acting, directing, and special effects are pretty good and make up for the writing as much as they can. "},{"Title":"Tales from the Darkside The Movie (1990)","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tom Savini once famously stated that he considered Tales from the Darkside The Movie to be the official second sequel to the Creepshow franchise. This view reflects that of the majority of fans, even to this day. The reception of the first Creepshow film categorised it as being a box office success which resulted in Laurel Entertainment, the production company behind the first two Creepshow films, toying with the concept of creating a Creepshow horror anthology television series. Following a period of negotiations and changes due to complications with the holder of the rights, a decision was agreed to change the series title from Creepshow to Tales from the Darkside. The series was well received by its audience and three years following the commercial release of Creepshow 2, Tales from the Darkside The Movie was released in 1990, sharing many of Creepshow's production team, making it the successor of Creepshow and its first sequel.The film in question follows three individual stories; Lot 249, Cat from Hell, and Lover's Vow. These three segments are all orientated around a wraparound story which focuses on a little boy being held captive by a middle aged woman who intends on roasting and serving him at a dinner party. In order to prolong the wait for him being put in the oven, young Timmy reads short horror stories to Betty, the woman who has imprisoned him. This is where the individual stories are incorporated into the film.The first segment, Lot 249, focuses on an ancient mummy being resurrected from the dead and participating in a killing spree. Initially, this story is rather slow but once the resurrection takes place, some considerably grisly killings occur that you can't help but cringe at. This is followed by an interesting series of events which ultimately leads to a rather bleak ending, in a typical horror anthology fashion. Lot 249 has a strong cast in the form of Christian Slater, Julianne Moore and Steve Buscemi in which the slow opening can be forgiven through their performances. The atmosphere present throughout this piece is significantly unnerving which makes the conclusion come across as being even more chilling.The second segment, Cat from Hell, focuses on the assassination of an evil cat with a mysteriously murderous past. This story was written by Stephen King and adapted for screen by George A Romero, the two minds behind the original concept for Creepshow. This story was initially going to be featured in Creepshow 2 but due to issues with financing and the budget of the film, it was scrapped. Although this piece has a slow, nonlinear structure, an interesting eerie atmosphere is featured throughout and has a similar feel to film noir, only a killer cat is featured as opposed to a femme fatale with a pistol. In comparison to the cast of Lot 249, Cat from Hell mainly focuses on the characters portrayed by David Johansen and William Hickey. Halston, played by Johansen, has an irritating factor to his character which makes him somewhat unlikeable and therefore, partially ruins this segment. Like with Halston, William Hickey's character, Drogan, also has an irritating factor to his character which also makes him somewhat unlikeable. Combining these two characters together into one episode results in the whole piece not being as strong as potential would allow. However, the reoccurring bleak endings throughout the film make this particular story worth watching.The third and final segment, Lover's Vow, is by far the most powerful story featured in the film. The storyline focuses on a man falling in love with a woman who isn't what she seems. The beginning and the end of the segment presents itself as being of the horror genre but throughout the middle of this piece, it's a romantic drama. The codes and conventions of the romance genre make this piece somewhat addictive to watch as you feel compelled to follow the relationship of the characters of Preston and Carola. However, this makes the conclusion of the segment all the more heart-breaking. Whilst Tales from the Darkside The Movie doesn't always take itself seriously, Lover's Vow is definitely the darkest piece as explores the deepest of human emotion. Not only this, but the ending is genuinely creepy and is enough to send shivers down your spine.Overall, I feel that Tales from the Darkside The Movie is a highly underrated horror film that's due more credit than it receives. Although it isn't as mainstream as the original Creepshow films, it could be argued that Tales from the Darkside is a stronger film in terms of narrative and acting in comparison to the second Creepshow film. "},{"Title":"Tales from the Darkside The Movie","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Darkside The Movie is a horror anthology type film that includes three tales. One is about a mummy that kills, the second is about an attacking feline, and the third tells the tale of a murdering gargoyle. I've always loved these type of horror movies that tells multiple stories within it. Some others that come to mind are Tales from the Crypt (1972), Cat's Eye and Trilogy of Terror. Like the 1972 flick Tales From the Crypt', this film has a main plot that surrounds the tales told. The plot for this one is of a little boy who is being held captive by a beautiful housewife who plans on serving him for dinner at her house party. The little boy tries to stall her plans by reading the three stories from the book 'Tales from the Darkside'.The first story (Lot 249) is about a mummy who is brought back to life by a college student who wants revenge on those who have wronged/bullied him. The mummy kills the students in horrific ways, and the tale ends with a decent twist. The second story (The Cat From Hell) shows an old man named Drogan hiring a hit man named Halston to kill a cat. According to Drogan, the black cat is responsible for the death of his sister and two others. He offers the Halston $100,000 to kill the cat. So basically the whole tale revolves around Halston chasing the cat around the huge mansion, leading up to a pretty gruesome finale. The final story (Lover's Vow) is about a guy named Preston who witnesses another man getting slaughtered by a gargoyle one night in a New York alleyway. The gargoyle tells him that if he ever told anyone of what he saw, it would come back and kill him too! That same night, he meets a beautiful woman who he ends up falling in love with. A year later Preston makes the fatal mistake of telling her what he saw that night, leading to one hell of a twist that frightened me the first time I saw it.The last story is the best of all three. It has a good story to it, lots of gore, and an interesting little twist at the end. The weakest of the bunch for me would have to be The Cat from Hell. It was just to ridiculous for me, this cat running around with a professional hit-man not being able to capture it. There was definitely a lot of blood and gore in this film, we get a decapitated head and a cat who goes inside of a person's mouth and rests in their stomach. The wraparound story with the woman trying to cook the kid was decent, nothing special but nothing to complain about.The acting was pretty good with some big names leading the way (Christian Slater/Julianne Moore/Deborah Harry). Overall, Tales From The Darkside The Movie is an average horror film. I am a fan of the original TV series, I'd rate them above this film. The 'Lover's Vow' story was the best one, the other two lacked a bit and dragged on a little. I guess I'd recommend it for horror anthology fans. It isn't as good as 'Tales from the Crypt (1972)' or 'Creephow', but it has it's moments.6/10 "}{"Title":"Great Horror Anthology Flick!","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Deborah Harry, Christian Slater, Steve Buscemi, David Johansen, William Hickey, James Remar, Rae Dawn Chong and Matthew Lawrence star in this 1990 horror anthology film based on the TV series. This begins with a witch (Harry) preparing dinner to be made of her boy prisoner (Lawrence). He stalls her by reading 3 chilling tales from her favorite book, Tales from the Darkside. Lot 249 features a college student (Slater) discovering an ancient mummy being resurrected by an antique dealer (Buscemi) exacting revenge on his sister (Moore) and best friend. Cat From Hell features a wealthy old man (Hickey) hiring a hit-man (Johansen) to kill an evil cat, but it's no easy task. Lovers Vow features a struggling artist (Remar) who makes a promise to a gargoyle, but can't keep it to the woman (Chong) he loves. This is a great horror anthology flick with a good cast, eerie score, neat effects and all 3 tales are good, but Lot 249 is my favorite. I recommend this for horror buffs. "},{"Title":"Don't You Just Love Happy Endings?","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Based on the popular 80's television series of the same name, Tales from the Darkside The Movie is notable not only for its all-star cast, but also for the fact that it's essentially Creepshow 3 in disguise. While Creepshow 2 failed to perform at the box office, another installment was greenlit by the same production company, with the involvement of George A. Romero and Stephen King (co-founders of the franchise). Since Creepshow 3 wouldn't have been a very commercially viable title to use, Tales from the Darkside The Movie was, in essence, born.Like Creepshow 2 before it, Tales from the Darkside The Movie consists of three separate tales, brought together by a wrap-around story. A paperboy (Matthew Lawrence) is being held captive by a wicked witch/modern day housewife (Blondie's Deborah Harry) who plans to incorporate him into her dinner party. To buy himself some time, the boy reads her three passages from her favorite book, Tales from the Darkside. The first tale (drawn from a story by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) involves an archaeologist (Steve Buscemi) who uses his prized mummy to seek revenge on a pair of college students who conspire to get him kicked out of college. This bit also features a young Julianne Moore playing the spitfire sister of Christian Slater, who just so happens to be one of Buscemi's only friends. A bit slow moving, this but pays off in the end and gets by with excellent performances from its cast which would go on to bigger and greater things (well, Buscemi and Moore did, at least).Next up, we find a hit-man (David Johansen) being called to a mansion by an old and eccentric owner of a medicine company (William Hickey) which happened to use cats as test subjects. When a black cat crosses his path and appears to have had a hand in the death of his housemates, he suspects that he is next. The hit-man laughs it off, but soon finds the feline to be a worthy opponent. This section is where a lot of the Creepshow type humor comes into play with one of the most insane and over-the-top death sequences of the 90's. You've never seen a cat crawl its way into a man's stomach before, and you're not likely to see it ever again. Last but not least, we follow a starving (or drunken) artist (James Remar), whose life is turned around when a gruesome creature spares his life in exchange for a vow of silence. Soon after, he comes across his beautiful bride to be (Rae Dawn Chong), pops out a few kids and gets his career back on track. Unfortunately for him, his guilt gets the best of him and his happy ending is fleeting. Of the three segments, this is the weakest. The twist can be seen from miles away and the plot just feels rushed. While this could be forgiven - seeing as how it only has 30 minutes to play out - it's not something the other stories suffer from. It's a down ending in more ways than one, then.Although less involved than before, Romero and King's presence is certainly felt, and on the whole, Tales from the Darkside The Movie is admittedly classier than its unofficial predecessor. That's not to say there's no fun to be had, though. There are plenty of unsavory characters and creative special effects work to behold and the wrap-around story itself is as entertaining and engaging as the three main stories. What a shame that we never got a Tales from the Darkside 2 or even a Creepshow 4. "},{"Title":"Love the TV show, the movie was okay,","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales From The Darkside The Movie is about a modern-day witch who is keeping a young boy captive in her pantry to cook and serve him at a dinner party. In order to distract the witch, the boy tells her three scary stories. My favorite story in this movie was Stephen King's Cat From Hell. The other two stories were alright, but I'm not going to lie, they kind of bored me. The movie was definitely not bad, I guess I was just expecting it to live up to the TV show, which it did not. The acting was good, with Steve Buscemi, Julianne Moore, Rae Dawn Chong, and many other well-known actors who play parts in the stories. Not sure if I'd recommend this one, but some may like it more than I did.Rated R for Violence, Gore, Language, and Brief Sex/NudityMy Grade C- "},{"Title":"Anthology spookiness","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Christ, I love horror anthology movies. Something about the format just really, really works. The short running time of each tale seems to focus the mind of the writer, compelling them to shed unwanted fat and hone efficiently chilling tales of gore and ghouls more regularly than their full length movie counterparts. Three tales, here, with an additional throwaway 'wraparound' tale to bind them all together Wraparound Debbie 'Blondie' Harry plays a witch who intends to cook a child in a large oven, and makes the necessary preparations, lining a large baking tray with aluminium foil and setting the gas mark to 'human flesh.' Well, the kid is no idle dimwit, and sets about delaying his death by telling her creepy stories from a large tome. Tale 1 Steve Buscemi reanimates a 3000 year old Mummy. A veritable array of stars here, as Christian Slater, the aforementioned Buscemi and Julianne Moore all get to creep it up with a long deceased Egyptian. Pretty spooky, pretty funny, in the blackest sense of the word, this is a good opener. Tale 2 A wealthy old man hires a hit-man to kill a cat. Written by Romero and based on a Stephen King short story, expect plenty of darkness, and it's delivered in spades, the standout moment being a cat forcing itself down a grown mans throat. Tale 3 An evil gargoyle spares a mans life, on the condition that he never speak of the incident. Easier said than done. Another good tale, and a solid closer to the anthology. With gore, genuine scares and solid script writing, this is a cut above most horror, and is recommended to all. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Preparing for a dinner party, Betty, (Deborah Harry) starts to cook Timmy, (Matthew Lawrence) for the party, and when is told what will happen to him, decides to stall for time by telling her three stories while a local Priest, (David Forrester) searches for a way to stop the whole thing.The Good Story Lot 249-Receiving a special package, Bellingham, (Steve Buscemi) enlists friends Andy, (Christian Slater) and Lee, (Robert Sedgwick) to open his newest prize, lot 249 from a special auction that contains the remains of an ancient Egyptian mummy. Obsessed with trying to bring it to life using the magical scrolls sent along with it.The Bad Stories Cat from Hell-Summoned to a giant mansion, hit-man Halston, (David Johansen) finds that his charge, Drogan, (William Hickey) wants him to kill a cat. Surprising and a little befuddled over the request, he explains that the creature has had a long-standing habit of killing those in it's path, including the former inhabitants of the house. Left alone to deal with it, he finds that killing the cat isn't the easiest assignment of his career.Lover's Vow-Trying to create new artwork, struggling artist Preston, (James Remar) is told by his agent Wyatt, (Richard Klein) that his work can no longer be represented through his agency. Walking through an alley, he runs into Carola, (Rae Dawn Chong) out alone in the night and offers help. Becoming obsessed with a strange creature he saw that spared his life for the secrecy of it's existence, he allows it to become his sole desire to his own detriment.While all of the tales are rather unoriginal, they are extremely entertaining and provide just enough spooky moments. The cast is much better then usual and the visual effects are top notch. Much better then the awful TV series on which this is based on. Rated R for Graphic Violence, Profanity and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Deborah Harry, Matthew Lawerence, Christian Slater, Steve Buscemi, Julianne Moore, William Hickey, David Johanssen, James Remar, Rae Dawn Chong and Robert Klein.For those of you who don't know, this is based on the anthology show in the 80's with the same name. This movie has three stories and a wraparound story. Here's the plot. It's an average day and we see Elizabeth(Harry) walking down the street with groceries. She talks to the priest and to her neighbors. Little do they know that when she gets home, she plans on cooking and eating a poor little boy, Timmy(Lawerence). She gets home, but he stalls her cooking by telling her a story from a book that she gave him(Tales from the Darkside).Story one Lot 49. Edward Bellingham(Buscemi) has just gotten a package that he ordered....lot 49. His....ahem....friend Andy(Slater) and Andy's friend Lee help him open it and it's a mummy. This is easy to figure out who will live or die, but the end was a surprise. Wraparound Elizibeth has just cut the vegetable and is almost ready to eat. He convinces her not yet.Story two Cat from Hell. Let me just say, this is my least favorite of the four stories(including the wraparound). A hit-man, Halsten(Johanssen) is hired by a wheelchaired old man named Drogan(Hickey). Drogan wants Halsten to kill his cat...because he believes that the cat had killed his two sisters and his butler. Halsten soon realizes that this cat is hard to kill. Easily the darkest of the three stories and also the most predictable.Wraparound Elizibeth is now ready to eat...but it's still 30 minutes until the oven is pre-heated. Timmy tells her one last story.Story 3 Lovers Vow. A struggling artist(Remar) gets a call and goes to a bar. His lawyer(Robert Klein) is there and tells him that he quits. Remar gets drunk and the bartender is going to give him a ride home. When they get out there, a strange creature cuts, then knocks the bartender's head off. Remar swears that if it doesn't kill him, he'll never tell anyone. After clawing him, the creature leaves. He runs to get a cab, but instead runs into a woman(Rae Dawn Chong). He tells her to stay with him, because it's dangerous out. They have sex and soon get married and have two kids. His art career also started to succeed, so his lawyer came back. Finally...it tears him up inside to have shared everything with his wife except for what he saw...so he tells her. Another surprise ending.....probably the best of the three.Wraparound (SPOILER) Timmy is ready to tell her more stories, but she's ready to eat. He then starts telling his story of how he got here and Elizabeth spouts,You don't need to tell me this one. We both know how it ends. Timmy tells what he's going to do. He pulls marbles out of his pocket and she trips on them and falls on the gutters behind her and trys to pull them out. Meanwhile, Timmy is locked in a dungeon, but he reaches the key and shoves her in the oven. He walks over to her cookies and says,Don't you just love happy endings!?my rating-B plus. 88%. rated R for some strong gory violence, some brief breast nudity and some language. 91 minutes. "},{"Title":"Stories tied together by the boy the  witch wants for dinner.","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The witch seeks to prepare the youth, Matthew Lawrence, for dinner.  He uses his wit to keep her entertained by telling several stories.  Each story in and of itself is a horror typical but fun to watch.  In the end the witch is set to carve him up for the roasting oven, but he is able to turn the table on her and you will have to view to find out the ending. A really fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Quite good actually","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just saw this yesterday and I was quite surprised by its quality. Compared to todays CGI standards the effects used hold up quite well, refreshing to see something different for a change. I've never had the chance to see the original TV series so I expected something in the likes of Twilight Zone, but this one here is of course a lot more gory.The stories are original, except for Lover's Vow which seems to be more than just inspired by the tale The Woman in the Snow from Japan's 1964 movie Kaidan. Of course the scenery is different, yet the concept is strikingly similar. It's a good adaption nonetheless.As for the actors, they all did a pretty good job, except for Debbie Harry which I found terrible.All in all a 7 in my book. "},{"Title":"The Cat From Hell segment is Hot, Hot, Hot!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, I wasn't too impressed with this anthology either but did anyone get the inside joke in Cat From Hell? David Johansen, (aka Buster Poindexter, of HOT, HOT, HOT), says these words after being attacked by the cat while at the refrigerator...can't get HOT, can't let yourself get HOT, uh, make mistakes when you're HOT. "},{"Title":"skip the middle tale","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a decent horror anthology.  It has nothing to do with the TV show of the same name.  The bookend story is somewhat amusing.To me, Lot 249 was the best tale overall.  Christian Slater, Julianne Moore, and Steve Buscemi appear in this, and it's probably the scariest of the three, with a little suspense and a twist.Cat From Hell was awful.  Pointless, predictable, not the least bit scary, and just plain disgusting.Lover's Vow has a big twist at the end, which saves it. "}{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I seen this movie a while back and I still cannot get it out of my mind. I mean, I only watched the second and third story and hey, they were so entertaining I was actually mad when the program went off because I wanted to see more horror stories and oh yea... the second story was really cool. Nine out of Ten!! "},{"Title":"Pretty good horror flick.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have not seen this movie for a long time untill recently, but Tales From The Darkside is actually pretty good. While the first one sort of reminded me of Ol Chief Wooden Head from Creepshow 2, the mummy does have a cool way of killing his victims. The cat from hell is good in itself, with the hitman trying numerous ways to try to kill the cat and failing to get the job done. The gargoyle story is the best the film has to offer, it's interesting to see the story unfold, and it's ending was unexpected (watch the children in this scene)as it comes to it's ending. I thought the movie was actually better than the old TV series with the same name. If you like these trilogy horror movies, it's worth a rental or in most places you can find it dirt cheap on DVD. Horror fans will most likely enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all; look for a young and pretty Julian Moore as bonus","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had watched this on video years ago. For some reason and somehow, it was re-released to a cinema here and I went ahead. It was better than I remembered. Do not be fooled by the juvenile nature of the wrap-around story. All three main stories have some very gory, graphic and gross scenes. The first one, a modern-day mummy tale, is the weakest in terms of suspense, but it features Steve Buscemi and Julian Moore; she was very pretty 10 years ago! Naturally, I did not know these stars years ago when I watched it on tv, so it came as a nice surprise when they popped up in the screen. The second, scripted by the great Romero from a S. King story, is aptly titled as Cat from Hell. Pretty disturbing and irritating as all good horror pieces are supposed to be. The last one, a gargoyle tale, is a decent piece, but recalling the surprise ending from years ago ruined suspense for me. All in all, recommended for horror buffs, pretty much in the spirit of the best of horror comics. "},{"Title":"3rd story Lover's Vow is truly creepy","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While the first two strories in this 3 story anthology are good, it is the third that has haunted me since I watched the movie years ago.Warning - plot details revealed belowA struggling artist, Preston, witnesses a gargoyle come to life and gruesomely kill a man. He is sworn to secrecy by the creature and set free only to spend years drawing and sculpting the creature in secret. When he finally reveals his experience, the consequences are horrible.What still makes me shiver about this story is the paranoia that keeps Preston silent but which eventually erodes over time. It is so human to know that one must keep a terrible secret and yet want to share it with someone else. The chemistry between leads James Remar and Rae Dawn Chong is compelling and it makes the conclusion of the story even more chilling.  "},{"Title":"No great shakes, but still okay.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay horror movie. No more, no less. The pace is slow, but some pretty good special effects save the film in that area. The acting is okay, but the stories.....only so-so.I recommend this movie to genre fans, but if you are not a hard-core horror fans, then this may not be what you are looking for. "},{"Title":"Horror Lite","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE THE MOVIE is the kind of horror lite you might find scary if you're a fourth grader up at midnight. The rest of us are only mildly amused at this anthology of not-so gruesome tales.A young boy tries to stave off becoming dinner for a modern-day witch by sharing a trio of stories from the phonebook-sized Tales from the Darkside book. First a mummy is resurrected to exact revenge on a college preppy. Next, a black cat proves to be more than just bad luck for a hit-man hired to kill the cursed creature. Finally we have a murderous gargoyle with a really big secret.A blend of GOOSEBUMPS, Charles Band and '80s shlock, TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE only escapes mediocrity with the mummy vignette, which is surprisingly effective and reminds us how horror doesn't always have to be about bloody knives and severed body parts. A young Steve Buscemi is terrific as the tormented geek who summons an undead monster so real you can almost smell the decay. However, this opening bit is quickly forgotten amid the dreariness and futility of the final two tales. The gargoyle story in particular is silly and out of place with a monster that looks like it came straight from Jim Henson's Creature Workshop.The motive behind TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE was a good one. It sought to revive the scary stories around the campfire style of horror from yesteryear. It just couldn't match its ambition with results. "},{"Title":"Not scary at all but I sort of like it","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Movie has Debbie Harry as a suburban cannibal who has a young kid under lock and key (played by 10 year old Matthew Laurence) preparing to kill and eat him. He starts reading tales out of a book named Tales of the Darkside (of course) to stop her from eating him.First up is Lot 249 in which a student revives a mummy to kill his enemies. The story by Bram Stoker is a quick eerie read. The segment here is slow, silly and chock-full of terrible acting and fake gore. What's surprising is we have three great actors--Christian Slater, Steve Buscemi and Julianne Moore (!!!) giving their all time worst performances.Cat from Hell (from a Stephen King Story) is a real stupid tale of an old man (William Hickey) hiring a professional killer (David Johanssen) to kill a cat that is after him. It's boring and stupid but does have a real gory cool ending.Lover's Vow has an artist (a pumped up James Remar) who has a strange encounter with a real cool demon. Then it switches tracks and turns into a love story (with Rae Dawn Chong thrown in). It leads to a frustrating and predictable ending.The movie looks cheaply made and is never really scary. It plays like three episodes of the TV series stitched together with R rated swearing, gore and violence thrown in. Still I like it in a strange sort of way. The cast alone makes it worth seeing and it's only 90 minutes long. Horror fans should take a look. "},{"Title":"A nifty horror anthology winner","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Resourceful paperboy Timmy (the adorable Matthew Lawrence) relates a trio of scary stories to cheery witch Betty (a delightfully wicked Deborah Harry of Blondie fame), who plans on cooking and eating the lad. First and most creepy anecdote, Lot 249 - Bitter luckless college student Bellingham (splendidly played to the venomous hilt by the always great Steve Buscemi) brings a mummy back to life so it can bump off his tormentors. Buscemi excels in this segment; he receives sturdy support from Christian Slater as his only friend Andy and the ravishing Julianne Moore as evil tart Susan. Second and most enjoyable yarn, The Cat from Hell - Eccentric crippled millionaire Drogan (William Hickey deliciously hamming it up for all its worth) hires smooth professional hit-man Halston (a nicely assured turn by rock singer David Johansen) to bump off a lethal black cat. This outing benefits from lots of funky feline POV shots and boasts a terrifically gory ending. Third and most moving episode, Lover's Vow - Struggling artist Preston (a fine James Remar in a refreshing change-of-pace good guy role) makes a promise to a deadly gargoyle that he will never tell anyone he saw it. Preston meets and falls in love with the enchanting Carola (a sweet and charming portrayal by the lovely Rae Dawn Chong). Can Preston keep his promise? Or will he eventually tell Carola about the gargoyle? Stand-up comedian Robert Klein has an amusing secondary part as Preston's stuffy agent Wyatt while Remar and Chong are both excellent in the leads. Director John Harrison maintains a steady pace throughout, does a sound job of creating and maintaining a suitably macabre atmosphere, tosses in cool moments of grisly splatter in every story, further enhances things with neat touches of dark humor (Halston's attempts at staying calm and collected while trying to kill the cat in the second segment are especially funny), and brings an appropriately baroque EC comic book style to the material. Robert Draper's polished cinematography makes inspired frequent use of pans and wipes. The shivery score by Harrison, Chaz Jankel, Jim Manzie and Pat Regan likewise does the shuddery trick. The wrap-around story ties everything together in a pleasingly twisted way. Overall, this omnibus affair is well worth a look for fright feature fans. "},{"Title":"These creepy, amusing tales are fun and clever.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In The Wraparound StoryA young boy (Matthew Lawrence) is been kidnapped by a seemingly normal suburban woman (Deborah Harry). Which this boy decides to read three of his favorite short tales from the book Tales from the Darkside to delay her from cooking him! In Lot's 249An smart but poor college student Edward Bellingham (Steve Buscemi) used a 3,000 year-old mummy to have his revenge on three unsuspecting students (Christian Slater, Julianne Moore and Robert Sedgwick). Who have been framing him from stealing an priceless artifact from the Universery.In Cat from HellAn Hit-Man (David Johansen) is been hired by a old crippled pharmaceuticals tycoon (The late William Hickey) to kill a mysterious black cat. Which the cat is been killing is his own household and seeing revenge for medical experiments (Which the old tycoon is responsible for killing more than 5,000 cats from his experiments) carried out on its fellow felines! In Lover's VowAn struggling artist (James Remar) witness of his friends getting killed from a talking winged murderous gargoyle and the artist vow to keep a secret from the gargoyle to stay alive. On the same night, the artist falls in love with an mysterious woman (Rae Dawn Chang) that changes his life. Then years has passed, which both of these lovers have terrible secrets.Directed by John Harrison (The Dune Miniseries) made an clever, darkly funny horror anthology film, which is based on the low budget television series of the same name. Which Harrison has written and directed several episodes before making this film. This independent picture was made for $3,5 million and then released by major studioParamount. This movie is actually better than expected, thanks from good production values, a likable cast, plenty of hilarious dark humour, even touching (Lower's Vow episode) and fine work from KNB EFX Group (Amry of Darkness, The Faculty, Jason Goes to HellThe Final Friday).This film wasn't much of a success in theaters but the film went on to be an cult favorite over the years. Which the DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an fine-digitally remasteredDolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes an humorous and enjoyable commentary track by the director and screenwriterGeorge A. Romero (Bruiser, The Dark Half, Monkey Shines) and the original theatrical trailer. Which Romero wrote the screenplay for Cat from Hell episode, which it's based on a short story by Stephen King. The Wraparound Story, Lot 249 and Lover's Vow are written by Michael McDowell (Beetlejuice, The Nightmare Before Christmas, Thinner). Which Lot 249 is inspired by the story by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (Creator of Sherlock Holmes) and Lover's Vow is an uncredited reworking of Lufcadio Hearn's story Snow Woman from the Japanese film Kwaidan. The movie isn't as scary as some hoped to be but the picture is memorable and entertaining enough to make this more than one viewing. Make this an double-feature with Romero's Creepshow. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"The third tale is a keeper","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE is not a great movie. But I watch it whenever its on because of the last story. It is about a man who is attacked by a gargoyle and must never tell anyone about it. Thats all Im gonna say. Any more and I would ruin it for you. The movie on a whole pretty much sums up how TALES was as a Tv show. Some stories are misses, some are hits. I didnt like the Mummy story. I did find the Cat story very amusing. And the last story involving The gargoyle moved me to tears. So the best review I can give this movie is if you watch it,watch it all the way to the end. "}{"Title":"Tales from the Darkside the Movie","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A suburban housewife(Deborah Harry)plans to cook her imprisoned, frightened child(Matthew Lawrence)as he pleads for time reading from her favorite childhood book, Tales from the Darkside a trio of macabre stories which make up the film.The first tale is Lot 249 about a poor student Steve Buschemi who purchases a mummy, finding a scroll inside it commanding the undead Egytptian to do his murderous bidding. Those he wishes to die are Robert Sedgewick, a rich student who has his(filthy rich bitch) girlfriend Julianne Moore completing his assignments for him, while also winning a prestigious scholarship thanks to her meddling that Buschemi rightfully deserved. Moore becomes a target, despite Buschemi's infatuation with her, when she plants a stolen artifact in his room framing him, telling other faculty about it's whereabouts leading to his expulsion from college. Christian Slater, Moore's sister, isn't on the hit-list until he threatens Buschemi's life and mummy. Has it's gory moments;okay little finale even if it's a bit obvious.The second tale, Cat from Hell, concerns a pharmaceutical chairman(William Hickey) whose haunted by a deadly cat behind the deaths of three people that lived under his roof. Hickey believes that he's haunted by the feline, and last on the list to die, because his very habitual, expensive, and successful drug was tested on nearly 5,000 cats. He hires nasty, but slick-suited assassin David Johansen to destroy the cat for a substantial fee. What seems like a rather easy assignment for the hit-man turns out to be far more difficult than Johansen could've ever imagined. Probably the least of the stories because of the rather silly(but, gruesome)finale which will induce gross chuckles.The third(..and, in my opinion, easily the best)of the tales is Lover's Vow)about a struggling artist, flat-broke and dumped by his agent, who sees a bartender murdered by a gargoyle in graphic fashion. James Remar vows to the gargoyle not to tell anyone what he saw happen in place for his life..ever. He meets, in the same night mind you, a beautiful drifter Rae Dawn Chong who enters his life changing it forever. But, Remar might make a decision he'll regret..and break a solemn vow he promised not to reveal..with the yearning to tell Chong a secret he's held during their ten years, two children and artistic success which might ruin everything. The gargoyle design and animatronic work is amazing. This one has some really effective gore sequences as well. Good story, told rather fast. Remar is quite good, I thought.Okay anthology, but I felt the third tale was really the only one that left a lasting impression. Stylish direction helps a little bit. Not near as good as the spooky series for which it's title derives from. "},{"Title":"Perfectly acceptable","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love me some horror anthologies, and this one's... all right.The final segment, 'Lover's Vow' is by far the best, with a friend of James Remar's getting attacked and killed by a creature that spares Remar's life on the condition that he never disclose what happened or describe the creature to anyone. Good stuff.We also have 'Lot 249', which doesn't go anywhere unexpected, although the ending's pretty neat; and 'Cat from Hell', which is dull apart from one bizarre scene in which a cat forces itself down a hit-man's throat. There'a also a framing device with Deborah Harry imprisoning a young boy who reads her the various stories.Hit and miss, then, but on the whole - perfectly adequate. "},{"Title":"You promised you'd never tell....","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first segment features a mummy stalking selected student victims, the second tale tells the story of a cat from hell who cannot be killed and leaves a trail of victims behind it.And the third story is about a man who witnesses a bizarre killing and promises never to tell what he saw, and the wraparound story is of a woman preparing to cook her newspaper boy for supper.....It's an enjoyable anthology of horror short stories, but if you'd come into the film just at the start of the final story, you really wouldn't be missing a lot.The other two stories are just okay for seeing stars slum it a little and star in decidedly dodgy stories. Slater, Buscemi, Moore and the bloke from Die Hard 3 look glum as a mummy stalks them, and Hickey and the ghost of Christmas past try and kill a cat.The final story is pure gold, and almost makes up for sitting through the other two lame stories. Remar and Chong are great as the ill fated couple, and as the narrative progresses, you do sort of forget the main connotation of them getting together.And the twist knocks you for six.The wraparound story is quite enjoyable, but the first two stories really drag the whole film down and really make it a little mundane. "},{"Title":"So there was a TV show?","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the many vignette movies, Tales from the Darkside The Movie has a witch (Deborah Harry) trying to eat a boy. The boy keeps himself alive by spinning creepy stories a mummy takes revenge on some cruel students, an invincible cat defends itself, and a man witnesses a gargoyle committing a murder. It sounds silly, but it's all well-done (it has to be if Stephen King wrote one of the vignettes). Aside from the scares that the movie gives you, it's also a before-they-were-famous situation for several people Steve Buscemi, Julianne Moore, and some others. My favorite scene was when Rae Dawn Chong...well, you'll know it when you see it. All in all, a horror classic. "},{"Title":"A good show but lacked the fun of the series!","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And the creepiness to. This feature film based on the popular TV show has 3 grisly but not to creepy & memorable stories. One has an evil mummy coming to life & killing college students, another has an evil cat who tortures an elderly rich man by murdering those around him, another has an author witnessing a man's murder at the hands of a Gargoyle, but when it sees him, it threatens him to keep it's existence a secret of else, he keeps the promise all right, for ten years that is, before spilling the beans to a woman he loves, with grim results happening & of course there's a wrap around with a witch who keeps a boy locked up in a cage in order to bake him alive (You read that right!) only to find the tables turned on her when he gets out! I thought this was a good horror anthology & just a good horror anthology, it was a decent time waster & really not much more, now don't quote me on this, but I got the feeling that this film tried to channel the spirit of the more successful TALES FROM THE CRYPT & although some stories were better than many of the CRYPT's TV series installments, they all lacked the creepy gritty edge of the TV series. Good make up effects, acting & directing, not to mention slick writing keep this one from sinking & is worth a look for horror fans.*** stars "},{"Title":"I've never laughed so much at a horror movie before..","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Me and my friends rented this movie about a year ago, because we thought it was going to be a scary movie... We were wrong.. There was nothing scary about it at all.. The first 30 seconds where the witch where on her way home from the supermarket where fine, but once she came in to her house and we saw the boy trapped in some kind of jailcell, we where like, what the hell is this?. Anyway.. The boy starts reading scary stories so that she wont kill him, and the first one is about a mummy coming back to life and starts killing people and kind of making them mummy's too.. The mummy looked a little gross, but that was the only scary thing about that story.. The second story was even worse... It was about a cat who killed people(!).. I think that says it all.. The third story.. well, I think it was about some weird monster with wings.. I'm not sure if it killed people or not, because I was still laughing about the killer-cat, so I wasn't really paying attention to the third story at all.. One thing that I do remember is that the monster looked very strange and fake.. The entire movie was silly, and the ending of the movie was very obvious.. The only good thing about this movie is Steve Buscimi, but not even he could save this silly b-horror movie.. I give it 2 stars out of 10.. At least you get a few good laughes.. "},{"Title":"What a awesome anthology.....","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" .... one of the best , I have seen in recent weeks, I loved it! The movie start with A witch who ready to Cook boy but want to read some scary stories from the book called Tales from the DarksideFrist story Lot 249Is about student, Bellingham who whats Revenge after being framed from two people in Class and at he finds A mummy which he bring to life to kill them The mummy didn't look too bad at all, I did not expect the Kills to be a bloodily as they were. some really decent Kills scenes in this parts. This segment flowed really well and The twist, I did not see coming at all, loved that twist of the story, also found it really funny.8 out of 10 first story! The second Story Cat from Hell Which I think was the best out of 3 Old man in wheel chair hires a Hit-man to Kill a Evil Cat. The cats scenes were really well done, They did make the Black Cat look evil with the hissing sound and the attacks were not to bad at all, yeah, they may look a little bit dated now. Some of effect this story were great, I love the cat come out body, gross, I am sure that be stuck in head for few days after this movie. 10/10 Lover's Vow Weakest one This started of really well, the creature was very strange but it didn't look scary at all but Kill scenes were really well gory and bloody again, which i really liked Then the story got a little predictable and new twist, 10 years before it happened, I could hide it a bit more. I liked how the twist came out, very nasty gory scenes, really well made .7 out 10 The ending of the movie, I find that ending very cheesy, it kind of felt out of place a little This as got to be my favourite anthology so far I give this one 9 out of 10 , one of the best , I have seen in recent weeks, I loved it! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Horror Anthology of Its Era","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Three stories in one a mummy with a curse (no surprise there), a cat that kills off an elderly family and a man who faces a demon and then falls in love with a mysterious woman whom he must never tell about the creature. Told from the point of view of Matthew Lawrence (Joey's little brother) to a cannibalistic Debbie Harry.Says director John Harrison, I had directed four seasons of the television version, and I had doubts that it would work as a full-length project. It took awhile for Richard (Rubenstein, producer) to put it together. What kind of stories would they get to distinguish themselves from the series? ...Well, I read the stories and they were great, and there was a sufficient budget to do it right. And he is right why go see a film that worked just fine as a television show? When you have this sort of material and talent, it is worth it.Harrison says of the cast, I had a lot to do with the cast. I truly wanted Jimmy Remar and Rae Dawn Chong. Steve auditioned, and it was a given! Julianne came in and nailed it! She was the one. Debbie Harry -- what an inspiration! Give me a break! And this is one of the things that stands out about Darkside. When are you going to see Steve Buscemi, Julianne Moore and Christian Slater in one place? You might come close with Big Lebowski, but this just nails the trifecta. Remar and Chong were apparently friends in real life and wanted to work together, and Slater was asked because he had appeared as a teenager on the Darkside television show.The film is unofficially considered Creepshow 3 (and clearly better than the actual Creepshow 3) by those who made it -- many of whom were Creepshow veterans (director Harrison did the original score, for example). It helps that the best segment, Cat From Hell, was developed by George A. Romero and Stephen King. It easily parallels any of the best parts of the earlier films.Interestingly, Lot 249 (the mummy story) was written by none other than Arthur Conan Doyle, best known for creating Sherlock Holmes. I have not read the original, but it is interesting... the film does have a somewhat timeless quality this could be 1990 or 1920, with just a change of clothes. Who knew Doyle did horror? Lover's Vow is good, but has its flaws, its plot holes and a really bad twist that you will probably see coming a mile away... probably not the best story to end the film with. But, oh well.I had the pleasure to see this film on the silver screen (August 2010) with Harrison present, the first time I had seen it since home video in the early 1990s. I had fond memories of the film, and was pleased to see that my memory on this one had been true. Over fifteen years later and it was just as good as I recalled, and I certainly think it is one of the best anthologies of the 80s or 90s.The DVD commentary with director John Harrison and writer George A. Romero is great, with a lot of compliments being passed back and forth. Sometimes they wander to complete different films to talk about (including Bruiser and Monkey Shines), but fans may really enjoy this.You will learn about Harrison regulars Harry Miller, Bob Draper and David Cappas. Also, how the cat was a pain, how Ernest D. Farino (Terminator, The Thing) was key to the gargoyle sets, and how the gargoyle story was inspired by a folk tale -- Japan's Snow Queen. "},{"Title":"Horrors! (in a bad sense)","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This horror omnibus gives us 4 tales of surprising unoriginality that will keep you guessing at what the next lame horror cliché is going to be, while offering some amusing 80's star watching. The first one, with Debbie Harry as a maniac housewife about to cook a kid for dinner, is actually the best. It's also the shortest, which is good.The second, star-wise, is interesting because it features Christian Slater (about to be hot), Steve Buscemi (had a long way to go before becoming hot) and Julianne Moore (had a long LONG way to go before becoming hot). This features some silly nonsense about a mummy being reincarnated, without bothering to tell how such a thing could happen or why Buscemi would have such a thing in his room, or why the ancient knick-knack was stolen etc. Thirdly, we have the inevitable troublesome cat story. David Johansen (!!??) plays a mobster hired by a wealthy pharmaceutical guy to get rid of a cat that has killed all the people in the house. The reason for the cat's revenge? Because the guy tested pharmaceuticals on cats! (this is what he says, the cat's opinion is never dwelled upon). Of course, after 4 murders, it never occurred to the old codger to hire an exterminator or maybe even move. Some good special effects, though really unexplained.In the final story, we have a very interesting premise. After a struggling artist sees his friend get killed by a bat demon of some sort, the demon gets the artist to swear he'll never tell anyone about the creature. Which he agrees to. Shortly after, he meets Rae-Down Chong, not necessarily a good thing. Shortly after the meeting, he becomes instantly successful.. So you know where this is headed. So much so, I was predicting the dialog at the very end. Just plain shoddy film-making.Excreable horror. You can do a lot better. "},{"Title":"not very good","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bad Tv shows should be left for the small screen. The show itself was terrible and I dont see how anyone can find this scary. The wraparound story is lame as is all the stories. Terrible horror anthologies shouldnt be made into movies. * "}{"Title":"A fairly enjoyable anthology movie with some nice effects.","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A boy, imprisoned by a woman who intends to cook him and serve him up at a dinner party, tries to delay his fate by telling his captor three tales of the macabre.In the first, a student cheated out of a prize fund by a rich rival and his scheming sister, uses an ancient mummy to wreak revenge.The second tale sees a rich old man hire a contract killer to dispose of a very unusual target the cat that shares his mansion.In the final story, an artist witnesses a strange winged beast killing a barman. To save his own life, he promises never to tell of what he has seen. But when he meets and falls in love with a beautiful woman, just how long will he be able to keep his secret from her?A pretty enjoyable anthology with a solid cast, Tales From The Darkside The Movie starts off weakly, but improves steadily with each successive story. The mummy tale, Lot 249, is as dry as its reanimated monster and even the talents of Julianne Moore, Christian Slater and Steve Buscemi cannot stop it from being something of a bore, but things improve with the second story, Cat From Hell, which has the look and feel of an episode from Creepshow (not too surprising, since George Romero wrote the screenplay from a short story by Stephen King). Director John Harrison shows particular visual flair in this section, using transitional lighting and fades to good effect. The ending is suitably gruesome and features some fine FX works by KNB.The third story, Lover's Vow, also has its fair share of decent FX&#151;a severed hand, a bloody decapitation, and a spectacular transformation sequence ensure that fans of blood 'n' guts get what they want&#151;although the animatronic monster's face is a little hokey looking and caused me to laugh rather than tremble with fear.If anthologies are your thing, then Tales From The Darkside The Movie has enough going for it to warrant a watch. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and well made short horror stories","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS will follow...I remember the early 80's horror series on which this movie is based on. It was a dumb and corny series, to be honest. In fact, the TV-station in my country stopped broadcasting it after only a few episodes due to a lack of interest of the viewers. I've done some research considering its status in the rest of the world and it seems that the series didn't broke through anywhere. Then came the movie in 1990 which was a pleasant surprise. I really hope the status of the TV-series didn't spoil the (possible) success of the movie.Tales from the Dark Side The movie illuminates 3 very interesting horror icons. We've got a mummy, a black cat and a Gargoyle...you can never go wrong with those 3. Heck, throw in a werewolf and we've got ourself a horror party !!!  This film follows the old-fashioned way of combining short stories. This means through a wraparound story. True, this thing is very dumb and childish but try to consider it to be a modern version of the fairy-tale in which a wicked witch eats a boy. I rather hear Blondie singing her classic 80's songs like Atomic then seeing her act, but that's just me. Then there are the stories. The first one, Lot 249, is awesome !!! It's got STEVE BUSCEMI and a freakin' MUMMY !! What else could you possibly wish for??... Several familiar faces in this story by the way. Christian Slater and Julliane Moore star as well. Buscemi ( the world's best actor) uses a mummy to take revenge towards some rich and spoiled collage students who try to ruin his career. It's got Buscemi...that's all you need to know. That and the fact that it was written by sir Arthur Conan Doyle... Cat from Hell, the second story has a pretty good tension going for it. An old dark house with a black murdering cat. That counts as setting the right atmosphere, doesn't it. Cat from hell is a co-operation between the writings of Stephen King and zombie master George Romero. When it comes to pure scary and creepy, Cat from Hell is the best story. The final story, Lover's Vow, will impress you when you see it. There's no doubt about that. It's a very good and original idea, I'll admit that. But with a bit of logical thinking, you'll find out it's very cheesy. I'm not going to spoil anything of this segment...except for the fact that the gargoyle looks really good. One of the best I've seen...Recommended... (btw...have I already mentioned it stars Steve Buscemi ?? )  "},{"Title":"I almost cried when i heard that this was the real creepshow 3.","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, I want to start off by saying that comparing this to CreepShow 3 this one is obviously better. Also, I want to say how fall short this falls of the other two, and tales from the darkside.The first thing I would like to talk about is how weak the back story is. If you do not know the details, it's a retarded cannibal wants to fry a kid for a dinner party. And the kid is delaying her by telling stories from a book, Tales From The Darker Side.The first story is called Crate 247 or something ridiculous like that. It revolves around a wanna be porn star who's making a fetish about west Colombia or something, a Christopher Walken wanna be and two annoying rich assholes. Chris Walken raises a mummy and the other people are the ones to pay. I enjoyed the mummy effects, and the kills were cool. The climax was okay. And the acting and music were decent. This gets a 7.1 out of 10.The second story is about a cenile old man who calls and assassin or something to kill a retarded cat. As flashbacks play, we see two weed addicts get killed in ridiculous ways and a man spazz out and die when he gets scratched. So the villain of our story, the slasher, not Jason, Freddy or even Chucky, is being hunted by a retarded guy who can't fight him with guns, tranquilizers and knives even though he's a cat. I was sad when I saw how much Steven King ruined himself with this story. The plot was terrible.The acting was pretty bad,except for the main character, who did a good job and even made me laugh at times.The effects were goofy and cheesy, all around unlikeable. However, there is some amazing suspense and tension. The music is pretty good. I rate this with a 3 of 10 because of the story and supporting cast. Otherwise it would be an easy 6.The gargoyle episode, Lover's Vow was not a bad watch, with some nasty effects and great gore. It centers around an artist named Preston who sees something very unusual occur. After promising not to tell anyone what he saw for his life, he meets a girl. He is generous to her, and they end up falling in love and having children. The reason this works is because the actor for Preston does an amazing job at how he wants to tell somebody and the paranoia of what if he does . And how much the night changed him. He secretly makes artwork of gargoyles, but nobody knows about it because he's afraid he may end up spilling the real information of the night to whoever finds the art. There is a quality to this one that is chillingly human, which makes this so eerie. I don't think I should reveal anything besides this, because you should see it for yourself. You will most likely love the twist!!The story gets a 7 out of 10. The acting gets a 7, because most of the supporting cast sucks. The flawless effects get a 10. The music is amazing, getting a 9.6. So my final score for this one? 8.8 out of 10.And how does the back story end? Watch it yourself and find out. It kinda sucks. On my scale, it gets a 2.5 out of 10.My final words- it really has some strong points which can almost save it, but sadly the weak points are overwhelming. If you liked the other two, and Tales from the Darkside, then pick it up if you are curious... Otherwise stick to the superior Twilight Zone the movie for this kind of short story thing. "},{"Title":"Great special effects in the service of thin stories.","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first story is thin, and features some surprisingly bad acting from such well-known names as Christian Slater and Julianne Moore.The second story is also thin, but better than the first, and features solid gore effects. Harrison's direction is also at its most imaginative in this one.The third story is the best of the lot; although it feels rushed and underdeveloped, it has great special effects and a chilling moment of revelation. Overall, not bad but nothing special.     (**) "},{"Title":"Another Horror Film That Is Glued Together by Television Ideas","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tales From the Darkside The Movie is a small horror film which deals with four stories that are intertwined together to make one sorry 90-minute movie.  None of the four stories are particularly scary or entertaining. The original television episodes, as weak as they were, look excellent when compared to this dud which was only made to capitalize on the minimal popularity of the series.  To be it bluntly do not waste your time here.  2 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"Mummies and daddies.","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I only saw the mummy segment, but it was SO stupid. The plot makes itself unexplainable. Bellingham pries open the mummy's sarcophagus. The first thing he does is goes on about how the ritual of mummification calls for pulling out the corpse's brain. Then he finds the piece of paper in the mummy's stomach. He asks the other guy You know how to read this? Later that night, he reads it fluently, enabling the ancient Egyptian curse which wakes the mummy. Now, if I'm wrong, stop me, but he said the mummy's brains were pulled out. If that is true, the mummy cannot think. Hence, he could not have a had a solid working knowledge of the human anatomy, and the knowhow to steal that one guy's brain. Also, not that even a brain could help him here, if he is from ancient times, how does he know how to cause an electrical blackout? Finally, if he has no brain, his nerves wouldn't work. How can he move? "},{"Title":"Entertaining horror anthology that's good fun.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Darkside The Movie starts with an ordinary looking woman named Betty (Deborah Harry) driving home, once there it is revealed that she is keeping a young boy named Timmy (Matthew Lawrence) locked in a cage in her kitchen & intends to kill, cook & eat him. To try & stall for time Timmy offers to read some stories from a book called 'Tales from the Darkside', Betty reveals that they have plenty of time & tells him to go ahead. Timmy's first story is called 'Lot 249'...Andy (Christian Slater) & Lee (Robert Sedgwick) are university students & best friends. They discover another student named Edward Bellingham (Steve Buscemi) has won an auction for 'Lot 249' which happens to be an Egyptian sarcophagus with it's Mummy still inside. Edward finds an ancient scroll stuffed inside the Mummy which when recited is able to bring the Mummy back to life...Betty liked 'Lot 247' so lets Timmy tell another one, this time called 'Cat from Hell'...A hit-man named Halsten (David Johansen) arrives at the large mansion owned by the billionaire owner of a pharmaceuticals company named Drogan (William Hickey) who offers to pay Halsten $100,000 to kill a mysterious black cat which he believes has been sent to kill him. Drogan thinks the cat has already killed three people & thinks he is next. Halsten thinks Drogan is crazy but accepts nevertheless, however he soon discovers that killing this particular cat isn't as easy as it first would appear...Betty also liked 'Cat from Hell' & says that Timmy can tell one more story, Timmy chooses 'Lover's Vow'...Preston (James Remar) is a failed New York artist whose apartment is overlooked by a stone Gargoyle. One night after he is told by his agent Wyatt (Robert Klein) that he is being dumped Preston gets so drunk the bartender Jer (Ashton Wise) has to take him home. While walking down some back alleyway Jer is decapitated by a large creature with wings & sharp claws, the creature goes up to Preston & says that it will spare his life if he never tells anyone about it. Not having much choice Preston agrees & the creature disappears in the New York night. Shortly after this unnerving encounter Preston meets & falls in love with a woman named Carola (Rae Dawn Chong) whom after being together for 10 years have two children, Margaret (Nicole Leach) & John (Daniel Harrison) but Preston is finding it harder to keep his secret but surely after all this time it wouldn't matter if he told his wife, would it...?Betty now decides enough is enough, there will be no more stories & it's time for Timmy to become dinner...Directed by John Harrison who also composed the score for the 'Lover's Vow' Segment, I thought Tales from the Darkside The Movie was a good horror anthology that isn't the best this sub-genre has to offer but it is by no means the worst either. I like anthology films & I look for quick fast paced stories with a nice twist at they're end. Unfortunately Tales from the Darkside The Movie didn't quite manage to surprise me with two of it's twists which were actually pretty obvious while the story that has the strongest ending is the slowest to sit through. 'Lot 247' was written by Micheal McDowell based on a story by Sherlock Holmes creator Sir Arthur Conan Doyle & is a good opening story featuring the familiar faces of Christian Slater, Steve Buscemi & Julianne Moore but I found the ending of this segment weak & predictable which spoilt what had gone on before. The second story 'Cat from Hell' written by George A. Romero based on a short story by Stephen King (his name just had to be here somewhere didn't it?) is the weakest of the three stories but is the most stylishly filmed with some cool fades & transitions between shots, blue tinted flashbacks & the spacious, spooky darkly lit mansion provides some real atmosphere which is wasted on this segment as it's ending didn't do anything for me as it turned out exactly as I expected with the cat appearing to succeed in it's quest for revenge. The third story written by Micheal McDowall is generally considered the best & for good reason, although it's slower than the previous two it has impact & a good ending twist which I didn't actually see coming. I'm not saying the other two stories are bad, far from it but I was maybe hoping for a few more surprises. I won't bother commenting on the wraparound story as I found it very poor. The film as whole moves along nicely & since each story only runs 20 odd minutes none of them outstay their welcome. It's well made throughout with nice production values especially during the 'Cat from Hell' segment which looks very nice. The acting is good too with some familiar faces. One thing Tales from the Darkside The Movie does have going for it are some wonderful special make-up effects by K.N.B effects with Dick Smith credited as a consultant. Each story seems to have it's own little special effects showpiece, 'Lot 249' has the Mummy being chopped up with an electric carving knife, 'Cat from Hell' has a cat bloodily enter someones body through their mouth & then exit the same way & 'Lover's Vow' has the excellent & totally cool looking Gargoyle transformation & just about any shot that it's in really. It's a little light on the actual blood & gore front though, we do get a gorily realistic cool looking severed hand & decapitation. Overall I liked Tales from the Darkside The Movie but I can't help but feel the endings of both 'Lot 247' & 'Cat from Hell' let those segments down somewhat. Still the film as a whole is a great watch & is good all round entertainment. "},{"Title":"Decent Stories But Should Have Been More","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Darkside The Movie (1990) ** (out of 4) A witch (Deborah Harry) is holding a young boy hostage and about to cook him but she allows him to tell her three scary stories that will allow him a little more time to live. Lot 249 is based on a short story by Arthur Conan Doyle and centers on a poor student (Steve Buscemi) who seeks revenge on a couple rich classmates with the help of a mummy. Cat From Hell is based on a story by Stephen King and was written by George Romero. It features William Hickey playing an elderly man who pays a man $100,000 to kill his cat, which he believes killed his sister and plans on killing him. Lover's Vow has a struggling artist (James Remar) see his best friend killed by a demon but this demon allows him to live as long as he never tells anyone what he saw. Apparently this film originally started out as CREEPSHOW 3 but for whatever reason they ended up changing the title but no matter what you call it this thing is pretty disappointing. The first film features a nice cast that includes Buscemi, Christian Slater and Julianne Moore but none of them can overcome the rather weak and slow story. It's never quite clear how Buscemi knows the secrets of this mummy and it's really not clear how he can be poor yet afford to buy this thing. The second story was apparently suppose to have been in CREEPSHOW 2 but the budget limits had them cancel it. The story here is a rather interesting one but I found Romero's screenplay to be rather weak and we really never get anything good. I'm not sure if there was more meat that was cut out of the story but there's never really any reason to believe what we're seeing and the reasons as to why this cat is evil would have been more interesting than just seeing it constantly clawing at the man trying to kill him. This segment does feature a terrific special effect of the cat crawling in and then back out of a man's mouth, which certainly looked very good. The final story contains the least amount of horror but it certainly has the best story. It's certainly a little slow moving but this actually adds a lot to the film and really sets up the ending nicely. The wrap around story isn't anything special and they do very, very little with it. I'm sure anthology fans will want to check this out but like most films in this genre, it's simply too hard to really do because of the wide range of quality from story to story. The first two stories here are just way too weak and the third is certainly the best but really wouldn't be able to stand up to some better entries from other movies. "}]