[{"Title":"The Play Without the Play","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"104 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As an architect, I am often asked what is the world's best building. The answer a small chapel outside Barcelona started by Gaudi but never finished. We have the model (a bunch of strings) and the basement. But when one visits, it is a profoundly lifechanging place. Gaudi exceeded the building's budget, and then that of the whole community (which was to have been built) before getting out of the ground. But the ambition was so grand, one can see it with only the barest explicit minimum. But, you have to have the reference of what the master intended.Hamlet is the same. It was never really finished, being so large a conception. Shakespeare tinkered and added over decades. So what Stoppard does here is expand Hamlet by shrinking it. The plot is only glimpsed, but that part was always incidental anyway. The play is about reasoning, and when things are real and when not, and about what element of reality is causal. So instead of giving us the language, Stoppard seizes on one device, the play within the play.In the raw Hamlet, this is pretty rich, but Stoppard weaves new dimensions of inversion and self-reference. There are at least four levels of play here, and we keep switching about, together with most of the characters. This is not just amusing, but elaborates on `Hamlet,' when is fate real? would it change if we could see the larger clockworks of the universe? does language (specifically query) aid in this endeavor? considering that, are ideas tied to time and fate? This last point is comically illustrated as one of the pair (they don't know who is who) keeps `stumbling' on great ideas, which then vanish.The play (Stoppard's first) seems to have been his one excellent work, followed by the mundane. Some are unhappy because the film is not so frantic as the 1967 play, but I think that is because there is a different dynamic with a film audience than a stage audience. Fewer tricks can be played. But this is a wonderful solution to the problem of language in film it is just not cinematic, so best to exploit the dissonance.There's risk here. The film as film is not great, so set that aside. And the notions are dangerously sophomoric. But that's what makes the whole thing so darned funny. Some critics (notably the normally intelligent Stanley Kauffmann) think Roth and Oldham are poor. But this is a strange sort of acting demand, one for which no measures exist part surreal, part comic (in different traditions, half Monty Python, half Abbot and Costello) and part tragic confusion. They reward my trust and that's what matters I think. Dreyfus is supposed to be over the top, and he complies.In the great Hamlet sweepstakes, many recommend seeing Mel Gibson and then Gwyneth Paltrow. I suppose that's a colorful route. But the real sense of what this is all about comes through with more real reward via Branagh and then this clever film. "},{"Title":"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, victims of circumstance...","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"62 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead was one of my favourite films whilst growing up. The movie follows two irrelevant characters (irrelevant in that although they served a significant purpose, their characters were not developed in any depth... Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, as individuals, were relatively unimportant) through one of the most renowned stories ever told (Hamlet). It is a film about two characters that are completely unaware of the magnitude of the events taking place around them. This carries on throughout the entire film, and is also evidenced in their accidental discoveries of significant historical scientific findings (such as the steam engine or the concept of gravity). The characters stumble their way through the film, unaware of the consequences to their actions or their significance or importance.The characters spend the entire film coming to terms with their existence. Shakespeare didn't provide any detailed character development of either Rosencrantz or Guildenstern, and as such, they are left confused as to the purpose of their own existence.The film also looks at the concept of a predetermined destiny. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's fate is already determined before the film begins. And although they play an important role in one of the greatest stories ever told, they are completely unaware of their destiny; they are merely victims of circumstance.I should also note that the constant banter between the two characters (specifically in their 'Game of Questions') is pure quality.  "},{"Title":"plot within a plot within a plot...","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This clever screenplay by Tom Stoppard challenges the viewer to listen and watch closely as the Shakespeare tragedy Hamlet is turned on its ear via taking the perspective of the oblivious rhetorics, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  There are multiple 'plot within plot' twists which intersect and skew at will, sometimes creating a surreal experience for the observer.  The script is brilliant, full of double-entendres and mixed reactions executed superbly by Tim Roth and Gary Oldman, along with a solid supporting cast (including American actor Richard Dreyfus).  Stoppard felt that the title characters, messengers in the original play, were under represented and so examines their possible perspectives in the tale by way of exploring their destiny and their lack-of-awareness of it.  Stunning and hilarious wordplay with excellent repartee between Oldman and Roth.  Refreshing and creative spin of the tale of Denmark's 'melancholy prince'.   "},{"Title":"A comedy... about tragedy","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Imagine if you will, two talented actors. They are playing quite small roles... the smallest roles in the play so are given no form of direction or motivation for their parts. They are simply told they are sent for. They are told they are Rosencrantz and Guildenstern but no one fully indicated to them which of them were which. No they are thrust bodily into the play itself (Hamlet) and stripped of all their memories of their life before... they have become the characters. They know their cues, instinctively know their lines, but no one bothered to tell them the plot of the play, leaving them to figure it out (or not) for themselves. Their only source of any kind of direction is a player (Dreyfuss) who gives them a rudimentary crash course on dying and tragedy itself (Generally speaking, things have gone about as far as they can possibly go, when things have gotten about as bad as they can reasonably get.)... and (We are tragedians. We follow directions. There is no choice involved.) This is Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. And it is the funniest intellectually stimulating comedy I've ever seen. Oldman and Roth deliver a wonderful performance, always desperately struggling get it but never quite fully understanding what's going on around them. Oldman's portrayal of the existentially distracted Rosencrantz... or is that Guildenstern... was brilliant! (G Is that you? R I don't know! G (disgustedly) It's you.) Viewers who delighted in the verbal tennis match might also notice that this really goes on through out the movie. (Player But why? R Exactly! G Exactly what? R Exactly why. G Why what? R What? G Why? Why what, exactly?) It's truly sad that this movie doesn't get the recognition that it deserves. See Hamlet... become familiar with the story line... and then see this movie. It is quite worth the effort. I give it a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"one of the best movies ever made","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly unique movie, comic, sarcastic, tragic, ironic, and definitely hilarious. based on tom stoppard's play of the same name (stoppard also directs the film), rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead delves into the tragicomic lives of minor characters everywhere, on-stage and off. ros and guild's lives are thrown into turmoil every time they interact with the regular cast of hamlet, leaving them with few clues as to what their purpose is in the play and in life. stoppard's script is dizzying with puns, plays, feints and twists. the cinematography is minimalist to say the least (remember, the script was originally intended for the stage) but the stage-presence of the actors more than makes up for any lacks. if you like theatre and the absurd, this movie is for you.  "},{"Title":"Quotable, Witty, Brilliant","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so you may want to brush up on your knowledge of Hamlet before viewing Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, Tom Stoppard's big screen adaptation of his own classic play. Please don't let that frighten you away, or you'll miss out on a seriously funny movie. The lead roles are extremely well cast. Gary Oldman is hilarious as sweet, befuddled Rosencrantz. Tim Roth's angry, frustrated Guildenstern is the perfect complement. They make a great team.Stoppard's film has a sprightly step even when raising a few cosmic questions. It's the perfect tonic for some of the more pompous cinematic takes on Shakespeare, and even the Bard would appreciate its sparkling wordplay. "},{"Title":"The audience knows what to expect and that is all they are prepared to believe...","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw the film version of R and G are Dead over a year ago, it is a set text on my course and our prof showed it because we live in the middle of no where civilization-wise and had no other way to understand the action. In a class with 21 16-19 year olds trying to catch the witty banter so important to the play was an irritating struggle so eventually I gave up and focused on just reading it and understanding the main techniques Stoppard used. Then last week my other English prof offered to show the film again, I jumped at the chance and yesterday I got to see it all the way through without interruptions. I loved it from top to bottom, everything was perfect, I was upset that I had been denied the experience a year ago but was delighted that I had that second chance to see it. The three things that I think make the film so wonderful are the acting, the connection between R and G, and the script it self drawn so well from stage to screen. Scene that are partially Hamlet, partially R and G worked so well, the Shakespearian actors meshed so well with the more modern R and G which gave everything a congruity, from one scene to another nothing was lacking. The sensation of being lost was conveyed so well by Tim Roth and Gary Oldman, the way they always wind up in the same room in the castle and just shrug it off was spectacular, it really conveyed the sense of absurd reality. I was in awe of how well the two actors worked together, they seemed combined, just as intended in the play, and played off each other beautifully. The play itself came alive on screen, certain lines just seemed to stick out and summarize Stoppard's whole idea behind it. The chief tragedian's line I quoted as the title to this comment was spoken beautifully by Dreyfus and the later line about all the directions on a compass encapsulated the main ideas of the play excellently... All in all it was a wonderful experience and I adored it, I am so happy I finally got my chance to see this wonderful film and I suggest to anyone that if they can see this film and be open to it, it certainly isn't standard (which is the idea of absurdism) but it is wonderful and enjoyable. Also don't be scared to laugh at it, some people consider it high art or comparable to Shakespeare and think laughing is unwarranted, this is ridiculous there are scenes which are laugh out loud funny and they should be laughed at, nothing is above being laughed at in theatre, so relax and enjoy... one note though, read Hamlet first if you haven't or watch the film so you get the general idea, R and G are Dead makes no sense without a background knowledge of Hamlet, but I would suggest skipping the Kenneth Brannagh twelve hour snooze-fest version... but that is for another comment... "},{"Title":"See it more than once!","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies. I love everything about it!  The dialogue is ingenious, Gary Oldman, Tim Roth and Richard Dreyfuss are all superb and the concept is original.  I found it much funnier on the second viewing; there is just so much to take in.  It takes patience; you are thrown in seemingly in the middle of something.  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, minor characters in Hamlet wander into the events of the play on call for their dialogue, and in between try to figure out their existence. Sadly there is no US DVD, and I think the VHS is out of print.  I have an old laserdisc, and I have heard that there's a UK DVD.  If you do run across this I couldn't recommend it more strongly! "},{"Title":"Brilliant tribute to a classic","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"37 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So I was sitting around watching TV on a Sunday afternoon... ortrying too, anyway. Tragically there was nothing on... until my eyecaught a title; Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. My inner- geek answered well duh. Read the play didn't I? Of course myinner geek is also curious as anything, so my geek and I turnedthe channel sat back and watched as two befuddled, goofyShakespearian hooligans find themselves in Elsinor home of theirloony friend Hamlet. Now don't get me wrong, the dialogue goesabout 90 miles per hour, but the topics are Kevin Smith-like in theirrandomness and the relationship between these two classiccharacters also remind me of one Kevin would write. What's more the only way to know which is Rosencrantz and whichis Guildenstern is to look on the credits. Even they sometimesaren't sure who's who. This movie is lightning fast and painfullyclever, definitely not for the faint of heart or head, but if you've got itin you I *highly* recommend it. "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderfully witty film masterfully transferred from a marvellous stage script to the screen. The dialogue is constant and highly entertaining, the meshing of Stoppard's modern day speech of the original parts of the story and Shakespeare's original Hamlet practically seamless and masterfully worked. Gary Oldman gives a superb performance as Guildernstern (or is it Rosencratz - and, at the end of the day, does it matter?) outstanding in a fabulous cast. All in all this film cannot be recommended highly enough. "}{"Title":"This IS intelligent entertainment","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sadly, I haven't seen the original play of R&G are Dead. Sadly, because if it's any good as this movie is, then surely it's a masterpiece. This is Absurd Theater at its best I find it a better premise than Waiting for Godot, which is just, two guys waiting for something which is not clear. In this case, the characters are lost in midst of a play we all know what it is about, so, the mood is more tongue-in-cheek the feel is much more Kafkaesque this time, when the invisible strings lead these characters to their demises, and also, it's incredible fun and witty.As a film, the only issue I can think of is sometimes the action moves rather slowly, but I think that was the idea a surreal and dream like state, in which the characters are constantly in doubt. The scenarios, scenes, script, etc. are just brilliant.About the performances, there is really not much to say except excellent. Roth, Oldman and Dreyfus are brilliant in their roles, and A+ performance.Perfect score for one of my favorite movies of all time.10/10 "},{"Title":"What happens in between the curtains...","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is no choice involved. The bad end unhappily, the good unluckily. That is what tragedy means. - The PlayerOut of all of the timeless Shakespearian tragic protagonists or even supporting players, few would prove less memorable and recognized than Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, background players in Hamlet who are given no development, little purpose, and, apart from a single line mentioning their offstage deaths in passing, no closure. As such, it is nothing less than a delightfully ingenious decision on writer/director Tom Stoppard's part to re- examine Hamlet from the perspective of the two characters who seldom play any part in it, and in between question their purpose, their reason for being there, what they are attempting to accomplish and their inability to remember anything before being brought into the story. Such a work is Rosencrantz & Guildenstern are Dead an absurdist, existential take on the tragedy of the Prince of Denmark, for which rational description proves fleeting and incomplete. Consider the film as an amalgamation of its source material, Shakespeare's Hamlet, Beckett's absurdist Waiting for Godot, and the irreverent comedic stylings of Abbot and Costello and Monty Python - and even this fails to exactly capture the unique stylistic blend that is the film. As with many such experimental works, Rosencrantz & Guildenstern are Dead will likely not prove appealing to all tastes, particularly not for those devoid of a healthy tolerance for theater of the absurd and existential or otherwise philosophical ramblings with no real definitive outcome or purpose. However, Stoppard's exquisitely witty and verbose script is rattled off at a breakneck pace, making up for the occasional lull in pacing and absurdist silent interludes which fail to add much to the plot. Despite its theatrical origins, the work makes a surprisingly fluid transition to film, with some fittingly minimalist cinematography helping it feel less stage oriented. The somewhat low budget appearance of the production, as opposed to being a detriment, actually adds an endearing and introspective quality to the film, as if meant to look like it was being performed by a low budget theater group. Similarly, the film's musical score is just bizarre and comically unsettling enough to promote the perfect offbeat mood throughout. Stoppard's work also deserves tremendous commendations for his work's introspective challenging conventions of theater and audience expectations by leaving many plot points unexplained or up for subjective interpretation. The constant question as to whether the two titular characters are actors, seemingly so into character that they have forgotten the nature of their putting on a play (pages from the script of Hamlet drift tantalizingly around the scenery throughout, suggesting this possibility) or the actual characters themselves within the world of the play, unaware as to their fictional nature, ultimate lack of purpose and inescapable impending fate is never fully resolved, and ultimately never seems to make much of a difference. The play's treatment of fatalism and pre-determination in artistic works is similarly intriguing - as Dreyfus' Player (seemingly the only fully informed character in the play) explains, the events which befall the two bewildered protagonists are not decided, but written. However, Stoppard never draws the distinction between introspective artistry or just plain absurdity, leaving it up to his audience to fill in many of the film's gaps and come to their own conclusions, but his inspired storyline proves consistently entertaining in the midst of its frequently nonsensical philosophical banter. Similarly, the script's exploration of the frequently misleading and deceptive power and ambiguity of words leads for some turns of phrases worthy of Shakespeare himself, whose dialogue style Stoppard frequently mocks and simultaneously pays tribute to. Without such an accomplished cast putting their own unique spin on the material, it is hard to imagine such a difficult play being transposed into such a highly enjoyable movie. Gary Oldman and Tim Roth are perfectly cast as the consistently bewildered titular duo, and their quirky chemistry and impeccable comedic timing makes for some of the most enjoyable back and forth routines in recent memory (the verbal tennis match is an abiding classic, but is only a fraction of the comedic brilliance the two muster up) - an absurdist Abbot and Costello if you will, with Oldman's loopy Rosencrantz making a ideal foil for Roth's curt straight man Guildenstern. A fittingly grandiose Richard Dreyfus is a consistent scene stealer, making superb use of many of the best lines in the script as the lead player in the theatrical group performing for the royal family. Similarly, Iain Glen makes a suitably manic Hamlet, and Donald Sumpter and Joanna Miles prove wonderfully theatrical as King Claudius and Queen Gertrude, always lost in the wistful world of the play. Unconventional, bizarre, thought provoking and consistently funny, Rosencrantz & Guildenstern are Dead will certainly isolate certain audiences, in particular those with little tolerance for theater of the absurd. But for those willing to partake in material outside the parameters of the mainstream will experience an intelligent, fast paced and astutely acted metaphysical comedy, one whose blend of unpretentious philosophy and irreverent comedy proves difficult to resist. -8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fabulously underrated and unappreciated film","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the most glorious and intriguing examples of modern cinematic art I have ever encountered.  I am not going to run you through the entire movie, as that has been done several times on here already, but I would like to clear up a few misunderstandings and harsh words that I have read in previous comments.First and foremost, I have not seen or read the play (although I am looking forward to it) and I was perfectly able to understand all of the so-called high-brow concepts like fate, time, freewill, self-awareness, and the light peppering of existential musings (my favorite of which is the ...well at least I'm not dead. speech).  The first time I watched this film I was very fascinated, amused, and slightly confused.  These Pythoneon nonsensical scenes that some of you are reffering to were a bit difficult to understand, but after a second viewing they all made perfect sense.  It does not take a genius to see the multiple layers and metaphors being used in this film.  As for being totally lost without first seeing the play, that is rediculous.  It took a bit of thinking and rewinding, but it is comprehensible, and after you figure it all out for yourself it is very rewarding and adds to the enjoyment, and genius, of the film.  For example, the first time i watched this movie I was very confused by the pages of manuscript randomly floating around after R&G encounter the players for the first time.  But once you realize that the lead player is fully self-aware, has been through these scenarios (the play Hamlet) several times with a full consciousness and memory of the events (demonstrated rather obviously by his full knowledge of future events, the play that his troupe rehearses in front of R&G wich is an exact copy of Hamlet, etc.) it makes for a wonderful metaphor demonstrating what has happened to the original play (Hamlet) now that some of its more flat characters are starting to think outside the script, so to speak, and become a bit more round.Well, I could go on forever about this masterpiece, and maybe I will at a later date, but for now I just wanted you know that this film is anything but simple.  If you can manage to put a little thought into what you are seeing and hearing you will find that it is perhaps the most complex, multi-layered, intuitively rewarding film ever created.P.S.  I am afraid this film is not widely accessible to the majority of movie watchers, which really saddens me because it is truly an amazing work of art.  I would very much like to remedy this.  So, if you have watched this movie at least 2 times, and are still puzzled by some of the scenes, please feel free to email me and I would be happy to explain anything that might heighten your understanding of the film.  "},{"Title":"Phenomenal play that really doesnt succeed onscreen","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard directs the film version of his own hit play from the 60s. Tim Roth, Gary Oldman and Richard Dreyfuss star Tom Stoppard claims that the idea behind his hit play 'Rosencrantz And Guildenstern Are Dead' was suggested to him by his agent What happens to two small parts in Shakespeare's 'Hamlet' when they're off stage? Shakespeare reveals quite a bit about them (most notably, in the closing stages, when they are dead), but their own time on the stage is limited and they never have the opportunity to express real individual personality.So Stoppard cleverly fills in the gaps, snaking his action through quotations from the original play. The two characters have as little idea about themselves as everyone else; they don't even know who is Rosencrantz and who is Guildenstern. They gradually piece together their stories as they overhear parts of the real play, stumble into the action, and meet a group of itinerant players who are also waiting to go 'on stage'.It's a smart-alec literary gag with considerable potential for riffing on the mechanics of the theatre and the psychology of actors (making fun of the notion that they always see themselves as the centre of attention). In Stoppard's capable hands it's also a platform for questioning some of the central tenets of existence, and indeed what it means to exist. The play launched Stoppard's career as one of the giants of British theatre and a successful screenwriter (he's responsible for Empire Of The Sun and Shakespeare In Love). It also helped garner him enough clout to direct a $5million film starring Tim Roth and Gary Oldman, even though he'd never had any experience at the helm before. Sadly, no agent suggested a similarly fruitful way of successfully making the translation to the screen.In fact, there seems to have been hardly any cinematic conversion at all. This film is stagey in the extreme. There's barely any movement and less momentum, the only additions are a few baggy extra scenes while countless subtleties are lost. Sure, there are a few nice props and bigger sets than you get in a theatre, but it's all so stationary it might as well be set on the stage. And even when there is significant action, it's usually an illustration of something the words are already doing rather than an end in itself. A horribly contrived, literal realisation of a game of verbal tennis on a palace court springs to mind. All this just serves as a reminder that this is essentially a play about plays not about films. A problem that Stoppard's adaptation roundly ignores. Conceits that work in the theatre are just annoying here. Anyone for a play within a play that's a rehearsal for a play within a play within a film? And the hammy head player, Richard Dreyfuss, and his group of clowns just seem like a distraction rather than the central issue.   The sections from Shakespeare don't fare much better Glen's Hamlet is deeply annoying, his sensual mother Gertrude (Miles) is decidedly unattractive and the evil king Claudius (Sumpter) is very likeable. So serious are all these faults that although there are fine central performances from Roth and Oldman (both wonderfully baffled) this film is just about unwatchable. Verdict It's all too easy to tell that this is Stoppard's debut as a film director, and it's even easier to see why he hasn't made a film since. A disastrous adaptation of an excellent play.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant!","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This mind-bending, sideways look at two of Hamlet's lesser characters is classic, undeniable comedy genius. Tom Stoppard's direction flowers with as much spot-on slapstick as his words and, indeed, as his actors' performances.Gary Oldman is intoxicating! Watching him as Rosencrantz you will forget all about your Jack Sparrows after this (goatee and all, Depp totally stole his persona from Oldman). He's Buster Keaton, Laurel and Hardy, Roberto Benigni, and Peter Sellers all rolled into one! I plan to find more such characters from Oldman - certainly one of the most sublime and delightful performances of all time!Funny note If The Lion King is childishly derivative of Hamlet, The Lion King 1½ is a total f*cking rip-off of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.Also - R & G Are Dead is frequently compared to Beckett's Waiting For Godot (which should never be filmed!) as dealing equally with man's insubstantial grasp of his fate and the routines/shtick that passes the time before death. R & G is likely more palatable to a wide audience as it's abstract philosophy is counter-balanced by a well-known and literal storyline. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A genuine must-see, the allegoric film where every joke and every action are so layered, that you can't even grasp it all. The original interpretation of the Shakespeare's Hamlet, told from the POV of two minor heroes who honestly have no idea how they got caught up in all that mess, trapped within the plot of the Author. The idea that All the world is a stage, and we are all merely actors is embroidered skillfully into the canvas of the story, entwined with the problems of choice, freedom, free will, justice, loyalty. Moreover the movie managed to avoid the pathos/affectedness so typical for intellectual films that usually turns us off, the story is told with such irony and lightness that it strikes all the right notes, making us happy or sad, sympathetic to the heroes. The brilliant actors' works are just the cherry on top. Too incredible for words. "},{"Title":"Witty and intelligent.","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a surprise. I don't like Shakespeare and I only watched this by accident, I flicked on to the opening scene with the coin toss and was hooked.This has great dialogue with lots of wit and charm and the idea of the characters being confused by the very fact that they are confused is great to watch.I was relieved that they use modern English during all the scenes that aren't from Hamlet and they don't restrict themselves to the same style or time.Oldman is superb a the dimmer of the two and the physics jokes were especially surprising and well done. Roth is also excellent and gets the lion's share of the one liners with Oldman getting more slapstick. Both leads display excellent comic timing.This is an idea I wouldn't have expected to work but with a excellent cast and great writing it is a really enjoyable film, there are a lot of big laughs but even better than that is the fact that you are kept continuously amused by small things. "},{"Title":"Plenty of fun and ideas but also too many bits that drag","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are on the road to somewhere, although they are not entirely sure where to. They feel like they are in some sort of limbo, a feeling only encouraged by the fact that a tossed coin has just come up heads consecutively over a hundred times. A travelling theatre troop offers them entertainment for money but no sooner have they stepped on the stage than they find themselves in a ballroom of a palace. While they try to work out what is happening they find that they are ever more being drawn into the middle of events that are bigger than them.A mixed curiosity this film, that has some great moments but doesn't work that well as a total product. The narrative throws up some interesting ideas of fate and the roles of minor characters but unfortunately the scenes where it has to overlap with Hamlet that it is not so good and doesn't work. I'm sure he was not making a point but it is hard to ignore that the scenes that are all Stoppard are the best while those that are lifted or adapted from the Hamlet text are weak and appear to be there just because they have to be. It is a shame that the interweaving with the Hamlet narrative doesn't work better because the original scenes have a delicious playful tone to them in regards language and the nature of minor characters; I found these specific scenes to be fun and engaging and only wished the film could have maintained this energy and approach.A big part of these scenes working is down to the delivery and both Oldman and Roth are really good not only with the fast pace of the dialogue but with the out of it attitude and sense of detached bewilderment that they need to carry for the majority. It is telling that their scenes are by far the strongest and the supporting cast are not as good in Glen, Roth, Sumpter etc, although I did enjoy Dreyfuss' turn in it.An interesting movie with some great dialogue driven scenes that gives the viewer a lot of fun with language and character. Unfortunately these scenes do not make up the whole film and it has many scenes that are wooden and drag. Still quite fun but not as good as the strongest bits made me think. "},{"Title":"Waiting for Hamlet","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on a play by Tom Stoppard, who also debuts as a movie director here, the movie focuses on the two famous sycophants from Shakespeare's masterpiece; while we see glimpses of the bigger picture, we follow the events unraveling at Elsinore through the eyes of Rosencrantz (Gary Oldman) and Guildenstern (Tim Roth), a surreal and perplexed duo striving to keep up with the machinations surrounding them. But keep up they don't. Apparently unconscious of the narrative tropes of drama, the two watch the major players with feelings ranging from surprise to fright. What's he doing? wonders one of them as they spy Hamlet delivering one of his famous monologues. Talking... to himself is the quizzical answer. A cocktail between Shakespeare, Beckett and the Monty Pythons. What's not to like about it? Oldman and Roth are great, playing these two oddballs with a dream-like confusion, and yet making them sympathetic instead of obnoxious buffoons. Roth's Guildenstern is the straight man, while Oldman's Rosencratz displays a bemused, childish confusion. Richard Dreyfuss is charismatic as The Player; Ian Glen is an interesting Hamlet.But the star is Stoppard's dialogue - clever, funny and very quotable.7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Hold for applause...","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I checked out a little about this movie before I rented it and the first thing I noticed was that Roger Ebert had given it zero stars. Zero stars. Needless to say, Mr. Ebert did not hit his mark this time. Let me see...for example, he gave Sleepover and A Cinderella Story more than this. Now, I agree with his taste in films most of the time, but I must ask--Are you feeling well, Mr. Ebert?However, he does have some points in his review of the film. It seems like it would do better as a play. But did it really bomb as a move? Hardly. I liked the movie very much and I know that many others did as well. However, I think I can understand and explain why it will not appeal to everyone. First, the plusses.The roles are well-played for the most part. Richard Dreyfuss did indeed, as Roger Ebert said in his review, steal many scenes. However, I do not think this was detrimental to the extent that Mr. Ebert makes it sound. If anyone knows what is going on, Dreyfuss's character does. It is no surprise he can add a little spice and mystery to the confused main character's lives. The characters of Oldman and Roth are quirky and the dialogue amusing as well. Both did a good job, not that we'd expect less from them. It was light enough to make me laugh, but held meaning enough to keep me interested.Why one may not like this movie as much is if one is looking for something very serious, something with exceptional plot structure and a very concrete plot.If you like things to make sense and to be a bit more clear-cut in your movies, please don't bother with this for you'll only come here and complain and make it look bad. But if you're one who rather likes something a bit more bizarre with a touch of fantasy and humor, then give this light-hearted, but naggingly serious film a try. "}{"Title":"Friendship, loyalty and Waiting For Godot","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Hamlet, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are friends of Hamlet who spy on him for the king, Hamlet's murderer uncle, in exchange for money and prestige. Later in the play, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern take Hamlet to England. Hamlet reads a letter given to them by the King/Uncle/Murderer that indicates that Hamlet is to be killed. Hamlet changed the letter so that it says that Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are to be killed, and they are killed.Stoppard's movie brings up questions about justice, penance, judgement, friendship and loyalty--all stemming from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's betrayal of Hamlet and vice versa.The play/movie reminds me of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot. The characters, behavior and language are similar--as are the endings.  "},{"Title":"Good film, but not as good as the staged version","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw it at the theatre last year, and it was a really good production - very simple set.  Unfortunately that is what lets it down in the film. Its really a play written for the stage.  The sets are too elaborate and stagy in the film.  However at least you can rewind it and watch bits again, because the dialogue is really tight, and difficult to follow.Also Tim Roth, Gary Oldman and Richard Dreyfuss are all excellent.  Not so happy with the other actors, but they become the minor parts in any case. As I say, because the lines are supposed to be spoken on stage it comes across a bit false in places.  Its like they filmed it on stage, which is perhaps the effect that Stoppard wanted when he directed it, but we are so used to underacting from some of the best actors on film.The best bits are towards the end where the pity and their frailty and the inevitability of their fate were virtually lost on stage, but come across much better on film.  Some very understated acting from Tim Roth blew me away, despite the fact that it was nearly one o'clock in the moring.  Its definitely one to read and see if you are interested in literature.  "},{"Title":"A truly great and intelligent movie!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gary Oldman and Tim Roth, two great actors, are great in this funny, interesting and very intelligent movie.It's about Rosencrantz and Guildenstern who are traveling around in a bizarre world, full of mysteries and mind-bending unrealities, all while their philosophical discussions about different scientifical issues continues.It's a great script, great performances and a dazzling movie that any developed movie-mind has to like!It's hard to describe this masterpiece so I have one advice for you and that is to go see it!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant story, but not any more special as a film","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead is a brilliant existential twist on a classic story (Shakespeare's Hamlet) and classic storytelling. It's sharp, witty, well-acted and thought-provoking in any number of ways, being both memorably absurd and surprisingly truthful.It's hard to scrutinize, but the truth is that Stoppard's Tony-winning 1968 play doesn't offer an ounce of proof as to why it belongs on the screen. It's a contemplative story, one that's heavy and dependent on dialogue. It's the struggle of all stage-to-screen adaptations, but where others have succeeded in shedding new light through that transition, Stoppard's re- imagining of his own work lacks a visual edge, perhaps explain why he never took up the director's chair again.The story follows Hamlet characters Rosencrantz (Gary Oldman) and Guildenstern (Tim Roth), two remarkably unimportant characters from the play who are part of the tragedy's final body count for no reason other than being at the wrong place at the wrong time. Stoppard's story explores the play from their perspective Were they even aware of what was unfolding around them? What was the point of them being there -- their purpose? Why did they die? These questions also fuel the film.Stoppard paints them as goofball characters that despite great wit and sophistication, remain completely oblivious to everything around them until it's too late and their prescribed fate takes over. Roth and Oldman handle these extremely random conversations that bounce between the literal and figurative playfully yet with great strength. They're a heck of a duo. Rosencrantz also has a knack for discovering basic laws of physics but then losing them amidst his and Guildenstern's struggle to figure out what exactly it is they're doing in all of this Hamlet business. Stoppard uses these examples and a fitting opening bit about the probability of a coin flip to suggest the conflict between randomness and order in life and nature.Also significant is the group of traveling tragedians led by Richard Dreyfuss, who end up being the ones to put on the play that Hamlet uses to catch his Uncle Claudius realizing his sin. They add the element of theater and tragedy into the meditative stew, reminding us that this story (Hamlet) is indeed a work of fiction that was created to a purpose. He preaches in fate, that in tragedy everyone who dies dies because that is what's expected of them. It's a real head-churner, but as philosophically impressive as it is, none of that juicy thought is derived from the visual experience of the film. What characters say in this film is ten times more important than what they do, or namely how they do it. Stoppard throws in some smaller visual elements and undoubtedly he must've added something to the screenplay that wasn't on the stage. After all, he had nearly 20 years to think about his work between the play and the film, so naturally he would've wanted to make some changes. But nothing about the way he films this story enhances the existential dialogue between characters as well as between film and audience.Having never seen the play, Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead was an enjoyable, thought-provoking film experience, but I would imagine having already been exposed to its meta-exploratory ingenuity, those coming to the film with previous exposure might not feel anything more fulfilling than simply seeing it in a three-dimensional world.~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"We are left with a completely blocked vision of life","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This play is a myth in Shakespearean theater, maybe even a cult. When the play came out in 1967 it was acclaimed as a postmodern rewriting of our vision of the world. A tragedy like Hamlet's is here entirely captured through the eyes of the two secondary characters in the play, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Finally someone was looking at great dramatic historical events from the point of view of two insignificant witnesses, maybe even not witnesses, just people there unwilling and un-chosen, just there by accident or opportunism. They look and understand nothing. They feel something is hidden from them but they do not know what. They capture glimpses and tidbits here and there from behind a window or through a closed door and the plot is slowly reconstructed out of shape from a completely deconstructed partial vision. They even think they are taking advantage of the situation to their own profit and they end up hanged. That was received by many in America as a metaphor of the Vietnam war, a war decided and managed by the leaders of the world but fought and suffered by the simple draftees. It was an immediate success on American campuses. But today, and even maybe in 1990 when the film was made, the meaning is no longer that simple, that postmodern. It is not a metaphor of the war on Iraq. It is not in anyway an anti-war pamphlet as it once was. It is not even an anti-establishment pamphlet because the war on Iraq is fought by professionals and not draftees, because there is no alternative ideology or even utopia questioning the apparent full domination of global market economy and unclear not always very decisive elections between Tweedledee or Tweedledum or maybe Tweedledum and Tweedledee. And as a matter of fact it is Rosencrantz and Guildenstern that look like these politicians who are wavering from one side to the other, from one pit to the next, from one illumination to a vision, and never coming to any kind of control over things except by tossing a coin. We are getting into a new post-postmodern period where there still is no truth, where there are still only points of view, but we now know history is not done by individuals, groups or even masses. History is beyond our grasp and understanding. We just struggle to survive, no matter what. The tragedy is then no longer for the leaders of the world, the drama for the copycat actors and the melodrama for the masses. We are just pawns on a chessboard that no one controls. So the film has aged, and the play has aged. Neither speak to us as they used to howl to our thirst and hunger for freedom.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Witty comedy but nothing special for me","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a surprisingly cinematic accomplishment considering it's essentially an adaption of a play. The performances by Gary Oldman (as Rosencranz&#133;. Or is is Guildenstern? We're never quite sure) and Tim Roth (ibid) are excellent, and Richard Dreyfuss returns to form to some extent in a really hammy role as a theater impresario whose troupe is used by Hamlet to embarrass the King of Denmark. It's basically an attempt to turn Hamlet from a tragedy to a comedy, which isn't really as hard as it might sound because Shakespeare's particular brand of melodrama is compatible with both comedy and tragedy and he often mixed the two (for example Malvolia is a tragic character in Twlefth Night and the court jester is a comedic figure in King Lear, although in both cases there is a duality in function at work).By shifting the focus to R&G the playwright Stoppard engages us in a series of existential questions. We have two decidedly minor players who have a part in the larger tragedy of Hamlet's life and death. The characters in this version are seemingly born at the beginning of the play &#150; they must discover why they have been called to Denmark, and can't even remember how their day started much less the fact that they were childhood friends with Hamlet. They also are unaware of which of them is which &#150; just as most audiences probably would be, since these are minor characters. Stoppard's comedy hinges around the concept of analogizing minor characters to minor human beings, or in other words of a character's self-awareness with his sense of purpose. Each character has a purpose to fulfill in the play, which is analogous to his purpose in life or the meaning of life in existential terms.I wouldn't presume to analyze all the ins and outs of this dynamic because I've only just seen this film for the first time. I didn't laugh all that much at parts that seemed designed to be funny, so maybe this film just isn't my cup o' tea. It definitely wasn't as funny nor as philosophically interesting as most of the actual Shakespeare comedies I've seen, and the post-modern emphasis on self-consciousness doesn't really work in the story's favor or make the characters more appealing to me. Probably the one thing that will stick with me the most was the way Oldman's character kept discovering major physical principals but Roth's character would just miss seeing it. I felt at times that I was being hit over the head with the wit of this film WIT! WIT! WIT!. I like an intelligent comedy but this one just didn't appeal to me for whatever reason. "},{"Title":"A good movie, a great play","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is not uproariously funny, nor, do I believe, is it intended to be. It's not a truly absurdist play, nor a true tragedy. It's not supposed to be. It is, however, in both written and acted (movie and stage) form, existentialism at its finest. Its not an easy play or movie to understand. It may even take reading the play before watching the movie to grasp what it's truly about and what these characters are saying. I've read it twice and just recently seeing the stage play brought out things (forshadowings, subtext, etc) I hadn't noticed while reading it. R and G is one of Tom Stoppard's greatest plays, and the movie is a fun and great adaptation. If you can handle an occasionally funny thinker, this is your movie to watch, or better yet, play to read.  "},{"Title":"The Spoiler is the Title","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I produced the play version of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead in 1971 for the Poor Yorick Players in Laramie, WY. We did it as a bit of a lark following our production of Hamlet, which I directed with several of the same actors. Thereafter I stayed clear of it, as I'm not partial to absurdist or existential theatre. So I came to the film version recently with a bit of resistance. On screening the DVD my resistance was somewhat allayed when the opening credits showed Tom Stoppard adapted his play for the screen and directed. The jury was out because Stoppard adapted Anna Karenina for the screen in 2012 directed by Joe Wright, which I consider a masterwork alongside the films of Kurosawa, Fellini, Bergman, Iciar Bollarin. R & G starts out with the now iconic coin-flipping scene in which a coin is tossed and lands on heads some 150 times. Absurd, isn't it. However, my existential prejudices were laid to rest with the arrival of the Player King (Richard Dreyfus).On seeing R & G on a forest road less taken, the Player King calls to halt the horses drawing an overlarge caravan filled with a gypsy band of actors and all the claptrap associated with medieval theatre. With many a trick up his sleeve (and the sleeves of all the actors), his troop unfolds the wagon into a veritable moveable feast of theatrical history and machinery. And it is unfolded on this road at this particular time for the benefit of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, two minor characters in Shakespeare's Hamlet.So there we are in a forest &#x96; possibly in Denmark &#x96; the ragtag gypsies ready to perform anything these two amnesiacs desire. Actors need an audience, and these two will do for the time being. With tremendous inventiveness and sleight of hand, the troupe previews every possible permutation in the history of drama. In a terrific demonstration of stagecraft interfacing with film production, a coin is tossed, a bet is made and lost (the coin landing on tails for the first and only time), and we find ourselves in the Great Hall of Elsinore Castle, while Ophelia and Hamlet tentatively grope toward a relationship, which is immediately overshadowed and burdened by court intrigue. This transition is nothing short of pure theatre magic.I won't go into detail of the many magical moments in this film, except to say that casting is impeccable to such a degree I wanted to see a full production of Hamlet with just this cast. The production values are spot on. Gary Oldman (Rosencrantz) and Tim Roth (Guildenstern) are sturdy, well matched, Oldman giving &#x96; in my opinion &#x96; his best career performance. I did find some of the existential banter of R & G a let down both in script and execution &#x96; particularly the tennis match on a medieval tennis court. It is serviceable, but disappointing.The Crème de la Crème of this film comes with the exceptional variations of the Hamlet story performed by the Players with puppets, masks, and pantomime. These sequences are the most intelligent, compelling interpretations of Shakespeare's masterpiece on screen. And the most daring. I don't know as anyone then or now could have directed his Chinese puzzle-box script as well as Stoppard. Not that we shouldn't continue to try. He not only mastered theatre of the absurd inside the frame of a major English classic, he turned both on their heads. All who view this masterwork are blessed because he did. (Thanks to my beloved for coaxing me into watching it.) "},{"Title":"Tom Stoppard and words, words, words","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead (1990) was written and directed by Tom Stoppard. Everyone familiar with Shakespeare's Hamlet knows that it's a play with many subplots. One of the minor subplots concerns two young fellow students of Hamlet--Rosencrantz (Gary Oldman) and Guildenstern (Tim Roth).R & G are famously sent for by King Claudius and Queen Gertrude in order to learn what Hamlet is up to. Hamlet immediately understands this, and uses this knowledge for his own purposes. Later, R & G are dispatched to England with Hamlet, with notably bad results for them. The two are really peripheral to the main action of the play, and none of the major characters pays them much attention.Tom Stoppard, who is an absolute genius in his mastery of language, turns the play on its head and puts Rosencrantz and Guildenstern at the center of the plot, with Hamlet, the King and Queen, Ophelia, and all the rest at the periphery. R & G know that they're lightweights compared to the other characters, but they do their best to make sense of their lives and their roles in the action surrounding them. At the same time, they carry on a running verbal game, with arcane rules that only they understand.Both Oldman and Roth are superb. In the supporting cast--remember, this isn't Hamlet-- I would single out Richard Dreyfuss as the Player King for particular praise. (Interestingly, Dreyfuss was equally good when he played King Claudius in the BBC version of Hamlet.)We saw the play on the stage many years ago. As far as I can remember, the film follows the play closely. Both are worth seeing. We saw the movie on DVD. I think it would work better on the large screen, but it worked well enough to make it worth renting or buying. This is an outstanding movie--don't miss it. "},{"Title":"An Abstract and Brief Chronicle of the Time","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tom Stoppard is a brilliant master of the word in the film version of his play, Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead. Using the techniques of absurd and traditional theater, it is a play within a play within a play, the format of Hamlet transformed in the actions of the two minor characters, who are mere walk on parts, now central to all actions and seen through their eyes. Superbly acted by youthful Gary Oldman and Tim Roth, these two lead characters are idiot savants lost at Elsinor amid the formal trappings of the story of Hamlet. Often using riotous fast expositional summaries to keep the audience up with the movement of the story from a very long storyline (The Tragedy of Hamlet), Roth and Oldman manage to finish each other's sentence with the help of fast editing as if joined at the hip since birth. While comedic Oldman formulates major theories of modern physics (Newton's Law and others), Roth is the straightman who dashes his empirical evidence without a second glance. Richard Dryfuss as the player is at his most stage savvy in a role he was meant to play far from his frustrated Hamlet in the Goodbye Girl. Characters slip in and out of formal Shakespearian dialogue with an ease that makes the language all the more richer. This film is mime, comedy, tragedy, classical, and the postmodern format rolled into one joyous riot of Stoppard playwriting at its best, and acted by a superior cast of most excellent actors at their energetic peak. Delve. "}{"Title":"This is Hamlet from the POV of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, characters who only briefly appear--and are referred to--in Hamlet.","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This story begins when Rosencrantz and Guildenstern literally find themselves on the road to Hamlet's with no idea of how they got there. While in transit, they meet the Tragedians, the acting troupe Hamlet later uses to publicly embarrass his mother and stepfather. Their leader, The Player (Richard Dreyfuss), appears to be the only person who understands and knows what will happen, i.e., he's THE ONLY ONE WITH A SCRIPT of Hamlet. The activities of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern&#151;and, to a lesser extent, the Tragedians&#151;between their interactions with Hamlet are supplied. Finally, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern find themselves on a ship leaving Denmark with Hamlet, confused about how they got there.Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead is the first example I know of where a famous story is retold from the POV of other characters--it's like Wicked is to Wizard of Oz. A thorough knowledge of the plot, characters and intrigues of Hamlet is required to really get Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead. Otherwise, you simply can't follow the every exit is an entrance action.There are more words than balls being volleyed in the tennis scene, but there's some humor here that anyone can enjoy. Gary Oldman and Tim Roth are mad-funny individually and together, at times reminiscent of Laurel and Hardy or even Abbot and Costello.The play-within-a-play device (used in Hamlet) can be confusing, but the game of questions (played during tennis) and the play between theater and reality in Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead can be hard to wrap your head around. Both the play and film Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead (written and directed by the famous playwright Tom Stoppard) retell what is perhaps THE most famous play (Hamlet) by THE most famous playwright (Shakespeare). Gary Oldman and Tim Roth (Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in the movie) began their careers in the theater. They have probably performed the role of Hamlet (THE most famous dramatic role) on stage; Richard Dreyfuss (The Player) DID perform the role of Hamlet--in the play-within-the-movie in The Goodbye Girl. "},{"Title":"Intro kids to Shakespeare","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film served as my children's introduction to Shakespeare, though that was not my intent. The tape was on sale--a discard from the rental shop--the title vaguely familiar; as it turned out, from my time in England.My husband and I vetted it first. The boys heard the laughter and later asked to view the film.It became for a time their favourite film, watched and re-watched, loaned to friends, discussed and quoted. Hamlet, in several versions, was the next request, and so Shakespeare became alive for them. Had Waiting for Godot been available, it would have been a good time to introduce that as well.As you can tell from other comments, this film is not for everyone; but if witty dialogue entertains you and your family, search out a copy for your own sake well as for your children. Please help put this on DVD!!  "},{"Title":"Stoppard gives New meaning to Shakespeare's Hamlet","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a play within a play, featuring Ros and Guil, the peripheral characters of Shakespeare's Hamlet, who now take centre stage. Stoppard exposes more than just a possiblity of what goes on behind the scenes (which in itself expands on the appearance and reality themes of Hamlet)but explores the themes of life and death, appearance and reality, the human condition and how people like Ros and Guil, the everyday man understands and deals with his place in the existential world of a postmodern today. This play is a transformation of Shakespeare's play, and what makes it more interesting to us is the fact that Hamlet's deleamours have been reduced to him being depressed, and that now the questions of death, and the meaning of life include 'us' all. Ros and Guil, represent us, the everyday people, and their bumbling journey is both humorous and witty.Stoppard deliberately highlights the function of the stage play as a place to investigate the human condition, with hilarious dialogue such as when Ros asks what it would feel like being a 'spectator.' The film does a great job of merging hamlet and Ros and Guil are Dead scenes together and Gary Oldman and his costars are terrific. The tennis-match like exchange of dialogue between Ros and Guil is a particular highlight, as is the final scene on the boat, when they realise that they are indeed only cogs, wheels in a machine that we do not understand.Want to question the world, in an already uncertain time? The Truth beckons.  "},{"Title":"More accessible than the play","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film version of Tom Stoppard's best-known play is more accessible than the play text itself. I had always found the play to be self-indulgent collegiate rambling but the film manages to bring all the same play-on words and double-entendres Stoppard (and Shakespeare, in fact) is famous for, along with visual puns and excellent understated humour from the lead actors. While it may not make all viewers laugh out loud, I found it to be extremely clever, well-knit and jammed with references to Shakespeare's work and the lore that surrounds it as well as in-jokes about the absurdities of the profession of stage. Without a thorough knowledge of those references, some viewers may feel left out or confused why others find the film so funny, but seeing that it is based on a play infinitely more narrow in appeal, to some degree the viewer should keep in mind they're seeing what is really a filmed play. That Stoppard never makes you feel like you're watching a filmed play and in fact uses the media of cinema to the nth degree makes this a very enjoyable film, as long as you know what you're getting into. "},{"Title":"It just doesn't translate.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie recently, right after I'd read the play for the first time. At a certain point, I was desperate to turn off the VCR, but my English teacher (and the rest of the class) probably would have objected.It's not that the movie is bad, per se. It's just that the play is so much better. Stoppard managed to make R&G into characters that you couldn't help but love. You know the ending by the time you've opened up the book (I mean, it says it right there in the title). But you still kind of hold out hope through the whole thing that he's going to save them, that he's going to let them escape because we never really see them die in Hamlet. It's a brilliant play.The most heartbreaking thing about the movie was that Stoppard didn't seem to trust his own words. Sure, it was still funny - if you cut out all the silliness, you'd end up with a 15 minute play. But he took out a few things - winks at the audience, where he throws in a very 20th century bit of busywork - which made the play a lot of fun. He rearranged passages, so that their context changed. He put them in situations where they didn't belong - they were no longer in the dark about the whole situation. Sure, it leads to some funny moments and good bits of physical comedy. But it also seemed to be an attempt to give Hamlet a motive, and that changed the canon itself. And worst of all, he changed their deaths. It was so beautifully written in the play - understated, but moving. In the movie, he turns the deaths of R&G into one last gag, after a montage that I'm assuming is supposed to be moving. It wasn't. And the music choices were just odd.I really wanted to like the movie. I was thrilled to find out there was a movie version. And maybe I wouldn't have hated it so much had I not read the play. I really respect Tom Stoppard as a writer - he's one of my favorites at the moment. And maybe that's why this movie upset me so much - because it seems that somewhere along the line, he lost faith in his own words. The play was amazing. Read it. If it's being performed near you, go see it.But if you've read the play, skip the movie. It's just not worth it.(Mr. Stoppard, if you're reading this, I sincerely apologize. But it's true.) "},{"Title":"This is Where the Genius Began!","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard's beautifully twisted sense of humour, which led Shakespeare in Love to several Oscars, including Best Movie, is in top form in this play-turned-movie, which essentially put him on the map.Gary Oldman & Tim Roth are appropriately vapid & confused as their lives take on a surrealistic quality behind the scenes of Hamlet.  When the play's action resumes, all seems to be right with the world, yet when the primary characters exit to continue the rest of the play, all reason flies out the window.The rest of the minor characters are convincing enough, & whenever onscreen, Richard Dreyfuss keeps things moving along at breakneck pace (no pun intended).This movie is not quite as audience friendly as Shakespeare in Love, but anyone with a reasonable sense of intelligence & humour (as well as a working knowledge of Hamlet) should be able to follow along fairly easily. "},{"Title":"What a long crazy trip!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosencrantz and Guildenstern is, without a doubt, the most macabre film I have seen yet. Not only did it begin in a most unusual manner, with Rosencrantz flipping a coin 157 times, but it ended in the most clever of fashions, with the Player performing the most regal of roles.It is fascinating to watch Rosencrantz and Guildenstern parry and thrust with words rather than tennis rackets and balls. Their use of rhetoric and imagined confidence belies their intelligence in spite of their confused situation. It is ironic that they know no more about themselves than play actors who only know their characters from the context of the play. But Rosencrantz and Guildenstern have no context. They are always travelling, be it through the woods, the interior of the castle, on the ship. They do not know their own names-they rely on others to set their course. It is a tragic situation. On the other hand, the main player, superbly portrayed by Richard Dreyfuss, is like God. He places R @ G in their situation, adds his players, and watches how the scene unfolds. It is he who holds their destiny in his hands. The culmination of his power is most evident on the boat (spoiler!) when he assumes the role of the king and sentences them to death. Even a knife cannot end his life, for it is always an act for him. The use of silent theatre with only the lyre to give voice to the actions was marvelous. Masks veiled the actors' countenances, and their actions spoke for them. The layering of dramatic action was fascinating the puppet show mirrored the Murder of Gonzago which mirrored the events in Hamlet. The sudden transition to Claudius' horror-stricken expression was priceless. I especially loved the montage of the (spoiler!) fallen cup, Ophelia sinking beneath the waves, and Hamlet taking his revenge. All of the Shakespearian dialect, especially the moment when Hamlet attacked the tapestry, rang with passion and vivacity. I will always remember the moment when Hamlet said Denmark is a prison, and his friend replied, Then is the world one. Rosencrantz's arguments on death are fascinating, and as he lays on the stone table, contemplating death, one can almost feel the coffin over his/her face, the last breath stifled.....Rosencrantz and Guildenstern is a fascinating film, and I strongly recommend that you rent it.  "},{"Title":"Three great performances.... one clever screenplay","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based upon Tom Stoppard's novel, the comedy Rosencrantz and Guilderstern are dead delivers great performances from its three leads, a funny and witty screenplay, and a lot of fun. Gary Oldman is fantastic as Rosencrantz, and Tim Roth is equally as great as Guilderstern. Richard Dreyfuss plays The Player, the fellow they meet while stumbling around. The script is clever because Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are two minor characters from Hamlet so as they stumble around, they do not know about how they are scripted. The movie starts off in a clever scene in which Rosencrantz keeps flipping a coin and always gets heads. This is somehow clever. Yes, it's the old I always get heads coin trick. But they somehow cleverly do it. On top of all this, Richard Dreyfuss is great in all his over-the-topness. If you like smart and sharp dialogue, you'll love it. If you watch it expecting a stupid comedy, or a comedy where you don't have to think, however, don't expect to like it. However, if you can get into a sharp, smart, funny, and witty comedy, you should definitely seek it out. A true classic. "},{"Title":"Maybe the play is different...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seems to me that fans of the play are griping about the lack of something-or-other in the film. Fine.It is safe to assume that Tom Stoppard is a reasonably intelligent artist. A reasonably intelligent artist realizes that different mediums create different possibilities for the same work. I am positive that Tom Stoppard considered that before he started working on the screenplay for R&GAD.As sensible and intelligent viewers, we must search for the questions posed in Stoppard's film; questions that are possibly different from those in Stoppard's play.In addition to the immaculate visual stunts and verbal sorcery, Tom Stoppard has given us a few of those questions to ponder. The questions deal with fate, time, identity, knowledge, justice, and most importantly death. Consider these questions in the terms of Tom Stoppard's theatrical conceit of choice and you consider his greater questions What are fate, time, identity, knowledge, justice and mortality to characters in a play?After all, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are no more than characters in a play that has been thrust upon them. Are they destined to a certain end, or can they alter their fates? What is time to them as characters, and on whom does time hinge? Who are they, and how human are they allowed to be within their distinct characterizations? What do they know, and how and why do they know it? What happens when they die? And most importantly, are they served justly? What kind of justice can be done a fictional character?Tom Stoppard does a masterful job of posing these questions and leaning the viewer toward the answers. No film in recent memory has asked such interesting and important (?) questions, nor answered them so deftly and wittily. Watch Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead even if you haven't seen or read Hamlet. If you have a sharp ear and a quick eye, you may just catch it all anyway. This film will not be remembered as a movie of a play on a play, but as a work of art in its own right and a beautifully wrought comic delight. "},{"Title":"In a Word, Perfection","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All right, all right, so Tom Stoppard is one of the best playwrights not only of the 20th century, but probably in the history of the English language. But why hasn't he directed more films? This movie was pure (and as they say) unadulterated genius. Surreal yet profound, FUNNY as all get-out (little visual gags run the duration, just little things that Gary Oldman is doing that aren't in the play-- he discovers all sorts of scientific principles while also looking overwhelmingly sexy and confused)-- not to mention beautifully acted, gorgeously filmed, with exceptional art direction and costuming. What surprised me most, as a long-time fan of Stoppard's writing, is that the rest of the film lived up to, or surpassed, the original play script!!! One of my all-time favorite films, although it really won't make much sense unless you're very familiar with HAMLET. A very important movie that i hope people will pay more attention to in the future than they have in the past. "}{"Title":"Intelligent, surreal comedy proving a play within a play can be done with class","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie when it first came out in 1990 and thought it was fantastic. I had never seen anything so intelligent, slippery, surreal and downright enjoyable as this play within a play. I enjoyed the experience with every fiber of my being. The two leads were sheer perfection in their roles as Rosencrantz & Guildenstern (or is it Guildenstern & Rosencrantz?). The humor is dry. The pacing is slow. The sets are limited. The setting is in Shakespeare's mid-sixteenth century. Most of these details when combined do not a good feature film make. However, in this case, it is an amazing and mesmerizing triumph.Tim Roth & Gary Oldman are energetic, confused, quizzical and supportive as the two title characters. Their chemistry is special. However, it is the twisted, genius screenplay by the writer/director, Tom Stoppard, that is the true star of this movie. Based on two very minor but pivotal characters in William Shakespeare's Hamlet, Stoppard has pulled the curtain back to show what these two hapless characters are thinking when they realize all too late that their fates are not their own. Walking in circles without direction, talking in circles without ever having meaning, playing word tennis without rules yet realizing the rules are of their own choosing... It is inspired literature that translates into a beautiful story.With an exemplary supporting cast of Medieval players led by American actor Richard Dreyfuss and a ridiculously talented group of actors as the real Hamlet characters, this story plays with the English language as though the audience is intelligent and following the leads to their inevitable end. This is the type of writing that all aspiring writers should study. To take Shakespeare's Old English and weave it throughout the narrative while the lead characters come in and out of the actual Hamlet play while explaining their predicament all the while. There is no cheap voice-over narration. The action/direction falls on screen with all it's beauty, all it's faults and all it's genius.This movie should not be watched as a stand-alone story. If you have never read/seen Hamlet either in print or on stage, you will not understand all the ins-and-outs of the screenplay fabric. The story relies on the audience having already understood the direction of our anti-heroes. However, if you do understand Hamlet, you will enjoy a fantastic story unfolding on the screen before your eyes. This is a beautiful movie that will keep you engrossed from beginning to end. I can't recommend it highly enough. "},{"Title":"R&G are Dead","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This, along with Almost Famous, is the best movie I've ever seen. The writing, directing, acting, costumes, sets, cinematography; Perfection. It makes me laugh, it makes me sad, it makes me think. There is a gem to be found in every scene. Roth, Oldman, and Dreyfus are consummate in what they bring to the film. The idea of the back to front view of Hamlet is where it's real brilliance lives and knowing Hamlet gives you everything to understand the subtleties in the film. The prefect compliment of one to the other. Okay, there is one flaw to me. The top of the third act has a needless bit of slapstick which does pull you out of the moment. That being said it does also show you how good the rest truly is by comparison. That's also why it is only 9/10. "},{"Title":"Very Clever","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two minor characters (Tim Roth and Gary Oldman) from the play Hamlet stumble around unaware of their scripted lives and unable to deviate from them.Hamlet has been told time and time again, in countless films, television adaptations, theater performances. Not that this is a bad thing, but one thing the world hardly needs is another Hamlet adaptation. Luckily, this is not one of them, but rather a very clever send-up. Why not tell the same story from another character's point of view? And for laughs, let us choose the two most silly characters.Better yet, let us cast two of the greatest actors ever. With all due respect to Richard Dreyfus, who also appears here, Roth and Oldman are among the best out there and to see them team up is something of a dream. "},{"Title":"The book 'brought to life'","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead blends the laws of nature with the principles of existentialism; Through this 'comedic' duo of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, Tom Stoppard gives the audience a clear understanding of the existentialistic lifestyle no matter what choices they make, they are trapped under the predestined death that awaits them both on the stage and in the film.The similarities between the stage and the cinema can be compared with the similar devices that are used The camera, much like a stage, is an instrument that is used to see exactly what is placed before it. The objective now becomes not necessarily what to show the audience, but what not to show them. The audience is in full awareness that you have the power to show them anything you want at any given time, and in this case, what not to show them is Hamlet.The film is started with Pink Floyd's soundtrack 'Echos'.And no one showed us to the land And no one knows the where's or why's But something stirs and something tries And starts to climb towards the light -'Echos' by Pink FloydThis musical choice of Stoppard's soundtrack for the film could not be better. 'Echos' begins with faint sounds of radar, which exemplifies Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's search for themselves; however, they are yet do discover that through their inevitable fate, their constant search for identities will never matter. The lyrics (although instrumented for the film) furthermore develops Stoppard's relationship to The Theatre of the Absurd of not knowing how, why, or what they were doing there. This instrumental version of the track shows how Stoppard (knowing that the lyrics are absent) still took on the great integrity to the song's meaning. As far as the echoes go in the film (pun intended), Rosencrantz and Guildenstern shout several different words throughout the movie, and in turn, are faintly heard by the other characters. This phenomenon might just be Rosencrantz and Guildenstern near the edge of breaking through the script, but as much as they try, they are unable to they simply reverberate and fade back into their state of nothingness they cannot escape. Guildenstern seems to have an interesting approach to this dilemma, saying that simply choosing 'what you want' overrides the agony of this universal determinism. There's a logic at work&#x96;it's all done for you, don't worry. Enjoy it. Relax. To be taken in hand and led, like being a child again (Pg 40). This philosophy was distinguished by Davd Hume, commonly referred to as Compatibilism. Compatabilism says that if your not 'enjoying' life, then what's the purpose of living? Stoppard seems to take a stab at Hume's philosophy with this play, showing that regardless of their fulfillment or enjoyment. Throughout the plot, their inevitable death's give them misery and anguish to constantly worry about. The Theatre of the Absurd is not just about existential philosophy, it establishes and questions all the different philosophies as well. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead addresses types of comedy like low, high, farce and even the more philosophical Comedy of Ideas. Between scenes of the film, pages are seen flying across screen, both before and after the scene change. These pages are commonly believed to be script pages; however, when taking a closer look, one would notice that the text originates from the Roman Missal, quite contrary to the anti-religious consistency the play develops. Here, Stoppard is adding yet another element to the play's determinism. Now, it becomes not what is controlling their fate, but who. When adding this religious context, the characters may indeed be controlled by God, and in result may be predestined to death by God himself He leads us where we are destined to belong. Ros and Guil constantly question their existence throughout the time-frame of the play. With the many layers of philosophical inquiries and comedic ideas, one could agree that the final piece to this existential crisis lies in its many layers of reality. When the tragedians perform the play to King Claudius, Stoppard adds yet another level of existence to this play in the film. The first level, being the story of Hamlet, to the second plot of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern,then on to the Tragedians performance to Claudius, and the final, being the puppet show inside this performance of the Tragedians. This play-within a play-within a play-within a play-within a play exemplifies the many levels of existence and questions the reality of each which is the real reality? Stoppard uses this clever approach to existentialism to show the true agony and misery Rosencrantz and Guildenstern face throughout their redundant lives, repeating each time the play commences. Both the film and play portray the existential lifestyle Ros and Guil are destined to face. No matter what they do, what they try, or what they don't do for that matter, all result in the same outcome. Even if they decide to enjoy their multi-layered cheeseburger and sail away on boats, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern truly cannot be free, regardless if they are trapped behind the stage, or'boxed' in the screen. Throughout the story, Stoppard ingeniously brought these characters to life&#x96;only to let them discover that they ultimately must die. "},{"Title":"One play that should not have been a movie","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saw the play a bunch of times and got to play Rosen or Guil twice. The problem with putting its action into a realistic quasi-Elizabethan setting is you're doing the equivalent of setting Waiting for Godot at a Times Square bus stop. You simultaneously drown and dilute the characters and their words (which are after all the only things R&G have to depend on) in reality. And the ending is ruined by being literalized. The other serious problem is Richard Dreyfuss--sorry, he just ain't The Player. They needed John Rhys Davies, who has the power and presence and weight to do the role justice, especially in The Player's final doom-laden speech. On the other hand, Roth and Oldman are the quintessential R&G, ain't nobody could do 'em better. They crystallize the Laurel-and-Hardyness of the two, with Oldman as Stan and Roth as Ollie. This was both written and directed by Tom Stoppard so one has to take it as his final word, but Dreyfuss impresses me as a last-minute choice. Personally, I'd rather have seen a filmed stage presentation, where (if done right) the ending is truly heartbreaking. "},{"Title":"Pointless (but I probably am not this film's intended audience)","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is about background characters in a famous play that I have never seen nor read. Maybe this makes me a dunce. Oh well.In the movie, two men travel around and do a lot of pointless talking. Occasionally, other people barge in on the pointless talking and then quickly exit. My friend who likes this movie explained that these other people are the main characters of Hamlet.When the main characters of Hamlet aren't interrupting the pointless talking, one man plays with clever gadgets to try to keep himself from being bored. The second man rambles constantly and breaks the first man's gadgets. That's the whole movie, as far as I could tell. Three minutes of Punch and Judy would've been more entertaining. "},{"Title":"You Pays Your Money and Makes Your Choice","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some of us love Tom Stoppard's work; others don't. If you're among the latter, you ought to skip this film. If you admire Stoppard, you've got to see it. This is the first of Stoppard's brilliant plays to make a splash. It interleaves scenes and dialog from Shakespeare's Hamlet with an LSD flavored dialog and plot of Stoppard's invention about Hamlet's two friends who are summoned to Elsinore to spy on him and report back to the King and Queen. That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern can't remember which of them is which is merely the beginning of Stoppard's comic conceits. The wordplay between Stoppard's script and Shakespeare's immortal classic are one of the verbal wonders of the world, a kind of literary Taj Mahal. The players whom Hamlet employs to catch the conscience of the king also figure prominently in the script, speaking Stoppard's words at times and Shakespeare's at others. Stoppard, who also directed the film, introduces a lot of visual comedy that cannot be duplicated on stage. Gary Oldman and Tim Roth do a great job as the title characters and Richard Dreyfuss is at his (very different) best as the leader of the players. My wife, who's not a great admirer of Stoppard, thought the movie was terrible. You see what I mean. "},{"Title":"A classic existentialist exploration of death","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Since this is the only film that I have seen that falls into the genre that is known as 'the Theatre of the Absurd' it would be quite premature of me to call it a classic example of the genre, however an example of the genre is what this film is. Based around two minor character's in Shakespeare's Hamlet, the movie moves through the back rooms of Castle Elsinore while Hamlet is played out behind the scenes. The two main characters step into and out of the play as happens in the play, however the entire focus of this movie is on Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.To say that this film gives them a voice is a misnomer. We are reminded, constantly, that they are minor characters and nobodies. As is said at the end of the film, the play ends with the death of a king, a queen, princes, and a couple of nobodies. In fact, when Hamlet is acted out before them by the tradgedians we are told that all in all eight characters die. However they point out that only six corpses are noticed, until their characters are hung right at the end. In the play we do not know of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's fate until the messenger arrives and says 'Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead'.The film is about the meaninglessness of life and the inevitability of death. At the beginning the Tragedian, when talking to the heroes (if that is what one would call them) about what plays are available to watch, he says that the one compulsory theme is the blood 'they all end in blood. Blood is compulsory'. Further, when one of them picks up a coin and tosses it, and it always lands up heads, it is a key to the inevitability of the end. Further, the Tragedian (who provides a commentary throughout the movie, and who, unlike the other characters, cannot die) says that everybody is to die at an appointed time, and they cannot escape it. Even when Rosencrantz and Guildenstern finally discover their fate, it is too late to avoid it. Even though he say at the end 'maybe there was some time that we could have said no' suggests that they had a choice, but in reality, the did not.There is no purpose or plot to the play, which is what one expects from such a play (I should call it a film, but it was originally made as stage play and adapted to the theatre by Tom Stoppard). It simply follows the action of the play that it leeches from. There is direction, and the direction of the play is towards the death of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. However their entire existence within the play is meaningless, which is what we get from the Theatre of the Absurd, that is the meaninglessness of life.Another aspect of this play is the question and answer. They are always talking about questions and answers, though they do not seem to know what the question is to get the answer that they want. They even play a game on a tennis court called question and answer. The goal is to answer a question with a question, and when somebody asks the wrong question, or gives a statement as an answer, then the other player scores. The scores are the same as with tennis, however this is not a sport or a game that they are playing, but an exploration of life, in particular when the questions we ask are answered with questions, and to give a statement as an answer is incorrect.The final thing that I wish to touch upon (and indeed one could explore quite deeply into this play) is the play within a play. Shakespeare loves to use that technique in his plays, however Stoppard takes it to the nth degree here as in one section of the play, it literally goes off into infinity, and are then brought back to reality with the scream of a guilty king. The whole play within a play is seen with the Tragedian being a major character in the film, but the play that they rehearse and show the king is Hamlet. We know this because we see the ending of the play (the sword fight and the two dead nobodies) before we see the beginning, so that by seeing the ending, we know where it is heading. Further, it is when the scene where the players play the play in front of the king, and it is that point in the play, and in the play within a play, and so on to infinity, that the king reacts (as opposed to the beginning where the the king is killed and his murderer marries the queen, thus denying Hamlet his throne).While I could go on more about Hamlet's motives and such, I feel that this should be left for another time, because this play is not Hamlet, and it is definitely not Shakespeare. The themes in Shakespeare are vastly different to the Theatre of the Absurd, and in fact, the whole concept is anachronistic to Shakespearian literature. However, I will mention that this film does provide a commentary to the play, however it pushes the meaninglessness and absurdity of life to the for front and the question of motive to the background. "},{"Title":"still alive","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In what has to be one of the cleverest, most unusual movies of all time, two characters from Hamlet wander into the play and try to figure out what to do. These guys are clearly having a great time with the material, and the movie affirms Gary Oldman, Tim Roth and Richard Dreyfuss as some of the greatest actors of our time. Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead is definitely one that I recommend. I should admit that I've never seen any version of Hamlet the whole way through - except a really terrible German TV version that appeared on Mystery Science Theater 3000 - so I don't actually know the characters' roles in that play, but I still enjoyed this movie 100%. Really good.I would expect a heavy object to fall more quickly than a light object. "},{"Title":"The movie is not up to the play.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While I enjoyed the play very much, I felt the movie padded it in all the wrong places... it dragged a lot for me, starting with the opening scenes... it was enough in the play to just note the number of heads that came up, and discuss that. "}{"Title":"Great original story - but lousy Hamlet","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is half of a good story.  The original scenes are bright, snappy and have some great verbal and visual gags.  But the scenes taken from Shakespeare's Hamlet are contrived, forced and awkwardly delivered; almost like the way most people imagine Shakespeare.  You almost get the impression Tom Stoppard is trying to show he's a better writer than Shakespeare is.  With apologies to Ian Richardson, his Polonius in this film is one of the stiffest, non-comical presentations of the character I've seen.  And the actor playing Hamlet plays the character almost as if he's doing a textbook essay.But the newer dialogue is fresh and exciting.  I particularly loved the flower pot scene.  I think it is one of the best staged comic pieces in cinema.  Tim Roth and Gary Oldman really make their characters chat; and deliver some of the more complex ideas and phaseology without breaking a sweat.  So a great comic story that's held back by an awkward delivery of a famous tragedy. "},{"Title":"absolutely one of the most brilliant comedies ever","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is completely brilliant in every way - the performances are stupendous, the writing is fantastic and the whole look and feel of the film is perfection.if you like words, if you like shakespeare especially, you will love this film.  but don't let me put you off.  this film does take a bit more work than most but it is well worth the effort.gary oldman and tim roth have never and likely will never (although they are both brilliant so they may well outdue themselves here) be better.  tom stoppard has written some of the most wonderfully amusing dialogue and ironic action - it kept me enraptured the whole time.i have seen this film a dozen times and every time it gets better and better. "},{"Title":"Joined up film making from a master of the written word.","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" William Shakespeare.Dead middle class middle- aged white male.That's four strikes against him as far as New Labour's fascist Educationalists are concerned.The compulsory teaching of his works in schools is now regarded as elitistHe is said to be irrelevant to 21st century life. Until such time as he can be re - invented as a mixed - race dyslexic bisexual lovechild of a long - term unemployed Muslim Community Activist his reputation will continue to be downsized until only private schools and Top Ten Universities will continue to feature him on their curricula and the small - minded class bigots who run our Education System(for want of a better word)will have truly made him elitist.. In such times there will be no call for playwrights to focus on the minutiae of his output,breathe full life into obscure characters and examine the state of the human condition via a side window into his writing.That in itself would be reason enough to treasure Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead,but Mr Stoppard's mastery of the English language,his grasp of the surreal and his ability to express the very core of what it is to be a human being and to put it over to an audience without either baffling them or patronising them marks the play as one of the major dramatic works of the 20th century. By directing the movie version himself he has made it impossible to evade total responsibility for the result,and I am glad to report that it is an absolute triumph. There is a scene in Shakespeare in love,written by Mr Stoppard 20 years later that sums up the message of both works.The cast of the first production of Romeo and Juliet are at an inn celebrating their good fortune after successful auditions.Someone asks the man chosen to play the nurse what the play is all about.Well,it's about this nurse...... Everybody is the centre of their own universe,it may be a truism but it's one that dominates the life of every human being.How we fit in,find our place and discover who we are,those are the issues raised by Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead and the answers Mr Stoppard comes up with aren't very comfortable ones. Although it is extremely clever and very funny it is by no stretch of the imagination a feelgood movie.Too often the humour is the humour of despair,R and G don't know who they are and they don't know who anyone else is either. Joined - up film making from a master of the written word,I recommend it wholeheartedly. "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm most disappointed that this movie did not get the recognition and praise it deserved.  This is one of my all-time favorite movies.  When I first saw it I was just a kid and didn't understand very much of it, but I was still impressed by it.  Years later when I saw it again, I understood so much more.  My newfound love of HAMLET made this a hilarious movie.  Yes, the play is different.  Stoppard had to take sets into consideration when he wrote the play.  The movie allowed him to expand his play into a castle whose layout never really makes sense, adding to the general confusion felt by the characters.  It's a brilliant piece of art.  The cast couldn't have been more superb.  Gary Oldman once again astounds me with his chameleon abilities, and Tim Roth interprets his role as Guildenstern in the best of ways.  Richard Dreyfuss does marvels with his part - he is intriguing, mysterious, and somehow omniscient, a very different role than is written into the play.  Iain Glenn was the perfect choice for Hamlet.  I've never seen him played better.  He's tortured, angry, bent on revenge with the heaviest tone of tragedy underlying his motives.  He feigns insanity so well that by the end, he's truly a little insane.  I love it!  I've always imagined Hamlet that way, and I was delighted to find that Glenn shared my interpretation.  The King and Queen, the players, Ophelia - all were played extremely well.  The wordplay is brilliant and lines are delivered in such a way that you really can't pick up everything the first time you see it. It makes each time you see it new and exciting (and I've certainly seen it more times that I dare count!).True, this movie isn't for everyone.  It's an intellectual comedy that only a sophisticated audience will understand and an even smaller, even more sophisticated audience will appreciate.  I admire Stoppard so much.  The plays of his that I have read are incredible.  I am glad he took a chance and made this movie, and I don't think it could have been any better.  A definite 10!...For all the points of the compass, there is only one direction, and time is its only measure... "},{"Title":"Great film for those that know the source material...","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At my last movie night I watched the comedy Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead. I have seen and loved other films by director/writer Tom Stoppard, such as Shakespeare in Love and, one of my favorite films ever, Brazil. I have always appreciated these films for the incredibly detailed writing and plot structure that sets them up, so I was pleased to find a film that he created entirely himself. This film was one of the most deftly constructed comedies I have ever seen. I struggled to keep up with the jokes as they jumped from Hamlet references to literature battles of wit to references to scientific properties. The writing was the best part of the film, as it felt like an extended series of in-jokes for the viewer, who would only understand the movie if they had read the play, Hamlet. For example, one of the main jokes in the film is that the characters are constantly getting their names mixed up. You would only understand why that is if you had read Hamlet, as in the play these characters are interchangeable, appearing only in a pair. There was nothing particularly clever about the camera angles or movements, yet the cinematography succeeded by including subtle references, such as the pages that can be found in each scene, containing text from the bible, or the Shakespeare portraits that are located all around the castle. Unfortunately, towards the end the film began to feel tired as the main plots and jokes were constantly repeated while the newer jokes all just seemed to be silly slapstick humor. Overall, I thought it was an interesting picture and a more important supplement to Shakespeare's Hamlet. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"A brilliant adaptation of an already wonderful play. Shakespeare would be proud.","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was one of the most clever and well written films I have ever seen. The acting between the 3 major characters was absolutely wonderful and the way Tim Roth and Gary Oldman played off each other was so entertaining it's a shame they haven't done more movies together.I will admit the acting other than Roth, Oldman and Dryfus was mediocre at best, but the acting in between the 3 was good enough to support the whole movie.This was a truly wonderful film and I suggest it to everybody who's a fan of wit. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's an absolute wonderful movie. At first I saw it and only after that read a play of Stoppard. The play is absolute super. In my opinion only the author could make it into a movie. And fortunately it's so in this case. The concept of the play and the movie attract me very well. In most movies there are many second plan characters, which have only a little activities. But in real world they would have they own life. Certainly it can be or will be not so absurd, how it shows Stoppard, but why not. This movie can be a model of human life. People are living in frames of they own lives and don't see any events from lives of most other people. But sometimes it can be not only interesting, funny, but important... "},{"Title":"i watch it every chance i get","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" though i've never seen or read Hamlet prior to seeing this movie i thoroughly enjoy it over and over and over again. the humor is deep, the plays on life and circumstance supreme, the imagery sublime, the ingenuity inspiring, and the direction exquisite. Tim and Gary play off each other magically with each discovery or refusal to do so. their interactions constantly amuse me. Richard weaves intrigue, suspicion, and enchantment like no other. the rest of the cast are also true to form and make every moment cherished. true after seeing Hamlet i understood this movie more deeply, still each viewing is as enchanting as the first. i will admit the first time i saw this movie i was worried if it would hold my attention ... but after the first 10 min you couldn't tear me away ... now i enjoy the first 10 min as much as the rest of the movie. i do have friends that think this movie isn't worth their time ... personally i think they are dense and miss the point of the movie. "},{"Title":"Existentialist Fun","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a shame that so many pan this movie because they were bored. Other than the actor who plays Hamlet (mediocre - at best), I thought the rest of the cast was excellent, the story was intriguing, and the interaction between Oldman, Roth, and Dreyfuss was the stuff of good comedy. I shared this little gem with one of my old philosophy professors who subsequently made it a part of his curriculum. Some self-important film critics recommend films that I wouldn't subject my goldfish to, so I say judge for yourself. If you're a fan of Shakespeare, the absurd, or any of the cast, give this movie a chance. It's one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film many times and it always cracks me up. Gary and Tim's performances are brilliant, as is Richard Dreyfuss, who I'm not generally a fan of. The mingling of Shakespeare's Hamlet and these two clueless wonders is perfect. And it's always good when the writer directs his own work. This film (and not to forget the play itself) is clever and witty. It's dry humor in abundance. I will never tire of it. And to those who just don't get it, that's totally cool. It's not for everyone. I STILL catch new things each time I see it. It can be confusing at times, but not irresponsibly so. If anything, the characters these actors create are entertaining, and their banter is unique and unforgettable. My only regret is that this film isn't more appreciated. - Jason  "}{"Title":"comment","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just hilarious. i mean, it's never been sad so much crap in such a short period of time with such impression on their faces. Oldman and Roth doing their best in that masterpiece... it is funny as hell, intellectual, esthetic, original and teasing) Stoppard laughs on everything, opens our eyes, gives us a truly smart entertainment. And how much things to grab?  for.ex. -  -Are you there? -Where? -Nice start... "},{"Title":"You'll never call tails on a coin-flip again.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen the play, so I can't compare it to the movie.  However, I was fortunate enough to catch this movie on PBS years ago, and it has remained one of my most favorite ever since.  I've seen some negative reviews here, so perhaps a certain mindset is required to fully enjoy this film.  The dialogue is exceptional, and the expression of the dialogue by the actors is very well done.  Both Oldman and Roth do a great job in their respective roles.  I found Dreyfuss to be a little over the top, but perhaps that can be viewed as part of his Player role. One of the aspects of this movie that really makes it interesting to me is the ongoing play-within-a-play that constantly appears both before and behind the main plot.  Scenes from the original _Hamlet_ occur throughout the movie, usually in some audible or visual tangential piece of the main scene.  I thought it was very cleverly done, and I enjoyed how the comic plot of the movie tied into the tragedy of _Hamlet_. I give this movie a 10, as I never tire of reviewing it, even after at least 100 viewings. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly adapted stage play","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard's farcical play of the same name is brought brilliantly to the film medium with this rendition. Both Oldman and Roth are brilliant, and the supporting cast perform exceptionally well aswell. As many stageplays-come-movies are often awfully transfered, the brilliance of this is exaggerated. Well worth a look, if for study of the play, interest in Hamlet or for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"true masterpiece","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well to make it clear... This is a true masterpiece, and has it's place on my private top ten. The story is sort of slightly postmodern and ironic play with the Shakespeare's original, very provocative intellectualy, rich and entertaining. Oldman and Roth are both at their best, and that alone is a good reason not to miss this one. 10/10 - and fully deserved. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The play is amazing, the film is wonderful, and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (Guildenstern and Rosencrantz?) make wonderful anti-heroes.  Gary Oldman, Tim Roth, and Richard Dreyfuss have great comic timing, and it's a joy to watch them.  The minor characters (Hamlet, Gertrude, Ophelia) are somewhat annoying, because they seem fake at times.  However, this is not necessarily a defect- gives it an interesting psychological edge (as R & G are easier to identify with, since they are more natural).  The troupe of players does a lot with very little dialogue-wise, adding flashes of visual humor.  I only wish they would print this movie again, so I could buy it! "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was very unique and enjoyable. I loved the dialogue between the two protagonists! How can anyone not like this film??? Tim Roth and Gary Oldman are top performers willing to experiment with new and original film ideas. Tom Stoppard is a brilliant writer and the witticism through out this feature is wildly comedic and thought provoking. A MUST "},{"Title":"Smart and funny","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard brings his black comedy to the screen masterfully. Gary Oldman and Tim Roth are great as the perpetually confused and bewildered pair. Anyone who had some familiarity with Shakespeare's Hamlet will enjoy this version of Hamlet turned on its head.  This movie is one of my favorites because of its ironic humor and sight gags. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie about 10 years ago on a recommendation from a movie reviewer on the radio. Thank you whoever you were!! This movie instantly vaulted into my Top 10 of greatest movies I have ever seen. The subtle and intelligent humor, apparently missed by some of the comments I've seen, is brilliant. Gary Oldman is fantastic, playing a bumbling idiot who, without realizing what he is doing, creates a paper airplane, watches steam move a flywheel and stumbles upon other scientific discoveries centuries away from being invented!It helps to have some general knowledge of Hamlet before seeing this movie as the two main characters are walking right through key scenes of the actual play. I'm sure I'm not doing it justice but this movie is a work of art, beautifully written and the performances by Oldman and Tim Roth must be witnessed.Three Thumbs Up!!! "},{"Title":"Shakespeare as it was meant to be played","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has absolutely the best Shakespeare acting that I have ever seen anywhere. With the possible exception of Ophelia, the actors bring the inserted Shakespeare texts to a brilliant new life. I am a staunch admirer of Shakespeare, but watching this film has brought me to new levels of awe about his genius. There is not the slightest tinge of that usual over-dramatized, over-acted, spoken-too-fast high-school-play kind of delivery that you usually get with Shakespeare. Even Richard III, a brilliant film in its own right, was not nearly as convincing and natural as the Shakespeare in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Perhaps it is because the film is not meant to be perceived as a Shakespeare play, but as the real-life experiences of G & R, and therefore a Shakespearean kind of dramatization has been deliberately foregone. I also think this is why some people perceived the acting in the Shakespeare scenes as flat, when they are in fact performed identically and blend seamlessly into the non-Shakespeare scenes (quite a tremendous accomplishment in its own right). "},{"Title":"Brilliant writing and acting.  Bravo!!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a title I would love to see released in DVD.  I've got it in VHS, but...! Let's have something that teachers can reliably use in classrooms to show brilliant adaptations of Shakespeare!  What a brilliant job by Tim Roth, Richard Dreyfuss, and Gary Oldman.  Anyone who saw this when it came out would have foreseen their brilliant careers.  But more than that, I (an old English prof) enjoyed the marvelously ingenious take on Hamlet. Please, someone who has control of this property, release it on DVD. "}{"Title":"Very possably the best movie I've ever seen.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an EXCELLENT movie.  It's funny and intelligent, though it's a little hard to follow the story at times.  Normally with movies like this, everyone either loves it or hates it, but with how rare this movie is (VERY limited release) for the most part, everyone either loves it or hasn't heard of it.  If you ever get your hands on a copy, do youself a favor and watch it at least once, as I've only actually *seen* a copy once, when I watched it in a film and media class. "},{"Title":"A powerful go at solipsism.","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brings up a question only kids usually notice What do minor characters do after their 10 lines part is over? In Clint Eastwood movies the answer is clear they get killed by the bad guy about half way into the movie. Shakespeare would have found this agreeable. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, however, grow conscious of the predetermination  of it. But how can they shake loose when the Bard has been dead for hundreds of years and they can't even tell who is who? Stoppard does this sort of stuff a lot. His play Arkadia is pretty excellent too.  "},{"Title":"A very  funny movie","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the play Hamlet, I didn't like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  I found them very funny in the movie.  I actually felt sorry for them in the end. They were so clueless.  They had their lives, the play, acted out before them so many times, and they still didn't get it.  I would recommend reading the play, or at least know the story line before watching the movie.  If you don't, the movie will not make much sense.  The movie was a comic relief after studying the play for many weeks in class.   "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  really a fun movie to watch  very well crafted, full of hilarious plays on words (even if they're not all easy to catch), the actors seem to be enjoying themselves and so do we ! Less confused than the characters themselves, although quite puzzled at times, we're lead into a somewhat different view of the shakespearean tragedy, with a few pythonesque anachronysms and nonsensical scenes (heads I tell you). I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to have a good time, particularly if you've been studying all those shakespeare classics a little too hard  "},{"Title":"One of my fifty favorites.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While not as good as the play, ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDENSTERN ARE DEAD still ranks as one of the fifty best films I have seen. The ensemble is remarkable, especially the chemistry between Oldman and Roth making one wish they would work together again. The film, like all great stage adaptations, takes a fresh look at the piece and therefore separates itself from the play in part. The true travesty (no pun intended) is that this film is not (as of this writing) available on DVD. It is an excellent exercise in filming the theatre of the absurd and making it work. Two things that this film does that the play does not is (1) add the scenes from HAMLET that Ros. and Guil. are in, and (2) has Ros. inventing and discovering things throughout, such as the sandwich, the steam engine, and law of acceleration. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Two characters in a play who don't know who they are or why they're there!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen in my life.  Tim Roth and Gary Oldman are hilarious in their search for their own identities, as well as what ails their friend Hamlet.  Richard Dreyfuss is also excellent as the head of the players.  The dialogue is witty (especially the scene in which R & G play Questions), but you have to pay close attention to catch all of it.  Not to mention how Oldman's the dim bulb character discovers amazing scientific principles all on his own, only to have them fail when he finally gets Roth's character to pay attention.  It's also interesting how the behind the scenes identity crisis of R & G works seamlessly into the lines of Shakespeare's classic tragedy.  A must see, even if you couldn't follow Hamlet! "},{"Title":"funny and witty","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie right after our class read through Hamlet.  It was a clever and hilarious film.  The viewers are never sure which one is Rosencrantz and which one is Guildenstern, which adds to the comic relieve that was intended by Shakesphere.  Roth and Oldman are talented actors and they were excellent in this film.  The writers are very creative and, at the same time, humble to Shakesphere.My rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"totally and utterly brilliant in every way","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  england is a conspiracy of cartographers.this is one of the best written and best acted films around.  it is highly amusing although it takes a little more work or attention then other comedies.  tim roth and gary oldman are at their very best (and that is certainly saying something as both are stupendous actors).its a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Superb Theatre of the Absurd on the Big Screen","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One will obviously be lost if not familiar with the title characters and their misfortune in Hamlet, but the onscreen flare that Tim Roth, Gary Oldman, and Richard Dreyfuss bring to this film will still make you buckle over with teary laughter.  The only reason I rated it a 9 was b/c it left out some hilarious moments with The Player (Dreyfuss) from the play. Nevertheless, one of the best adaptations ever. "},{"Title":"Now I have to go watch Hamlet...!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I know some people who didn't like this movie...But I LOVED it!!!!  I've recently become quite partial to Shakespeare, and know a little about Hamlet (I've yet to see it, however.), so I really enjoyed Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.  Personally, I'd recommend this movie in a minute.  ) "}{"Title":"Truly literate and engaging; Oldman and Roth both superb!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the truly literate and engaging films; both Oldman and Roth superb! While it's my understanding that Stoppard hated this movie (he wrote it for film after a smash success with his play in both London and NY), it's criminal that release in this country has been stymied. For those of us who love Shakespeare and are not afraid to poke some fun, Stoppard's work is pure nectar -- what would it take to see this movie in DVD? "},{"Title":"Excellence!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie although looking at the ratings very misunderstood by younger people. The whole plot of these two rogues from Hamlet is handled beautifully and the end very surprising. Woven in between the story are the miraculous discoveries of Guildenstern - or is it Rosencrantz?? These little episodes are great fun. In the end the pace is quite extraordinary and it takes more than 1 viewing to catch a lot of the nuances. This is a wonderful movie and only 1 of two movies I've ever given a 10 to. Brilliant acting from both Oldman and Roth. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Question, love all.  I don't want to play.  Statement, 15 love.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Roth is wonderful as always, but Oldman was marvellous as the less brainy of the pair.  It was hilarious to watch him discover the most simple things, like how the water level goes down in the bath as you get out.  The verbal sparring was brilliantly written and performed flawlessly.  If you are a Roth or Oldman fan, this is a must.  If you like smart, slightly odd movies, you'll love this.  But be careful, you just might get sucked in, too. "},{"Title":"literary genius mixed with supreme acting!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i think almost all of the important things about how wonderful this film is have been said so i'll be brief. i watched this film the first time when i was 15 and unfamiliar with hamlet, my main motivation was a love of tim roth...after seeing this film i not only had more respect for tim roth but i also believe that tom stoppard is a genius! this film(and play) changed the way i view and judge literature.let me just say this has raised my standards. its true it is not for everyone, but that doesnt mean everyone shouldnt view it love it or hate it you'll get something from it....i did!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Brilliant Brilliant","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm 18 years old, I saw this movie for the first time last year in my English class after we studied Hamlet. I completely fell in love with it. Tom Stoppard is truly a genius of the written word; the verbal swordplay and impeccable repartee are unbelievable. The tennis match of questions. Wow. This movie had me and my English teacher laughing hysterically, while most of the rest of the class found it stupid and boring. Ah well, their loss. This movie isn't for everyone I suppose. But still definitely one of my favorites. Sheer brilliance. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, deep, intelligent, and sharp!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as I know this was adapted from a theatre play in Czechoslovakia. It shows in a very positive way, as the storytelling doesn't lose the battle against the effects! It is Shakespeare's Hamlet as seen from the viewpoint of Rosenkrantz & Gildenstern (read Hamlet - then you'll know who they are *smile*) - they  don't know 'why have been called' nor really who's who ... but they have come! Through a tour de force of the most hilarious, deep, intelligent, and sharp dialogue, Tom Stoppard, via the brilliant actors Oldman, Roth and Dreyfuss (and the rest of the cast as well, really!), brings the viewer into what to me is one of the most brain-expanding film-experiences, that I have ever been honoured to witness! One of my top-5 films ever!! "},{"Title":"See Roth and Oldman acting like brothers.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosencrantz (Oldman) and Guildenstern (Roth) have only small parts in Shakespere's HAMLET, and in this tragicomic masterpiece director Tom Stoppard calls our full attention to them. Roth and Oldman act together in such a skillful way, you think them to be brothers - perfectly coordinated. When they play this special kind of tennis, when they discuss a letter (You've got it), or when Rosencrantz thinks about how it would be to lie dead or alive in a coffin you'd like to scream out and jump up and down because of all the pleasure this movie gives to you.A clear 10! "},{"Title":"Fantastic film, genius script, acting superb....","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is possibly one of the most underrated films of this decade.  Tom Stoppard tried his hand at film direction for the first time with this gem - and did a totally cool job of it.  Check out Richard Dreyfus doing an impeccable Brit accent...Gary Oldman and Tim Roth are ideally cast in this film, they play amazingly well together, and both cope with the often tricky and intricate script brilliantly.  My one and only moan about this film is that I can't find it *anywhere* to buy. Sob.  Basically, for those who haven't seen it and get a chance to - don't be put off by the fact that the costumes are Elizabethan and the characters have been plucked out of Hamlet...it's worth watching for the skill of the acting and the genius direction.  Funny and moving at the same time.  If there is only one film you see ever, See this one. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, Truly Mercilessly funny!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is my absolute favourite. I have seen it at least a few dozen times, and it never dulls for me. The other comments I have read here cover its intelligence, wit, brilliant acting, and depth very well. I guess I can only add that Fans of Shakespeare, philosophy, science, intelligence, language, theater, and Tom Stoppard who have not seen it really, really must!! It is amply worthy of a 10! One warning if you are not a fan of the above, spare yourself some boredom. It is not for everyone. "},{"Title":"A brief study of acting and physics","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently watched this movie for the first time. My wife and I had no idea what to expect, and I am now convinced that this attitude of not knowing fits perfectly with the viewing of this film. The acting in this film is wonderful. The wildly understated main characters, Roth and Oldman, are a perfect intelligent Laurel and Hardy-ish pair. The Player, played by Dreyfus, is wickedly funny, especially to anyone who has ever dabbeled in the performing arts. The fast-paced dialog requires attention, and a re-watching of Hamlet either before or after viewing will surely happen. For those familiar with the wordsmith Shakespeare the story retells Hamlet over and over, but you have to pay attention to see the things that are happening in the background. The scenery is almost mystical or surreal. Most of the action takes place in a single room. The one thing that struck me as the most hillarious was the discovery of many modern inventions by Oldman's character, as he trips and stumbles through the play. I definately would suggest this movie to my friends and family as a playful, yet truthful, romp through Hamlet. "}{"Title":"More Brilliantism from Gary Oldman...","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is truly a delight for people who are in love with the English language.  Tom Stoppard gives us a brilliantly funny tragedy - not easy to do.Gary Oldman gives us a brilliantly sweet and gentle person tolove - easy to do, for HIM.Tim Roth is wonderful.Fabulous movie. Good fun... watch for Oldman's tears near the end. They'll kill you. "},{"Title":"A true comic masterpiece of wordplay and sight gags!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tim Roth and Gary Oldman excel at playing those poor hapless bumblers Rosencranz and Guildenstern. The way they play off of each other while not knowing which end is up, not to mention not even knowing who is who, is a sheer delight. This movie requires repeated viewings to catch all that is going on, both in the dialog and behind it, and is an all time favorite in my household. For fans of either of these actors, or of the sharp wit of Tom Stoppard, this film is a must see. "},{"Title":"Great Philosophical trip.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who would have thought we were so important? - Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, one to the other.This movie has a great way of demonstrating how everyone views the universe with themselves at the center. Everyone who's read Hamlet knows the play is centered around Hamlet himself, his pains and his dilemmas. The movie replays Hamlet from the perspective of two characters who can only judge events from their own perspective and thus place themselves in the center of the story. To the readers of Hamlet the deaths of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern simply indicate that Hamlet escaped the death sentence placed on him by his uncle. To Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, all events of the play have conspired to result in their deaths.It is a movie I not only recommend watching, but recommend watching many times.  "},{"Title":"Highbrow Entertainment","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film tells the story of Hamlet through the eyes of his friends Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  More interesting, however, is that the film goes beyond a mere interpretation of Shakespeare's play, providing commentary of not only the actions of the film's main characters, but also a broad statement about inaction in the face of tyranny.  Though it has been a while since I last read Hamlet, the picture was highly enjoyable.  The existential verbal acrobatics of the characters in this adaptation of Tom Stoppard's play provide a steady stream of chuckles and some of the physical comedy illicits outright laughter.  I really liked the random strangeness of the movie, although it gets a little slow in middle.  If you haven't read Hamlet, then this film gives you a really good reason to finally do it.  "},{"Title":"a clever film","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is remarkably unique, funny, and (dare I say it) philosophical! Two of Shakespeare's minor characters are expanded into lead roles as they contemplate the meaning or meaninglessness of life in a nihilistic fashion. Watch for Oldman and Roth's coffin conservation.  I think it proves my point.  The questions match and the coin flipping incident are absolutely hilarious.  Dreyfuss, whom I usually dislike, gives one of the best performances of his career, and he delivers quite a few memorable lines. If you've seen Hamlet, I highly recommend this movie.  It's a whole new twist on Shakespeare.  Be prepared to read into it a little, though. I give Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Somehow, I started watching this movie without any foreknowledge of who Rosencrantz and Guildenstern were, what the general premise of the movie was or that it was somehow connected to Hamlet.  I can't get over what a twist it was to find out that the story I was watching was a meaningless inconsequential part of another ongoing story.  Some people complain about the directing being off, but I really enjoyed the flat and surreal acting and dialog of the main characters.  It gave the main characters a quality of unimportance that was really appropriate especially contrasted with the Player's dramatic pomposity and self-importance.  This movie is not for everyone though, I have tried to share it with friends, and nobody else seems to like it.  "},{"Title":"Check out the 'verbal' tennis match.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth watching for the 'verbal' tennis match alone.  Why? Because this scene has been extremely well written it's pacy and highly amusing. "},{"Title":"A bonus for all fans of Hamlet","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I had never seen or read Hamlet.  It was still enjoyable, but I missed much of what was going on.  After I saw Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet (a MUST-see movie, by the way) everything made sense.  While the casting isn't as good as Branagh's Hamlet, 90% of the movie centers around Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, played by Roth and Oldman, who both do excellent jobs.  The sets are also fairly nice for a movie that didn't have Branagh's multi-million dollar budget.  Anyone who isn't familiar with Hamlet should still enjoy this movie, but anyone who is will enjoy the movie much more.  Also, be prepared for Shakespearian-style dialogue and a little bit of thinking.  All-in-all a cool movie.  9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Playing with Time, Space and Shakespeare","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard shows with his opera prima that he can film what he writes... His famous play has reached the film level, showing that cinematography techniques could help to tell a story that complex, at all levels...Time, Space and all the Shakespearean pieces playing to demonstrate how fun is to play with our lives... "},{"Title":"The message is just part of the medium","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The message is just part of the medium and I'm very glad Stoppard realized that when he morphed his play into a movie. Wit and literary playfulness are enough to make a stage play entertianing, but a movie carries greater visual expectations and Stoppard obliged.Horse rides through bleak countryside, flashbacks to shards of half-written memories, and a startlingly witty and ironic depiction of bare-bones stage props make this movie a real movie, and not just a big-screen play production.There's a lot of impressive wit in Rosencrantz that depends ENTIRELY upon an intimacy with Shakespeare's Hamlet (scenes which augment Shakespeare's by presenting the back-stage drama which R&G occupy make for at least half of the biggest guffaws), so this movie is not going to wow everyone despite it's playfulness. "}{"Title":"This is one of the best films/books I've ever read!","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosencrantz,etc is great! It's hilarious. The actors are great and work so well together, the plot (if you could call it that- it's in the school of the theater of the absurd) is profound and wild at the same time. It's just wonderful overall! Note to really appreciate it you have to read or see Hamlet (it's definitely worth it) "},{"Title":"Flawless exercise in high-brow lunacy.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is simply a wonderful, rewarding film. Although it helps greatly to be familiar with Hamlet (Shakespeare's play, not Mel Gibson's movie), even someone who is not readily acquainted with the story of the Danish prince can appreciate this movie on its own merits. It is rare that a movie attempts to make us laugh by making us think rather than heading for the bathroom humor, but this gem shines through the sh** heaped upon us by the Ace Ventura mindset. Wonderful performances by Tim Roth (underrated actor) and Gary Oldman (WAY underrated actor), and a razor-sharp script by Tom Stoppard contribute to a masterpiece that was, predictably, ignored by the Academy. Not for the Van Damme crowd (we have to have somewhere to hide from them...), but perfect for the snobs who think movies are an insult to literature.  "},{"Title":"They were created that they would be sent for... and they never had a choice.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That we get it and they don't is the point. But watching them try to get it make for a very very fun ride. The linguistic acrobatics and near intellectual misses throughout the film tickled and humored me greatly. Roth & gentle Oldman.... Oldman and gentle Roth do a fantastic job of making two nothing characters fun and likable and (almost) something.  "},{"Title":"I hate summaries.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, yeah.  Don't bother seeing this if you need lots of help getting through a script.  And really you should have a pretty thorough knowledge of Hamlet to appreciate all that it offers.  If you care enough to learn why they say what they say and are interested enough to listen and think about it, this movie is one of the finest things ever put on film.Tom Stoppard is a mad genius to tie in so many deeply thoughtful and hilarious ideas to a pair of literature's most underwhelming red-shirts.  My god but this is a phenomenon of a film.  It is not for everyone, and by that I don't mean it's obtrusively French or maudlin or vague.  It's none of those things.  What it is, you see, is frighteningly lucid and brilliant. Something for the intelligentsia to chew over and marvel at. If you are one of the ones who gets it...  Then we're glad to have you in the club. "},{"Title":"I didn't quite get it either, but I thought it was very funny.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, its been a while since I've seen this movie.  We studied it a bit in senior AP English in high school last year, but I wasnt there that day so I borrowed the movie.  Although I didn't quite understand the depth of all of the material, I could see that there was a theme of reality and perceptions and all that stuff, which was being shown in a different light, to sort of make the viewer step back and re-examine the universe.  This was done through the perpetual questioning of everything, especially by Gary Oldman's character.  He had a lot of great scenes in this movie, by the way.  And Tom Stoppard also wrote Brazil, which is another amazing movie, so go see why dont you.  Anyway, the parts that really stuck out that had to do with the theme that I could actually recognize, as a stupid little high schooler, were the bits about the laws of physics.  Rosencrantz in the bathtub, and the displacement of water; the jars of spices on ropes that he pulled back to make the opposite jar swing backwards and forwards; the apple falling off the tree ala-Newton; the paper airplane; the coin tossing experiment showing the law of probability, the teapot and the first steam engine; and as far as the tennis word game, that was a question game, its really fun, you should try it.  Im not sure what the symbolism is behind it though.  Thats all I can think of for now.  Oh yes, and Gary Oldman is a god. "},{"Title":"Not your standard comedy. Surreal, surreal, surreal.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who knows Tom Stoppard knows what to expect. The movie is simultaneously dark and funny, and tends to keep you just a hair off-balance throughout. "},{"Title":"Re Rosencrantz & Guildenstern","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have been reading the message board re this movie (which I loved) but I believe that a basic knowledge of Hamlet is totally necessary to enjoying the film. A friend of mine was trying to enjoy it but seemed confused until I showed him the chapter from Richard Armour's Twisted Tales from Shakespeare after which he enjoyed R&G immensely. Richard Armour would be pleased with this plug for him, I hope. And I must add that his book is a MUST for any Shakespeare fan! If you did not like this movie, read Hamlet or Mr. Armour's book and try it again. Mr. Roth and Mr. Oldman are incredibly funny and the fact that the movie was directed by the playwright is a definite plus! "},{"Title":"i used to think this movie was brilliant ....","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... then I got the DVD. The last time I saw the movie was 13 years ago. I forgot how incredibly boring and inane a good chunk of the movie is, there are a few very clever bits of word play (there you have it, stark raving sane) and the questions game is well done, but the majority of the movie is excruciatingly tedious. There are bits that draw out very poor jokes about Altman's character discovering various scientific principles that are never funny. Dreyfuss is a hoot and I love most of his lines (We're actors, we're the opposite of people!) but this movie is mostly just dead air and tedium. Maybe that's the point too? That life is made up of mostly non events with the occasional flourish of brilliance, and then you die. Anyway, the only thing I really liked was the Floyd song at the beginning and the fact that the ping sound when Dreyfuss touches his imaginary sword is the first note of Echoes.Anyway, overall a pretentious flick that is far too enamored with its own cleverness. "},{"Title":"Boring, unwatchable nonsense for the art-house pseudo-intellectual","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While the movie is produced well, and stars two of my favorite actors, Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead was an utterly boring display of nonsense. Maybe I am just a stupid-American, but the whole Shakespeare thing does not, and has not translated into modern film entertainment for me, ever. This film, is just a pseudo-intellectual's wet dream. Be cautious of those who said they liked this movie, because most likely they are just a pretentious, coffee house, art geek who wants to think they are better and smarter than everyone else. All that being said, the enormous talents that are Gary Oldman and Tim Roth could not even make this film remotely watchable. Oh, by the way, Richard Dreyfuss is HORRIBLY annoying....and he just keeps coming back....over and over again. "},{"Title":"entertaining comedy/drama, that is a delight to the poet's eye!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i was very surprised when i rented this film!! Gary olman richard dreyfuss and tim roth are wonderful in this role!! this film shows two men,  rosencranzt and guildenstern, who  travel throughout together, expressing themselves, through their poets, and takes, that they take off from classic shakespeare stories.   they go through place to place together,  talking, from poems they make up.  dreyfuss, is their main guy they talk to.  the film's title, gives away, of what happens to the characters, but is very enjoyable. i hope that one of these  days, buena vista releases this on DVD! film may seem dull at first, but when you watch it the second time, it is very fun! and, you have the idea of what the characters express "}{"Title":"Not Quite as Good as Professional Live Performance","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the movie is not quite as good as a professional live stage production, it still does a pretty good job of presenting the story. It is the type of story that you'll want to watch over and over again because it is so packed full of little secondary jokes. FYI, its not a bad idea to watch hamlet first if you want to know who these dudes are. "},{"Title":"One of my top picks","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Until recently this movie has been one of the hardest to find whether for rent or purchase.  It is worth the effort.I would love to go on and on about the clever Shakespearian-type humor, but I do not wish to spoil the fun.  The best way to sum this movie up is that it is a lighter side of what went on behind the tragedy of Hamlet.  If you love Hamlet or the Bard's comedies, you'll love this movie, too.Just know that the answer isn't 42... it's heads. "},{"Title":"Arguably the finest movie ever made","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Complex, intricate dialog and visual interplay, we are always delighted by something new every time we watch it. The delivery of visual and aural delights is rapid and uncoached. You have to focus and listen closely to keep up, and there is no way to appreciate this movie during one sitting. It must be seen a number of times to fully appreciate, there is too much being delivered every second to catch all the delights in a single sitting. This is the only movie we never tire of. The only problem is keeping the dogs and kids quiet enough to concentrate on the rapid-fire delivery. A quick mind and intense focus are required to keep up with (and derive full enjoyment from) this movie.  "},{"Title":"a real disappointment","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like the actors, the writing is clever, but it just doesn't work! This might be an excellent play, but it's a terrible movie, and I can't explain why. I just kept on wishing it would end. "},{"Title":"Energy is all I ask! Vigour is all I seek! Give us this day our daily repeat..","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One year, I went to see a play production of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead, by Pork Chop Productions. It was a fantastic play. The actors flung themselves around the stage like their lives depended upon it (which, for Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, perhaps it did.) and they put every effort they could into making their characters manic, obsessed fanatics who had no idea what was quite happening. Hamlet became truly deranged and a figure who scared you probably as much as he scared Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. The King and Queen became nearly completely incomprehensible within their thick accents and impossible Shakesperian Dialogues. ENERGY was their catch call.How I wish the guys who made this film had learned the same lessons!In one respect, it is absolute folly to critique this movie. The genius who wrote the script, Tom Stoppard, wrote this movie adaption and directed it too. But good writer does not equal good director, even if it's your own work you're directing.The film lacks energy. I wonder, a lot, if perhaps Tom Stoppard over-rehearsed his actors. On stage, rehearsal is very, very important. The audience gives the actors life and spontaneity. But in film, it is equally important not to over rehearse. Mistakes are to be avoided and too many can be costly, but generally a mistake can be reshot. Also, there is no audience to give energy to the actors, and over rehearsal can kill a lot of that energy.Whatever the cause, the actors (With the exception of the player, and all the best scenes have him in them.) come across as listless and nearly dead. In a movie called Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead you wouldn't think that'd be so much of a problem. But you'd be wrong. "},{"Title":"Love's Labour's Written Out","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tom Stoppard is a great playright. Tim Roth, Gary Oldman, and Richard Dreyfuss are good actors. As a play, Ros and Guil is excellent. Yet how did all these elements combine to make such a disappointing film? This play was written originally to make a point, and in its adaptation for film, although some alterations were necessary to make the story appealing to a wider audience, this play is, and never will be, a play for the common people as mass entertainment. To try and make it such, cutting out all references to 'fate' and control (of Ros and Guil's lack thereof), is impossible, and by evincerating the play to remove these highbrow references destroyed the original point of the play so what was left? A few funny visual gags (not in the original play) but none of the intelligently clever lines - the travesty of the Our Father Give us this day our daily mask', the rapier-like banter between the two leads, - and no sense of comradierie that made the play work so well. A disappointment to fans of the play, and utter confusion to those who don't know it. "},{"Title":"one incredible movie","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  They say the play is much better than the movie and, if so, how did anyone live to tell? This is one incredible movie and you don't have to know a thing about Shakespeare or Hamlet to enjoy the wordplay between Gary Oldman and Tim Roth, the two title characters. Which one was Rosencrantz anyway?  "},{"Title":"Pretentious and Tedious","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this movie very pretentious and tedious. Like others have said on this forum this movie seems to be saying to itself over and over again, My goodness, look how _clever_ I am! While the dialogue is, indeed, clever it's hard for me to imagine even the two most foppish Shakespearian characters conceivable acting the way R & G did in this film. I do like my movies a little more cerebral than, say, Dodgeball but this movie goes way too far in the other direction for me. Apparently comments need at least ten lines so I'll conclude by restating that this movie is pretentious and tedious and could have been a half-hour skit and got in all the jokes instead of a 2-hour root canal. "},{"Title":"it left me somewhere on the way","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I expected quite something because I love literature and especially  witty dialogues, I love film and I had heard about the tennis match before and thought it was very funny. But in fact I was rather disappointed when I finally watched this film. Perhaps I missed a lot because the sound qualitiy wasn't very high (and hence some of the dialogues were difficult to follow), but apart from that I also felt it was very pretentious and confusing. It just left me somewhere in the first half, and afterwards I was rather bored. The nicest parts were when Oldman did his little scientific experiments and, indeed, the tennis match. But apart from that... yaaaaawn! I'd like to read or see the play, though. Because even though I wasn't very impressed I have the feeling that it might still be a brillant idea and just not a very good film. "},{"Title":"lost in translation","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was a brilliant idea to give two minor characters from Shakespeare's 'Hamlet' a life independent of the play, but Tom Stoppard's debut as a film director presents a near-textbook example of how not to adapt a work of theatre for the screen. Whatever virtues the film may have are entirely those of Stoppard's original stage comedy, up to and including the topsy-turvy wordplay, at times reminiscent of the old Abbott and Costello 'who's on first' routine. A passing familiarity with Shakespeare may be required to fully appreciate the joke, but in the end it's a moot point camera tricks aside, Stoppard does nothing to translate his material to the visual grammar of film, so what might have sounded clever on stage comes across as stilted and pretentious on screen. Worse yet, his Hamlet isn't staged as a play, which seems to defeat the premise, and the film is further crippled by some unfortunate miscasting Richard Dreyfuss is all wrong for the supposedly ominous Master of Players, and Iain Glen's Prince of Denmark compares unfavorably (believe it or not) to Mel Gibson's recent attempt at the same role. "}{"Title":"Have to take Hamlet to understand this film.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  # 3 of the films I have to watch for English litature.  Confusing for my wife who never studied Hamlet, and the movie jogged my memory.  One would miss some of the jokes if one never read Hamlet.  The probability joke was funny at the beginning, and other parts leading to the middle were excellent.  The movie bogs down in the middle, and reaches it's predestine conclusion.  ***** out of ********** if you never read Hamlet and ****** out of ********** if you read Hamlet.  I personal find I can get more out of 2 hour movie than 2 weeks with a book.   "},{"Title":"perfectly boring","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably most pretentious and pompous film I ever saw - pseudo-comedy stuffed with pseudo-intellectual jokes. I rented it from a local library assuming it must be good since it got such high rating and even won Best Picture at the 1991 Venice Film Festival. Perhaps somebody is amused by watching for five minutes a coin being thrown that always falls heads up, and one of the actors (to a complete amusement) would repeatedly say Heads!, or somebody else finds so stunning and hilarious when tennis match is theatrically converted into rhetorical duel. Yet for me personally this film serves a prefect example of unmitigated bore - synthetic play with artificial wit. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with Roger Ebert who gave this film zero stars. I was endlessly bored, impatient, and restless as I sat through this trash. The characters are non-entities, as Ebert accurately puts it, are truly dead - there is no spirit in this film, no engaging dialogue, nothing of interest. It was supposed to be a comedy. I think I chuckled once throughout the entire film. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead gets my vote for one of the worst movies ever made. Absolute garbage. (1 out of 10) "},{"Title":"plagiarism is not acceptable","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To anyone only remotely aware of the works of Shakespeare the names of the two characters would be familiar. My first objection to this work is that it is a mild form of plagiarism by association. if the playwright wanted to; as he should have; given credit to the Bard, then the bards name should appear in the title. The play was the work of a person who has run out of ideas and blatantly and without shame, uses two characters, albeit minor ones, from Hamlet, a very well documented play. It annoyed me to the point of ennui. it is a pity, because Stoddards own work is excellent. IT irritates me beyond belief that anyone thinks they can just do as they wish with other peoples works "}]