[{"Title":"Defiance and Pathos","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"46 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  In the beginning of this film, one of the commentators says that he was told that he has two strikes against him  he is black and male.  But in addition to that, he has a third strike  he's gay. You're going to have to be stronger than you ever imagined, he is told.  Paris is Burning is a documentary about gay black and Hispanic men who are tranvestites or transsexuals.The miracle of Paris is Burning is that director Jennie Livingston takes a subject that could have very easily become a freak show and allows the people in it their humanity.  We learn their views of homosexuality, men, women, their hopes, their disappointments, their dreams.  Some of these dreams are so unattainable it's tragic.  Many of the people are seriously in denial;This is not a film for everyone.  There are shots in this movie of nude transsexuals.  If you have a problem with homosexuality, then this movie isn't for you.  But if you do see this movie you'll realise Paris is Burning isn't really about men wearing women's clothes, it's about a group of people who are routinely marginalised and put down by society at large, and what they do to get a sense of community in their lives.I've watched this movie four times since it was released in 1991, because it says so many things  it's a commentary about materialism in our culture, about gender roles, about rich and poor people, about the media and what it celebrates, about fame and adulation.  Paris is Burning is one of the most humane, and one of the saddest, movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Some answers as to where they are now.....","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" While many unfortunately passed on, the ballroom scene is still very much alive and carrying on their legacy. Some are still very much alive and quite well, Octavia is more radiant and beautiful than ever, Willi Ninja is very accomplished and gives a great deal of support to the gay community as a whole, Pepper Labeija just passed on last year of natural cause, may she rest in peace. After Anji's passing Carmen became the mother of the house of Xtravaganza (she was in the beach scene) and she is looking more and more lovely as well. Some balls have categories dedicated to those who have passed, may they all rest in peace. There is currently another project underway known as How Do I Look?, you can check out the website at www.howdoilooknyc.org. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie.","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" First of all I am a butch, straight white male. But even with that handicap I love this movie. It's about real people. A real time and place. And of course New York City in the 80's. I had many gay friends growing up in New York in the eighties and the one thing about them i always admired was their courage to live their lives the way they wanted to live them. No matter what the consequences. That's courageous. You have to admire that. This is a great film, watch it and take in what it was like to be a flamboyant African American or Hispanic Gay man in the New York of the eighties. It's real life. Bottom line it's real life. "},{"Title":"Absolutely riveting","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Documentary starts in 1986 in NYC where black and hispanic drag queens hold balls. That's where they dress up however they like, strut their stuff in front of an audience and are voted on. We get to know many of the members and see how they all hold together and support each other. As one man says to another--You have three strikes against you--you're black, gay and a drag queen. These are people who (sadly) are not accepted in society--only at the balls. There they can be whoever and whatever they want and be accepted. Then the film cuts to three years later (1989) and you see how things have changed (tragically for some). Sounds depressing but it's not. Most of the people interviewed are actually very funny and get a lot of humor out of their situations. They're well aware of their position in society and accept it with humor--just as they should. We find out they all live in houses run by various mothers and all help each other out. The sense of community in this film is fascinating.When this film came out in 1990 it was controversial--and a big hit. It won Best Documentary Awards at numerous festivals--but was never even nominated for an Academy Award. Their reason was Black and hispanic drag queens are not Academy material. Fascinating isn't it? Homophobia and racism all together. Seen today it's still a great film--and a period piece. It just isn't like that anymore--the NY they show no longer exists. The balls are still held but not in the spirit we see here. Also drag has become more accepted in society (for better or worse). And I've heard the houses are gone too. That's kind of sad. I WOULD like to know where these characters are now--I know two died of AIDS but I have no idea about the others. And what DID happen to that 13 year old and 15 year old shown? Still, it a one of a kind documentary--fascinating, funny and riveting. A must see all the way! A definite 10. Where's the DVD??? "},{"Title":"Of historical importance, but ...","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film came out 12 years years ago, and was a revelation even for people who knew something of the drag scene in New York.  The textbooks on drag performance say nothing of these vogueing houses.   Anthony Slide's 'Great Pretenders' says nothing.   Julian Fleisher's The Drag Queens of New York An Illustrated Field Guide with its flow chart of influence that pulls together Julian Eltinge, Minette, the Warhol queens, and the 90s club scene - and postdates the film - ignores the houses completely.  Even Laurence Senelick's The Changing Room - the closest thing that we have to a definitive book on drag performance rushes quickly past the film and does not give the background information that one would have expected from it.I understand from the film itself,and various articles I found on the web that this house system goes back decades.  The major film performance by a house member prior to 1990 seems to be Chrystal La Beija in The Queen, 1968.   The historical context is the biggest missing part of Paris is Burning.The film is valuable because it focuses on a scene otherwise being ignored. It is a valuable snapshot of life in 1989.  The unfortunate fact that Venus Xtravaganza was murdered during filming provides a very dramatic ending, but this is not the only film about transsexuals to include a real-life murder. As we now know, Dorian Corey had a mummified corpse in her literal closet, but this did not come out until three years later.Of historical importance, but we still need someone to do either a book or a documentary film that provides more context. "},{"Title":"It's Ball Time in NYC","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  An excellent documentry. I personally remember this growing up in NYC in the early 80's. This movie is for anyone that wasn't around during that time period.This shows the one thing the African American Gay Underclass felt was solely theirs and the love and camadrie you see is real. The people are real and sadly few are still alive as this is being written. The balls are still held but not to the extent that they were in the the nineteen eighties. That time is gone forever. This is a good pre homo thug movie. When Queens were really proud to be extroverts. Goodbye to Storyville this is another era gone but greatly documented all hail film! "},{"Title":"What happened to them?","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I just saw this movie again for the first time since it came out. It's so much sadder now. You feel you're watching these people as they once were, over 10 years ago, when they still had hopes and dreams that by now have probably dwindled to nothing. I read somewhere that most of those profiled died within 4 years, principally from AIDS. I'd love to know what happened to them all. I think Willie Ninja, the most resourceful, clever & self-respecting of the group, is still somewhat successful as a dancer/entrepreneur. "},{"Title":"Really well made.  Interesting. Sad, too.","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I will confess that I had no idea what I was walking into when I saw it. At the time, I was between jobs and seeing every movie I could. It was either that-or look for a job!Remember seeing the title and thinking it was about WW2, Hitler, etc. Of course, once the movie started, I was surprised.It was a very cool movie. I don't think it matters if you're straight, gay, or somewhere in between. It opened my eyes to a whole new sub-culture I never knew existed. What I saw was a group of men very passionate about something in their lives. Fascinating to watch them transform their appearance.Sad to see how their families didn't accept them or when there was a death of one of the principals. I remember they showed one of the actors truly depressed b/c his family (maybe his father) tossed all of the clothes he had collected. Outside of the monetary value, he really had pride in all that he had amassed over the years.I left thinking I wouldn't want to try it, but I thought it would be very fun to attend one of these balls. "},{"Title":"update..","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  to give folks an update on the individuals interviewed in Paris Is Burning, Angie Xtravaganza, Dorian Corey & just last year(or early this year?), Pepper LaBeija all passed-away, unfortunately. ...they will all be missed.(Willi Ninja's still on the performing scene. ...as is Sade Pendavis(from my understanding). ..i'm not sure what has become of the rest of the cast, though.to this day, i watch this film as if it's the first time seeing it....i, personally, would like Ms. Livingston to make a follow-up film, catching back-up with the surviving individuals....as i'm sure a good many of you would like to see as well.;)  "},{"Title":"Would love to see this on DVD!!!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Growing up in NYC in the late 80's/early 90's club-scene, I can personally say this is one of the most important documentaries made in covering that place in this time period. No Madonna did not come up with the idea of Voguing but this is where she got it from! Instead of taking out violence on each other or in bitchy cat fights, voguing allowed people to fight within the confines of everything short of touching each other (which would warrant an automatic disqualification). Seeing these kind of extraordinarily talented/well orchestrated throw-downs in the clubs was nothing short of spectacular and all the big names from back in the day are here...Pepper La Beija, Paris Duprée,Xtragavaganza, etc...all commemorated in the likes of such period-pieces as Malcom McLaren's song Deep in Vogue...it didn't matter who you were, or where you were from because when you walked through those doors into this magic kingdom of sorts, you became part of something bigger than yourself/you were important/and most importantly the creation of your own moves and imagination...and anybody from anywhere could become King (or Queen) as the case may have been. The words and wit were just as sharp as the moves on the floor. All of the tension, excitement, and magic of that very urban NYC energy is captured in this film. BRILLIANT!!! PLEASE RELEASE ON DVD for the world to see!!! Thank You!  "}{"Title":"I wish I was there","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" When Paris is Burning came out, I totally dismissed it. I was not into the whole Madonna and vogueing phenomenon. I thought it was going to be campy and silly. How wrong I was about this movie. I watched it after the movie had been out for ten years and I ran out and bought it. It took me back to a time and place of fun and excitement. I felt as though I knew all of the characters personally. The 80s were spectacular and the movie captured the essence of the gay culture. What a terrific job! I went on the internet and found out what some of the original casts members were doing now but I have not been able to locate all of them. If any one has any information on any of the casts members please let me know. I hope they make another documentary. I LOVED IT "},{"Title":"more than an introduction to vogue","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is my favorite documentary... the subtle undertone of this movie that not everyone gets is the socio-economic commentary. Most people see this movie as an introduction to the world of drag queens or introduction to voguing and balls. But if you dig deeper it is even sadder believe it or not. It's sad to think that most of these wonderful larger than life folks are dead, but it holds a very deep social commentary for anyone who is not a straight white well to do male. (by the way, despite my user name I'm a biological female ! ha ha... but I'm Hispanic so I am marginalized by sex as well as ethnicity...) Anyway the comments on being female... Pepper Labeija explaining why he would never get a sex change women have it worse than anyone or Octavia St. Laurent... all men are dogs... sooner or later they all start barking are comments u'd hear straight women say all the time. And what it means to be a black or Hispanic in the trickle down world of Reaganomics and beyond... before you even factor in homosexuality... please watch it again and really listen for the racial and economic commentary. Those from Pepper Labeija and Dorian Corey are particularly poignant... (I emulated Deitrich and Monroe... it wasn't acceptable to emulate Lena Horne... even as a black- Dorian Corey) I'm sorry to be preachy but I love this movie and it has a lot more to say than the fad it glorified. I am a straight Latina who grew up in the NYC club scene but for me the best thing about this movie besides the great dancers and characters is what it says about being a marginalized group in the dog eat dog 1980's, and what they did to hold on to a semblance of family and fame. Most of the house mothers died within a few years of the movie... Pepper Labeija (my very favorite) died recently... but before he died he sadly had his feet amputated because of diabetes... yet he, I should call Pepper SHE... appeared in a Ball, in full Egyptian regalia, carried by strapping shirtless men to the delight of all those in attendance. May we all enjoy love and acceptance, no matter what it is that makes us different. "},{"Title":"Ballroom Fun","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Being a fan of the RuPaul Drag Race show and all the references to Paris Is Burning, a movie I've heard of since high school but never saw until now. Every phrase I thought came from RPDR were actually from this movie 2 decades ago. From shady and fierce to the drag queen art of reading, this movie seems like the inspiration for RuPaul's show.The film is about the ballroom circuit for the mostly black/latino gay community. The participants walk the ballroom floor in different categories, in a show referred to as balls. Trophies are given to those who have the most realness. Some competitions include the now famous Voguing - a dance which was popularized by iconic singer Madonna.Paris Is Burning seems a bit dated now that being gay has gradually been accepted as a natural occurrence, but at the time of filming AIDS and homosexuals were synonymous and gays stigmatized. The titles before each sequence BALLS, REALNESS, HOUSES, etc., were probably the inspiration for Ken Burns' documentaries. Paris flows seamlessly depicting the story of how for one night someone can live a fantasy and the struggle to deal back to reality. Filmed in New York City at the end of the 1980's, it's a great insight to an urban community that most of the straight world never new existed. "},{"Title":"Paris is Burning   the epitome of behavior modification","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Although Paris is Burning was released almost 15 years ago, the underlying theme (behavior modification) is as relevant today as it was then. It's not at all surprising that the participants are all from minority groups. It's no wonder Black and Hispanic men participate in this form of behavior modification. It is most likely their only chance, in this society, to enjoy some form of privilege; that of a heterosexual Black or Hispanic female. For Blacks in America behavior modification is a way of life, the men in Paris is Burning show us to what extent they are willing to go to be accepted in a country that is both racist and homophobic....GEF "},{"Title":"A Subculture Within a Subculture","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" In a film in which the subjects are referred to as having 3 strikes against them from a socioeconomic, racial, and sexual preference perspective, we as viewers are taken deep into the tight knit community that is New York Ballroom culture. This group of individuals is completely marginalized and essentially shunned by the white patriarchal structure of our society. One of the key aspects and benefits of being a part of a culture of this nature for these individuals is the sense of community that exists as a result. For a group of men who had no one to turn to in their day to day lives, their involvement in the ballroom scene was crucial to their survival as human beings. They were given a place to express themselves and feel comfortable in their own skin (or the skin of others). The way in which the concept of drag is explained in the film is not simply a definition consisting of describing gay men who dress in women's clothes. In Paris is Burning, drag is a way to take on a new identity; to disconnect oneself from reality. Chosen costumes and ensembles range from Marilyn Monroe to Marine drill sergeants and anything and everything else imaginable. The transparency with which Jennie Livingston made this film with in terms of her ability to be that ever so crucial fly on the wall, truly gave the subjects their own voice that flowed naturally throughout the film. The hand-held shooting style employed by Livingston made for a genuinely warm and poignant piece. Similar to Shirley Clarke's film Portrait of Jason, the camera and the subjects have very intimate relationships. In both films, ample time is spent focusing on hand motions and body language. By following the model of 90's queer documentary, Livingston contributed to paving the way for other free form documentaries to exist within the culture. Paris is Burning is an ethnological piece that effectively explores a subculture within itself. Ethnographically speaking, Livingston dissects and debunks this marginalized group of individuals strike by strike throughout the course of the film. We as viewers are able to understand and absorb the fact that these men are people and this is their passion. For people who are unfamiliar with this culture, listening to these men tell their stories and express the importance of the new york ballroom scene in their daily lives, it is quite easy to understand. Paris is Burning paved the way for documentaries focused on marginalized groups of people. In terms of the internet, the majority of the documentaries i come across that are web based (but function in a similar way as Paris is Burning does in terms of purpose and aesthetic) are centered around marginalized groups. Ethnographies are an excellent way to gain an understanding of something or someone that you would not have access to otherwise. Being able to post personal reviews centered around internet based material, leads to the overall further discussion and progression of society and personal relationships with difficult subjects such as race, socioeconomic status, and sexual orientation. "},{"Title":"Drags have all the fun...","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I came into this knowing very little and came out having watched a fascinating documentary. Made back in 1990, the film follows the majority African American and Latino LGBT communities of New York and the 'ball culture' they attended. I knew nothing of this culture so I found it thoroughly interesting to see inside it. The ball culture consisted of balls hosted by a Queen and King and where contestants 'walk' or compete in different categories. These might be glamour, or decadence or office worker or almost anything. Many of those competing did so for 'Houses' and winning a trophy for your house was something that could make you 'legendary'.Mixing interviews with participants, House leaders and fans, there is a joy in seeing these events take place as despite the overwhelming campness and no doubt hidden bitching, there seems to be a high level of support. It seemed like an amazing night out and for participants an opportunity to express themselves they might not get a chance to do elsewhere.One of the few aspects of the film I did know about was voguing. Madonna made voguing part of popular culture, but the balls are where it first came to prominence as participants would have vogue offs. And the voguing in question is not the Madonna version. This is highly stylized, athletic and fierce and amazing to watch.It is a wonderful insight into a world that you never really here about or indeed see and it would be fascinating to revisit these people and to see whether ball culture exists in the same way today. I loved the end line from drag queen Dorian Corey 'If you shoot a arrow and it goes real high, hurray for you'.More of my reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Its all Good","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Wonderfully put together..I wish there was a follow up to this documentary to follow up with the lives of some and celebrate the lives of others lost...there should be a part two..a real one. It was great..the film wasn't long enough..I would like to know why the creator of the film did not follow up!! this is so important to the community period..well if your are reading this please consider doing another documentary of this sort...I am really tired of hearing from naive writers how AIDS and Men go together when they don't; actually its the hetero's that we need to look into..this film didn't even bother to mention HIV or AIDS and I was so glad for that..I really appreciated the break downs and definitions too. Thank you s much for allowing this film to exist. "},{"Title":"R.I.P  Willie Ninja","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I had just recently watched Paris Is Burning and I love it. I find it very interesting and artistic and creative the way they move and dance. It's like a whole different world. My friend received it as a gift and after watching it I am going to hunt a copy down for my own collection. The next day I found out from a friend that Willie Ninja had just passed away a couple of days before. At first I didn't want to believe him. So I went searching for anything that would confirm what he had said, he was right. Even though I didn't know him personally, there's no doubt in my mind that he will be missed, and I would consider it an honor to have been a friend of his. To anyone who knew him I am sorry.R.I.P WILLIE NINJA - Angel Ray from San Bernardino, Ca "},{"Title":"One of the best documentaries I have seen","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Yeah this films is tops. Cant recommend it more. Gay or strait its a great doco for anyone who likes film. Very funny, sad and interesting. Never dull. Great access. A film made with passion and interest in the subject matter. Some of the performances and just amazing. If you only find this film on VHS it is still very worth watching. Great. 10 out of 10. I got to see part of this doco years about ten years ago and did not understand what I was watching. The interviews are very revealing about egos of the performers who are like heavy- weight boxers trying to punch their way out of the ghetto. The filmmaker was apparently a first timer so what an achievement. Cool. Track it down. "},{"Title":"The Closing Speech in the Mirror","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I saw Paris IS BURNING at the San Francisco Gay Film Festival when it wasn't yet finished. But even without closing credits and closing music, it was one of the most powerful endings and the audience jumped to its feet with a standing ovation. There is a very elegant, heavyset light-skinned black performer doing her eyelashes and explaining that when she was young she thought life was about being a success but now she understands just surviving is a success in itself. It ended with and if you can -----, then hooray for you. I'm not getting this right. Can somebody tell me who this was and what the speech is? At least that closing piece.BTW I was very actively gay in NYC in the 80s, for two years I shared an apt with the love of my life who was an African-American man. And I NEVER KNEW THESE BALLS EXISTED!!! "}{"Title":"My 2 Cents","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I waited a while to post a review of this documentary because when I first saw it over 10 years ago, I wanted to think carefully about what I wanted to write. I found from a documentary standpoint that this is a darned good documentary. It did what it set out to do, show me something I had no idea about and kept me interested in this world it explored. I knew nothing of the Drag world and finding out about them and the Balls was just spectacular to me. These folks were just so talented with what they do and how they do it, for competition. The catty folks, the complainers (even I was angry when someone told the judge that the coat the Drag Queen was wearing wasn't a man's coat!), the jealous, it's all there like in every other competition. LIKE EVERY OTHER COMPETITION like it. Which I felt was a point.You had the older drag queen talking about how the Balls used to be compared to the newer drag queens who have changed the Balls and made more competition categories -- and even those who looked on knowing that the future of Balls would change even more when they were ready to walk the runway. It was interesting to hear that some of the contestants were living out on the street two minutes before the ball but came to compete, it was that important to them! Then there was sad stories, stories of who's house and house mother brought out the best and the brightest in competition. It was interesting.Now to add after 10 years of seeing this film, I lived through the so called 'Madonna' craze. I spotted a few familiar faces from this documentary who ended up with Madonna during her Vogue phase and rightfully so. If not for those individuals, Madonna wouldn't have HAD a Vogue phase, I know that now. Credit should be given where credit is DUE. Makes me wonder, if anyone else from mainstream America would watch this documentary, they'll learn they're not as mainstream as they think.  "},{"Title":"Joyous, yet heartbreaking","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Paris Is Burning is one of the best documentaries ever in that it perfectly captures a world that exists within our own and makes it seem totally alien to us.  While I am not unfamiliar with drag queens and New York City (I am a young gay man who was raised an hour from New York City in suburban New Jersey), this movie's take on drag balls in the 80's is very eye opening.  Much of what have become standard gay phrases and actions are explained here, such as reading and voguing.  Even the houses are explained.  But what makes this movie memorable are the people.  Drag queens are all about attitude and flamboyance, but this movie takes us behind that to the sorrow and desperation and the need to be accepted, by family, by society, and by our peers.  This is a very important queer film that says a lot about gay society in America. For a challenge, watch this on a Double Feature with Wigstock, a documentary about the (formerly) annual Drag Festival in New York City. "},{"Title":"Paris Still Burning","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Fifteen years later and Paris Is Burning is still aflame. This is a classic in black gay films, right up there with the other honorary black gay films, The Color Purple and Mahoganoy. This seminal work captures underground and underclass (i.e.underserved) black and Latin gay culture and community like no other work before or since, including all the sentimental Harlem Rennaissance gay retrospectives and renderings. They're good, but this is the best (dare I say the only real) film you'll find on the subject. It's Relentlessy Cunty (the classic house music invention)comes to Hollywood, non-stop, hilarious camp (like only we do it) and dead-on social critique. All this by a white female director (who obviously must have been a Sister Gurl or Mizz Thing in a former life.) I could go on, but I think you get the point by now I love this movie! "},{"Title":"Riveting Documentary","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Paris Is Burning is a riveting documentary that focuses on the aspirations and culture of African American homosexuals and transsexuals. One very important aspect of the film is the depth that is shown of the culture of these men. Prior to this film, there were not many people, including myself, that new much about African American homosexuals, transsexuals and drag balls during this time. After watching the film though, I felt enlightened about this culture and had a new understanding of what these people were like, how unfairly they were treated, and their desire to be accepted in society. The mix between interviews and shots of the actual balls, the film is very well put together and is also easy to follow. Even though you might not be interested in the topics of balls, homosexuality, racism, or voguing, you might be surprised by hoe much this film pulls you in and keeps you interested until the end. I would definitely recommend the film to anyone, especially those looking to expand their point of view about different topics. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The film really challenges your notions of identity and the society we live in. It is well made and very powerful. The persons in the film are honest and revealing about the world that exists outside of the normative ideological perspective. I believe it give great insight into a sub-culture who shakes the very ideas that the viewer has of society. It is shocking at times and more powerful because of it. Some parts were difficult to watch, as most reality is, but it is not over done. Its good the first time you watch it, but it becomes even better the second or third time around; because you have had the chance to wrap your mind around the very topics they discuss and challenge. "},{"Title":"Reading Shades of Brilliance","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Paris Is Burning, is an extraordinary documentary; detailing not simply the late-eighties sub-culture of gay, black, New York, drag - and the transsexual balls which defined them - but also the appreciation of drag in all of its incarnations, the wanting to be other than what the participants were oppressed, ignored, and un-appreciated. It is a testament to the survival of those who have lived on the fringes, and a reminder to all, that there remains, even today, those who must deal with the loss of friends and loved-ones, the children, the house-members, the defiant few who vogued well-before Madonna, who lived in realness and dignity.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and touching","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Paris is Burning is a documentary about the drag scene in New York City in the 1980s, but it is so much more than that. It is a story about people who have had to hide themselves and deal with being marginalized for being black, male and gay. When I sat down to watch this documentary, I was not expecting such a great story about and adversity. I truly began to want to see these people make their dreams come true, even knowing how unrealistic they were. It is a watching this documentary and then seeing how trans-gender and gay people are still dealing with the same problems today. I recommend it to everyone, no matter if they are for or against gay rights because it is truly a movie about humanity. "},{"Title":"While featuring the glamor, sass and personality often seen when a queer person is on screen, this film gives you that human element which often is ignored.","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Paris is Burning is, without question, a legendary piece of cinema. To speak on excellent documentaries and skip this one shows the many issues with any type of film study class. I say this since, often, films featuring people of color are looked over and not mentioned when it comes to said classes. You'd sooner hear the name Quentin Tarantino before Spike Lee, and I'm sure you would find someone note any of Michael Moore's productions before Paris is Burning. What are the reasons? I can't say, but I must share with you a review of this film.Like most documentaries, there are people featured in the film and others play supporting roles. For Paris is Burning the focus are on the Mothers of the houses and a select few of their children. Each mother has a different personality which you find yourself drawn to in one way or the other. Pepper Labeija of the House of LaBeija could be considered a more refined version of the queer people usually exploited on TV. Of course though, as noted in the overview, Pepper isn't some two bit comedy act made to entertain you by going YASSSSSS, FIERCE, Werk and etc. For while Pepper is certainly a character there, as with the rest of the mothers, is a person behind all the makeup, fancy clothes and humor. Alongside Pepper there is Dorian Corey, who isn't a mother but a prominent figure in the movie; Angie Xtravaganza; Willi Ninja and Octavia St. Laurent. All of these figures present an almost black comedy to the film, in the sense that they do find reasons to laugh despite what they've gone through. Together, these are the people who introduce us to Ball culture and some facets to queer culture.Now, unlike many documentaries, there isn't so much an overall beginning and end when it comes to the film. It more so features one house at a time while focusing on different segments of a ball. Then, scattered throughout, are different subjects in either Ball culture or queer culture. For Ball culture, Dorian Corey speaks on how things have changed from the Balls being about people dressing as Showgirls to the then style which featured people trying to look like the famous models, or actresses, of the time. Also, there are examples and definitions given for such things as reading, shade and what all these houses are about essentially. All together, the documentary doesn't necessarily overwhelm you with information, but gives you just enough of a taste to quench your thirst.But, like most good documentaries, you are left feeling like you know more on your way out then you knew on your way in. What helps this learning process is that every single person makes for an intriguing personality which, again, doesn't feel two dimensional. Most shows featuring queer characters, outside of a Shonda Rhimes productions, and maybe Lafayette and Tara on True Blood, seem to embody Ms. J from America's Top Model. When they step into a scene, focus is on them for you expect something eccentric or funny to pop up, which happens with Lafayette on True Blood, but there are moments when things do get serious. Now, I realize I speak as if Paris is Burning isn't older than myself, but considering how few examples there are of queer culture in media, it was nice to see as many drag queens and feminine men as you would masculine men, trans-gendered and other underrepresented people of the queer community. And we don't just get their silliness and lessons, but a bit of their sadness, dreams and a touch of their fears as well. It makes it so that the documentary feels natural and almost makes you wish this was a series rather than simply a movie.And this leads me to the negatives of the film which solely deal with structure. I felt that it should have had a tighter focus and perhaps the usual linear means of telling a story. I say this because we bounce from the balls, veer off onto a topic and then are back to the balls again. Also, I felt like there should have occasionally been a reminder of who someone was and which house they were part of for you are introduced to so many people that only getting their name once makes it so your memory has to be good. But really, there are only minor issues. I just would have liked if perhaps they focused on each house, their mothers and children, as they prepped for a ball, rather than sort of weaving in and out from the mothers talking, what was happening at a ball, seeing some of the children speak and then talking about bits of queer and trans-gendered culture. I think it would have made it a little bit more coherent, despite the fact the film seems like it could have been filmed over a week perhaps.Overall RentalI recommend this for the sake of curiosity and/or education. For, despite its dated VHS look, I think there aren't any real issues which should stop you from watching this. I'll admit, it does leave you wanting more in terms of learning more about the mothers, houses and children more than seeing them dress up and vogue. But, overall I think this is a decent film to seek out if you have some curiosity and I'd consider it one of the few documentaries I may watch more than once, if just because of the personalities. "},{"Title":"Paris Is Burning In Identity Schemes","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" After growing up in the gritty streets of Detroit, MI, and having friends who traveled to New York balls, I fell into the lifestyle of being a House member. I joined the House of Theieves. We adapted the same rules as most houses, but we were professional crooks that would boost and commit credit card fraud to obtain the fabulous jewels and clothes we desired. I even learned how to profess the making of checks and driver's license and cash them in over seventeen states, until a jealous queen called the Secret Service on me and I went to Federal prison. But, I learned a lot from these queens in this movie and I highly recommend you watch it yourself. You can even read about how I grew up in the houses here in Detroit and the criminal activity we indulged in. My book, Identity Schemes is available on sale at Amazon dot com or at Identity Schemes dot com. But trust me, It is a lot better than Paris is Burning, because its a 2005 make. "},{"Title":"An oestrogen essential for one's complete womanhood.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie documents the Harlem ball circuit of the mid eighties. Much more fun than than Palazzo Volpi, though just as diseased, this movie  is a true gem of squalor. One cannot help but sympathize with the characters because of their freakness . The sole purpose of middle class intellectuals is to document the phenomenons of the trash and the glitz. Here the most genius of trash is extremely well documented and duly glamorized. The characters' penchant for idolatry of all that is glamorous inspires even more adoration of the characters themselves on part of the viewer, creating a phenomenon of a phenomenon effect which makes this movie a piece of art. "}{"Title":"How boring and depressing...","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I read all the other reviews, some before watching this movie, the rest after. I'm sorry to say that the one titled What a Nightmare is the only one that fits my own appreciation for this movie. A movie that could have fulfilled its purpose by being half that long. I understand these people need to belong, no matter how, to some group where they can find companionship and a sort of family feeling, due to the horribly miserable personal lives they have, but to center that need in such a depressing place and with such shallow aims makes me lack all respect for them. Not even ONE of them talks about studying a career or something, something other than that vicious circle of costumes, heavy make up and shallow infantile display of vanity.After all, don't we all want a better situation in life, better neighborhoods, good education, good health, a nice group of friends..., and that goes not only for black people, but for Chinese, Japanese, South Americans, Central and North Americans and the whole world, since we all are human beings with similar needs and dreams.Maybe one is segregated because one places oneself in a segregated position.But these poor souls filled their lives parading every night in childish display, garbed in Halloween costumes and make ups and dreaming of making a splash on Vogue magazine (a close up on the cover better than one inside please) and as the next target to catch a millionaire (white if possible) etc. The yearly Rio de Janeiro Carnival, compared to what we see here, is Heaven on Earth!! The mediocrity of their thoughts, their conversations, their concerns (they seem to live only dreaming of fabulous clothes --impossible for their means-- tons of make up and hair, and to look as beautiful as those girls on the glossy magazine covers... (none of them can remotely be called a beauty, not in the wildest dream!!).After a while the movie is so repetitive that one becomes very bored, I mean truly bored!! And depressed... wow, so depressed!!!Aimless, childish lives, black --truly black-- futures (for the ones that make it to continue to live) since the ones murdered were much better off; just imagine them getting old Infernal, because with their sets of values, living after 22 means The End of Everything).Fortunately for the gay world things have lately taken a turn for the better since this movie was made. Now in the most socially civilized countries there is same sex marriage and adoption, and in some, like here in Argentina, a person can go to a Registry Office without witnesses and change his/her name to the genre they feel it's their own (no medical or surgical intervention needed) and gay tourists can get married within two hours, no questions asked.So, let's hope that gay underworld shown here doesn't exist any longer and people like the ones shown in this movie, nowadays have higher aims for their future (and, better yet, for their PRESENT lives). "},{"Title":"What a Nightmare","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Geez, as a Gay man who lives in NYC I can gratefully say that I have never seen the underbelly of Gay Culture that is portrayed in this film - and I am glad of it!!! Was this film broadcast on TV across the United States there would be a great anti-Gay backlash and I cannot say that I would blame them. The people in this film do not represent the average Gay American or even the average Trandgender American, what they do represent is a sheer and utter nightmare. The inclusion of obviously underage characters is appalling and the obvious racist sentiments (anti-White) are blatant and unsettling - society cannot be blamed for people who have chosen drugs, unemployment and rejection of education on the part of the film's cast - the actions of these people are not acts of desperation, but rather a rejection of anything resembling personal ambition and a willingness to make something out of one's self. "}]