[{"Title":"Clever comment on Reaganism set in a galaxy of post-transformational liberalism.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"116 out of 140 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just kidding, I don't know what I'm talking about. You should see this movie if you like 1) Sex 2) Nudity 3) Hot babes 4) Mickey Rourke 5) Carre Otis 6) Mickey Rourke and Carre Otis going at it for real 7) Perfume commercials 8) Directors trying to make their softcore porn look like art by filming everything sensually and in slow motion, so the film appears to be art-house and visually stimulating 9) Really, really, really bad dialogue10) Lots of good banging and screwing without a plot 11) Mickey Rourke playing a total pimp (which is different than just Mickey Rourke - I mean, there's Mickey Rourke, and then there's Mickey Rourke the Pimp, which is even cooler).And finally...12) Hot female characters who wear glasses and carry around clipboards so the audience believes they are smart and successful businesswomen, when in fact they'd have a hard time calculating 1 + 1. (Also see Alone in the Dark, Tara Reid's character; or Fantastic Four, Jessica Alba's.) Highly recommended to the appropriate demographic.I could kill myself for buying it. "},{"Title":"A difficult movie to review.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"61 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in 1990, people didn't have to deal with the horrible slate of fly-by-night movies that die at the box office after one week. So many movies that would have been rejected by the studio heads for mainstream distribution back then have been allowed in (Glitter, Freddy Got Fingered, Tomcats, Ready To Rumble, the N'SYNC movie, Teen Movie, and 30 lame horror films, etc.), and then throw in the over-hyped blockbusters. Altogether, a good enough reason for a true lover of cinema like myself to stay clear of movie theaters.Because of all that, I think this movie deserves to be looked at again. If it was the worst film for 1990, then yes, it's a contender. Carre Otis is very beautiful, but her presence as an actress is awful. She either stands there and looks pretty or delivers small lines in a forced manner. Mickey Rourke, playing the same character he portrayed in the pre-quel 9 1/2 Weeks, just walks around trying to be cool. Jacqueline Bisset and Bruce Greenwood do a good acting job, but their role in the film are to support the growing sexuality between Otis and Rourke. And yes, the storyline is nothing but an excuse for Zalman King's arty sex coupling.BUT, if you compare this film with the drivel coming out these days, then this movie is much better. First, it was highly controversial (for a reason or two). Second, I think the sensuality is very erotic, because of the behind the scenes relationship of Mickey and Carre, or in a lot of the other assorted scenes. Third, Rio is a truly beautiful setting for sin, and the movie depicts it's partying attitude in spades (almost too much). And finally, this movie doesn't lie about it's intentions. If you wanted a sexually charged erotic drama/thriller, it doesn't disappoint. Yes, it's pretty slow, but the it's erotic build-up is very good. Bonus no fake bodies.Bottom line It's not Citizen Kane, and for 1990 it was terrible, but for 2001-02, it's a heck of a lot better than today's releases. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is more, I think, to this film than most people give it credit for. Sure, it's full of sex and naked people, but it also manages to be erotic and sensual at the same time. It's certainly not the commercialized absurdity that you'll find late night on certain premium channels. More than that, though, is that it's a decent psychological study of a man who's completely divorced himself from reality. Like so many celebs of our time, money and success has allowed him to distance himself from whatever parts of reality that make him uncomfortable. Emily's naive and honest approach manages to reach him. His speech near the end, before the final 'scene,' is really impressive, and Mikey really is a great actor. Sure, Ms. Otis leaves something to be desired, but she's working in a role where her lack of comfort helps the part. Emily is out of her element, just is the actress playing her is, and even if this makes her transparent, it also makes her believable. Jaqueline Bisset is wonderful as always. All in all, if you watch this film without fast forwarding from sex scene to sex scene, you'll see a fairly human story mixed with a sexual journey that I think Zora Neale Hurston would have appreciated. "},{"Title":"HOT, HOT, HOT","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wild Orchid is a steamy erotic flick that probably won't please everybody.  Young lawyer Emily is signed to a law firm and flies with her boss to Rio and when Emily's boss leaves for a meeting, she sets Emily up with Wheeler, a successful real estate developer who Emily is attracted to, but cannot have because he is impotent. This leads to Wheeler setting Emily up with an American business man for sex, cross dressing, and steamy sexual pairings.  While the R Rated cut of Wild Orchid is quite graphic, the Unrated version is even more so.  If you like trashy drama and erotic scenes, then you might enjoy Wild Orchid.Wild Orchid is Unrated for extremely strong graphic sexuality, nudity, adult language, and for some mild violence. "},{"Title":"beautiful erotic film","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The biggest thing about this movie is how beautiful it is. Yes, symbols are somehow too transparent, plot and music a bit cheesy,a bit too superficial, but it is so beautiful that you kinda forget those things. actors are beautiful , setting is beautiful, sex scenes are beautiful. Very sensual, but making-love-in-the-light-of-a-setting-sun-on-the-beach kinda way. however the funny thing is that you will enjoy the film nevertheless and not only because of sex, but somehow this film is appealing. thought you understand the flaws of this film, you still get aesthetic pleasure on some basic, unspoiled by good taste and good movies level. I like this film because it proves that good film can be made in any genre. You should remember that this is an erotic film. otherwise, if you expect an independent film about love, you should watch something else. "},{"Title":"Exciting","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was the first film in which i saw Mickey Rourke...and I loved it in an instant!I love the way he acts and the way he looks....This film keeps me awaiting for whats happening the next minute. Its sexy and intense story felt like a spell. One thing is that i wished it was me with him in those scenes!I showed it to some friends of mine and they agreed with me that a good ambiance for this film is a rainy night at home with candles on and some red wine and maybe a guy to keep you company...because you will need some help if the film really gets to you...and Rourke looks so sexy on that motorcycle.Just put on a silk dress and watch this film....keeps you glued to the screen thats for sure what it did to me. "},{"Title":"Very sensual movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wild Orchid is one of the most sexually explicit movies I recall seeing as a child. While the film is tame by today's standards when released in 1990 it was very explict. The storyline isn't to much to really speak of but Zalman King keeps Carrie Otis naked enough times to where the male viewer doesn't really care. The final sex scene makes you wonder if Rourke and Otis really went at it. "},{"Title":"This is a very intense, sensual movie.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I felt that this was a good movie. It was very erotic to me. I saw it several years ago and just recently watched it again at a request for the movie by me. Mikey Rourke left a very sensuous impression on me in this movie whereas before I never looked at him in this way. I thought his role was very well performed. He was both mysterious and complicated. I would recommend this movie for couples to watch together. I felt that it was a very romantic and arousing movie. I believe that the review that I read was very harsh. I have found that many times when I watch a movie that doesn't get a lot of stars in its review, I seem to watch them and form my own different opinion. Wild Orchid is one of them. It fills the impulsive fantasies that some people have. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lawyer (Carre Otis) is sent to Rio to help her boss with a real estate deal (Jacqueline Bisset) and gets herself mixed up with her client (Mickey Rourke) and throwing her morals out the door in the process. Steamy and very erotic with some very hot sexual encounters and a great looking cast, but empty and with little to offer besides lots of hot sex and lush cinematography. "},{"Title":"Awesome love game movie!","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK...maybe it's not the best dialog...maybe it's not the best screenplay...maybe it's not several things!One thing is for sure...I put this movie as one of the best movies I've seen in my life!There are several reasons for it. First when I was a little boy, I get dreaming that one day I would get rich as Wheeler...that never happened but the thought of being a hot guy in control of several business attract me! Then Wheeler's story itself...the poor guy that fought to live, got so afraid of female kind, the ones that are attracted to success, that started playing games just to keep things interesting (and not just suffer). Then the bad boy look...with the Harley ridding...sensual eyes and body expressions...making girls go nuts about him! A predator! I sure hell dream't to be like him! Then the soundtrack...oh my...the best erotic sounds ever...that main theme breaks me apart! Then you get to see an illusion of a paradisaic landscape...with restaurants that come up with erotic dances, masks and public sex! Then to see the woman you love having sex with another man...the voyeur side of it...but at the same time looking at her and knowing that she only wants to be with you and kind'a connects with you as if they were having sex together and the other guy pounding her doesn't count at all! Then the limousine ridding, seeing a middle aged woman having her burst of animalism with people watching in the next seat...Wheeler once again taking control of the situation having the pair make peace!Well...you have to see the movie to get the feel of it! But...one last thing...the final scenes when Wheeler finally let go of his control, and hugs her in passion...there's when it get's to me! Well...I tend to see Wheeler as the guy I wanted to be...but I never will!10 stars.Mickey Rourke was always one of my favorite actors...and if it weren't for his looks ruined by the ages...I always thought of him to be one of the best if not the best late century's leading role men! "}{"Title":"Watch this movie with the right state of mind and it is incredibly powerful","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought this movie having seen it 15 years earlier. This time I had a purpose. I wanted to watch Mickey Rourke's behaviour, speech patterns, body language and his effect on others. If you are studying the art of seduction or just want to improve your ability to influence and control others, WATCH THIS MOVIE with that objective. Yes it may be acting, but it there is still much truth to how your mind works and the erotic journey on witch it can take you. Wouldn't it be awesome to have that effect on others, to create a world that really does revolve and you and your desires? Well, anyone who rated this movie below a ten did the see it the way it was meant to be seen. "},{"Title":"I liked it. Another favorite added to the list.","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It wasn't star quality or a blockbuster waiting to happen, but it captivates. I kept reading all these comments about Mickey's character James Wheeler being impotent and I was puzzled about how that would fit into the plot of a sexed-up movie. It's not a medical problem, his impotency, it's mental. He just doesn't want to, he's emotionally withdrawn. He's not comfortable with contact because of earlier issues where he was abandoned as a child. It's not even that bad as far as dirty scenes go, much worse exist and this is fairly tame. Except for the alleged sex scene between the two main characters being the real thing, maybe...... maybe not. It was hot, though. Mickey Rourke was one good looking man before his face got damaged boxing. The genuine attraction and feeling of the two leads came out well. Also it says on most summaries that he subjected her to test's, trying to get her to release her inhibitions. I think it was more that he was so use to playing games he couldn't stop. He saw something in her and it scared him, because then he'd have to drop his shields and he didn't know how to be without them. You could see it on his face, he didn't really want her to go off with that other man. It was a test as much for himself as it was for her, even though he pushed her to it. Watch it. "},{"Title":"fabulous location, great music...Mickey Rourke","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie made a lasting impression on me and it stands up well over time. The pulsing soundtrack, the great visuals of Rio, the brooding charisma of Mickey Rourke. Mickey Rourke, just past his prime...not quite the handsome 1980s version. He is starting to show his age a bit, however he still has the charisma of his youth. He is a man who has great wealth but is missing the emotional connection. The story is about an unusual relationship that develops in Rio De Janeiro where a young lawyer (Otis) meets the real estate tycoon Rourke who takes her on a journey. This film is also about the backdrop, Rio De Janeiro, one of the world's most compelling cities. It is utilized to much effect by the director to create an atmosphere where it feels anything is possible and the characters get lost in their desires.One irony of the movie is that it cast an American model in the lead role instead of a Brazilian model. Brazil is famous for it's beautiful models, but I suppose none were considered for this 1990 movie.Movies with sex and nudity are routinely mocked but super-violent graphic movies are praised. This is an erotic movie and it definitely accomplishes one aspect, having model Carre Otis appearing very beautiful, appealing and sensual. The pulsing soundtrack sets the tone and the great visuals make it a fun escape to Brazil. "},{"Title":"just rent the unrated version and fast forward to the last 10 or so minutes......","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  and you'll be treated to one of the most energetic/ explicit/ and genuinely erotic sex scenes ever commited to film. other than that there is absolutely nothing to recommend for this movie. there is no plot, the acting is horrible, and other than the last sex scene, you'll have a hard time trying to stick with it. (it has been rumored that mickey rourke and carrie otis actually had sex)  "},{"Title":"Decent enough for what it is trying to be.","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Quite hard to rate this movie really. I can definitely see what this movie tried to accomplish but I don't think it succeeded well enough at it. However when judging this movie purely as a soft-erotic movie there is no denying it that this is a really well shot movie.The movie tried to be one about lust and pleasure in sex. It takes on some serious approaches and angles, that I suppose have a deeper feeling and meaning to it all. The story mostly evolves around the Mickey Rourke that is playing hard to get and likes to play games with the females that want him. Something that females normally would do in real life. The one moment they want you but the next they push you away. It leaves you craving for more, insecure and unsure about the whole situation. It's highly annoying when a woman does this, so it's kind of refreshing to see a man doing this to women for a change, though it still remains an annoying thing. Mickey Rourke plays this real slick playboy, that seems to know exactly what women want and what they are craving for. He approach them at the right times, say the right things and gives them just enough for them to want him badly but when they seem to completely surrender to him he alienates himself from them. This is what the movie is mostly about, though there is also a messy and uninteresting plot line in it about an old hotel.You could say that this movie is a rare mainstream soft erotic movie, with an actual big budget to spend and respectable actors in it. When approaching this movie purely as a more or less erotic movie you have to say that this movie is some of the best that the genre has to offer. Judging this movie as anything else really just makes it a really bad one.The movie and story at times have an almost surreal kind of look and feeling to it. It suits the sexual tensed atmosphere of the movie real well. The movie its feeling and atmosphere really reminded me of the last Kubrick movie Eyes Wide Shut.The movie had a great look to it and its sex scenes were shot really well. It's obvious that director Zalman King (no way that's a real name!) had plenty of experience with the genre already. He and his wife writer Patricia Louisianna Knop (really, these two weird named persons truly fit together) are perhaps best known of the Red Shoe Diaries series fame, that is about the best known, classy looking, soft erotic TV/movie series that is around.The movie does not have the best acting in it that you will ever see, despite having some big names in its cast. Blame it on the dialog and unusual situation within this movie really.A bad movie really but as a soft erotic movie it still is simply just one of the best you can watch out there.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Great sex scene","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The sex scene at the end was absolutely fabulous!!! It looked like it was for real. Mickey was so sensuous, and was so tender with that gorgeous girl. She really got into the moment, something Mickey is so great at bringing out in other actors. The reality of the scene and their sincerity in each other was gripping, made me feel like I was right there watching the two of them enter into a surreal world of ecstasy. No words can describe how life-like it appeared! You just had to see it to experience it. The rest of the movie was good; I've watched it numerous times, but the gradual build-up to the this scene is tremendous. Had me wishing I was the center of his attentions! "},{"Title":"Some Cheesy lines, but more than meets the eye here","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I Love this film, because there is so much subtlety to it. Much of the story is in subtext and symbolism.The silent boy character, for example, who clearly represents Wheeler as a child. When Wheeler decides to stop playing games, he sends the boy as his messenger to deliver the message. ( saying it vaguely to avoid a spoiler). He has had to face a few things and get in touch with his past in order to move beyond his emotional issues.Yes, there are many examples of bad acting and cheesy lines here. Yes the plot is improbable. But don't dismiss this film as just another excuse for soft-pornography. The story here is in the characters. And it is backed up well by exotic atmosphere and beautiful photography. Not to mention a great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"eroticism. and nothing else","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the absence of story is the fundamental characteristic. than, the nudity of Carre Otis.a film who , at its time, was impressive for its courage and for deep sensuality. today it remains only an episode from the past. soft piece from an industry, it is a chain of sex scenes and frontal nudity with few drops of strange poetry and violence. a film who has ambition to challenge the viewer and who becomes only good memory about an obscure role of Mickey Rourkey and Jacqueline Bisset. is it enough ? maybe. because the film is a strange legend who not gives many events but it is important for a form of sensitivity who was always seductive. and, maybe, that is the key of its success. "},{"Title":"Arty erotic movie based in beautiful Brazil with power plays and intrigue.","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was fantastic although it is not to everyone's taste.There is quite a bit of nudity and erotic scenes but if you don't mind that both sexes can enjoy this film.I liked the plot and the location in beautiful Rio de Janeiro,Brazil.It makes me want to go there.Mickey Rourke,Carre Otis and Jacqueline Bisset I thought played their characters very naturally.It was interesting to watch the dynamics of power,money,lust,sex and love play out and I could definitely relate to it.The natural real life chemistry between Wheeler(Mickey Rourke)and Emily Reed(Carre Otis)really plays out in this movie and climaxes at the end to one of the best love scenes I've seen in mainstream film.I had to watch the movie twice to fully understand the rather complicated power game twists but if you like arty,erotic movies then you'll probably quite enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Mild Orchid","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Boring steam flick about three enigmatic characters wasting their lives away in Brazil.Carre' Otis (I call her Carrie) has about as much acting talent as an empty cardboard box, Mickey Rourke looks like he's had silicone cheek implants, and Jackie Bisset DOES NOT show her boobs (that ruined my night). I so wanted to see Jackie lift up her white tank top and shake those milk jugs. However, she does say motherf***er several times. That was interesting enough to make me choke on my coffee, which I so desperately needed to stay awake.There was a sequel to this, but I don't care enough to seek it out. Watch if you want, but have a pillow handy. "}{"Title":"Style, sex, but little substance","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Again, here's one of those erotic flicks set in Rio (one of the most beautiful cities in the world, an asset to it) about the awakenings and sexual discovery of a young, reserved and beautiful girl, and promising lawyer, played almost adequately by Otis. Rourke, wasted here, as a self made millionaire, has his own demons where at the end of it, you're so happy the two of these wound up together, by unleashing their inhibitions. Wild Orchid rides on style and offbeat characters with interesting and impeccably chosen careers, as from the writers point of view. We have a number of occasional and drawn out, erotically charged sex scenes, (two ring out in my mind, one in limo) but in the end as in Kings other films, although I haven't seen Two Moon Junction, Wild Orchid doesn't add up to much. Bisset as Otis's employer/educator is also wasted. Rourke's mystifying character is fun to watch, as well as hearing some of his dialogue, when confiding in Otis about his childhood. "},{"Title":"Everything Sure Does Look Pretty","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful looking Movie with sumptuous colors and a lot of Fandango. Everyone is dressed to the 9 and 1/2's. It can't help but be appealing on the surface and reminds one of Magazine ads or upscale Feminine advertising found in Vogue or some other slickness.The soundtrack is infectious as much as the scenery both animate and inanimate and the Actors are equal in the eye-candy department. But, unfortunately it all goes from there in a downward spiral of very vapid dialog and not much else to help it rise from the Erotica that is its central conceit.It is sensuous enough, if that's your cup of carnality. It is never lewd, just softly explicit and not at all shy about its pre-late-night-cable nudity and sexual activity. There is kind of a back story of inhibition and hang-ups, Lawyer shenanigans and Rich Folks wheeling and dealings. But that all takes a backseat in the this Limo driven, Pretty People, decadence of fun in the sun.Overall it is very pleasant to look at and is easy on the ears, when there is no dialog, so it is not the embarrassment many Critics make out. It is a kind of interesting, voyeuristic peek at the Jet Set. We see that with all their wealth and free living, there is as much or more Neurosis there as anywhere. It is just more colorful. "},{"Title":"an erotic fantasy; a winner in its way","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie, underrated and panned by most, may be one of the most enduring erotic films of all time. judged as a fantasy, it doesn't have to go by the rules that govern normal film criticism. flawed by those standards, it will still be shown for a long time. Carre Otis doesn't have to be a stereotypical, international lawyer. it doesn't have to have continuity or a rich script they are the characters they portray at the fantasy level, with scenes of sexual tension, unexpected happenings and the intense, colorful noisy, bizarre and sexy backdrop of Rio at carnival time.see it and enjoy it from this perspective. "},{"Title":"cinematographically bad, but great story.","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people see Carré Otis as lacking acting abilities. I don't. I have a hunch she's an HSP(*) and her biography seems to point out in that direction too. Therefore, she WAS acting and expressing emotions within her own range, and she did express them intensely as per her own emotional register. But since about only 15% of the population is HSP, no wonder that most people did not react to her performance. I see a lot of subtlety of emotions, DESPITE the requirements of acting her part. Ditto for Rourque whom I absolutely hated when I saw him in 9 1/2 weeks when it came out, way back then. In contrast, Jacqueline Bisset's performance, is more solid, yet, I perceive it more as good acting, i.e. she's clearly more distanced from her character, clearly less convincing in the eyes of an HSP than Rourque and especially Otis.Also, it seems that any movie that has a lot of sex in it must be deprecated, as per intellectual elitism spirit. I do not go along with that school of thought If you're not an HSP, you'll get bored by this movie because you simply cannot catch the subtle cues that HSP are so good at picking up.If you're an HSP, you'll it. I gave it a solid 7(*) HSP Highly Sensitive Person. They are people that have a physiological enhanced sensitivity of their emotional system. The whole of their nervous systems, ranging from emotions to sensations behave as if someone has turned the microphone sensitivity setting to MAX while the rest of the population is comfortably set at 30%. HSP are, on average, more intelligent, get bored more easily and also gets to blow their emotional fuses more easily. While normal people have a dynamic range between 0 and ten with ten emotional levels in between the extremes, HSP operate in a narrow range between, say 4 and 7, and with ten times more gradations in between the lower and upper limit of their comfort zone than non-HSPs. For further info on HSP, hit the search engines. "},{"Title":"Eroticism-Wannabe","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Zzzzzzzzzzz-- oh, sorry. What movie am I reviewing? Wild Orchid! Oh, yeah.... okay....If you can keep your eyes open during this weak soft-core tripe, you'll see Mickey Dork standing around doing nothing for 2 hours. Of course, that's what he does best.Scary Otis plays a lawyer (*snicker*) who travels overseas to help Jackie Bisset do business. What business? Nobody knows... or cares. Feeble attempts at steamy sex scenes stink as much as a steamy turd in an airport toilet. The appearance of Bruce Greenlimp doesn't help.Save your time. Skip this and watch 'Hardbodies 2' instead. At least that boob-fest was funny once in awhile. "},{"Title":"So Bad, I Forgot I Had Seen It","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was just spanning through a series of different movie reviews here on IMDb and was going to check the reviews for The Wrestler. I clicked on Mickey Rourke's name to see what else he had done in movies (I'd heard his name since I was a teen but wasn't familiar with his work). The the title Wild Orchid came up and it looked familiar.Then it hit me! Wait a second...I saw this in 1990 at a $1 theatre! I then recalled after awhile that I had seen ads for it on TV and had wanted to see it but until the cheap theatre,I didn't go.Now,I was 21 at the time and knowing what was supposed to be in the film,I couldn't wait to see it all. Needless to say I was quickly let down. I couldn't follow whatever the plot was supposed to be and found the dialouge just downright tedious and beyond boring.As for the actual sex scenes? Probably I got into that at the time (you find few 21 year olds who wouldn't). I couldn't tell you right now if they were worth watching or not,it's been nearly 20 years.I know I stayed to the end though,like I always do because when I pay for a movie,I see the whole thing,no matter how lame it is. I had every reason to walk out but since it was just a buck,it wouldn't have been worth the effort. Maybe the people behind this thought that since it's geared twords sex,they had to make little effort in story writing. It's no wonder it escaped my memory until I saw it here on IMDb. (02/03/2016) Edit  I found it on VHS,bought it and gave it A look. It's still as forgettable as it was then. "},{"Title":"soft porn in a fantasy Rio de Janeiro","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" beautiful naked women, beautiful naked men, beautiful Rio de Janeiro. what a shame to waste them on this grade-C exploitation.Mickey Rourke as a character whose motivation is about as far-fetched, hard to swallow as can be imagined, so what can he do? he plays Mickey Rourke. Does it darn well too!Add a series of coincidences only Hollywood could stand, an over-eroticized fantasy of a city that doesn't need any exaggeration to be super-erotic -- i9t's a real loser. If you have to watch this movie, turn the sound off and just watch the images, because the plot is mega-too-ridiculous.As an old professor of mine once said (of something completely different), this movie is intellectual indecent exposure. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After Two Moon Junction and Nine and a half weeks I expected a lot when I watched Wild Orchid. Unfortunately I was extremely disappointed.I don't mean to imply the movie is totally awful or the worst movie ever made. It's not. But the movie had nothing unique about it at all and lacked a certain something. The expression when you got it you got it holds true to movies and Wild Orchid didn't have it.It's not Micky Roarke or Carrie otises fault. Their both attractive people who seemed to try hard with the material on hand. But the material just wasn't interesting. It lacked subtlety. Wild Orchid held neither the fascinating complexities and characters of nine and a half weeks or the dreamlike imagery and compelling mystery of two moon junction. It was just sex. It held none of the sensuality of the above mentioned other 2 movies,there was nothing tastful or errotic about it it was in your face sex, particularly toward the end and without the subtle sensual feel the other 2 movies had wild orchid ultimately becomes nothing more then your standard sex film.It's to bad because there was a lot of potential there.It was very much a letdown.That doesn't mean as sex films it might not be enjoyable to watch if that's what your looking for. Just don't expect anything more then that, in this case what you see is ultimately exactly what you'll get. I wish this movie had been made differently, the main word that comes to mind when viewing wild orchid is typical. "},{"Title":"Come On Folks, This Flick Stinks","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wild Orchid makes my all time bombs list. Bad, Bad, Bad. The writing is sixth grade level, stupid, indulgent, pretentious without any hint of intellectual depth. (There is a rumor that the original script was done in crayon.) The acting is absolutely horrid and over the top. You know, some of these people were in good movies at various times in their careers. What happened here? Maybe an idiot director drugged up on his own ego and happy to waste OPM (other peoples money).For a good laugh, check out the wardrobe and hair-dos, and don'ts. The credits say 1990, but it looks more like 1983.I believe this movie experience brought on the downward spiral of the previously brilliant acting career of Mickey Rourke.Spoiler alert not necessary with this piece of 'dirt, nothing to spoil in terms of plot or suspense. PSA // STINKER ALERT! "},{"Title":"Brazil is not United States' whore-house","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing how the entire culture of a country can be so poorly depicted. As a Brazilian I'm very disgusted with this film; it depicts Brazil as if it was the United States' nude beach, or even worse, whore-house. It is filled with stereotypes about Brazilian society views towards sex and nudity. I will not list all the factual errors about Brazilian society because I don't have enough time, but here are the ones that hurts most my brazilianity... The bar where the character of Mickey Rourke takes the character of Carré Otis plays African music and the hostess greets them speaking Portguese as if she was from Portugal. Carnival celebrations in Rio doesn't happen everyday, and not in open places like beaches since God knows when, and they don't feature Latin music so often. There are major differences between Bahia (which features trio elétricos on the streets) and Rio (the one with the samba schools and the sambódromo) carnival celebrations. Where are all the cops of Rio? The city is filled with them in times of carnival (specially because it's the time when the city welcomes more tourists than usual). Nudity and sex - specially by females - are much less tolerated in a machista society like the Brazilian... Brazil has strict laws concerning public nudity, and who don't respect them actually go to jail... But I guess none of this matters in a semi-pornographic motion picture with decadent stars. This movie only improves the international image of Brazil as the place where people from the first world come to promote their orgy balls.P.S. The only good thing of this film which I can think about is that it revealed the talent of axé queen Margareth Menezes to the rest of the world. "}{"Title":"if zero was an option....","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything about this movie is awful. Otis may have been the worst actress of all time and casting her as a shrewd young lawyer was just over the top; she'd be over her head intellectually as a model (although she is hot). I'd peg her for real porn but I seriously doubt she could moan convincingly on cue. Mickey Rourke is a weird shade of orange (Tan or jungle fever? Not sure.) but he delivers his purple prose as though he was reading the lines off a teleprompter. The dialogue is insipid and and the plot worse.The idea that this film was daring or erotic for 1990 is laughable. 1890 yes, but by 1990 the concept of people having sex in movies was no longer a novelty. "},{"Title":"It's Party Time!","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before the film Wild Orchid's opening credits are even over Emily Reed, Carre Otis, has gone from a small town in Kansas to the Big Apple, New York City, after finishing college and law school and then learning a half dozen languages after getting her feet wet practicing law in old Chicago to become a partner in a top international law firm in NYC! speaking of instant success! Given a ticket to Rio De Jeneiro to handle a business closing by hard nosed business women Claudia Lirones, Jackie Bisset, Emily instead of practicing law ends up practicing something totally different. The movie is one of the weirdest films I've ever seen with this strange off-the-wall cuckoo bird James Wheeler, Mickey Rourke,acting like he's playing chess with peoples lives. Wheeler has them act out his sexual fantasies as he sits and watches from afar or close up whenever the urge suits him. Poor Emily is put through the ringer by Wheeler's crazy cooked up sexual adventures, in which he's only a watcher not a participant, but in the end she gets what she set out to obtain; the deed to the waterfront property that Claudia wanted for her real-estate firm.Claudia herself had an affair with the creep-ed out Wheeler years earlier by impersonating a maid at the hotel that he was staying at and making his bed. This seemed to have been a big turn on for Wheeler, even though he knew who she was but pretended that he didn't, that later he gave her a very expensive dress for the good job that she did?There are a number of other strange sexual encounters between something like a half dozen wild parties in the movie that make even less sense. Very early in the film we, and Emily, see this couple sneak into a broken down and deserted building and strip off their clothes and then do it as a broken sewer pipe gushes water on their heads! was this real or a hallucination on Emily's part? There's also a hot tryst between Emily and Jerome, Bruch Greenwood, at his hotel room with Wheeler, who set up the whole thing, sitting on a bench outside observing it.Later Claudia blackmails Jerome who turns out to be the lawyer for a client who's suing her company to drop the case. Did Claudia get together with her former lover Wheeler to get Emily to go to bed with Jerome? We also see Wheeler save Hanna, Assumpta Serna, and her wimpy husband Otto, Oleg Vidon, from a group of drunken and partying crazed sailors. The drunks were in the process of raping Hanna in broad daylight right in front of hundreds of party people who did nothing to help the poor women but watch and enjoy the action! And last but not least there was this beach boy ,who Claudia picked up, who after undressing in front of both Claudia and Emily and parading around in front of them butt naked is grabbed by the hair and kicked out of the penthouse by an enraged Wheeler who just seemed to have popped up out of nowhere! Why did this so disturb Wheeler? Was it that he had nothing to do with setting it up and thus feel that he was being upstaged by the two women? Wheeler who were told is a self-made millionaire who made it big in real estate and who had a speaking problem as a young boy in Philidelphia, he stuttered and that effected his not having any lasting or rewarding relationships with women, goes through almost the entire movie in what looks like a drugged induced state or just suffering from lack of sleep. It's not until the last ten minutes that he takes off his pants and, like everyone else in the movie, joins the party by letting it all hang out.Redicules erotic movie that was just an excuse for Mickey Rourke to put his girlfriend and real life lover at that time, 1989-90, Carre Otis in the movie as his leading lady and nothing else. "},{"Title":"exotic overwrought erotica","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Emily Reed (Carré Otis) is a Midwestern girl hired into a law firm. Her boss Claudia Dennis (Jacqueline Bisset) brings her and her language skills to Rio to close a property deal. The seller is stalling and Dennis takes off to chase him down in Buenos Aires. Reed takes over her dinner with wealthy James Wheeler (Mickey Rourke). Emily is soon taken in by exotic sexualized Brazil and the mysterious Wheeler.Zalman King was the ruler of late-night TV soft porn and big screen overwrought erotica during a small slice of time. The production is luscious. Rourke is perfectly creepy and alluring. Otis is a blank. She is a deer caught in the headlines. In some ways, that performance works but she is never believable as a Midwestern girl. There is good production value for a softcore porn but this is not a good movie. "},{"Title":"Really Dumb and Boring","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First the way the movie starts it seems like an intriguing movie. Then after the scene gets to Rio, it becomes a long protracted sequence of events that's just a filler. Jaqueline Bisset, the girl, Rourke all were so boring in this movie. Watching their expressionless faces got old after a while.So many irrelevant and unimportant scenes goes on all throughout the movie. Rio really looks like a boring place (it looks like a small local Mexican carnival) in this movie which is amazing. Very little actually happens in this movie, and is not recommended for viewing. "},{"Title":"Not wild enough.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Emily is a lawyer who gets a job in Rio De Janeiro and she gets lustful with some of the men. Then more and more lustful and we totally lose the whole point of her being in Rio De Janeiro. We lose this important part of the story because she becomes the town bicycle and no one really cares that she is a lawyer. I wanted to know more about her as a lawyer and what was going on with this old hotel. The hotel part comes back later but they turn it into passion once again. I waited this entire movie and the only great scene is at the end if you catch my drift. It has nothing to do with her being a lawyer but it was worth waiting for. I could have just pushed fast forward. "},{"Title":"One of my contenders for worst movie ever made...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" During the screening of this, some 20 years ago (which I got free tickets to, thank goodness!), I turned around and tried to detect any facial expressions resembling my own from my poor fellow moviegoers - am I awake? Is this for real? Could it be the worst movie ever made, on this level? Well, fellas, it's a real contender. The 'script' of female American lawyer embarking on sex adventures in Rio, Brazil, makes any $2 trash pit novel seem like a Pulitzer prize winner, as seemingly 1/3 of it is made up of leftover travel brochure footage. The dialog is so hilariously bad it is downright embarrassing where that one scene in a taxi cab takes the poison cake! And finally, Mickey Rourke is a scream as a sexy, mysterious millionaire with bronze makeup and cotton in his cheeks ... his paycheck was probably the roll in the hay with plastic mannequin Otis. So, hold on to your jaws, they might drop to the ground when the end credits roll, unless you haven't left this crap way before that. Hey - you were warned!1 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"gives soft porn a bad name","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If there was an Academy Award for bad make-up, this excuse for a movie would have been a contender. Since it is described as soft porn, it should be judged as such. The acting is so weird you wander if there was a real director anywhere in the immediate vicinity of the actual filming. Production values, on a scale of 1 to 10, are about 1.5.The story (or script as it is referred to in cinema) is a bad joke...although the dialog is hilarious. But remember, it's not supposed to be funny...soft porn is serious business. So to judge it as such, in all fairness, by the accepted criteria of the genre, I would give this crud a 1 out of 10 because it does not succeed in being erotic or sexy...it's just too dumb and ugly. The poor quality distracts from any possible sexiness that nudity and sex scenes could and should provide. "},{"Title":"very sad","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very sad. I loved 9 1/2 weeks and Wild orchid is the opposite. I can't tell the worst thing in this movie, cause it's a hard question...  i hated Mickey Rourke in this role;  the movie is boring,  and i also didn't recognize my own country in it at least not as awful, dirty and vulgar as in Wild Orchid.  "},{"Title":"Horrid is too good a word...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Welcome to 9 1/2 Weeks the Sequel! Only it's not, because Carré Otis is no Kim Basinger, Mickey Rourke (who's supposed to be in control of everything around him...except his libido, apparently...) doesn't come off as half the man he appears as in Weeks, and the script is so re-hashed...it's like a second rate version of Weeks; Weeks without the sensuality and intrigue and solid script. There is no eroticism in this film...the scenes are like second-rate softcore. Art-House without the 'art'. And the unrated version is no different, it just drags the sex scenes out longer. But there's no passion, and that's what made Weeks so interesting.The worst part of the film is the horrid, trite dialogue; 'I'm afraid if I touch you you'll disappear', 'If you want me, come and hold me right now'; you've *got* to be kidding me!! Zalman King should learn to quit while he's ahead (take a look at the Red Shoe Diaries, for example the same story recycled multiple times, shamelessly using David Duchovney to draw viewers because it wouldn't attract a single one without him (or, at least none out of high school and not desperately looking for some late-night nudity...)This film is the same, it uses 9 1/2 Weeks, and Mickey Rourke, to draw viewers even though it can't stand on its own feet because it's so unoriginal and poorly written...never mind the acting (what was Bruce Greenwood *thinking*???)Overall I rate this what it is trash. At least Emmanuelle had visual merit, and Camille 2000 had stunning cinematography. This has nothing, and is nothing but an excuse to show lots of gratuitous flesh and sex. Even Mickey fans will be disappointed. So do yourself a favour and watch 9 1/2 Weeks instead...3/10. "},{"Title":"Film is not a perfect art form","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" . . . and won't be perfect until you can reach out and slap the characters. I wanted to reach out and slap that same tiresome, deeply annoying, manipulative expression off Wheeler's face so many times that my arm ached. I longed to slap Emily for falling for such a drip. I wanted to slap her mother for being Worst Mother in South America. I wanted to slap Jacqueline Bisset, who played Mommie, for allowing herself to be utterly wasted in this film. And Carre Otis for being such a bad actress that a parrot upstaged her. And Mickey Rourke for being Mickey Rourke circa 1990.At least I can slap myself for knowingly watching a Zalman King film.By the by, the 3 is for the pretty parrot, some good scenery, and the Carnaval players. Next time I'll just get a travel documentary. "}{"Title":"The story of a jerk.","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" MovieAddict2009 probably has the best review for enthusiasts of this kind of film. Think high-budget soft-core passed off for mainstream entertainment. Oh well. Somebody had to do it.On a more serious note, the other reason this movie is so half-brained is the Mickey Rourke character. He's a good-looking, egotistical, to- clever-for-his-own-good, jerk who likes to toy with people because he can. He's used his traits to make himself a financial success and a man of mystery, only there's no real mystery to his character. He just likes being an aloof and detached idiot to satiate his own ego.Otis's character sums him up in the end, but it's such a long drawn out (and sex filled) affair that the coupling in the end hardly makes up for an emotionally vapid male character. That's what makes movies interesting. Yeah, sure, the sex scenes were titillating back then to those of us who didn't make a habit of watching these types of films, but, beyond that, there's not much else here.There's some sumptuous cinematography, some interesting music and sound effects trying to convey to us a sense of sensuousness and eroticism, but it's really all for naught. Without a bit more on why the James Wheeler character is who he is, we might as well have watched Debbie does Dallas or any of the other adult film offerings around at the time.The reason we have no insight into Wheeler, and the reason this isn't a better film (in spite of all the positive technical elements), is because Wheeler is not someone deserving of sympathy. His lack of romance is self inflicted because he thinks he can out think people and be clever to get what he wants. But even this doesn't come across very well in the film. He explains it in a bit of dialogue, but ... so what? Did he do it as a cheap thrill? Answer; yes.He's not hiding a deep family secret. He's not struggling with some inner turmoil. He's not trying to forget a bad romance. He's not coming to grips with any deep personal angst. No. He's just being a twit. What he really could've used was a right-cross to the chin to knock him on his backside. Now that's a movie!As an audience our reaction should be thus; Wow, mister Wheeler. You're a real jerk, you know that? But instead we find ourselves getting sucked into the icing on the cake, and ignoring the sweet inner bread portions of said cake. Yet, when all is said and done, we understand that we've been short changed, and it's no fault of the director. Heck, you can't even blame the screenwriter, assuming he based the script off of a real person.The one person to blame for this films fallen arches is the real person upon whom the James Wheeler is based.Beyond that, if you want to see sex, well, the nets filled with so called adult websites. "},{"Title":"Icky Yucky","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are going for erotic, rent Barbara Broadcast, that is at least honest about what's going on. This movie is repulsive and Mickey Rourke, who does a great job playing who he is, tends to be typecast as a slimy oversexed punk, dirty too. Why does he always look so dirty. Well, this movie is a turnoff in my estimation, but if you like kinky, then this is the full Monty. Sorry to see Jacqueline Bisset in this film, looks so ridiculous dancing. After her stint in The Greek Tycoon, looking classy, stunning and what a wonderful fight scene with Anthony Quinn, this should have been a waste of her time but then again, she probably needed a paycheck. "},{"Title":"Just for the music-Just a carnival","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess this was an attempt at making one of those artsy fares, the poetic cinema told in that uncommon abstract format. Well it moved sort of slow at times, and could have knocked me to sleep. Mickey was not at his best, neither was Jacqueline but somehow I enjoyed Care Otis' little nymphet, and most of all the soundtrack at the end just a carnival was a rockin' beat that almost made it okay, I think.... "},{"Title":"That's it!  Engorge the feijoada!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time Carrie Otis appears on screen, she is a newly minted international lawyer at a job interview. She's breathless, anxious, and sounds fake. I thought she was doing the character, but in reality that was it. That's all she has for the entire movie. And Mickey Rourke? Did someone whisper to him that he was the sexiest man alive, or what? He does his best with Feminine Fantasy Number One, the mysterious, masculine, empathic self-made man who is filthy rich, but he simply can't pull it off without a French accent. Jacqueline Bisset's character should carry a sign around her neck -- Bitch. There's not much point in going on about the plot, something out of a shoebox, which provides at least some material for a travelogue, though there have been better attempts to capture Rio (Black Orpheus, eg.). The story gives Rourke a hang up. He can't stand to be touched -- let alone the other thing. But, no fear, Otis overcomes his inhibitions by the power of her pulchritude so we can end with a nearly explicit coupling. He turns out to be robustly masculine after all. Is that what wild orchid means? I mean, is it some kind of terribly mangled PUN?Here are some examples of the dialog. Sometimes we all have to lose ourselves a little in order to find ourselves. And Otis I'm sorry, to which Rourke replies, It's not you -- it's me. A sex scene dissolves into shots of the morning surf rolling in.Otis does in fact have one thing going for her, a slight lisp, in addition to her strong and attractive face and her robust figure. Rourke, though some sort of cryptohypnotism, has talked a bickering German couple into coupling in the back of a stretch limo while he and Otis watch. Tell me what you see? Rourke asks her. I thee two people having thexth. There isn't anything much except thexth behind this excuse to cash in on the profits of Rourke's previous soft-core movie with Kim Basinger, and maybe take along some of the nut from Emanuelle, another story about a rich man introducing a sexy but deprived young woman into the glories of debauchery. It's fun watching someone penetrate the mystique, but as the sociologist Erving Goffman once observed, often the real secret behind the mystery is that there is no secret at all. Maybe that's why masks are so commonly seen in this film.But this is a feminine fantasy, co-written by a woman, and so instead of bikini-clad young blond girl leaping in slow motion to bat the volleyball, we have Speedo-clad young men leaping in slow motion to bat the volleyball. I prefer the girls but both images are pretty banal. "},{"Title":"One great sex scene does not a movie make","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing you can do here is to find the unrated or director's cut version and fast forward to all the good parts.The vast majority of this movie is an incoherent mess with an otherwise good cast of actors just going through the motions.Lame romance story based on two people on the road to self-discovery and cheesy background music give this the feel of the kind of made-for-cable soft-porn movies shown on late night Cinemax.Not recommended, except for the wild sex scene near the end. "},{"Title":"Must..stay..awake.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a boring movie I saw the NC17 version and could hardly stay awake. The story was so boring and was hard for me to pay attention to it.  I actually watched it over the course of 2 days because it was so bad.  Just a waste of two hours.  I would have rather seen the R rated version just to shave a few minutes off the stupid picture.  Like most erotic films they seem to try and make it artsy and just fail at it giving it a bad story and breaking the film as a whole.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Total Depravity","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was up late in my hotel room and came across this movie on HBO. Wow! I guess it is supposed to be a cheap substitute for pornography, but without much real nudity, or acting. I don't even know what the plot was supposed to be. The disgusting victimization of the young woman in this movie is even hard to believe by Hollywood standards (if this garbage was even made in Hollywood). Avoid it at all costs. I feel sorry for the guy who's review is on the front page. (he apparently bought this crap!) I think the only reason I watched more than 10 minutes was because I thought the woman was Kelly McGillis in some early role before Witness and Top Gun. Seeing her topless was pretty much the only reason I even watched what I did. (yes, I'm ashamed)Epilogue I went back and read most of the reviews and realize that I didn't watch long enough to get to the really graphic sex scene at the end (I'm glad), so apparently, the soft porn was a little harder than I thought; all the more reason to avoid seeing this movie (those images will stay in your head for life, do you really want them there?) "},{"Title":"impotent","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wild Orchid opens up with that trick used heavily during the late 80s of cueing drifting saxophone music as foreshadowing of erotic things to come. The film follows a particularly convoluted and downright nonsensical storyline involving an uninspiring globe hopping middle-aged woman, her naive young female protégé, a mysterious millionaire with a penchant for revealing his chest hair, and some sort of deal that shows itself to be nothing more than a poorly played out McGuffin.Mickey Rourke brings his usual brand of creepy machismo to the role of the millionaire. His calculating scoundrel via faux-romantic lead is quite a similar part to the one he played in the heavily flawed but comparatively genius 9 1/2 Weeks a few years earlier (notably by the same screenwriter). His character's personality is bereft any emotion, and at times feels like a complete rip-off of the one James Spader greatly pulled off in sex, lies, & videotape.With that in mind, though, Rourke's performance is award winning compared to model Carré Otis' portrayal of the fumbling, perhaps virginal, seemingly sleepwalking female lead. For a character involved in every scene of sexual allure and provocation that account for the film's real reason for existing, she appears frustrated, awkward and bored. Perhaps she mimics the audience in this regard.The real trouble with these sorts of films, of which there are far too many, is that they attempt to stretch several interspersed hot sex scenes across a weak foundation of a plot teeming with intrigue. Beyond the dreadful acting, the rice paper thin storyline, and the elevator musical score, the love scenes are so tepid they're likely to inspire abstinence. "},{"Title":"Bad, as I had expected","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I keep on giving movies by Zalman King a chance, but really, I should know better by now.  Yet again, he bored me with a slow film that was neither dramatic nor erotic.  Actually, I didn't hate this quite as much as I had expected, thanks to Jacqueline Bisset, who tried hard, but rarely had material to work with.  The other leads ranged from lifeless to pointless, and it didn't take long for this film to bore me.  I'm yawning just thinking about this movie... "},{"Title":"Can I get my 2 hours back in life?","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well it wasn't that bad. The reason I watched it was from my memory of the initial release of the movie back in 1990 I remembered the strong hype about the movie in the media and critics were all over it. Then there was the news that Rourke and Otis allegedly sued the production crew for having hidden cameras on the studio and taped them having intercourse and were about to sell the footage to Hustler?? (I am not 100% sure anymore...it's been 14 years) I believe it was settled out of court subsequently like in 1992 or so??I couldn't watch it then as I was still a kid so I kinda watched it now and I must admit the story was lame as expected in these type of movies. Carre Otis cannot act. She's as hot as hell though even by today's standards. And if you are not into softcore sex scenes featuring a top model you are in the wrong place. A waste of money indeed if you actually paid to watch it in the theaters back in 1990. Nothing else to say. Over-hyped flick that's totally lame.2 out of 10 "}]