[{"Title":"Terrible reputation for a great film","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"142 out of 203 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm amazed at how bad this movie has gotten trashed over the years. The sequel to one of the best sci-fi movies ever, it was killed by critics and fans alike. I just don't understand why though.In many ways Robocop 2 is better than its predecessor. For instance, the many subplots. We have the subplot involving Robocop getting put back together, the subplot of Robocop 2 itself, the subplot of whether or not Robocop is human or machine, the subplot of nuke/Cain and his thugs, and the subplot of overall power and corruption.The mix of dark satire and graphic violence are once again showcased in Robocop 2 and in grander fashion. We get lots of jokes and lots of gore, mixed together flawlessly. All the performances are good. Peter Weller once again does a great job as Murphy, and Tom Noonan makes his Cain character a three-dimensional psychopath.The score is much different from the score of the original. Instead of the dramatic/sad theme from Robocop, we get a much more heroic/dynamic theme from Robocop 2, and it works quite well with the movie.Another thing I have got to comment on is the usage of stop motion. Once Cain is transformed into the monstrous Robocop 2 ( the title character ), we get an explosion of stop motion special effects that look fantastic! Stop motion doesn't get any better than this.All in all, this is one of the best sequels of all time, but got a bad reputation because it was 'too violent'. Don't listen to some of the naysayers. Robocop 2 is a masterfully done film from the director of Empire Strikes Back and shouldn't be missed by any sci-fi buff out there. Check it out now on Widescreen for the DVD.4 stars out of 4 ( reviewed by Scott Beams ) "},{"Title":"And now...a word on nutrition","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"94 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 2 is probably the most under-rated and most harshly criticized sequel in history (tying with Predator 2, which came out the same year). Because of a few missing elements from the first and a slightly more cartoonish approach to the violence, the critics and public alike were not pleased and opinions and feelings toward the franchise nosedived with the just plain awful RoboCop 3.Don't con yourself out of a good movie though. RoboCop 2 still has the same savage sense of humor, cynical social commentary and character pathos of the first film. It's a hyper-realistic vision of an America populated by gun-loving psychos, a democracy owned by big business and the poverty-stricken addicted to drugs dealt to them by peddlers believing themselves to be the second coming of Christ.Far-fetched could be the typical way of describing it. Completely-over-the-top would be more appropriate. Empire Strikes Back director Irvin Kershner chucks in as much sadistic violence, deafening gunfire, endless destruction and loss of human life that the film just begs you not to take it so seriously.Some of the blame was placed on writer Frank Miller for the film being more cartoonish than the original. I don't think this is very fair. I read Miller's original script when I was in high school and it is rather different and, dare I say, unfilmable. RoboCop 2 himself was not Nuke Lord Caine, the psychotic hippie with delusions of Godhood. He was called Kong, a psychotic cop who pretty much killed everybody he came across. Sgt. Reed and the Old Man died too, and there wasn't much humor. Screenwriter Walon Green was hired to doctor the script and much of what appears on screen is actually his work. Frank Miller's original ideas are pretty much just left as the framework for the whole movie and some of his story was recycled into RoboCop 3 (don't blame him for that one either). Miller was obviously upset with this but was still a good enough sport to appear in the film (keep a lookout for him playing Doctor Frank), though he vowed not to work in Hollywood again for fear of being taken advantage of. Until Robert Rodriguez promised to make good on his Sin City graphic novels.Verhoven may be gone but Irvin Kershner tries hard to deliver the same mix of mirth and magic and actually does get it right. Basil Poledouris' brooding score is also gone (it returns in RoboCop 3) but new composer Leonard Rosenman creates a wonderfully heroic and upbeat theme that suits the film more than Poledouris' moody, tormented score to the first.There have also been many complaints that the humanity of RoboCop and his relationship with Lewis was neutered along with too many other ideas fighting for screen time. I get why most would be annoyed by this but you have to remember that films need to be economic when it comes to length. If every single idea was fully explored and fleshed-out RoboCop 2 would have been 4 hours long. In my opinion each thread has just enough for keen viewers and fans to appreciate. Lazy viewers only see what they want to see and I feel that this has led to many of the negative reviews the film has been met with (which usually comment on how offensive the character of Hob is-sheesh, gimme a break). And don't give me that the humanity of the first film is gone. Murphy has not resigned to being a machine. He lies to pacify OCP. Pay attention to the very last line of dialogue in the film if you want proof.Filmed once again in Texas, Houston this time, you really have to feel for Peter Weller walking around in that Robosuit. It must have weighed a ton and he'd be sweating bucketloads inside. There is a particular scene in the film where Murphy is tortured into near-death/destruction that is very hard to watch. But it does lead to him getting a brand-new makeover and those crazy new directives put into his head. The bit where he lectures the Little League kids and scolds the youngsters playing by the leaky fire hydrant (after quoting some very suspicious philosophy) is hilarious.RoboCop 2 is a great movie. Despite harsh critisisms of the script and story and some slightly dated stop-motion effects it's a brilliant sequel that lives up to expectations. Do listen to the nay-sayers. I don't know what kind of film they were expecting.And thank you for not smoking! "},{"Title":"Not as terrible as some make out, but still a disappointment.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"54 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you believe the video game that was made out of RoboCop, it was set in the same year that RoboCop 2 was released. RoboCop is simply one of the best films ever made, and it brought me much relief from a very sorrowful childhood. Which brings me to the point I am trying to make here anything was going to be something of a letdown. Another rebuke I would like to make of other critics of this film lies with their complaint that the movie was too mean-spirited and had too much violence. Let me quote Paul Verhoeven's commentary about the original the whole style of the movie is 'too much'.The real failing of this sequel lies in the story, which is full of threads that are either resolved badly (the attempt to reprogram RoboCop with new directives) or not resolved at all (RoboCop's memories of his wife). Considering that not a single second in the original was wasted when it came to drawing the viewer into the hero's mind or building some emotional connection, the lack of sympathy one feels with even Lewis or the Sergeant is worrying. Then there's the villian. A film with a superhero, like Robocop or the Bond series, is only as effective as its main villian. Cain is not an effective villian, and gets very little development in the bargain, the exact opposite of the situation with Clarence Boddicker in the original.The mock commercials are something of a hit and miss affair. The OCP Communications commercial was hilarious, but the Sunblock 5000 commercial was just plain tasteless. The use of children in RoboCop 2 also counts against it. There were no children in the original, reflecting the fact that the film just wasn't made with children in mind. The use of children in RoboCop 2 smacks of a cheap attempt to appeal to the children who are allowed by their parents or whomever to see the film. It doesn't work because the writers are trying to transplant adult dialogue into a child's mouth. Similarly, the attempt to transplant the manner in which the Christian Coalition think children talk into Robocop fails.All in all, RoboCop 2 is a passable sequel, but it pales in comparison to the harsh perfection that is the original. Give it a chance because it does have some entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Not worse than RoboCop, just different","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"64 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RoboCop 2 , the sequel to 1987's ultra-violent RoboCop, is not quite up to par with its predecessor.  The film still manages to entertain on a large level.  I know that a lot of people do not like this movie, but I personally think it is still pretty good.  I'm not writing a review of this movie, I am just expressing my thoughts on it.First off, this movie is a lot more violent than the first RoboCop.  You get scenes of bloody shootings, grisly scenes of torture, and a surgery which I'd rather let you see for yourself than describe here.  Paul Verhoeven does not return to shock his audience with graphic violence and ultra dark humor, which has since become trademark in his films.  The director this time is Irvin Kershner, who made The Empire Strikes Back nearly ten years before this movie.  Kershner seems to focus a lot more on action, rather than story.   Second, the movie's villain, Cain (Tom Noonan), to me is a direct opposite of Clarence Boddicker (the villain from the first film who was played by Kurtwood Smith).  Cain enjoys giving people pleasure (through his highly addictive designer drug called Nuke) while Boddicker was a sadist who took pleasure in the death and suffering of others.  (Though after Cain's transformation, none of this really matters). Lastly, this movie does not exploit children.  The kid in this movie, Hob (played by Garbriel Damon) is Cain's twelve year-old side kick.  He is a violent, foul-mouthed little child who runs errands for Cain.  The writers for this movie did this intentionally, to show that crime holds no age barrier.  Regardless of age, crime is crime. Like I said, RoboCop 2 is not trying to be better than its predecessor, it's just trying to be something different.8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel!  Great film!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"62 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't think anyone is going to argue that the first Robocop film in the series is, by far, the best!  But, I still think this installment is very good and has a lot of good things to offer.  The story is quite interesting and pretty well thought out.  The characters are pretty much the same as the first film, nothing terribly new there.  The special effects are absolutely superb and the action is done rather well throughout the film.Like any film, this film has some flaws.  One thing that really bothered me is that they made Robocop more of a Blue-ish color instead of a silver or grey color, it would looked better if they had stuck to the original color.  Also, there are a few scenes that are meant to be comedic, but just didn't pull through.  Other than that, I thought the film was rather good.The new cyborg in this film, aptly named Robocop 2 is astonishing in every way.  I thought it was a phenomenal design and beautifully done!  The weaponry on this cyborg was quite impressive as well.The actors in this film did a fine job, I can't think of any that I disliked and the direction of Irvin Kershner (The Empire Strikes Back) was quite good as well.Even though I liked this film a great deal, I still wouldn't recommend it to everyone.  If you saw and liked the original RoboCop, then I think you really ought to see this one, I'm not saying you'll like it, I would hope that you do, but you still may not (as many reviewers on this site have made clear).  I would say that if you like a good sci-fi film, then you should check this film out, and I hope you like it.  Anyhow, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was a huge fan of the original Robocop.But to say I was disappointed by this first sequel would be an understatement.The problems are many.Glossy though the film may look there are plenty of bloopers on screen for all to see, wires, cameramen etc, something I find wholly unacceptable from someone of Irvin Kreshner's pedigree.Robocop has become a robot. There is no spark of humanity to be found in the character here. A true disappointment when one considers that his soul had returned by the end of the first movie. Here his attitude shows no human side and makes him hard to sympathise with.Caine is a poor villain. OK I know Boddiker from the first film was better than the average, mainly thanks to Kurtwood Smith's performance, but the usually solid Tom Noonan creates a character who you couldn't care less about one way or the other.What's happened to the Old Man????. I appreciate that he didn't get to where he is by being nice but the change in his character here is nothing short of dumbfounding. In the first movie it's made clear he despises Dick Jone's tactics and attitude and yet here he's no better than Jones. It makes no sense.Doctor Faxx is a poor replacement for Bob Morton's charismatic, if unpleasant, OCP resident genius.The action sequences, save the sequence where Murphy is stuck to the side of Caine's truck, are harsh and nasty and repel rather than entertain.And finally. What is with the musical score?. Don't tell me Poledouris couldn't have done it simply because he was working on Total Recall at the time. A series (TV or Movie) soundtrack is part of its personality. Part of its character. When you remove that it harms the familiarity of the characters we're watching. So it's bad enough but shame on Leonard Rosenman. His score here is lurid, camp and downright cringe worthy.The story has its moments to be fair. There's a lot of originality in here. But it tries too many new things to take in with one film. Hob is a well realised villain and the only truly dis likable villian in the move, Thumbs up to Gabriel Damon there.The final showdown between Robocop and Robocop 2 is fun as well.But for the vast majority of its overlong running time this is a serious disappointment. "},{"Title":"Insulting, hateful, tasteless, gratuitously violent mess!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Robocop had a sense of cynical wit and a sick sense of violence. It was a fine line to walk, but Paul Verhoeven pulled it off and the film did so well, they made a sequel. How awful. (Possible Spoilers ahead - though anything that could spoil this is beyond me).Irvin Kershner is not the director for this type of film. He clearly did not understand the humor of the original and as a result the massive over-the-top senseless violence looks really bad - and worse is very distasteful. Even worse is the musical score. Leonard Rosenman was an old man from another era and the heroic, light music does not match the images on the screen at all! What was he scoring?! The Great American Hero?! Worst of all, he completely eliminated Robocop's theme from the first film, which was so memorable and perfect. Can you imagine a Superman film without John Williams' fanfare, or Indiana Jones, etc.? How could he do that?!!The plot is just a collection of ideas that don't gel. In beginning we see Robo stalking his old wife. Fine, good idea. But, they completely drop it after that. Then, there is this a stupid idea of the company reprogramming Robo to be nice. That's thrown in for 10 minutes and then is immediately dropped. Or, the silly idea that the repulsive 10 year-old drug lord reminds Robo of his son - Once again, a weak motif that is shown briefly twice and dropped. This may work in a comic book, but not on film and Frank Miller was unfortunately too inexperienced at the time and threw every idea in along with the kitchen sink. It doesn't work as a whole.Some people here seem to be praising the corporate bashing in this film and the privatization of the police. That is the best part of the film that is consistent with the first. However, in the original, the old man was a tough business man out for a profit, but ultimately fair in the end. In this film, he is just pure evil in his lust for money and power. You can't just change characters like that for no reason. And Nancy Allen's character is useless in this film, whereas in the first she was essential to Robo's search for himself. She is as gratuitous as the violence in this film.And the violence, yes the violence. I enjoy many violent, bloody films when they serve purposes and are meant to tell a story. Irvin Kershner seems to get off on human beings being blown to bits, shot to pieces, children lusting for death and torture and peoples' desire for drugs. He doesn't know when to stop. Do we really need to see every last innocent bystander (even people trying to help others) get shot up???? It is inferred when we see the bad Robocop shooting repeatedly! Instead Mr. Kershner proves he has very little taste for this type of work and creates an abominable mess that is a terrible piece of pop art and worse, a disgusting message of violence for any young person watching this film.No, this film isn't meant to be message-y and I certainly don't watch Robocop movies or Alien or Predator movies for that reason. However, when you go too far and cross the line, much of what you do must be put into question. And as for this film, in the words of the evil kid drug dealer's last words as he lay dying, It still sucks. "},{"Title":"One Awesome Action-Packed Sequel.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is a very amusing movie that is often times unfairly criticized. It is obviously not as good as the first film, but its still a darn good sequel. This movie, just like the first, always gets made fun of and I can't see why. I think these movies are just so entertaining. Here's my two cents.I am a huge fan of these Sci-Fi/Action movies, and Robocop is definitely one of the coolest in the genre. The first film is a classic, but most people don't seem too fond of it's sequel. Robocop 2 is dark, cruel, and gruesome, but it never misses it's chance to fit in a joke. The humor in this movie is just as good as the first's, if not better. The acting is a little poor at times, but you can't expect too much out of a film like this. Robocop 2's story is less diverting, but the special effects are superior to the first. This movie has a much better climax than the original, and the final moments of violence at the ending have some of the best special effects I have ever seen(without the use of cgi)in a movie.My problem is that people always accuse films like this of not being realistic enough. What should you expect from a title like 'Robocop 2? People need to just sit back and suspend disbelief for a movie like this. The Robocop movies are pure bloody fun, that's all. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes violent 'machine vs. machine' warfare, and being a fan of the first movie couldn't hurt either. "},{"Title":"This movie is fantastic and possibly the last of its kind.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright....I want you to forget what those boreing critics have said about this film, the bottom line is that this movie Rocks!. Peter Weller delivers his perfect performance as the Cyborg Robocop in his pursuit to rid Detroit of the addictive drug Nuke. The film is long and this might be what makes people tare at it, but dont be discouraged , if you are a Robo-Fan chances are you love this movie. Robocop 2 follows all of Paul Verhoven's techniques with gruesome violence and gore that give tribute to the original classic. It also has the funny tv commercials like the original. This film is Directed by Irvin Kershner who is responsible for the great classic The Empire Strikes Back so you can expect that the action in Robocop 2 is simply fantastic. Kershner's use of blue color lighting and classic stop motion effects (which still are more interesting for some reason then a digital Keanu Reaves jumping around) are great in this film. Peter Weller was born for the role and delivers what I think is a flawless performance. The movie is well worth it for action fans, the gun fights are hardcore and the final fight with Robocop and the Evil-Cyborg Kane is perhaps the most violent scene in movie history as innocent people get shot in their crossfire and they wreck half the city in the process.Only John Woo's Hard Boiled can match up to Robocop 2's carnage. Also Robocop's partner Lewis(Nancy Allan) is also back with her well played strong women side kick role from the original. The dissapointing thing about Robocop 2 is that the violence level concerned producers resulting in the Horrible RoboCop 3 with a PG-13 rating and without Peter Weller's performance, Robo-3 bombed and has nearly killed the franchise. But to all the fans out there, get yourself a copy of RoboCop 2 on DVD, its hard to find.From a Sci-Fi/Action point of view, I give this film 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"An OK movie, but Verhoeven's absence is quite apparent, and it is nowhere near as great as its terrific predecessor...","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***RoboCop is one of my all-time favorite guilty pleasures, the type of rare action movie that takes no prisoners and never lets up for a single moment until the ride is over, and when the credits start to fill the screen you just let out a big sigh of relief--not because it was a bad film, but because you survived the ride.RoboCop 2 is a bit different. Gone is Paul Verhoeven at the helm of the film and filling in for his absence is Irvin Kershner (The Empire Strikes Back). The film is violent, perhaps a bit more so than the first in certain areas overall, but it lacks the hard, almost unexplainable solid edge the first film had--the sharpness that pierces you as you watch the film like a knife blade. RoboCop 2 has a dull blade. The first has a great effect. This does not. There's violence without reason, reason without explanation, and explanation without effect.Detroit is worse off than it was in the last film--men bash little old ladies with cars and steal their loot; hookers stab men in the eye to steal cash; stores are blown up and rampages by little league players and the captain of the team even occur. Police are on strike because they claim the city is screwing them over--only RoboCop (Peter Weller), Lewis (Nancy Allen), and a few other policemen/women remain.There's a new drug on the rise called Nuke, manufactured and sold to the public by Cain (Tom Noonan) and his young apprentice (Gabriel Damon), who looks about 11 or 12 but talks with the language of a Quentin Tarantino character and kills innocent human beings mercilessly. Oh, but when he dies we're supposed to feel sorry for him because then he's a cute little mortally-wounded boy.RoboCop chases down Cain and, after what seems two hours into the film, finally catches him. But Omni Corp, the corporation we saw in the first film, wants a new RoboCop, so they shut down life support on the dying Cain, take his brain and stuff it into a new RoboCop, referenced to so originally as RoboCop 2, hence the title of the film. (My suggestion is that in RoboCop 4, they should create a cyborg called RoboCop XP, and he can have lightning-fast reflexes and a built-in wireless broadband modem so he can check his e-mails and surf the 'Net while he's on the go.)And putting a homicidal drug dealer's brain inside a giant-sized robot law enforcer with machine gun capabilities and weapons of mass destruction probably isn't a very good idea, but the thought never crosses the minds of Omni Corp. The chairman of Omni Corp (Daniel O'Herlihy) produces RoboCop 2 to the public, but RoboCop already realizes RoboCop 2 is dangerous and so he appears at the unveiling armed with a huge gun.RoboCop 2 goes haywire and kills everyone. The entire sequence is done in cheesy Godzilla animation but, to be quite honest, it didn't look all that bad. He and RoboCop duke it out on top of buildings and in elevator shafts and on the ground outside Omni Corp, where an uncountable number of police officers (hey, weren't they on strike?) are left firing at this indestructible--and very bulletproof--machine that unfortunately does not have an OFF switch in sight. (Turn it off! he says. I can't! she says. You idiots! I say.)So many loose threads are left dangling in RoboCop 2, and so many subject matters that I wanted sorting out after seeing the first film. But there isn't any hope in sight. After a brief moment that hints towards the central idea that RoboCop may still be human after all (wasn't that sorta established in the original?), everything is dropped for the action set pieces to move in, such as a car chase with RoboCop and Cain, or the end finale that goes on too long. But RoboCop is seen spying on his wife in the beginning, and we find out that she has gone through serious trauma over this whole thing. She confronts him at the police station and out of decency he insists her husband is dead. But we see the look of remembrance and remorse in his eyes.That's the storyline I would like to follow. I'd like to follow RoboCop's journey to find himself again, to recover lost memories floating around in that big brain of his. To confront his wife and tell her that he remembers her, to add a human element to the story that was so clearly demonstrated in the original but completely lost here. Kershner obviously wants to mimic Verhoeven. But Verhoeven knows how to equally balance action and excessive gore with social satire and the ongoing human battles, relevant to the action battles. Remember in the first film when RoboCop went through his house and his eyes started to flood with past images and faded memories? Nothing like that is done here. We simply get some cheesy flashback in the beginning when Alex (pre-RoboCop) is laughing with his wife in a very non-candid and dubious sort of way. As I saw this sequence, I just sat in my seat waiting for the word Hallmark to appear in gold font across the screen.As for all the loose threads left open in this film and supposedly not touched in the third movie...let's all hope that when Paul Verhoeven said he wishes to return to the series he wasn't lying. I'd love to see this franchise closed in a more honorable fashion. RoboCop 2 is an OK movie for a Friday night crowd, but in comparison with the original, it's about as cold as RoboCop's facial tissue and as cloudy as RoboCop's memory.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Oh my, this isn't very nice","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" For most people, RoboCop 3 is the film that really is the big disgrace for the Robo series. It has few fans, and most people hate it for it's shameless commercial PG-13 approach. Now, I'm not going to say that RoboCop 3 is any good. Frankly, it pretty much sucks. But as far as being a properly shot and executed film, it surpasses this piece of circuit chaos. Yes, the truth of the matter is that RoboCop 2 is the worst of two bad and unnecessary sequels to a near-masterpiece. So what if RoboCop 3 turns Robo into a cartoonish super hero in a ultra mainstream production for kids to enjoy - at least it's doing it openly. I don't know where RoboCop 2 begins and ends, I don't know what or whom it's about, I don't understand what's going on in it, I don't understand which jokes are deliberate and which aren't, I will go insane if I try to understand the characters, I see nothing of any value in anything anybody is saying, I can't believe anybody looked at the shooting script and figured it would work and I can't believe that Irvin Kirshner saw the finished result and figured that he liked what he see. He probably didn't by the way, neither Miller, nor Weller nor Allen did. It's not hard to see why.Now, RoboCop 2 has it's fans, I know this. Mostly they belong to this league of absolute anti-pretensions, dismissing anybody who expected any depth, or subject matter from the first film, as academic Roger Ebert Sith apprentices. It's just a lot of fun, a good piece of action and great entertainment, the argument goes. Yeah well, I guess if you just don't listen to what any of the characters are saying you could fool yourself that we might as well have Arnold in the suit instead of Weller. Don't get me wrong, I like a good action film, with pure entertainment value as it's only - most satisfying - virtue. But RoboCop 2, sir, ain't no such thing.Look at the first couple of scenes. This horrible actor makes Robo repeat that he's just a machine, and then goes into this operatic speech about how he could never be a man, where-after Murphy's wife (who's suing OCP for robot-stalkings) walks in out of the blue and have this sad little moment with him, and then is never heard of again! I surely would like to go in to this film scene by scene, because every one has these kind of absurdities in them. It's like a twelve year old fan boy has done the screenplay, the characters act totally random and first say this, then say that. OCP wants to stop crime with a new Robo, especially this drug called nuke but then it seems they really just want to become this big capitalist empire and control the entire city &#150; politics are abandoned I guess, understandable given the comic relief mayor, The villain (played by Tom Noonan, who did a better version of this in Last Action Hero and that's saying a lot) is an addict, but is still used for this machine. The woman behind it all has an agenda which is impossible to understand.Speaking of twelve year olds, this film has the infamous role of Hub, this mad kid who swears and kills people, played by a child actor. I'm not going to be all moral about it, it's a free world and if you want a psycho kid in your action movie, go for it. I don't know how much of Frank Miller's original vision was put into this, but the credits at least acknowledge him as conceiver of the story. And, if I zoom out, I could see this as being quite a cool character. It's grim for sure, to have a maniac killer kid but then again this is the world of RoboCop and who would be surprised? This whole business with the OCP trying to become this giant monopoly over everything, is properly dystopian and good as well. Also, the idea of RoboCop getting in touch with his wife and kid, having them embedded into the story somehow - would also be great, and as far as I can see a natural and logical step if they now had to make a RoboCop sequel.But, of course, these are just ideas. As many people have already said, the screenplay is 100% mess. The kid has one scene (the torture scene) where it's hinted that he in fact is just a stereotype messed up kid, and then we have this unimaginable scene where he is dying and gets all soft and friendly towards ol' tin head. Why doesn't he just take up his uzi and try to take him down with his last breath? Isn't that what his character would do? Does he give his life a little second thought there on his death bed? Not necessarily, given that his last words are it sucks, so why? It really makes no sense, and this can be said about everybody, no everything, in this film. IS there a strike in the police force? IS RoboCop machine or man? What's the deal with turning Robo into this community service machine for 10 minutes? I mean, sure, it's pretty funny I wouldn't deny that. But why build it up, and then discard it? And why the hell is Allen so criminally underused? and what is it Weller has an obvious urge to express with his character and yeah, well, the threads are many and the mess is enormous.This review is just as messed up as the film. The only reason I give an extra star up there is because of the actors from the first film, I'm sure they had good intentions with it. I mean it's something somewhat stable, some kind of anchor in this sea of bad movie making. "},{"Title":"From The Director of Empire Strikes Back!!!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How anyone can dismiss Robocop 2 as merely trying to one-up the original in terms of violence is missing the point! This is not an entirely original film, to be sure, but for comic book and SciFi fans, it is close to perfect. Irwin Kirshner need not be ashamed of this film, of course it's not half as good as The Empire Strikes Back, indeed very few films are, but this blows away most films of the genre and is probably on par with SF classics such as Total Recall and easily beats such standard fare as Kurt Russel's Soldier or for that matter most other Frankenstien-esque SF movies like Universal Soldier or Cyborg. I dig this film, and fans of Empire should take notice if somehow they have missed this one. Kirshner is a fine director and Comic scribe Frank Miller delivers in his distinct style, which unfortunately is lost on those who haven't read The Dark Knight Returns, where he reinvents Batman as a world weary old man living in a decrepit cess pool of a future, if you've seen this movie you will understand his bleak imagination involves a distinct distrust of technology. But I digress. This is a fine movie for guys who like movies, make mine the uncut version please! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better...","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There was no way this was ever going to be as good as Robocop but they could have done so much better. What's really missing is Basil Poledouris' wonderful fanfare theme tune. In its place we are giving some appalling brass'n'percussion with a chorus singing a ridiculous 'Robocop' theme on top. It's amazing how much music can change a film, and really, a decent score would have improved the film immensely.Also, Rob Bottin's ultra-violent effects were sadly missed. The film is full of violence but it's mainly of the long-range bullets-hit-bad-guys type the only thing close to the original's over-the-top nature was the brain removal and the stomach-slicing.Phil Tippett is on hand, luckily, to deliver some entertaining stop-motion action scenes which really liven up the final scenes of carnage.Sadly, the bad guys never come across as meanly as Clarence Boddicker did in the first, OCP seem unnecessarily annoying and the little kid is just annoying. It's not a TERRIBLE film but we really could have expected more from the man who brought us 'The Empire Strikes Back'. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, RoboCop 2 is grossly underrated.","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this sequel. RoboCop 3 is literally on my bottom 5 list of all time, but I don't understand what the big fuss is about #2? RoboCop 2 has a very unique atmosphere and is loaded with top notch action. The climax battle between RoboCop 2 and.. well, with pretty much everybody else, is so awesome. Also, I simply love the design of the monster robot. It really looks extremely menacing. Sure the stop-motion effects are clearly outdated, but so what? You don't go bad-mouthing Alien's guy in a suit either.As far as the storyline goes, there's nothing unique about it, but I do admire the filmmakers for the character of Hob. Putting a gun in the kid's hand and waisting him later in a hale of gunfire takes some balls in the commercial Hollywood. In my line of work I get to read a lot of reviews and that's the one thing this movie has been criticized. Hello people, that's the way it REALLY goes in the real world!RoboCop 2 is simply one of the best and uncompromising sequels around.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Doesn't Measure Up.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay now we're just being fed formula and who could blame them after the critical and financial business the original Robocop did. This sequel (beyond letting us know the people behind these movies are obviously trying to make a working franchise) tells us how hard it is to duplicate success on those rare instances where a science fiction movie breaks the mold and follow it up with something just as good or better. It's a weird trait that many sequels to successful movies succumb to, but then again, when the original does so many things right some level of disappointment or failings seem almost guaranteed. Dreary atmosphere, a workable story, sprinkles of dark humor, satisfying action pieces and some real emotion. The original had it all. It'd be a fantasy to think we were going to get this and more in a sequel.We don't. This outing finds less of the dark humor and less of Murphy's humanity as he's tasked with going up against a new underground drug taking over New Detroit. Of course, things will come to a violent head and once again it will be Robocop's prime directive to make things right. Tom Noonan, who starts as the main villain is perhaps the best and the worse. A good actor can take an underwritten part farther than it was supposed to go, but only so far. Hence a key problem. Like most drug barons, especially in movie land, the one he plays is paranoid and prone to using violence. Which means the pursuit of cliché set pieces and scenarios like an obvious showdown between him and Robocop before the end (in some form). What maybe you don't expect is when half-way through the movie, the main villainy force becomes a 14 year old successor to a drug empire.The premise is simple enough. Part man, mostly machine. He's not prone to annoyances normal human beings have to deal with like being shot, bleeding, dying... that sort of thing. He can be as detached from the world as he wants to be because let's face it, he is detached. Peter Weller reprises as Robocop. Nancy Allen is again along for the ride as his partner. OCP is still OCP. The headquarters for a faceless mega corporation built on greed. Those things haven't changed, but other more intimate story and atmosphere elements have.Robocop 2 ends up not being a horrible outing. It is still very much entertaining and in due part to memories established by the original, but give me back more of that dark trashy New Detroit atmosphere as seen in the original. Give me less throwaway action scenes, 14-year old boy villains and mediocre stop motion effects. Most of all give me back the feeling that Robocop was fresh. I know that's hard to fulfill, but at least give me a glimmer of hope. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the end for the RoboCop series.","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 2 has a small but fervent fan base that I've become aware of in recent years and am somewhat bemused by. I'm my opinion it's very clear that as both a film and sequel to the outstanding original it simply fails to deliver and was the beginning of the end of the RoboCop franchise in terms of quality at least. I have a strange relationship with the film insomuch as although it's a film I have no love for I have nevertheless seen it innumerable times. I'll explain... As any who have read my review of the original will be aware it's my favourite film and in early 1990 my anticipation of the sequel was fervent to say the least. The first full theatrical trailer (with Basil Poledouris' score stolen from the original) remains to this day one of the most enticing trailers I've ever seen and makes the film look far better than the final product actually is. Alas later that year (I had to wait for the home video release) I was very disappointed. Yet still I re-watched it over and over in some vain hope that it would get better the more I watched it. I really wanted it to but It didn't. Little has been made about the production history of the film, subsequent DVD and Blu Ray releases have been bereft of special features and it's only recently, with the renewed interest in all things RoboCop that the tale of 2's beleaguered production has surfaced in any great detail. On paper it should have been a success. Most of the surviving principle cast returned, The Dark Knight Returns scribe Frank Miller on writing duty and Irvin Kershner directing. Yes, that's the same Irvin Kershner that directed a little known 1980 sci-fi film called The Empire Strikes Back. You may have heard of it. It's probably the greatest sequel ever made. So, what went wrong? Firstly as much as Kershner can be credited for his sterling work on Empire, by 1990 he hadn't directed a theatrical film since 1983's much maligned unofficial James Bond movie, Never Say Never Again. Verhoven's vision was such a defining factor of the original that his absence here was very much apparent. Kershner himself had many issues to contend with. A script that underwent numerous re-writes following studio intervention was the main problem. It's been said that when principle shooting began they still hadn't finalised the script. The finished article was, by Kershner's own admission a mess and the major cause of the movie's failure to capture the magic formula of the original. Ideas are suggested but never satisfactorily followed through. One such aspect is Murphy's relationship with his wife which is set up only for it to be unceremoniously dumped presumably to make room for more action. The whole movie has a rushed feel, perhaps not surprising given Orion's desperate financial situation at the time, they'd been eager to put out a sequel ever since the first became a hit. The studio set a release date of June 1990 long before shooting had even commenced and a workable script was finished. Orion desperately needed a quick hit to aid their financial woes and weren't concerned with artistic integrity. The performances across the board, even from Weller himself are sub-par at best. Gone is the regained humanity of Murphy by the end of film one. At the beginning of film two his voice and general mannerisms are far more robotic than when we last saw him. It's as if the film consists entirely of first takes, with unrefined, unnatural and clumsy delivery of poorly written dialogue by all involved. Also not to my liking is an almost camp edge to the humour, a poor mimicry of the ultra black comedy of the original. Several poor plot choices stick out like a sore pneumatic digit; Gabriel Damon's foul mouthed 12 year old villain Hob - they really thought that idea would work? And the whole concept of putting the brain of a drug dealing psychopath into Murphy's replacement... I thought it was called Robo-COP 2. Tom Noonan's frankly bizarre turn as drug lord Cain pales in comparison to Kurtwood Smith and Ronny Cox from the first film. Cain the quietly spoken hippy is redolent of the film's off kilter tone. And since when did The Old Man and Johnson become scenery chewing villains in place of the admittedly greedy but still fairly decent characters they portrayed in the first film?Another factor which defies logic is the decision to drop composer Basil Poledouris in favour of, wait for it... Leonard Rosenman. Yes, you know, that renowned film composer famed for Star Trek IV The Voyage Home and... um, not much else. His score for Robocop 2 is almost a carbon copy of his Trek score, campy and ill-fitting, an insult to Poledouris' rousing yet melodic work on the first film. It has to rank as one of the hokiest film scores I've heard, shameful. There are some promising elements and moments but they're few and far between. Whether Robocop 2 is better than the recent remake is up for debate, at least it's aimed at adults as it should be and is at least justified in its existence. Either way, the RoboCop franchise is best considered as solely consisting of one film and this ill-conceived sequel is proof that the first film really was a case of catching lightning in a bottle. "},{"Title":"A come down, but not an out-and-out failure","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Success for a film can be a really good thing, but it can also have a price. Usually the next move is to produce a sequel, sometimes even if one is not really needed. There are those that really work like 'Aliens,' 'Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,' and 'Superman II.' But for every good a sequel there are a few which fall short, which is often due to a lack of heart and fresh ideas. The first 'Robocop' wowed audiences and critics, which got the studio enthusiastic about turning the name into a franchise. Some of the cast and crew would be back, but there would also be a lot of new people in the mix. This isn't always a bad thing, but sometimes it could be an early warning sign that the film may end up not being worthy. Sadly 'Robocop 2,' which isn't all bad, is one of these.Pros Performances are fine. Good score. Great effects. Moves at a good pace. Some interesting ideas. Plenty of exciting action sequences. Impressive production design. Superb direction.Cons Weaker plot and script this time. Takes itself too seriously. A few things date it. Whereas the original has a lot of style and some substance, this one has much more of the former and less of the latter. Much less menacing threat.Final thoughts After such a strong start this series really could have gone places. However, somehow things didn't go as smoothly this time and what we're left with is an inferior, but not all together bad sequel. They should have take chances with this one, but instead played it safe and the film and franchise suffered for it. Still this movie is quite enjoyable and nowhere near being an embarrassment.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Thank you for not smoking.","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is the action packed, fast paced sequel to 1987 hit movie Robocop. Their is more violence, more blood and more gun fights. Everything a sequel is supposed to have. Peter Weller comes back playing the title character yet again. And their is more body count. The look of it is very outstanding and and the story was very well done. This time around, Robocopis trying to stop a drug lord and bring him to justice for the manufacture of a very addictive narcotic, nuke. I thought the new cyborg in this film looked absolutely amazing. The best part of this movie is when Robocop and Caine as the cyborg are battling each other towards the end of the movie. I do not understand why this movie has the rating it has. One of the most underrated sequels of all time, along with Predator 2, which I also enjoyed. Although I did not like this movie as much as the first movie, I like it for what it is. I would recommend this movie to anybody who likes action. Their is enough action to keep you excited from beginning to end. This movie is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Best splatter sequel ever","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Former cop turned can opener Peter Weller returns with more binary code on his mind then a telemarketing firm. In futuristic Detroit which couldn't have been a better fit, or a more realistic one, Weller is having flashback's of his wife and kid, and the police are on strike. A fierce and flashy Tom Noonan leads a semi-skilled, equal opportunity goon squad in selling dope and dealing out life ending beatings. Robocop can't seem to get memories of his wife and child out of his head. He knows he's a robot and the conflict of coming to terms with his body, mind and heart are semi-explored. ICP decides to reprogram the bot with TONS of data that ends up in total overload. Truly one of the last pics to use lots of stop-motion animation. Cain after losing a game of chicken with Robocop gets stuck himself inside a case of metal. The showdown at the end is the stuff of legends pitting humanistic robotics against an overhauled terminator! Love the scene where Robo is set up in the factory, Jesus had days like this. The sets are great, acting top notch, the story is good, direction comes from the man who did Empire Strikes Back and those funny Verhoeven commercials that he's known for, are slipped back in for chuckles. If you loved the first one, and are a fan of splatter violence, this is your flick. Ten stars. "},{"Title":"Robo-Crap","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My god how this film is so horrible. How the author of 'Batman Year One' wrote such rubbish, I'm afraid I'll never know. ***SPOILERS (but the film spoils itself anyway, so you might as well read the bloody things)***Let's start with the basics. Now that the excellent character Clarence Boddicker is dead and buried, we've got a psycho drug addict/dealer on the loose that likes to send home videos of his opinions into news channels that like to show disturbing clips of drug dealers vowing to plague the city. Okay, so maybe Cain was high at the time. Don't get me wrong, it was pretty scary. Cain The people want paradise...and they will have it. (Pretty darn scary)Even still, Cain is still a stupid psycho and is not even the central villain. Some little ten-year old is. Funny, he's the youngest character in the film and he's one of the only villains that's not addicted to 'nuke'.Anyway, RoboCop is stalking his wife, who alerts the police. They re-programme him with all sorts of zany new Prime Directives, turning him into a Robo-BoyScout. This idea is quickly scrapped when Lewis notices that the bullet-proof behemoth tries to reason with a harmless, overweight gangster -with little more than a basic shotgun (RoboCop is made out of titanium)- instead of shooting him in the head. Robo-BoyScout quickly turns back to Robo-Cop with the help of a high-powered charge of electricity.Cain is killed and turned into RoboCop 2. A whole lot of people take nuke, the mayor of Old Detroit negotiates with terrorists, RoboCop defeats RoboCop 2, and then...oh wait the film's over. ***END SPOILERS***Satirical? Nah. Tells you not to take drugs? Well, if you're a crime-boss it's advisable (according to this movie)...Cool action? If you want to count unnecessary violence as action.Cool dialogue? If you want to count unnecessary obscenities as dialogue.Good film? I'll leave that one to you. "}{"Title":"Entertaining and thought-provoking","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe there is much more depth to this film than is immediately apparent. This is not too surprising given Frank Miller's role. The Old Man seems to play the role of the biblical Adam. He wants to be the king of his domain. His consort, Dr. Faxx, plays the role of Eve. Together they create Cain. Cain, like in the Genesis story, is a killer. When things go wrong for the Old Man, he conveniently blames everything on Eve.Cain also plays another role as a false Messiah. He has delusions of godhood and openly compares himself to Jesus Christ. He promises paradise in the form of the most addictive drug ever made. He also promises to make a young boy the heir to his kingdom. The boy follows in Cain's footsteps, seeking power and wealth. Ultimately, both Cain and the boy (Hobb) want power and control. Cain wants to control every emotion that he might ever experience. He offers this kind of control to the masses. Ironically, the promise of control leads to the slavery of addiction. The boy ends up dead, killed by Cain, surrounded by money that will do him no good.OCP also wants power and control. To get it, though, they must remove some obstacles. One is Robocop. They attempt to control his mind through nonsensical programming that leaves him conflicted. They also attempt to eradicate his humanity. The annihilation of what it means to be human is a prominent theme this story. Emotion, soul, community is destroyed by the machinery of greed and the lust for control.Robocop again plays the role of a Christ figure. He faces the false Messiah, is tortured, goes through hell, OCP attempts to render him powerless, but he overcomes the programming through an act of desperation--a gamble that risks his life, but leads to redemption.We then have his return to bring judgment on Cain, OCP, the Old Man, and his partners in crime. He is free of self-doubt, free of OCP's programming. His victory is incomplete, but he tells his partner (Lewis) to have patience, we're only human. I've read that the violence in the film is simply mean-spirited and pointless. I don't believe this is true. It establishes the character of the false Messiah. Though he promises paradise, he is really looking for slaves and sychophants. When he is done with you, he'll torture you for pleasure and then watch you slowly die.I've also read that the character of Hobb only exists to encourage bad behavior in youth. I think this is truly inaccurate. Hobb is the child in each of us. Hobb is what this child looks like when corrupted by a false Messiah. There is a warning here against being duped by those who offer you the world on a silver platter. His innocence partially returns when he nears death and has a brief moment of clarity...too late. Robocop, again acting as a Christ figure, shows compassion to his former adversary--forgive them for they know not what they do. Once again there is some dark humor in this film, like the original. I think the original hit the mark a little better in this department, but not by much. The mayor is intentionally comical,but also represents democracy and the power of the people against corporate greed.I gave the film a 9, rather than a 10, because I'm aware of some of the difficulties encountered in its making. As good as it is, it could have been even better.I truly found this to be an entertaining film that also attempted to explore important themes related to human nature and the essence of what is truly good, and what is truly evil.I think it's underrated, and I believe some of the allegory is missed by those who perhaps aren't expecting to see it. "},{"Title":"Did they edit Gabriel Damon in his scene with Willard Pugh?","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched this movie on TV,the cable station EpicTV. I remember going to see this in Pittsburgh when I was in Upward Bound in 1990, and we took a trip there.Anyway when I saw it recently I was surprised at all the cursing the children did in the movie. As a 14 year old in '90 it didn't strike me as odd...but at 39 it was disturbing.I still see the Robocop franchise as strangely prophetic though, moreso than strong delusion.But I noticed one thing odd about it. Amid all the cussing by little kids there was a scene on epicTV that I thought might have been censored.Today is 1/17/15 ant it ran at about 300 PM...anyway the scene came up where Gabriel Damon was offering to bail the city out. As Gabriel he was making his spiel to Willard he said Don't be a queer. But Im thinking he said, in the original movie, Don't be a FA----, well you know the rest.So I want to know if this was edited, while the rest of the movie and F words said by kids was uncut, but when Gabriel said something that was a gay slur it wad edited.I could be wrong, but was this a edit? "},{"Title":"Somewhere in this lack luster sequel is a good movie desperately trying to claw it's way out.","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having watched Robocop (1987) and having found it a thoroughly entertaining roller coaster of a ride I was eagerly anticipating the opportunity to see the 1990 sequel. Seeing many of the original cast reprise their roles as well as what on the surface appeared some very good recasting I plunged into Robocop 2 with gleeful abandon only to be quickly brought back down to earth. To call myself disappointed is a gross understatement, I was distraught, devastated, my mind frantically tried to delete any recollection of this film from my memory. But alas, no amount of effort on my brain's part could erase the torment I had just subjected myself to. Around the 23 minute mark was when the penny finally dropped that there was a distinct possibility that I would derive little enjoyment from this film. The opening segment and our reintroduction to Robocop showed some promise, they teased us with the idea of further exploring Robocop's humanity, to look at the man in the machine and what it is in Alex Murphy specifically that makes him the best man for the job and the question of whether he is a man or merely a machine... but the movie never delivers. All the charm of the original is saturated in order to mash as many forgettable and foolish villains imaginable into this mess of a film. In order to appreciate how truly painful this movie is at times you really have to experience it for yourself but I do feel like I should stress that this film should come with a warning, because you may have to call a helpline afterwards. As the more astute readers may have spotted I make reference in this reviews tagline that I believe somewhere in this train-wreck of a film is a good and worthy successor to Robocop desperately trying to worm its way out from the chains of mediocrity. Kain could have been an interesting foil to our titular hero but we are never given enough exposition of who he is and what it is that motivates him, the idea of an upgraded Robocop better than the original to pit against our hero is something we want but instead we are given ED-209 lite. They trick us into thinking we will be given a thought provoking action thriller but instead we are given a film that lacks both style and substance.And this is what makes Robocop 2 all the more infuriating, I want it to be good, I want it to live up to the first film, it knows that it wants to live up to its father and his intimidating shadow but unfortunately for us, the audience, paying our hard earned money, it fails to deliver. "},{"Title":"Battle Bots","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the things I love about Superhero sagas are that they are always open to continuation. Whenever I'm done with one story I always wait in anticipation for the next and I'm always wondering what will happen next, this sequel didn't disappoint me yeah I know I'm probably in the minority on this but I think this is a really good if criminally underrated sequel.There are just a lot of things I really like about it the fact the script is written by one of my favorite comic book writers Frank Miller. I've read the graphic novel which was based on his original idea of the sequel, that version I felt was better despite not being made. But I still really like this sequel all the same I think it's good in it's own way, I consider this sequel scenario B in my book.But getting down more to the jist of it, The score is great, I love the new theme of Robocop there is slightly more light touch to it where it still has that epic heroic tone but also slight comic book sensibility to it.I like the really really dark setting, we see that OCP has really fraked up bad, Detroit City practically looks like Hell on Earth, everything is just completely out of control there is crime left and right, let alone one too many lawbreakers enough to give Robo a field day. The fact that the cops are on strike unfortunately give big crime organizations an edge.I love the use of satire and humor which another of the best things about the franchise. From the commercials my favorite one is the Magna Volt commercial with host John Glover, yeah I'd get that security system for my car. Another was seeing Robocop reprogrammed into being a Dudley Do Right like character, it was both surreal and hilarious but was a satire on the fallibility of censorship and pacifism.The parallel between both the criminal organization and OCP just like in the first is still there, the goal is the same to make money lots of it, despite how many lives they destroy in the process. But it's also to make things better even though they overlook the flaw in their ambitions. Cain's ambition is to bring Paridise to the world despite how hazardous his Nuke substance is, OCP's is to build Delta City despite how nice the plan looks it also means neighborhoods would be torn down and even businesses would be shut down or bought out. There is even a couple of moment that cement the parallel when there is a Nuke case labeled Made in America Cain then says, Were going to make that mean something again. And of course the same label is brought up again by the Old Man in the grand presentation scene and he says the same thing. I feel that just shows how Greed is a narcotic.Characters are good. Robocop is still well Robocop, giving criminals exactly what they deserve. As well as Anne Lewis, I like that she gets to do a bit more action this time. And I even like the new villains Cain (played well by Tom Nonnan) whom is really creepy and despite really smart is also completely wacko from his Messiah complex. However the one villain I really like that I thought stole the show was Hob (Gabrel Damon) Cain's heir/apprentice I think. He's awesome and just a darkly fun and funny villain. From his foul mouthed charisma, leadership skills, but I love that weapon of his the collapsible Uzi. That wouldn't work in real life but it's fun to think it could.The special effects as usual are awesome, there is no CGI. I love the use of model and stop motion effects. As well as some of the gore effects and chirography. The highlight and payoff no doubt is the final fight between both Robocop and Robocop 2, it was just awesome it's one of my favorite battles ever because of it's unrelenting intensity and it's variation in arenas of battle, almost like a battle in a Shonen Anime. It's sort of like a Transformers battle because this is two robots against one another, well OK there was ED-209 in the first film, but Robocop 2 I feel is a match for Robo, I love the design of Robocop 2, from the capabilities, it's size which makes it intimidating, and certain features like his head which looks like an Nazi Gustapo Helmet which in a way implies irony. But anyway practically all hell breaks loose both are just their just shooting the crap out of each other, they go though walls and floors, it even goes to the city streets of Detroit, cops are joining in the fight, there are explosions and multiple casualties it's just completely crazy but awesome.The only misfire of the film is in that scene where both Alex Murphy/Robocop and his wife Elen have a meeting, that scene did nothing for the film and just felt like one that should of been deleted, since the film wasn't even going to bother tackling Robo's human dilemma like in the first film why even have it at all.Robocop 2 despite not as good as the first it still has enough firepower to get the job done.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"Robocop 2 is magnificent!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The problem with Robocop 2 is that it doesn't adhere to the rigid, unwavering demands of the average movie critic who seems to expect the same things from every movie -- character development, following through with themes and ideas, each scene being directly relevant to the story, relationships, and so on. Thus, it's easy to see why virtually no movie critic out there liked this film. When measuring its quality by a set of criteria intended for films like When Harry Met Sally or The Godfather, it's no surprise that Robocop 2 would receive mostly lousy reviews. The reality, though, is that Robocop 2 is a spectacular film. Here's why First and foremost, the plot is magnificent! (SPOILERS HERE).Most of the police are on strike and the Detroit is in chaos. Crime runs rampant. The CEO of OCP wants to privatize Detroit and has swindled the mayor in order to make this possible. Meanwhile, a new designed drug called Nuke is being used throughout Detroit, and Robocop seeks to eradicate it. In the process, he nearly kills Caine, the drug-lord responsible for the Nuke epidemic. Concurrently, an ambitious researcher at OCP (Dr. Faxx, who is sleeping with the CEO for professional gain) is looking to design a second Robocop, and determines that the best way to do so is to use the brain of a drug-addict despite her colleagues' protests. When the opportunity presents itself, she reprograms Robocop to be utterly lame, and she murders Caine in his hospital bed and turns him into Robocop 2. The mayor, in order to prevent Detroit from being taken over by OCP, plans to strike a deal with Caine's second-in-command, a twelve year-old criminal named Hobb, who promises to pay all of Detroits debts to OCP in return for allowing Nuke to be manufactured unmolested by the Detroit police. OCP executives get wind of this plan, and together with Dr. Faxx, decide to utilize Robocop 2 to kill the mayor while he meets with Hobb. Many are killed, as you can imagine, including Hobb, but the mayor escapes.Shifting gears, the CEO holds a press conference (which the mayor attends) to introduce to the public a model of the new and privatized Detroit as well as Robocop 2, the new version with the firepower to keep the public safe. Robocop enters the hall, Robocop 2 goes berserk, fighting ensues, many bystanders are killed, and ultimately Robocop kills Robocop 2. The CEO, of course, escapes and a plan is quickly formed to blame the entire catastrophe on Dr. Faxx in order to allow him to go Scot-free.It's worth mentioning here that the description above is a simplified account of the story, and that the plot is indeed intricate, coherent, and downright interesting.Moreover, you have to remember that there are movies with vastly more simplistic plots than this that have been awarded Oscars for best picture and/or best original screenplay in the past Gladiator comes to mind, as does Titanic, No Country for Old Men, The Lord of the Rings The Return of the King, and many others. All of these films, while excelling in other areas, had almost childishly-simple story lines.The problem with Robocop 2 is that it's much more eccentric and satirical than its predecessor, Robocop. Put differently unlike its predecessor, it's a film that was meant entirely not to be taken seriously -- a task that movie critics simply cannot perform. Since Robocop 2 is neither a serious drama nor a comedy, it is to most critics two hours of pure satire, and it was reviewed accordingly. Read any review of the film and you'll see that most of them consist of little more than harsh criticism of the film's eccentricities and satire.The reality is that when you view this film with an open mind and without any expectations, you will find it to be odd, even corny at times, and incredibly entertaining! A great plot, interesting (albeit static) characters, decent special-effects, a little bit of comedy, and plenty of action to go around can all be found. Robocop 2 has everything you'd expect from a good movie. "},{"Title":"RoboCop Strikes Back","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am surprised to see that this movie is bashed almost by everyone, i am in the minority that enjoyed this movie.RoboCop 2 is directed by Irvin Kershner, director of 5th episode of the Star Wars saga, The Empire Strikes Back.Plot A new dangerous drug called Nuke is circulating in the streets manufactured by the god-delirious Kane....now Alex Robocop Murphy as a new enemy to fight ! It features one of the best stop-motion animations ever, awesome job, stop motions does what CGI can't.RoboCop 2 is violent and bloody, not brutal like the first one from Paul Verhoeven, but that's okay it's still enjoyable. Some of the stars complained about the movie being Too violent and negative, probably this is the reason why we don't see Peter Weller RoboCop 3RoboCop 2 still contains some satire, like in the first one, but if i tell you i will be forced to spoil something.Too bad that it's followed by the kid friendly Robocop 3..... "},{"Title":"Good sequel just not good enough","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to top the first RoboCop. RoboCop is what I consider a cinema masterpiece. RoboCop 2 is not as good as the first of course but for what it is it is an overall good sequel. The story takes place after RoboCop 1 and is about a drug lord named Kane and an insane female scientist who tries to alter RoboCop's Prime Directives. The best parts of the movie are undoubtedly the parts that include RoboCop. The other scenes without Weller(RoboCop) are just weak and sort of depressing. The Story in this film is also weak and just doesn't top the story of the first. Despite the weak story the action and special effects are solid and well done which gives this movie a good re-watchable quality. To sum it all up if your a fan of the first then you will probably be impressed with the sequel just don't expect to have your mind blown. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Making a sequel to Paul Verhoeven's exceptional Robocop was always going to be a losing game.  But director Irvin Kershner's effort is not all bad, although its reputation suggests otherwise.While it's not significantly more gory than the original, Robocop 2 turns out to be more cold-blooded and manipulative in its depiction of violence simply put, Kershner fails to inject the comic edge to such scenes, which Verhoeven seems to manage quite regularly.  On the plus side, however, there are some good action sequences & nice effects courtesy of Phil Tippet; and the scene where a dismembered Robocop is suspended in the lab, eyes twitching wildly, almost matches any scene in the first film in terms of poignant intensity.  Almost.6/10 "},{"Title":"RoboCop-out.","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whoever thought that Irvin Kershner (nice bloke/mediocre director) would be the right person to take over the reins of the Robocop franchise from Paul Verhoeven (enfant terrible/movie maverick) should be made to explain themselves to a malfunctioning ED-209 (You have 20 seconds to justify your decision... 15 seconds... 10 seconds.... BLAM! BLAM! BLAM!) although Kershner proved himself capable of putting together a slick, family-friendly sci-fi sequel with The Empire Strikes Back, he's clearly way out of his depth when dealing with the kind of gritty, über-violent, and wickedly satirical content that is second nature for Hollywood bad-boy Verhoeven.As one might expect, there are lots of explosions, gunfire, bloody bullet hits, and special effects on show, but Kirshner plays it all way too safe, displaying none of the excess or imagination that made the first film such an incredible experience. When you factor in a surprisingly poor script from comic geek favourite Frank Miller, an uninspired performance from star Peter Weller that feels more like contractual obligation rather than a genuine yearning to reprise the role, a forgettable main bad guy in the form of Tom Noonan (with a bloody kid as his sidekick!), and some weak attempts at mimicking the original's wry humour, what you have is a sequel that just about satisfies on the most basic of levels (it's got guns and robots and Nancy Allen), but can only be seen as a disappointment when compared to its predecessor.5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Not excellent but not terrible","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my straightforward opinion, I think RoboCop 2 is a good film, not excellent but not terrible, either. It's also a good thing that the movie fell into the hands of a greatly experienced director, Irvin Kershner (what else could you expect from the person who made 'The Empire Strikes Back`?).At first, I only saw the movie on TV, with most of the good parts cut out, sadly, but then I rented it, and saw it fully. Oh, yes, it is more violent than the first one, with more devious characters involved, including Tom Noonan's portrayal of the brutal criminal Cain. Too bad Dan O' Herlihy's character, the Old Man, had to turn ruthless and cold-blooded, whose personality and message displays just a corporate businessman looking to control a city and make huge profits off of it, with no interest or pity whatsoever in the lives or good of the citizens. Hmmm. Sort of sounds like common politicians. (I also think Dr. Juliette Faxx, the head of robotics at OCP, is a perfectly sinister, seductive, and manipulative associate to The Old Man, since she occasionally mentions a flair of psychology to him). And too bad that some of the film's moments is riddled with unnecessary violence, like in the `only choice' OCP commercial where a man shoots himself.WARNING CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERSSo.the beginning sequence. Well, in the scene where the camera pans through the most run-down section of the city, showing how crime-trodden it became during the police strike, the film takes its first awkward/wrong turn when they show a now-everyday crime incident involving a group of robbers blasting the hell out of the front entrance of an artillery store, and then grabbing every gun they can get their hands on. Then, of course, Robo comes and shoots the bad guys but sadly is too late to save the good guy, part of the film's violence. Then, the film revs up again and shows Robocop raiding a `nuke' warehouse. By the way, the `I really like this gun, man' dialogue in a beginning scene between the injured artillery storekeeper and one of the criminals, and then the latter shooting the former is one of the film's many moments of ultraviolence, another one being the brutal execution of the traitor cop Duffy, staged by Cain (that scene really shouldn't be seen be small children).END OF SPOILERAlso, I think the film's best action sequence is in the middle of the film, where a totally exciting vehicle chase is involved (and when a sniper tries to take out Robocop but the former gets his eye blown to bits instead through the gun's seeing range). Leonard Rosenman's score really boosts this film up sometimes, although, near the end, it wobbles between premature and still good. Another idea Hob's character personality is shockingly vulgar, with rough language and some smirks included in the package.WARNING DEFINITE SPOILERSIn fact, it's so rough, yet interesting, that when Hob is killed by Robo 2, maybe a viewer will scoff and expect to move on. When I saw it, I didn't really feel sorry for Hob, since he was cruel to Robo, like when he participated in mechanically severing all of his metal parts without remorse. It's also sort of fun how Cain's robot form comes back and shoots everybody in the factory where Hob is conducting drug business, and how it twists Angie's head to kill her. That part is gross.END OF SPOILERFinally, I think that true fans of the film will forgive the film's vulgar language, which is said by children, by God! and by the character Hob, especially in this scene 'Can't shoot a kid, can you, f***er?' I always wonder how director Kershner managed to convince probably nice kids off-screen to say bad words to Robo on-screen.So, if you're looking for a juicy, nastily violent action movie mixed with sci-fi, or for the sequel to the original RoboCop, then look no further and rent, or buy, this film. I give this movie ** stars out of **** stars. "}{"Title":"Violent Fun","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, the film's storyline is like that of a Comic Book, but if you enjoy to watch Peter Weller play as Robocop, the Gun-Totin' Law Enforcer of the future, this movie is as fun as the first, and better than the 3rd (which wasn't very good at all, and lacked Peter Weller)The movie actually has some suspenseful moments, but it's main purpose is to serve the bloody shoot-out craving in most of us.If you compare it to Robocop's Comic Book Spin-Offs, Cartoon Spin-Offs, and even TV Series Spin-Offs, Robocop 2 is a classic film. "},{"Title":"Tries to Out-Verhoven Verhoven","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RoboCop is undeniably one of the most defining movies of the 80s, so when the sequel comes out everyone expects it to be just as good if not better than the original.  This film doesn't succeed - but then again which film has?This film directed by the same guy who directed Empire Strikes Back is not as funny, witty or has the same social dialogue that the first one so elioquently puts and instead turns the franchise into an sub-standard action movie.It does, to its merit, try hard - but the comic feel seems out of place to the action film feeling it has. The prototype RoboCop 2's that kill themselves was pretty funny as is the scene where RoboCop stops in the middle of the street shoots at a guy then tells him thankyou for not smoking.The film takes on lots of plots and ideas and then never really delivers the goods, you've got RoboCop stalking his wife and child yet the relationship or his reactions to the fact that he can never have a relationship again is never explored, its just left hanging - just like the Frankenstein plot of RoboCop 2 - why does the female doctor hate RoboCop anyhow?  and why does she feel that a psyotic drug dealer would be much better than a cop?There are many things wrong with this film, the sheer horridness of Kane's death and brain removal, then showing Kane his skull whilst his brain floats in water is just plain sick, what tops it off is the doctor saying right, anyone hungry at the end.  That scene was not needed.Anyhow the obligitary stop-motion end fight sequence is nothing to right home about.This film is not as good as the first one, in some respects it tries too hard to mirror Verhoven's efforts in overly violent images and plot themes yet doesn't have the same feel that the original had.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"Why do people make such crappy movies?","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I know every actionmovie-sequel had to have more special effects, crueller bad guys, and more violence. So i was prepared for the worst when i thought about the violence and blood in the original. It can't be easy to make a sequel to a so cool movie as '' RoboCop''. And Irvin Kershner can NOT prove the opposite. I have seen a lot of crap and RoboCop 2 is one of them. People who loved '' RoboCop ''...get ready to cry.  "},{"Title":"Paul Verhoven was wise to stay clear...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film ruined a potenitally good series of films. In my opinion, sequels should only be made if it is vital to the story line, not just to make money. Robocop 2 has two problems, number one being that Paul Verhoven has vanished to make Total Recall and number two being that Basil Poledouris has also gone with his stunning score. I can't really say much more than what previous people have seen before me. On the positive side, the violent bits are well executed but Kershner's Empire Strikes Back seems to be much better, although not great. What a shame. "},{"Title":"Helplessness","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a big hit of my youth and so I decided to take a trip down memory lane and check if it still works as I have the VHS.The plot of the film is that conglomerate OCP have decided to take over weeviled futuristic Detroit, and the way they are going to do this is by foreclosing on a loan that they have made to the city, which was secured on city assets (presumably stuff like the train station, prisons, libraries and schools). It's in their interest to let the city go to pot whilst this happens so they can play white knight to the public when they privatise, and so they withdraw their warranty on RoboCop and provoke the police to strike. RoboCop meanwhile is intent on dishing out justice to Cain, the kingpin of an organisation which distributes new designer drug, Nuke, in handy plastic cassettes.Trauma and helplessness are big themes in this movie and there are two points in the movie where already physically traumatised individuals are systematically butchered/disassembled/tortured in a helpless state. In terms of general suffering whilst helpless I think you could probably raise that to five incidents, if you count three scenes when RoboCop is helpless (aides memoire magnet, microshocks and I type it, you think it), once with a store keeper plagued by kids and also Officer Duffy.The OCP shyster points out to RoboCop that he will never be able to go out dancing and fall in love again, and I think that statement lays bare his traumatic situation, which is a fundamentally hopeless one. The only solution he can find for his pain is to go out and murder criminals. This he manages to accomplish with élan and flourish. To show off at one point he steps into a shot whilst turning his head backwards, kind of like a pool player using their other hand or closing their eyes just before they take a pot. Whereas in the first movie his flourish when holstering is something that keeps alive the memory of his son, here his antics are genuinely psychotic.The movie is pitch black at times, for example when the Old Man and corporate flunkeys watch film footage of various fatal failures in the RoboCop 2 program, I was reminded of the hideous real life footage the Nazis took of their V2 rocket tests (including one where various scientists and Reich underlings are wiped out by a boomeranging missile). Another particularly pernicious element is the corruption of childhood, one of the main baddies is small boy.Dr. Juliette Faxx comes in as the main OCP baddie, a power-dressing man-eating sexual sadist. She is an alarming paranoid sexist nightmare that plays on anxieties of the era where men felt threatened by the first generation of emancipated and competitive women in the workplace. I think that the sexist nightmare of the 90s, which perhaps is still around, is of the aggressive, and yet impeccable female colleague, which actually is all about helplessness as well! As with the first movie there are newsclips hinting of the helplessness of the time, where environmental catastrophes come one straight after another, holes multiplying in the dam, with not enough fingers and toes to stop up them all.This movie gets a bad rap maybe because it is not as flawless as the original RoboCop, for example the baddie Cane (Tom Noonan) is pretty listless compared to Clarence Boddiker from the first movie, and it's genuinely a nastier piece of work, however it contains its fair share of iconic moments, and ends up closer to being a horror movie than anything else, just absolutely haunting. "},{"Title":"Good film, which had a great story, but sadly it was edited out, literally.","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I like this film, but I think it was made badly. The story is all over the place, characters disappear and we don't know what happened them, and most, if not all, of the scenes which flesh out Murphy's human side are edited out, why?The original plot for this film is brilliant, and I believe that if it had have been used then RoboCop 2 would have been a much better film, and the RoboCop franchise would still be going strong today, and we may even have had a RoboCop 4 in the last 90's.If MGM want to make some decent money, they should release a Directors Cut version of the film which would contain the 15/20 minutes of extra footage that we never saw. I have seen stills of these scenes and they look really good, if only they had been left in.... "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says, I love Robocop 2.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is again set in Detroit in the near future a year after the events of the original Robocop, Detroit is almost entirely financed by the company OCP. The city is in a state lawlessness as most of the cops are on strike as OCP cut their pay, OCP President (Dan O'Herlihy) watches on as his plan to foreclose on the current administration is working which will let OCP take complete control of Detroit. Out on the street a new addictive drug called Nuke is flooding the city, crime & violence follows it. Robocop & the few remaining cops have their hands full. Meanwhile evil scientist Dr. Juliette Faxx (Belinda Bauer) has set about creating a successor to Robocop, another cyborg crime prevention unit to protect & serve. However her real motives aren't as noble as they first seem...Directed by Irvin Kershner this sequel to the popular Robocop (1987) was unfairly trashed on it's initial release & has a pretty bad reputation but it's a film that I love & while not quite as good as the original in my opinion it's still a terrific film that is probably more fun to watch than it's predecessor. The script credited to Frank Miller was apparently heavily rewritten & maybe that's why the story is a little choppy at times, for instance the character's are good but what was the comedy relief Mayor all about? Robocop's partner Lewis is relegated to standing around for the majority of the film & only seems there to provide some continuity to the original. Why was the subplot about Murphy's wife so short & dropped as soon as it was brought up? That would have given Robocop 2 a human edge. However the biggest single problem with Robocop 2 I have is why would anyone put the brain of a sadistic killer & drug baron into a heavily armed cyborg? It just doesn't make any sort of sense, what was Dr. Faxx's reasons behind it? It was supposed to be a police unit, right? Why get it addicted to Nuke as well? If you don't think about it too much it probably won't bother you. Now the good stuff, it moves along at a great pace with lots of action & I just love the huge over-the-top Robocop vs. Robocop 2 fight at the end, any serious sci-fi geek will lap it up. While the pitch black biting satire of the original isn't quite here there are still some nice moments including OCP trying to take control of Detroit & use it to make a profit, some funny commercial breaks (the one with the guy who commits suicide is funny) & the sequence where Robocop is reprogrammed to be good & none violent by upper class twits who have never lived in the real world is hilarious. I just think there is so much here to enjoy, plenty of gory violent action, lots of special effects, cool robots, car chases, explosions & some neat action scenes. What's not to like?I really like the look of Robocop 2 & I liked the special effects. I think Robocop 2 was one of the last big budget theatrically released films to predominantly use stop-motion animation for the majority of the effects, over the next couple of years with the likes of Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) & Jurassic Park (1993) in particular stop-motion died out virtually overnight & was replaced by CGI. I personally love stop-motion animation, it gives you the sense that there is actually something three dimensional there & while it can sometimes look a little jerky I seriously doubt if Robocop 2 was CGI it would look significantly any better. The Robocop vs. Robocop 2 fight at the end is just outrageous, from elevator shafts to the top of 100 storey buildings the makers have fun & in turn we, the audience, have fun. Well, I did anyway. Robocop 2 is also a very violent & pretty gory film, from snipers getting shot through their eye to dozens of people getting gorily riddled with bullets, there's a torture scene as someone is sliced open, there's a very gory brain removal sequence as there is a human brain in a tank & the person it used to belong to's hollowed out decapitated head, necks are violently broken, kids are shot & a guy has his eye poked out by a stiletto heel.Technically the film is good with some great special effects in my opinion although some may find them a bit dated. Filmed in Houston in Texas. The acting is alright, the main villain Cain played by Tom Noonan isn't a patch on Boddicker from the original though.Robocop 2 is a film that I think is fantastic, it's got some cool robots & lots of fun special effects sequences as well as plenty of blood, gore & violence although the dark satire of the first film is somewhat replaced by goofy silliness it tries to please everyone. Followed by the dire Robocop 3 (1993), the TV series Robocop (1994 - 1995) & the TV mini-series Robocop Prime Directives (2000). "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before this film's release fans must have been in a whirlwind of excitement. The director of Empire Strikes Back (widely regarded as one of the top sequels ever made) and the writer of The Dark Knight Returns teaming up for RoboCop. At first glance Miller seems like an ideal choice. DKR is brimming with social satire and the news broadcasts that infuse that comic are eerily similar to the Media Break segments in the first film. And maybe Miller was a great choice. We'll never really know since only fragments of his story were worked into the final script.RoboCop 2 is vastly inferior to the original but it's not the train wreck a lot of people make it out to be either. It's a movie bursting at the seams with wasted potential. They had an interesting subplot with Murphy's widow, a charismatic villain, and OCP stealing the city right from under the Mayor's nose. All interesting subplots that are never given any development or payoff. The film doesn't even really have a coherent story. It darts off in so many directions and ends up feeling like a mish mash of their favorite moments from all the different drafts. OCP refusing to bring RoboCop back online, his eventual re-programming, and even the third act introduction of RoboCop 2... these are all elements slapped together and none of them has a chance to evolve or resonate.Kershner is a competent filmmaker. Some of the scenes are incredibly well done RoboCop's dismantling, Cain's assault on his former gang and the mayor, the last moment between Robo and the kid... but I'm not sure he was a great choice. 95% of the film takes place in daylight and everything seems so bright, shiny, and unthreatening. It looks like the film was made for a fraction of the cost of the original but that's not the case. How can the production value seem so low? Where did the money go? Robo's absent for a twenty minute stretch of time. Lewis & Reed are barely cameos. The Old Man is suddenly a vicious antagonist. The cops inexplicably end their strike and risk their lives to help Robo get revenge. But one of the biggest offenses is the score. Not only did Basil Poledouris not return, but none of his themes were used either. His RoboCop theme is iconic. This is like Superman without John Williams. The music is too hokey and chipper and the end credits overture borders on ridiculous (a choir chants RoboCop!).Perhaps the flaws wouldn't seem as glaring if there wasn't the amazing first film to compare this to. It's certainly not one of the worst movies I've ever seen. And it's certainly not as bad as the next sequel. But it ain't the original. Not by a long shot. "},{"Title":"Robocop 2  Robocop v. Cain","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OCP is at it again.I thought Robocop 2 was great, and at the very least it was better than the first. R2 showed more vulnerability in Robocop and seemingly even more sinister bad guys. And how could you not like Cain? The Robocop v. Cain battle ranks high with me amongst silver screen battles, robots or otherwise. On the one hand there is Robocop a virtually impenetrable human sized robot with a powerful, fully automatic Desert Eagle hand gun, unlimited ammo, and a dead cop's brain at the controls. On the other hand there is Cain a state of the art, extra large, finely tuned weapon, with every imaginable weapon of destruction short of a nuclear bomb, and a nuke addicted dead drug dealer's brain at the controls.The entire movie was priming the audience for a magnificent showdown between Robocop and Cain. First they showed Robocop's fallibility by having him chopped up and delivered to the front steps of the police HQ. Second, Robocop fried himself to erase the OCP programming in his brain that was hindering him from pursuing justice. Third, OCP created another robot using Cain's brain, a notorious drug dealer. Finally, R2 made sure to display Cain's devastating power and ruthlessness when he broke up the meeting between the mayor and the young protégé drug dealer. By the time Cain was done, that crime scene looked like mid 70's Beirut. Cain appeared indestructible and far more menacing than the first Robocop bad 'bot ED 209. The final fight between the two was fantastic, especially if you like destructive, high casualty, spill over fights, and an awesome display of raw power. Robocop knew that he was over-matched so he even resolved to destroy himself in trying to destroy Cain when he pried Cain from the top of the high rise building. It was only Robocop's edge in intelligence that allowed him to finally defeat Cain. Robocop 2 was a rare improvement on an already good movie. The story was serviceable, the characters were a perfect fit, and the action was spot on. This movie was not for anyone looking for a deep message, or any kind of resolution to a previous bad experience. This was purely a good guy v. bad guys, finish with a bang action flick. "},{"Title":"The way Movies need to be made.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw RoboCop 2 for the first time when I was 11 or 12.  I loved the first one knew I had to see the second one after I saw the previews (Like the previews of any pre-era the early nineties movie previews proved to be more accurate when it came to showing what a film would be about than now with how you're misled to what a film will be about).  When I saw these previews I had no doubt in my mind that this was going to be great.  My only disappointment with the film after I saw it was how it ended so abruptly. Having watched it over 10 times now with a better understanding and appreciation for how it was created I realize how everything in the movie was very organized (even the ending)and formulaic. The movie is sheer gold.  The Director made a masterpiece.  It seems as the years go by this movie seems to be comfortably classified as an Ultra Violent film.  That's fine with me, there have been many great films now turned into cult classics that are known to be Ultra violent (Shogun Assassin is one among the many). I want to get down to the definition of how a film can be called ultra violent.  When a film tries to depict a real world through the story it's telling and has it's characters being shown dying in incredibly brutal and somewhat exaggerated ways it gets the Ultra Violent sticker.  The climax of Robocop 2 shows many reporters  and other bystanders being gunned down by the huge Cain as he goes on a rampage to get the drug (Nuke) he desires and to kill the first Robocop Murphy.  These people are shown getting shot as if it were live footage.  All the while Cain is being programmed by the large corporation OCP to do away with Murphy i.e. the people's person.  What more could you ask for in an action film, Metaphors are everywhere.  These victims faces are that of this wasn't supposed to be in the script. Through out this violent entanglement we are getting a lesson in economics and capitalism.  The message Corporations are big and crush anything in there way.  Anything having to do with public assistance is similar to that of socialism.  The first shots of the film depicting a decrepit like Detroit are a great example of this.Not only was Robocop 2 able to pack in decent dialogue to move the story along and gobs of action that looked sufficiently believable (considering the fact that Robocop can't run,jump, or duck) than anything I've seen coming out today (The Matrix has been over done, played out), you get a lesson in corporate politics on what could happen when a democratic city government seeks help from a large corporation (OCP) to keep it from going bankrupt. I applaud films that don't try to beat around the bush when people are being killed.  If anyone has every witnessed bloodshed there's nothing to be proud of; it's sick and hurts everyone surrounding it whether dead or alive. The only films I can think of where it looked appropriate to make death look good and un-daring were the pre 1980 James Bond films, Roger Moore had such a smooth look about himself when ever he did away with an enemy whether using a gun or a ledge. I have so much respect for Kershner for making Robocop 2.  I don't know the story on how the film was created but I'll bet that no body saw this coming.  He seems to have made this thing out of the blue, how it got to be so righteously violent could have only been coincidence.    Robocop 1 was a good movie no doubt, but Robocop 2 is a great example of what you can do with special effects to carry a film that critics say didn't have a strong cast or plot line.  Robocop 2 seemed to add on to what part one left out, only they added tens times the action and carnage. The villain in robocop 2 (Cain, in human form and especially robot form) has stood out to be the best villian I've even seen to balance out that of good and evil in a movie.  That scene where he enters the warehouse and begins to massacre the people inside by turning out all the lights terrified me for months when I saw it for the first time.  Cain was a killing machine and had all types of crazy different gadgets to extinguish his victims with. You definitely get to see his carnival assortment of machinery when he battles with Murphy at the end.  I was even scared for Murphy when Cain went at him like a locomotive. A great film sequence that gets my blood going every time I see it starts off with Murphy entering the auditorium with the famed cobra gun from the first film saying Cain! Lets step outside! and ending with Murphy inviting Cain (Your coming with me Cain) to tumble off a 100 story building ripping through the bottom of the street.  What gets the whole thing going is when Murphy is at the top of the building inside the elevator shaft looking down only to see Cain coming up towards him at full speed like a hideous beast with huge fangs.  The scene looks dark and terrifying. Cain tackles the both of them to the outside edge of the top of OCP's headquarters where they cling for dear life.  Robocop is all time fearless hero as he sacrifices himself to stop Cain from killing initiating the both of them in falling off the building. I still melt in excitement at how that sequence was shot.Robocop 2 is the best example when it comes to what American directors can do with special effects.  Hong Kong directors reign over how to do gun battles and Kung-Fu but Kershner proved with Robocop 2 that America films rule when it comes to special effects.  It appears that I'll have to be the one to create the next action packed special effects Ultra Violent film considering that I've seen no movie come close (that's right, in the year is 2003) to anything robocop 2 ever did. It's by far the best example I've seen to what you can do with a robot playing the lead role who talks in monotone, can't run (again), and shows no emotions.  Let the legacy live on.            "}{"Title":"Excellent comic-book sequel to the original.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I actually think Robocop 2 is superior to its predecessor, though many fans of the latter would probably disagree with me. Robocop 2 is very violent, bloody, and often quite funny. The action sequences are exciting and handled with great skill, and the FX are superb. This is one of my favourites.  "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY Heavy Handed.(spoilers)","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I find it surprising that the horrible & shocking way the double dealing officer(Duffy?)was tortured to death by Cain is not given the same notoriety as the shower scene in psycho, the death of Bambi's mother, the burning of the church in The Patriot, the murder of Melony Mitchell in Air Force One & other infamous movie scenes. Even if you aren't bothered by the astronomical body count of this feature I strongly suggest you fast foreward through this scene or sneak peek other channels when it comes to it. If you aren't disturbed by this scene, you're probably a threat to society.With regards to the part where Robocop was reprogrammed, as ridiculous as it may seem, I thought it was genuinely funny & disturbingly instructive The way the politicians & scientists were was very similar to what Liberals seem to be wanting our police force to be like. What really trumped any doubt the the focus group involved was reading out of a Left wing sheet of music was when one of the members suggested  that RC be programmed to talk about the environment & the way he was programmed to only use his gun to scare people away from smoking. Interesting how Liberal Hollywood is not above making heavy handed demonstrations of the absurdity of the ideals they espouse to.The torture scene notwithstanding,  in most of it  the violence was of the relatively quick death variety & like Demolition Man,it has portions that demonstrate Liberalisms absurd extremes.  "},{"Title":"Good sequel to RoboCop!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Sequel to RoboCop is a good one with more violence.Perter Weller and Nancy Allen both do as good Dan O'Herlihy,as they did in the original. Thomas Rosales Jr once again gets shot up in this movie which was no suprise to Me because in most of the films he is in he either gets killed or is behind bars.Tom Noonan is the villain this time around and is a good one at that! John Glover is his usual self.Leonard Rosenman`s score for RoboCop 2 is very good!Fans of the first RoboCop film check the sequel out as it is a good sequel with a lot of action!  "},{"Title":"Besides T2, this is the best sequel I've ever seen","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, this movie is a continuation of the first Robocop movie. The special effects are the same, the story's basically the same, and the actors are pretty much the same. If you have a good thing to start off with, why change it? This time, however, the robot has a lot more fire-power, making the movie somewhat better. The only thing I didn't care for were the cheesy clay-mation special-effects. I understand, however, that they had nothing better at the time. All-in-all, a great movie good acting, good directing, and good story. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why this sequel has such a bad rep, it's certainly better than Robocop 3 (which has its moments, but is still sub-par in many ways), or the syndicated television series. How can you go wrong with a script by Frank Miller (comic book writer/artist responsible for The Dark Knight Returns and many years on Marvel's Daredevil) and the director of The Empire Strikes Back? In my book, R2 picks up exactly where the original left off, with more action, better character development, and maintains the sly sense of humor of the first film. Some of the stop-motion special effects look a little aged now (at least on my VHS copy; I haven't upgraded this one to DVD yet) but if you can get past that R2 is enjoyable for action freaks.  "},{"Title":"Roboflop 2","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was a pale imitation of it's predecessor, lacking in the originality and humor that made Robocop 1 such a great movie. Robocop 2 tries too hard to outdo the first in it's scenes of violence going over the top with the gore, and losing the realism and style that the original had. An incoherent badly scripted mess, only worth a look for the last 20 mins when robo goes head 2 head with the super cyborg. It could have been better, but at least it's not as bad as the third.  "},{"Title":"Much Darker, Sinister RoboCop Worth A Showing","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis is my answer to those Zeitgeist bound young people who say Empire Strikes Back was not 'dark'; remember, that was over thirty-five years ago. Yes, compared to Star Wars, with scenes of torture, it was Apolcalypse Now. Here, the same director darkens the original quite a bit. The movie struggled at the box office for a drug dealing youngster with Scarface's vocabulary, surgery without anesthetic, pulling the plug on the drug lord Cain, do not show this movie to children. The movie attempts to mirror Verhoeven's original's satirical tone but there are some misfires. It follows the police on strike against OCP while Cain is pushing Nuke a new injectable drug that looks suspiciously like Kool Aid in plastic tubes. Nancy Allen and Peter Weller are back, which is why I recommend you watch this but skip the awful third one which sucks so badly neither actor would be in the movie. Just be warned, while the movie opens with a clever parade of small criminals being robbed in a line by progressively bigger criminals, the movie gets darker and darker. The RoboCop program is taken over by a ambitious psychologist who turns RoboCop into a tree hugging progressive. She actually has a session where she lets every retard with a cause write his programming. This makes for the only levity that truly works in the movie as he goes out into the urban jungle full of dumb ass directives watch him apply no smoking. Her real mission is to push her new improved Robocop with the drug lord Cain's sociopathic brain running the much larger version. As you might imagine, things don't go well with a serial killer's brain in charge of the machine; suffice to say, getting hold of nuke and killing people soon trumps being a cop. The movie, while watchable, is a ghost of Verhoeven's original. Kirshner attempts to duplicate the throat cutting corporate infighting, the trenchant satire of the culture, there are a few hits but many fall flat. Just do not go into this expecting the original. One example is an almost perfect rip-off of the ambush in the deserted factory from the original; this is a great example of trying to copy a one of a kind original too well. Noonan does a capable job as Cain but the faceless crew cannot hold a candle to Ray Wise or Clarence from the eighties' classic. The movie suffered from violating many movie rules of the times bad mouthed kids dealing drugs who buy it, kinky implied machine / henchwoman sex, ugly torture scenes that make the ones in Empire Strikes Back look like Disneyland. Quite gory in parts, even given its age, the gore is often gratuitous and doesn't serve any purpose. Yes, you should see it once for Weller, Allen, the Old Man and Cain. I would watch it before buying it, definitely. When I saw this in the theater, families were walking out during the foul mouthed kiddie parts. This movie is on the periphery for me, I enjoyed parts of it but as an entire movie, I, like many others, was disappointed. Yet, for all of its flaws, the drop off here is not as precipitous as from here to the abysmal third one. There is a good final battle between the RoboCops that made it end well. It just never had the singular cutting dialog that made the original such a treasure. The infighting between the mayor, the guy from Back To The Future, borders on parody; many people were laughing when he is berating the crooked Old Man of OCP. This is always the mark of bombs laughter in serious parts. The much weaker cast is also a reason but the writing and directing are notably inferior to Verhoven's gem. Watch Before Buying This. Worth At Least One Showing. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"Pretty good sequel","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've only remember seeing bits of this film when I was younger but I don't remember seeing this film in it's entirety and now that I have seen it in full, I think it's a pretty good film and is a worthy sequel.The action and the special effects actually was very good, the movie made good use of mainly animatronics and stop motion techniques which were common use for the time period it came out.Like any action film it has lots of violence, gun shooting and explosions. It's perhaps not as memorable as the first film but I had fun watching this. I would recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly nice sequel!","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After my initial disappointment that Anne (Nancy Allen) didn't become Robobabe straight away, since she was so severely shot up at the end of part one, I decided to hope for that to happen later on (no, it didn't) and move on. So, then, 'Robocop 2' seemed to become a lesser version of its predecessor; less impressive villains, less impressive action and a lot of bad one-liners from Robocop himself (not that part one had such great one-liners - not at all, really).But things stayed interesting here and there, and Tom Noonan was a pretty good choice as the new main baddie. And then came more and more terrific ideas about the cops taking over the city with a cunning financial plan, about a kid who thinks he is the next Scarface, about Robocop (the original) descending into an identity crisis by an overload of rules, about a load of baseball kids (led by their coach!) looting a store, about Dr. Faxx exacting a devious plan to use villains for cops and keeping them in control through drugs, about a fresh young black mayor who decides to get his money from anyone just to stay in power... etc., etc. (it gets a little too obvious in the end with the Nazi flag and the Gestapo outfits, though, ha ha). Yes, 'Robocop 2' has a lot to offer, if you'll keep in mind that it's a sort of exploitation flick with a big budget (looks like it - I haven't checked) - and a very creative one.The creative cherry on top here is the loads of stop-motion scenes with Robocop 1 fighting Robocop 2, which actually don't come in until a lot later. There's some short bits of other Robocop stop-motion bits earlier on, which are good fun as well.It's hard to decide if this one is better or just as good as the first one, but both get a big 7 out of 10 for now. "},{"Title":"A drab","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" a long period after making i could see they wanted to do something new with Robocop 2 we had a possible story line about how machines can be seen with humanity we had a possible story line of how corporate greed can bring city chaos and destruction to local people but then suddenly about halfway though, it switches back too robocop 1, with robocop only having to deal with a small syndicate of mobsters and then sorting out the corporation problems with the sweet cliché 'we'll get them tomorrow'. the bad guys didn't have much depth in comparison, Kirkwood was really made out to be a slimeball and represented where the city was moving towards. none of the characters in the second had nearly as much depth or charisma. it doesn't make the movie unwatchable but it does make you feel if they had invested in one of the smaller story lines this movie could of felt a lot more. with a change of theme i thought to see robocop become more of symbol, but he seems to act instead as some sort of myth in a technological advanced city which i say was sorted in the first movie. "}{"Title":"Shows promise early on and it is occasionally entertaining & amusing, but it lacks the heart of the original and is also much more stupid","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" *********************SPOILERS THROUGHOUT**************************I've always been a fan of the original Robocop film and have seen it several times. To me it's a film that is a nice blend of social commentary, satire, intelligence, action, entertainment & heart. I hadn't seen the sequel for some time and after watching it this evening I can only say that it was partly successful...Robocop 2 starts out in a similar vein to the first film with police officers on strike. As a result of the police being on strike, Detroit City has made a descent into lawlessness; at the start it shows individuals pillaging from each other and looting shops and convenience stores. I also liked the fact that at the start we see Robocop trying to make a connection to his past life... this for me was a big strength in the first film and is a very emotive part of the story. Sadly it isn't given much focus here which is a shame as it is a strong and interesting aspect of the Robocop story.What really lets this film down is the story and the simple truth of the matter is that it just isn't as strong as the story in the first film; everyone is addicted to drugs? Is that all we get here? It's perhaps not necessarily the concept that's bad, but the way it's executed here with the writers not really offering much commentary on the subject. I would have forgiven this aspect of the plot more if it had been remotely interesting, but I just found it really hard to get involved with this story.There also seemed to be pointless deviations such as Robocop's glitch where OCP 're-programme' him. I'll admit that this aspect of the story was quite amusing and entertaining, but it was rather pointless and went nowhere. If the point was to show OCP as being incompetent or misguided then this was unnecessary as this was already ascertained in the first film. I just didn't see the point.There is also a scene later in the film where Robocop discovers the kid who was one of Cain's gang dying in the back of a van; he then gives some heart felt speech and asks Robocop not to leave him.... give me a break. Were we supposed to feel sorry for the kid? Was that supposed to be a tender moment? He was almost as bad as Cain himself and was deserved of no sympathy whatsoever.I also loved the fact that OCP intended to send Robocop 2 out to clean the streets of Nuke even though he is addicted to Nuke himself; isn't that a bit like asking a prolific drug dealer to go out and clean the streets of drugs himself?I think one of the worst aspects of this film was the decision to turn Cain into OCP's Robocop 2; if I'm being cynical I just saw that as a plot device to set up the inevitable showdown between Robocop 2 and Robocop.To me this film is sloppy, but it's sloppy in too many areas to make it forgivable. It does provide entertainment value and is quite amusing and I still love Robocop's 'Thank you for not smoking' line. However, it's far too stupid to be really classed as a good film or even to be considered a worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"Uneven sequel.","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Due to the enormous success of RoboCop, the producers went ahead and green-lit a sequel. In their haste, they forgot to include the humanity that the first film had, not going further into the personality of Officer Murphy, his relationship with his partner and the police force, instead just going for violent action sequences. A little more camp humor is injected into this sequel, making it amusing in places where it shouldn't have been. RoboCop is chasing down the dealer of a new narcotic, Nuke while he is being undermined by the company who produced him, who wants to produce a more efficient, controllable model. The film almost has two endings, as he does take down the dealer (Tom Noonan), but the dealer's brain and nervous system is installed into another cyborg, forcing another showdown with RoboCop. The action can keep fans interested, but the lack of character development as compared to the first film leaves the viewer feeling less sympathetic. "},{"Title":"A Crock","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a crock! A lousy second rate film bereft of ideas other than to repeat the first movies action clichés. I guess I really was not expecting anything else although I did enjoy the satiric points of the first film. The villains look like villains and the good guys likewise. There is very little light and shade in the film. It was a done deal after the original Robocop and was only bound to repeat scenarios and themes. A cynical attempt to cash in on the first film was always going to fail artistically, and fail it does. The effects are not great and all in all it is a disappointment. The use of a child actor as a villain was somewhat new and surprising but realistically a robocop would have been programmed to destroy any criminal of any age. "},{"Title":"It is not a great sequel to the original but it is not the worst sequel that I have ever seen.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A corrupt businesswoman seeks to disable Robocop in favour of her own model of cyborg. After a successful deployment of the Robocop Law Enforcement unit, OCP sees its goal of urban pacification come closer and closer. But as this develops, a new narcotic known as Nuke invades the streets led by God-delirious leader Kane. As this menace grows, it may prove to be too much for Murphy to handle. OCP tries to replicate the success of the first unit, but ends up with failed prototypes with suicidal issues... until Dr. Faxx, a scientist straying away from OCP's path uses Kane as the new subject for the Robocop 2 project, a living God. Roger Ebert wrote RoboCop 2 is a bizarre mixture of violence and humor. It's a film with a split personality, giving us gruesome scenes and then moving on as if they didn't really mean anything. This is a movie where one scene features a tycoon announcing plans to take Detroit private, and another scene has RoboCop snatching the brains of his enemy out of their artificial skull and pounding them into the pavement. The movie's technique is to alternate the laughs and the gore, so that right after the brains get smashed, there's a line of funny dialogue. It is not a great sequel to the original but it is not the worst sequel that I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Really?","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm seeing ratings of 1/10 for this and am just baffled. Sure, this sequel is different from the original, which is, IMO, an amazing action/sci-fi/film in general. Sure, there are a lot of subplots and some points which definitely don't sync up (the nice Robocop subplot was humorous enough, but ultimately out of place with the rest of it and seemed only there to give the cops a reason to unify/come back). But there is still so much to enjoy. The opening/humor/action/homage to Veerhoven's violence and gore/villain/EPIC finale fight = all these things were great and worked in themselves, but I can see how they don't necessarily fit together due to all the various subplots and misdirections (the wife, the seeing his son in villain Home Alone boy, etc.). So a perfect film? No, but still an enjoyable sequel to a fantastic film, and one which syncs oddly enough with it considering it is a different director (owing largely to purposeful imitation of the commercials, satire, excessive gore, etc.) A 9/10 for me, minus 1 for what I interpreted as a not entirely synced up script and un-pursued subplots which might have been better removed to make for a tighter film or make room for more pertinent substance. "},{"Title":"For a misfire, it's kind of amusing","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not to say that ROBOCOP 2 is a trainwreck, but . . . well let's go with not great. Indeed, there's a lot going on in this movie (Nuke, Robo's civic-minded reprogramming, Cain, Hob, Robocop 2, OCP corporate-raiding Detroit) and it all feels crammed in. And why's the Old Man suddenly a dick? He had at least some sympathy in the last movie. Then there's that snot-nosed prick kid who commands way too much screen time. On the plus side, there's some really cool stop-motion work here, which was top-shelf in 1990.But this sequel manages to turn Robocop into a generic superhero vehicle, all too often played for laughs. It lacks the heart and the wit of the first movie, runs too long and varies wildly between sadistic and silly. I don't hate this movie as much as the Internet apparently does, but it's a mess.5/10 "},{"Title":"Uninspired and messy sequel.","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop does battle with a powerful drug lord who is transformed into a giant psychopathic cyborg, while simultaneously resisting OCP's attempts to repress his human memories.At first glance the woeful reviews for Robocop 2 might seem confusing, because everything seems to be in the right place, initially. The production values are fairly slick, the action scenes are shot with an enjoyable bloodthirstiness and there are some funny scenes early on, including some malfunctioning 'Robocop 2' prototypes and a couple of satirical commercials. I also like the scenes in which Robocop becomes an eccentric pacifist. But as the film clunks into the main story it starts to come apart&#x85; and fast.There is absolutely no heart and no energy and one dull scene bumbles into the next like a drunkard trying to string a sentence together. The violence, which starts out cheerfully enough, eventually becomes quite nasty and sadistic. The graphic violence of the original film was used to great satirical effect and was often sardonically humorous, such as ED-209 blowing a company exec to bits at a board meeting, or it had a real point; Clarence Boddicker's biblical execution of Murphy. Here though the violence is just gratuitous, a bit weird and has absolutely nowhere to go - one particular scene comes to mind in which a child mobster is forced to watch the bodily dissection of a crooked cop. In fact the entire child villain thing was irritating and ludicrous from the jump, concluding in a scene in which Robocop takes pity on the little stinker. Don't make me laugh.Weller does everything he can to breath some life into his character and bags most of the funniest or most memorable moments, but like many things in this film I have no idea what Nancy Allen was doing the whole time, what a waste. She does nothing but point guns at people and frown; this only touches upon the many profound problems with the script and direction.In the end Robocop 2 doesn't just suffer from the absence of Verhoeven but also from an uneven script humming with unfinished ideas, narrative dead-ends and a serious lack of humour, doing nothing whatsoever to build upon its predecessor's greatness. I have to disagree with some of the more optimistic reviews here; this film isn't trying to do something different, it doesn't appear to know what it's trying to do at all.I will say this for it though, the stop motion effects were great and it is, at least, a better film than Robocop 3.4/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Sadistic Sequel","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Obviously inferior to the first ROBOCOP in just about every way, this imaginatively titled sequel at least has the benefit of not having to waste a lot of time setting up the concept and gets right down to business right away. While Verhoeven's ironic and darkly comedic over- the-top touch is largely absent, the level of bleakness and icky unpleasantness manages to surpass the original.PRO'SThere's a lot more action and unpredictability than in the original, which was tighter and moved faster but let's face it, felt more formulaic.Dark seedy atmosphere brilliantly set up in the opening scene and it never lets up. This time there's drugs and corrupt cops in addition to the usual corporate extortion and anarchy as featured in the first movie.This film features some of the best stop-motion animation I've ever seen and there's a lot of it, beating out even the works of Ray Harryhausen, David Allen, and Jim Danforth. I'm shocked that none were involved with this film. Much like in the original, it's difficult in many scenes to tell what's practical and what's matted in. It makes one wonder what stop-motion could look like now had the movie studios stuck with honing the craft rather than abandoning it in favor of much-cheaper CGI.The fake commercials and newscasts are just as good as in the original, keeping things moving along briskly and with the right dose of dark comedy here and there. They even nicely tie in with the main plot more- so than in the original.Most of the surviving original cast returns.Oddly enough I liked Leonard Rosenmann's score almost as much as Basil Poledouris's music in the original. I'm not sure why they decided to go with a new direction with the music, and at times it sounds a little too much like STAR TREK IV, but overall I'd say it fits very well.CONSAs intentionally grim as the film is, it's just not very fun. There's a lot of nasty scenes such as when a policeman is tortured by a deranged surgeon and a brain transplantation scene which is needlessly protracted. I feel they misunderstood Verhoeven's intentions in the original to make things like a comic book and just figured lots of violence and unpleasantness was the same thing.The writing and characterizations are much less compelling than in the original. Murphy and Louis are given very little interesting to do, leaving it to the villains to carry the show. This feels exacerbated by the overall much lower-quality performances. The goofball playing the mayor really just didn't fit with everything else in the movie.The level of realism is quite lacking asking us to believe that a well- organized gang would defer to a 12-year-old kid. I'd almost call it fun social commentary, but in this regard the film takes itself oddly seriously. A lot feels missing here, with a lot of established villains just disappearing rather than being killed off.Generally there's a just a lack of imagination all-round. We learn nothing new about Robocop (outside of that he's willing to turn away from his old family) and don't really get to see him enough. The film seems to react more to the original film rather than add to its canon.Bottom LineAll-in-all though I'd call this film fairly successful. It's hampered by a lack of creativity and intelligence but gives us more Robocop doing his thing. At least it's nowhere nearly as insulting as 3 or the remake. "},{"Title":"A decent sequel, but lacks character development","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the director of Empire Strikes Back, the sequel to the 1987 classic is clearly designed to be a little more mainstream, quite it isn't a bad film, it certainly lacks the original's satire and a lot of the human element.RoboCop 2 sees the OCP corporation looking to refine the RoboCop Law Enforcement Unit with a new design, but cannot recreate the perfect blend of man and machine such as Alex Murphy. At the same time, they are unsympathetic to Alex's returning humanity, and demand he forget about his family. In Detroit, a drug baron is selling a new drug to the masses and causes unrest in the city's politics.RoboCop 2 is one of those sequels, a sequel fresh out of new ideas and makes do with what it has. You could say that this entire film branches only off the memorable ED-209 test sequence in the original film; so much time here is spent on the promise of a new and improved machine... despite the fact RoboCop himself isn't flawed asides from his human feelings (from the corporation's point of view, anyway). Yet the solution to this is taking the mind of a criminal and putting it into a robot? Uhhhhhm...It definitely has its flaws. This film should have focused on Alex Murphy's returning humanity and his need for family. It starts out with these intentions at heart, but suddenly boom, his wife's out of the story and never mentioned again. He doesn't even rail against the corporation's demands, he just accepts it and moves on? A huge emotional core of his character was ignored, and therefore his character is at a narrative stand still.Effects wise, it is very impressive. The title may be RoboCop 2 by default, but in fact the new replacement robot in the film is called by name RoboCop 2 (it is a little perplexing to hear repeated so often) and the action sequences in the final act are very well made with good stop-motion animation. As if calling the film's name and number was weird enough... the attempts to replicate Paul Verhoeven's satire and humour dies a lousy death. There's something about Verhoeven films that cannot be easily replicated, and this is a good example. The satire here is just... odd and unorthodox, often raising an eyebrow rather than a laugh. Why was there a shrine to Elvis in the villain's lair that included a skeleton of Elvis??It isn't bad, but it is missing all of the opportunities laid out by the first film. While there are memorable moments (RoboCop being dismantled, the criminal kid Hob using his right as a minor to avoid arrest, etc) they don't amount to enough for a full feature, and the end fight sequence becomes a little tiresome. "},{"Title":"Better than the first...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop is destroyed by terrorists, but he is repairable. The only problem is a corrupt businesswoman wants to shut down Robocop all together to make way for her new invention, but the public and the police force want Robocop back. This film starred Peter Weller, Nancy Allen & Tom Noonan.Robocop 2 is my opinion is better than the first, it is much funnier and the villains are much better, the villains in the first film are good but these ones you hate more which is good in one of these types of films because you want Robocop to annihilate these people.***/***** Good film. "}{"Title":"Bad language makes for bad feelings.","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The police are on strike but not RoboCop. He's busy tracking down Cain, a drug dealer responsible for a lethal new drug on the streets called nuke. Sequel to the classic RoboCop is not in the same league as the first film but still fairly entertaining. Peter Weller, Nancy Allen, and Daniel O'Herlihy return. Tom Noonan plays the villain Cain and he's good. There's an annoying little psycho kid named Hob played by Gabriel Damon. This has a pretty bad reputation but I think it's better than its rep suggests, although it's not without flaws. The script has some decent ideas and some good lines. The direction is pretty flat and the most startling difference between this and the first movie. Whatever else you can say about Paul Verhoeven, he had style and that's missing here. "},{"Title":"I need nuke to sit through this again","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every few years I find myself thinking if RoboCop 2 was really as bad as I remembered it being, or was I projecting my enjoyment of it's predecessor on the sequel -- then after about 2 minutes into yet another viewing, it's clear just how off the mark this film is. The commercials are as soulless and forced as this rushed cash grab of a sequel and the film begins with an embarrassment of over acting and over the top violence. We start off with the three of the lamest criminals and some of the worst scenery chewing day players to ever act in a film. The actor who gives a line reading of I really like this gun, man brings ham to a whole new level and the tone of RoboCop 2 remains as obnoxious and over the top. Director Irvin Kershner has no command of this material and the attempts at subversive humor are cartoonish and manhandled. What worked so well in the first film was Murphy regaining his humanity and the first thing this film does is take it away. Murphy watching his family from his car sets off alarm bells at OCP when his wife threatens to sue and then somehow without clearance or any reason to be there she materializes to where Murphy is kept to sleep and be programmed - despite that she sent in her lawyer to speak on her behalf about Murphy leaving her and her son alone. Because this film decides to sidestep any challenging content that would take effort to write, Murphy basically tells her to get lost and that her husband is dead. He is then reprogrammed which makes him into a lame punchline of a joke that goes on for far too long, as he malfunctions being super nice and shooting at a person smoking a cigarette. Nancy Allen has said the shooting of RoboCop 2 was the worst experience of her career and that Kershner couldn't stand her and wrote her out of as many scenes as possible. Her character Lewis is simply a connection to the first film and provides barely anything to the narrative. Instead we get Willard E. Pugh, who plays the mayor, in a performance that's so over the top and terrible that he should be banned from ever appearing on screen. It's dreadful performances like this that Kershner can not modulate and just cranks everything in this film up to an 11 out of 10. Peter Weller has also complained that the film has no real 3rd act and he is right, the film begins all these plot threads about Detroit being manipulated by OCP, Murphy stalking his family, nuke addiction, political corruption, police strikes and so on - and every thread is dropped to have a machine brawl for an ending. RoboCop vs Cain. A drug addicted robot with a computerized face on a monitor that makes the computer effects in The Lawnmower Man look Oscar worthy in comparison. For reasons I can't understand, RoboCop 2 has gained a full point here on IMDb where since the beginning of this site sat deservingly around 4.7 and as of this date is at a 5.7 "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as the first, but still incredibly entertaining!","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the massive success of RoboCop, a sequel was immediately rushed into production. The first script written by the original film's screenwriters was thrown out by Orion pictures for being too far-fetched. So the producer of the first film then contacted famed graphic novelist Frank Miller, to write the screenplay. Miller agreed, and wrote a first draft. The studio declared Miller's screenplay unfilmable, so another screenwriter was brought in to rewrite the script. Some of the main cast members from the original film reprise their roles, this includes Peter Weller as RoboCop, and Nancy Allen as Officer Anne Lewis. The film takes place about a year after the first, and things have only gotten worse for the motor city. The majority of the police force have gone on strike. Ergo, crime is at an all-time high. A new designer drug known as Nuke has made a large number of citizens become drug addicts, and an almost cult-like group, are responsible for the manufacturing and distribution of this narcotic. They're leader is a man named Cain, a dangerous individual, whose soul desire is to use the drug to create a perfect society. He will stop at nothing to achieve his ultimate goal, and will not let anyone or anything get in his way. Meanwhile, OCP has seen how despotic and destitute the city has become, and has decided to create a second RoboCop. A monstrous, super cyborg is created, and soon it grows beyond the control of OCP. Now it's up to RoboCop to destroy this evil creation, and once again protect the innocent citizens of Detroit. So how does RoboCop 2 stack up? In my opinion, pretty well. All of the things that made the original film great are still there. The violence, the satire, the humor, and the issue of RoboCop's humanity. Even though it's not explored as deeply as in the original, it's still there. Many critics complained that the use of children swearing, and being drug dealers was too mean spirited. However the sad truth is, there are children like that in this world. Besides, wouldn't you expect to see that in a city that's gone to the dogs? There were many things that were left on the cutting room floor that shouldn't have been, and perhaps Robocop 2 could've have been better that it was. All things considered however, RoboCop 2 is STILL a very good and entertaining film. The acting is great, and there's more than enough action to keep you on the edge of your seat. If you ask me, this film does not deserve ANY of the hatred it receives! Watch it, and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Politicizing the debate why 'Robocop II' is better than 'Robocop'","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is not bad as many critics say, for sure. Indeed, it is very similar to the first film of the franchise and because of some issues that it discusses I considered it even better (what I know very few people do).On the one hand, it was not as original as the previous movie (which uses to be overrated), but on the other hand it perhaps brings the discussion of very serious political problems what happens when public interest is not the priority and private profit is, what happens when public services are guided by profit goals. Then we see the decay of democracy, imminent residents removal, the failure of the war on drugs strategy to deal with the drugs problem...Though, the film does have many flaws, such as the awful actors for the smaller roles and extras, besides some ridiculous scenes, such as the one in which teenagers throw popcorns on Robocop or the one in which children rob a store wearing baseball uniforms. "},{"Title":"Less satire, more mayhem","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the original Robocop was really just a satire on consumerism disguised as a mainstream action movie, this one doesn't do disguises. It just goes for that high body count, and occasionally for blatant padding with some comic relief. But it kept the dark cynical tone of the original, it kept the nonsensical violence and it kept Peter Weller (take notes, Robocop 3), so I don't have that much to complain about. The only problem I really have with it is that it's a really clichéd action movie, bordering parody, but then when we get to the end you have no satisfaction whatsoever. Director Irvin Kershner refuses to give you that typical 80s climax you can all cheer about and just keeps things bleak and downbeat all the way through. In a way it's a good choice because at least it makes the movie unpredictable, but then again do we want these movies to be unpredictable? Don't we just watch something like Robocop 2 to see exactly what we expect? I'll get back to you on that, but I'm not saying this is a bad movie. On the contrary, it's highly entertaining and at times some of the brilliance of the original shines through. Worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original RoboCop is a cult classic. A perfect blend of social satire, high-end violence, special effects and intriguing character concepts. So it was never all that likely the sequel would be just as good. But to their credit they stuck to what worked and managed to produce this above average science action film. It's not quite as good as the original, but it has a lot of its good elements in it and even the new stuff manages to impress from time to time.It's some time after the events of the original film and Omni Consumer Products (OCP for short) is up to no good once again, this time manipulating the police force of the city to force in their new Delta City. And at the same time new drug is spreading in the city's underworld. Once again it's up to RoboCop to put a halt to these new threats. Along the way we get gun fights, cool special effects (at least for their time), crazy characters and high stages.So what works? Peter Weller and Nancy Allen reprise their roles as RoboCop and Officer Lewis, respectively, and they're both great, managing to reach the same sense of camaraderie as they did in the first film. Furthermore, the film is once again sound on the technical side of things. Some of the goriness and the distinctive soundtrack have been removed, which makes the film seem a bit more generic, but it's not a huge flaw. I also quite liked Hob (Gabriel Damon), the kid lieutenant of the criminal overlord. It's not often we see a young child this ruthless and mad with power. Some might object that it's wrong, taboo even, to use a kid in such a role, but I don't really see why this is any different than us seeing someone blow up. It's just as unsettling and meant to be like that.And what doesn't work? The story, unfortunately. It's serviceable and I applaud them from continuing the storyline, but it just isn't as interesting as the original. The novelty has worn off and it feels like they're treading same old ground once again. The villains, with the exception of Hob, aren't as interesting either and as already stated, some of the distinct feel has been lost in the process of trying to make the film more approachable to wider audiences.Still, for what it is, it's a pleasing experience. Are you a fan of the original film and want to see more? Then this one is an easy recommendation. "},{"Title":"Second Time's Not Always A Charm","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original ROBOCOP was a brilliant sci-fi thriller that was original and imaginative. It had an acid wit and well-rounded characters (both heroes and villains.) After its success, sequels were inevitable. And like most sequels, ROBOCOP 2 fails to live up to the first film. All the elements from the original are still present, but everything feels like a re-tread. In ROBOCOP 2, some time has passed since the events of the first film. Crime has gotten worse in the city of Detroit now that the police department has gone on strike. In the midst of the chaos a new street drug emerges called Nuke. A new gang of dangerous street thugs led by Cain (Tom Noonan) are controlling the city's drug business with an iron fist. Robocop is called in to track them down. Meanwhile, the head honchos at OCP want to go further with the Robocop program, unfortunately, no other candidates are able to match Murphy's prowess. Eventually Cain gets captured and resurrected into the bigger meaner Robocop 2. There's a phenomenal battle between both Robocops at the finale of the movie, but that's about all this film has going for it. Even the occasional jab at humor can't liven up this humdrum sequel. Followed by the reprehensible ROBOCOP 3. "},{"Title":"A convoluted mess of a sequel. Were the writers on drugs?","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The cops are on strike, leaving the Cyborg formerly known as Murphy and Officer Lewis (Nancy Allen) to hand out their personal brand of justice. Murphy is told to stop stalking his wife because he is no longer a human. Things get really bad when a drug is going around known as Nuke A religious nut known as Kane is the culprit. It becomes too much for Murphy to handle , making Dr. Faxx from OCPP to create Robocop II; new and improved, using Kane as the new subjectWhat on earth were they thinking when they created this crap? I can't for the life of me figure out why they thought this was a good idea. They weren't on drugs most likely, but it makes me wonder. The original is one of my favorite movies and I think this one is an insult to the original. There are so many things in this movie that made my head spin. It throws in everything but the kitchen sink in terms of being surreal. It got to the point where it felt like they were being weird for the sake of it. This is something that would NEVER be made today, thank god for that. This movie is so incoherent that I don't even know where to begin. It starts off fairly well with Murphy stalking his wife, leaving me hope that we would learn even more about Murphy's family. Instead, they drop it as soon as it starts to get good. I pined for more of that, it was rather riveting. It's like they knew the script was crap, and just decided to throw in as many crazy things as they could. There are some decent action scenes. The finale is very good, but it runs overlong and far too much dullness in between. Paul Verhoeven's presence is clearly lacking in this one. Ostensibly, he was offered to direct Robocop II, but turned it down when they wanted to rush into a sequel. What a shame. More problems include a humorless script that throws in plenty of ghastly violence, but barely any humor. The only thing that amused me is when Dr. Faxx tinkers with his mechanics and makes Robocop overly chipper. The nuke drug had major potential, but they didn't do enough with it. The performances are fine. Peter Weller has more to play with than the original, but, since the script is all over the place, it kind of lets him down. He did very well with what he is given. Nancy Allen is somewhat of a caricature of her character from the first film. She doesn't look too thrilled to be in this movie, and it shows. Belinda Bauer is wooden and annoying as Dr. Faxx. Tom Noonan's villain part is rather thin, but he is fun. Gabriel Damon is given a big role as a villain. The only problem was that he's a KID. It didn't offend me or anything, just thought it was rather distasteful. Final Thoughts They should have never made this movie. The original was almost impossible to equal and they shouldn't have even tried. Verhoeven could have made a good sequel, but they crapped all over it instead. This movie is like a bad trip from a strong drug. Shockingly, this movie isn't even the worst in the series. That dubious honor belongs to Robocop III4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Messy sequel struggling in B-movie territories","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OMNI wants to take over Detroit. There's a new drug called Nuke. The police is on strike. Detroit can't pay OMNI. Under contract, if the city miss a payment, they can foreclose on city property.RoboCop (Peter Weller) is struggling with his humanity. Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen) is back as RoboCop's partner. They try to take on the drug gang by tracking a criminal child. Meanwhile OMNI can't quite perfect RoboCop 2 because the subjects keep committing suicide. Dr. Juliette Faxx (Belinda Bauer) believes she can select the right candidate for the program by using murderers and psychotics.The over use of kids as criminals really cheese up the B-movie factor. And the weird goodie two shoes RoboCop just makes it silly. Even the actor playing the mayor of Detroit is weak and silly. It's like the people in charge can't wait to make this as stupid as possible. Everything about this movie screams B-movie. It's a shame because the franchise could have gone the other way. The skeletal remains of a good franchise is still there. "},{"Title":"RoboCop Returns","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is OK, but for some reason, I sort of expected more from a science fiction sequel directed by Irvin Kershner.Peter Weller and Nancy Allen both return, and do well in their respective roles, along with a few other members of the supporting cast. Our villain is a drug dealer named Cain. While a good antagonist, he doesn't even come close to matching the first film's Clarence Boddicker. Cain's sidekick is the now- infamous Hob, a prepubescent kid with an unlimited supply of curse words.The screenplay is co-written by Frank Miller, the sole writer of the film's story and the comic book Batman The Dark Knight Returns. Both this film and his comic involve a superhero battling crime in a filthy and futuristic city, and have themes of violence. Kershner doesn't bring much of a noticeable touch of his own, merely seeming as if wen he made every decision, he asked himself what Paul Verhoeven would do.Average as this film is, it's certainly quite a bit above RoboCop 3... "}{"Title":"RoboCop 2 review","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a phenomenally exciting and bloody debut, who wouldn't want more of RoboCop? While this sequel doesn't quite carry as much manic energy or thematic strength as Paul Verhoeven's film, it does continue in the same vein and deliver more of the same. It's still a wild, ultraviolent world full of rip-roaring action and pulp.RoboCop 2 boasts some decent standout moments. Its opening is an intensely seedy sequence that tracks multiple people getting attacked and mugged, one after another, setting things up for RoboCop to bust in and take care of business. There are a few decent chases and shootouts, especially during the finale, which pits RoboCop against a robot criminal. The film suffers just a little bit of drag, but it manages to maintain the same tone and spirit of the original film, making it consistently entertaining. Yep, there are even a few great fake commercials thrown in.The story takes a few random tangents, but they are good ones. If you ever wondered what was going on with Murphy's family, this film expands a bit more on that. The film takes a pretty amusing turn when OCP decides to transform RoboCop into a less violent crime-fighter, focusing more on community service and being all goody-good. The film's main track, however, dives into a conflict surrounding drugs, gangsters, corporate greed, and OCP trying to find a better RoboCop. It all adds up to a pretty decent expansion on the original story, and it's quite fun overall. When it comes to the finer points, however, the satire, social themes, and themes of humanity will come up a little dry when compared to the first film.Irvin Kershner directs this film competently, with solid photography and editing. Peter Weller and Nancy Allen reprise their roles comfortably, and everybody else does a decent enough job. It can be a little startling (maybe even offensive) to see a kid playing a serious gangster role, complete with adult language. Writing is okay. This production uses good-looking sets, props, costumes, and special effects. Music is okay.Not quite as tight or deep as the first film, but this sequel still offers a satisfying follow-up, and it is pretty darn fun. Recommended for anybody who wants more RoboCop.4/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Pretty Good | Film Good) "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original 1987 is a beloved sci-fi action film, made at a time when action movies were allowed to be violence and filled with satirical comedy thanks to the skills of director Paul Verhoeven. The sequel tries to repeat the success but Irvin Kershner is unable to match Verhoeven's skills.The Detroit of the future is a cesspool of crime, delinquency, poverty and urban decay. The city is broke and OCP are planning to take over the government, the police are on strike because of wage and pension cuts and a new powerful drug known as Nuke is on the streets, controlled by a cult leader, Cain (Tom Noonan). Only Robocop (Paul Weller) is able to hold the peace, but a scientist at OCP, Dr. Faxx (Belinda Bauer) sees Robocop as being obsolete and wants him replaced by Robocop II, but sees the best candidates to be psychopaths.The filmmakers of Robocop 2 wanted to recapture the satirical and comic elements of the first film, even using the news reports and fake adverts but it felt like the heart or belief behind the ideals like Verhoeven had. It was more shoehorned into the film then actually trying to saying anything about society of the time. There are also attempts at satire when a PR team think how best to reprogram Robocop, making a overly cheery creation who is unable to do any crime fighting because of the conflicting directives. These plot points about the effects about designing by committee lasts five minutes and does not have any overall bearing on the plot. It could have been cut and they would no effect on the plot.A random scene that also felt like it wanted to be darkly comic but out of place and misjudged was when a little league team are robbing a shop, which is done for comic value. It was just a strange way to try and show how awful and crime infested this world.Kershner is best known for being the director of Star Wars Episode V The Empire Strikes Back and he brought a darker tone. The best elements of Robocop 2 is the darker parts of the film, showing the crime work with people stealing and killing each other and the constantly drug dealing and drug use. It does have A Clockwork Orange esque feeling to it as a society on the edge of collapse.One of the most controversial elements is the character Hob (Gabriel Damon), a 12-year-old boy who is a psychopathic killer. The idea of him was sound, that this is an amoral, poverty stricken world that even forces children and teenagers into criminality and violence with Hob being killer or a drug runner for Cain. But he becomes the leader of the gang, when it would been more believable if Hob was a member of a street gang or offer Robocop a challenge because he was a killer but a child so cannot do much about him. Another story problem is the willingness of some characters to go to psychopaths and death row inmates instead of more logically options likes special forces soldiers.The action was very well done and perfectly bloody and violence. There is some excellent use of slow motion animation and special effects it was detailed and Robocop was given a big challenge in the form of RoboCain, a crazed, powerful robot with weapons and a willingness to cause carnage. Noonan did make an excellent villain throughout the film.Robocop 2 is watchable with its violence and action, but it no way near matching the original film and needed a tidy, more thought-out screenplay. "},{"Title":"Flawed , but not quite that bad sequel","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the success of first Robocop the studio wanted to make a sequel as fast as possible. Paul Verhoeven and original screenwriters at that time didn't had any idea how to continue the story of Robo. The studio couldn't wait and decided to hire comic-book writer Frank Miller. Miller was a big fan of the original movie and became a star in the comic books world after creating The Dark knight returns graphic novel . Instead of Verhoeven the man behind the camera this time is Irvin Kershner (Star wars  The Empire strikes back).Miller wrote the script for Robocop 2. The producers loved Frank Miller's original version of the script, but they quickly realized it was unfilmable as written. The final screen version was heavily rewritten and bears only a superficial resemblance to Miller's story. The bits of the story appear both in Robocop  and Robocop 3. Screenwriter Walon Green (The Wild bunch) was hired and much of what appears on screen is actually his work. In 2003, Miller's screenplay was adapted into a comic book series Frank Miller's Robocop. The result ? Too many ideas are fighting for screen time. Some of them are truly bad like having a kid criminal in the story ( included for cheap shock value ?) or using a brain of psycho criminal. Some things are unexplained ( why does Lewis appear and disappear randomly , where is Robocop for most of third act ). Some ideas are good ( the strike , the reunion between Murphy and his wife). The screenplay feels like a pile of unfinished ideas put together to make a film. In the end they don't really go anywhere , but in the moment they appear they are good. A more tidy structure and thought out screenplay definitely would be nice. Robocop 2 lacks the heart and soul of the original. Murphy's attempt to return to his family is interesting storyline that appears in the first 20 minutes of the movie and then doesn't come back at all. This is a storyline that this movie could follow after the original movie . Unfortunately the plot forgets to concentrate on Murphy's humanity and goes for action and satire. In the end the movie is entertaining , but completely cold and sometimes too grim. Too be fair Robocop 2 is also a VERY funny movie for most of the time. The commercials (Magna Volt), Thank you for not smoking , Robocop lecturing the little kids. The film is littered with effective black comedy and well paced. The stop-motion effects have dated slightly , but still look quite good. I love the design of the monster robot. The climactic battle at the end is pretty great climax. The action scenes are definitely well-staged and imaginative.Leonard Rosenman's score for Robocop 2 is heroic and upbeat. It's nice score overall , but it's a shadow of Basil's Poleudoris wonderfully tragic and heroic score from part 1. Robocop's theme isn't present in the film and that's a shame &#x96; it should appear at least at ending credits.Peter Weller doesn't disappoint . He gets a chance to show his comedic talent and still give an affecting performance. Nancy Allen and the rest of old cast are also back and they are OK. Dr. Juliette Faxx Belinda Bauer gives probably the best performance of the movie as the main OCP baddie Dr. Juliette Faxx &#x96; feisty , manipulative and sexy villain. On other hand the other villains are terrible disappointment. The idea of drug kingpin Cain who has a complex of Messiah seems really fun , but Tom Noonan here is completely forgettable . He doesn't have too much screen time , no interesting dialogues and is simply lame compared to Clarence Boddicker from the first movie. There are some nice small touches here &#x96; Frank Miller plays Frank the chemist , Irvin Kersner makes a cameo as a picture of murderer in computer, the song played by the violinist is Born to be wild by Steppenwolf , the OCP flags that appear throughout the movie are essentially Nazi flags with an OCP logo instead of the swastika.Robocop 2 is the only good thing that came after Robocop. Robocop 3 was simply horrible. TV series Robocop (1994 - 1995) & the TV mini-series Robocop Prime Directives (2000) were bad , so was the cartoons .I give it 5/10 . "},{"Title":"An underrated sequel","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" While it lacks the soul of the original film, this sequel is-- well, it also lacks the tight structure. But it-- oh, and RoboCop disappears from his own movie for a good half hour. Also, there are themes and ideas set up in the early stages, like Murphy's heartbreaking reunion with his wife, and the enforced dismissal of his humanity, that are subsequently forgotten about. Still, the-- oh yeah, and the plot's a mess. But I've always had a soft spot for this movie. It's no match for Verhoeven's masterpiece. But it is a well-intentioned, if flawed, film. Although the early scenes really don't go anywhere, they are, in the moment, terrific the reunion, RoboCop getting mangled, the corporate rewriting of his directives and the ensuing comedy. All good stuff. And the animation still looks fantastic. I love the RoboCop 2 robot, and the stop motion has more personality than 90% of the CGI that's superseded it. Underrated. "},{"Title":"Robocop takes on a large cyborg built around a criminal's brain","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I admire and enjoy the special effects in Robocop 2. Robocop (Peter Weller) battles a large mechanical cyborg built around a criminal's brain. The movements of this cyborg are nifty and the battles well-staged.Peter Weller does a nice job in his movements too, in order to give Robocop some more character. He has some funny and ironic lines to deliver after he is programmed to be more of a nice guy and meet community concerns.The movie itself is a joke. It's one big cartoon. It cannot be taken seriously, although it makes various attempts at satire that are sometimes successful. It plays like a Superman movie. Nothing about it is believable. Nothing. In order to obtain the battle between cyborgs, there is a female character who intentionally wants to use the criminal brain in a cyborg. This is all concocted. She's a rogue within the cyborg-creating organization (OCP) run by Dan O'Herlihy. The Mayor of Detroit is a total buffoon.A boy of 12-13 plays a criminal mastermind and genius who understands the drug business and markets a drug called Nuke. The movie tries to satirize the takeover market by having OCP take over Detroit, which is bankrupt and a failure. It tries to satirize the market altogether in a speech the boy gives about marketing Nuke rather than trying to suppress it. There is much that can be satirized, but these attempts miss the mark.In the end, the special effects remain the core of the movie. Everything else is silly and forgettable. "},{"Title":"The blood is still there but there's no continuity","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels always run the risk of falling short of their predecessors and it happens for various reasons. Most fail from the lack of originality in the plot or the characters from the first film are left out. However, this sequel has both these factors and nothings wrong with it. The issue lies within the plot with these little things called sub- plots. What's wrong with them? The fact that they deliberately take a step backwards and that was the wrong idea for this franchise in general. Not to mention, there were parts where some problems are never resolved. I explained this in my review of Raise the Titanic (1980) as well.Peter Weller is back as the cyborg cop who helped take down a ruthless drug dealer, Clarence Boddicker. A year has past now and RoboCop, who now calls himself Murphy, his former self, has done a lot of good for the city of Detroit. And somehow, the only people that recognize this is everyone hired by the police department. Practically every scene depicted here is either an individual restricting RoboCop, cursing at him or vandalizing him. If he's done so much good, why does everyone disrespect him? There's nothing admirable about that.A sub-plot that is minimally explored is the relationship between RoboCop and Alex Murphy's wife. Since the first film, RoboCop now understands who he was and by remembering his old memories, would like to gain back what he had before he became Detroit's finest. But again, we are given the issue of people restricting him. We are briefly introduced to this character called Holzgang who forces the idea onto RoboCop that he is property and that's all he is. That's right, it's society vs RoboCop! After the meeting (more like roast), RoboCop is confronted by his wife and forces the opinion on her that her husband is dead. What is this telephone? And that's how that situation is resolved. Not very productive if you ask me.The director of RoboCop 2 is Irvin Kershner and that surprised me, since he was the sequel director for Star Wars Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980). How he let this film become off base with the first is baffling. There's another part in the film where Murphy is being programmed with a bunch bogus directives that make him absolutely what he shouldn't be as a police officer, and the results are shown that all that programming was to of no use to him or society anyway. Just another sub-plot that doesn't have any value to it. Why bother with all this U- turn screenplay Frank Miller? And the worst is at the end! There's nothing more abrupt than the ending of this film and it's truly shocking.They only points I can give this film are for a few things. This movie is still rated R and that pleased me. The universe that he lives in is no walk in the park. Violence is everywhere and it's his job to rid of it. The villain, Cain, acted by Tom Noonan is fairly sinister too. He's no Clarence Boddicker, but he's just as demented if not more. The special effects are principal here as well. By the 90s, stop motion animation was about over and this was probably the last film to use it, but it still looks cool, especially for the Cain cyborg. The other area that I thought added a little more to the story was how this film shows the gradual corruption of the company, OCP. At the end of the first film, one could think that order was restored,...well apparently not.Besides these key things, nothing else was appealing. Even the musical soundtrack, produced by Leonard Rosenman, brings very little to the table. The tune is repetitive and it doesn't even hint a sci-fi tone nor replay Poledouris' theme from the first movie. Another thing that was disturbing was how the film involved children of different ages to swear like they were at a foul mouth convention. I understand that its supposed to show how bad things are in Detroit, but audiences get the point just by watching foul mouthed grown ups; not children! Besides, I wonder how those children feel now that they're all grown up? Do you feel proud of yourselves? I sure wouldn't.It retains some parts from the first film but it utterly fails to finish anything that it throws out. RoboCop 2 is a jumbled mess of ideas that never sinks its teeth into a definite target. "},{"Title":"A pale imitation of the original, with libertarian overtones","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is a poor follow-up to the cult classic; it attempts to imitate the first movie's formula of mixing subversive social commentary with bouts of ultra-violence...but it doesn't mix well in this particular film. Frank Miller as the story writer explains all the anti-political correctness jabs within this particular film and its general reactionary tone. He whiffs as often as he hits home runs when it comes to his writing and this one is a definite strikeout. The villains in particular were total jokes - a 12-year-old rich money gang leader? The returning OCP characters from the first film seemed to have lost their common sense as well in this sequel.The third one is even worse, though. Just stop at the first one and be happy you did. "},{"Title":"Wothy sequel to the original","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop returns in this sequel sci-fi thriller. The actions are scarier than your average sci-fi as it was for the first movie.Robocop is after a narcotics gang headed by Cain. There's also a second Robocop prototype that's even more violent than any of its predecessors. This second Robocop storms into Cains hideout and kills most of the men there. Cain's brain is now transplanted into this second Robocop, and it becomes like a Frankenstien's monster going on the rampage. Robocop must now stop Cain from its destructive streak, and save the day.Made on a bigger budget with some primitive computer animation, this Robocop isn't the masterpiece the first one was, but succeeds in becoming more mainstream in its story's focus. This is genuine good cop/robot vs bad robot scenario, that we see again in recent movies like the Ironman (Iron Monger vs Ironman).The movie is still dark for its time, and has unique atmosphere that only this franchise seems to have. Novel science fiction movie that's interesting to watch because of its originality. "},{"Title":"Thank you for not smoking....","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A few months after RoboCop defeats Clarence Boddicker and Dick Jones. His job is far from done, and several issues make it so.The Detroit police is on strike, OCP is developing both a new robot officer to replace him and to begin construction of Delta City to replace Detroit.To make matters worse, there is a new group of criminals who made a new drug called Nuke, led by a man only named Cain.RoboCop and his partner Anne Lewis must get the Detroit police back on its feet, Defy OCP, and stop Cain.Plus, OCP may even have something for Cain as well....Well the movie suffers from the lack of Verhoeven, and Murphys family life is as good as finished within the first twenty minutes, but you cannot deny that this is one hell of an action film.Gone are the Christ allegory what featured heavy in the first film, this is all about Robo getting injured, getting revenge on Cai, and then Cain becoming the titular character.There is the usual consumerism in the form of great adverts and there is a subplot involving the mayor and the privatisation of Detroit.But this is about two robots fighting, and Robo going a little nuts in the second half, nd the film doesn't disappoint. The stop motion effects are some of the best i've see, and the film just like Robo, appear to have lively glossy sheen about it.A lot of the characters are put on the back burner for this, notably Lewis, who is nothing more than a supporting role in this. Cain is nowhere near as sadistic as Boddicker, and Noonan looks as if he could fall asleep in some scenes.For sheer violence and fun, go fr his. If you are expecting something as genre changing as the first, you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but lacks dramatic weight","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the accomplishment of the Robocop programme corporate company OCP goes about recreating it success with varied unsavoury results. However, with a police strike looming they use a drug addict criminal as the host of Robocop 2 which comes with violent consequences.Frank Miller's Robocop 2's concept is intriguing and exciting but the film falls short of expectations. The acting for the most part is atrocious compared to the first, possibly due to the comic like tone of this sequel. Again the turmoil of Murphy's death and his inability to communicate with his wife and family are only touched on. Oddly it takes Robocop backwards, stripping him of the humanity and balance he found as Murphy in the end of part one.Both Peter Weller and Nancy Allen reprise their roles but are underutilised with many of the scenes going to the shenanigans of OCP boss The Old Man Dan O'Herlihy and the villains. A handful of the original cast return with Robert DoQui's Sgt. Reed feels closer to the original character portrayal compared to the likes of The Old Man. These anomalies highlight a fault with writers Frank Miller and Walon Green's screenplay.Veteran director Irvin Kershner does his best with the sub-par script. The special effects are varied in quality, but make use of an array of techniques in bringing it to life. It has some standout scenes notably Robocop riding a motorbike, Robocop's dismemberment, Robocop's reprogramming and it's results and the showdown fight. However, with a gun touting drug dealing kid, hammy acting, stereotype villains and Scooby Doo corruption it's fun but lacks any dramatic weight.Overall, entertaining but is short of the iconic clout of the first. "}{"Title":"If only you get a kick out of seeing kids swearing, stealing and killing !","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, am I the only one who sees that everything about the character of Ropocop, its looks, moves, and talks, is damn laughable ?! I hope not ! This round it's divided into 2 halves. The first is full of many incomplete ideas  Ropocop is tortured by a gang, copied scene from the first movie, then gets well pretty soon. Ropocop becomes polite; for about 2 scenes, then he gets well incomprehensibly. Moreover, the most important and effective line, concerning how Ropocop's human roots are screaming for his original wife, had been thrown out very early, with no use out of the wife later, or any meaning to be understood eventually. Otherwise the meaning was that the lead has been no human anymore, and utterly machine; which is how this movie loses willfully a good deal of drama and all of its humanity ! At the second half, we have a drug lord who would pay the city's debts in return of letting the drug commerce run freely, and a security cooperation that works for money and power no matter how evil it might turn into. The thing is the 2 story-lines work idiotically, hence don't wait for serious satire, or serious anything, unless serious BAD writing and acting !Some points were unbearable  why the chemist, of the drug's lab, blew up himself along with the merchandise ? Having that lust for violence; explosive blood all the time, gouged out eyes, sawing a skull.. etc. (possibly the series' trademark and reason of success). The evil kid's machine gun looked exactly like a cheap toy. The ironic television commercials were few and dull. The last scene ?? It's colder than a freezer ! And can anybody tell me what Nancy Allen is doing in here ? (even her outfit isn't tight as it was in the first movie !). Don't talk to me about the acting. Ropocop's character, and movies, is the last place in the world to judge such a thing. I don't know what the fans were yakking about when (Peter Weller) left the series in the third movie? In fact, it was the best thing could happen to him, since it was a direct way to be a perfect laughingstock ! (I can't hold it, but did you see the company's owner ? He was more like a robot, not as a character but as an actor !!). The action isn't hot (remember that it's produced by Orion, not any top studio). It did fine just at the climactic sequence, with nearly undying enemy like the one that would distinguish Terminator 2 Judgment Day one year later. True the poor budget was showing, the special effects were mostly a let down, though I believe with the fight's dynamic storyboard, the fabulous designing of the evil Ropocop, and the smart editing that sequence made some kids in 1990 agape. (Irvin Kershner)'s directing was saner than (Paul Verhoeven)'s of the first movie. However, it's not any close to his masterpiece work in The Empire Strikes Back (1980). And it, to some extent, exposed the no explosive nature of the script. (Verhoeven)'s hysterical directing, editing, and special effects could have exposed the weakness less, being more harmonic with Ropocop as inordinate violence of a comics, or.. it could have made things worse. So, while I can't decide whether (Kershner) was a blessing or indignation, sure he was rational in the wrong place. This movie is interesting due to carrying out 2 themes that were running back then. Firstly the Metallic Character; where the human being turns into stiff and ruthless killing machine, for good or bad, as in Blade Runner (1982), The Terminator (1984), Aliens (1986). And secondly the Lead Problem Child; where the child character rebels against its life-long innocence on-screen, turning into influential and violent mastermind, for good or bad also, as in Mad Max 2 (1981), Problem Child (1990), Home Alone (1990). In (Ropocop 2), the protagonist and the antagonist both are applied for these themes. Its success said &#x96; simply &#x96; that the world has become less human and innocent, more drastic and evil !It shows no kids, normal ones, in sight. Its kids steal, beat up miserable people, curse (heavily, more than anybody else in the movie, using none other than the F word), and kill and kill and kill brutally and endlessly ! Maybe that was put for a renewal? Maybe as a warning message that the future will be darker? Or maybe it's for seducing the kids, giving them the image that they want, in the same manner of the porn movies which give the adults what they want ?!All in all, unless you have a kick out of watching abnormal kids, or &#x96; like me &#x96; see and enjoy the title character's laughable side, sorry.. sides, then (Ropocop 2) has nothing to watch. It is average garbage at best. I don't really know how it made money back in the day. Obviously big part of the audience at the moment was sucker for being metallic and harsh, or just sucker ! P.S  (Belinda Bauer)'s voice is similar to (Zooey Deschanel)'s, incredibly ! "},{"Title":"I am a machine. Nothing more.","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul Verhoeven's RoboCop was a groundbreaking success blending its brutal violence, dark humour and satirically biting ideas in to an excitingly evocative Sci-fi classic. The sequel might not match the imprint (although its ricocheting firepower does) and wit of its predecessor, but still it's a candidly worthy follow-up by writer Frank Miller and director Irvin Kushner (The Empire Strikes Back). It's frenetic and boisterous with its explosions, automatic gunfire and warped sense of humour. Criminals run amok in a crime-decayed Detroit (which even sees children getting involved) and corruption spills out from its town hall to a powerful company OCP, where half of the police force is on strike. So to hand out justice&#x85; RoboCop is at work. Peter Weller returns as RoboCop with a blue metallic glow, adding a more humane angle but staying convincing with the quirks that made his character memorable. Tom Noonan laps it up in the villainous drug-lord role Cain, keeping it steadily collected but the cold malevolent demeanour shows up in some sequences and especially when his brain is transported in a cyborg that obeys due to its drug-addiction. Nancy Allen offers solid support. Then there's a terrific Belinda Bauer who's icy portrayal as an ambitious Dr. looking to replace RoboCop with her own model. Gabriel Damon and Galyn Gorg are good in their parts as part of Cain's gang. Don O'Herlihy and Felton Perry suitably reprise their roles as OCP executives. Also there are small to tiny parts for Willard E. Pugh, Ken Lerner, Fabiana Udenio, Mark Rolston and John Glover. Millar's blunt material while smart doesn't have the venomous bite, but keeps a mean-streak and storms up some thoughtful and amusing scenarios like the scenes of RoboCop remembering who he originally was and then the polite program changes to his memory back. Then there's the King Kong like climax, which feels like a homage of sorts. Streaming from it is violently ballsy cartoon-like essence to it all. Technically it's poignantly efficient where by accommodating with thrillingly bombastic action (especially when RoboCop goes up against RoboCop 2), heated-up by outstanding special effects and lingering with remarkably intense camera-work by Mark Irwin. Seedily hostile entertainment.Freeze! This is a bust. "},{"Title":"Not a terrible sequel, but nowhere near as good as the original","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a shame this sequel couldn't pull something along the lines of Terminator where the sequel is good or even better than the previous movie. Cause this sequel is inferior to the first Robocop movie in some aspects. While the first movie in this franchise is brilliant, that isn't the case for this sequel. This isn't a terrible sequel though but far from being good as the original and passable as sequels go, but it just wasn't as effective. Even if it tries to make things bigger with more explosions, there just isn't much build up. The movie also tries to involve kids for the younger audiences, but that wasn't a good idea since the kids just come off annoying to watch and the connection with the main plot was off and looked cheap. If you seen the original and expecting something that equals to the original or even better will be left disappointed. However there are some decent aspects to this sequel and has a bit of entertainment value. The action sequences are also good for it's time and overall it's a worthy sequel just not a great one.7/10 "},{"Title":"Actually one of those that did hold promise","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sequels have a bad name. There's reason for that. This one, however, can be deceptive It starts out good. The very opening? Magnificent. It's not unlikely that the casting people of Smallville had just seen that bit when they chose how to fill that role. Sadly, it doesn't last more than the minute or so. After that, there are glimpses, ideas, and here and there, it almost gets to be great. Alas, the rest of it weighs down, and I'd say that the ending is tasteless beyond anything that was in the first. Subtlety seems to have been the initial victim in the onslaught of graphic death in this. Verhoeven gave us a satire, where the social commentary flowed much smoother... like honey, although (intentionally) bitter. This contains dialog so exposition- and explain-happy, one's initial reaction if viewing the two in succession is pure disbelief. Granted, it's not going to go over people's heads... even if they're laying down... but is quality second to profit? ...well, it shouldn't be. This takes the route that other movies that join a franchise in progress have, where the predecessor asked the audience to take something seriously It makes fun of it. While this goes for a cynicism similar to the real RoboCop film, and clearly does attempt to recreate the certain undefinable thing of it, it just never gets across the same bleakness. Some of the time, it seems to almost parody the original, and encourage us to lighten up with the visions of what may come, at other points it tries too hard at the dark tone, and becomes quite tough to swallow. It didn't even offer an imaginative villain. Did anyone not see coming what the form was going to be? Furthermore, it's got to do with narcotics... how surprising, since the 'bad guy' in the majority of entertainment pieces with a story were around this period wasn't at all a drug lord, a dealer, or a variation thereof. This didn't have to turn out this way. Irvin Kershner, director of the best(definitely in my opinion) Star Wars episode, helmed this. Frank Miller wrote for it... unfortunately, little of it was used(other of that material was included in the third), and I suggest reading the comic based on it to any fan of his. There are characters with credibility and solid writing, at least sometimes. There are interesting concepts here. There's even a bona-fide, genuine scene that can be claimed to potentially invoke emotion in the audience. Nevertheless, the final product is so that I couldn't blame anyone for only watching the one prior to this, of the cinema-released depictions of(this particular version thereof) the future of law enforcement. Maybe this is the real reason Weller passed on the third. Failing that, perhaps he started reading the script of it and decided that life's too short. I recommend this mainly to those who want the entire series, and dreamers who wish to take it in and ponder what might have been. I wouldn't rule out that this could have become one of the few and seldom occurring follow-ups that do justice to what came before them. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Creative and Action-packed, but not up to the standards of its predecessor.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take A bloody and violent sequel that lacks heart, more action, special effects and satirical humor. This was an action-packed movie. It was a futuristic look at the drug crisis that we face today. Nowadays, it was actually happening. Now imagine a dead cop re-incarnated as a mechanical fighter of justice, how cool would that be. Would it happen? Only time will tell. Now back to the movie. Robocop 2 is not a bad film, although it is inferior to its successful predecessor Robocop. This one was more violent, under the courtesy of writer Frank Miller, coping for a plot involving a money-hungry goon named Cain (Tom Noonan) who introduces Detroit with the drug called Nuke, a drug which poisons your nerves. Cain's translation It relaxes you. Of course, Robocop is back, but the other cops couldn't do anything for they're on strike.Despite the plot, the pre- CGI special-effects are also great, considering stop-motion. The film makes up for some weak character elements with lots of exciting moments. And it manages to pull things off.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Death by committee...","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop returns to fight it out with viscous drug-lords who peddle the new drug Nuke which is so addictive that muggers are mugging each other for it in Detroit, however because the cops are on strike, a new robotic cop is thought up in the lab to deal with the crime problem. Also Robocop is taken apart and programmed with absurd commands for awhile as well as facing the dilemma whether he's human or not. Right here describes the problem the film is too ambitious for its own good. There are so many plot threads (that are sloppily resolved or just abandoned!) that it's impossible to conclude the movie with a satisfying ending. However that being said this does work as an action flick and really there are some interesting angles and the film is littered with effective black comedy, the film is also well paced with some excellent special effects. The next sequel doesn't even have this in its favor.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Contrary to popular belief, you don't need to completely avoid this.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was good. I'll admit it wasn't as good as the first, but that's probably because it was a lot different than the first.(a few spoilers may exist here)After the first movie, RoboCop helps the city with it's war on drugs, which mainly consists of Nuke, a drug said to change people. Cain, the gang leader manages to disable RoboCop. OCP on it's way to conquer Detroit, pieces Robo back together as a safer, friendlier RoboCop. Once RoboCop fixes himself he manages to kill Cain and OCP resurrects him as RoboCop 2, a more lethal version of the original.Many people hated this movie. I don't completely understand why. People say it's so much darker in comparison to the first. Yeah, the first was just so cheery wasn't it? Some people say it was too violent. I'll agree with that(I didn't really feel that Duffy's death was necessary), but that still won't drag it down in my opinion. The big shootout between the two RoboCop's at the end is awesome.Some of the characters were a little boring but I managed to tolerate. Lewis, hardly did anything. Cain, gets little screen time. I didn't find that foul mouthed kid to be bad, I thought he was just plain annoying.Don't avoid it unless you don't have the stomach for it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"well made but lacks the humor of the first and is too mean at times.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the first Robocop is a classic and such a great character that a sequel was actually something i wanted.while Robocop 2 is definitely well made from a technical aspect, if sorely lacks any sense of humor and the overall tone of the film is a bit too meanspirited compared to the first.it's basically the same war-versus-drugs plotline as the first but with more violence and gore.the stop motion animation is even more refined than the first film and that final battle is an f/x showstopper.a lot of people have complained about this movie, that it sucks and is a bad movie. But as it's own film i enjoyed it. but when you compare it to the original, the mean streak and lack of humor in it become too painfully obvious.rating7   "},{"Title":"Peter weller is back as robocop","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop2 is just as good as the first.This time Tom Noonan is the villain as drug dealer Cain.There are some funny bits like robocop shooting at a guy for smoking and some pretty gory bits like Cains brain being taken out in surgery and the new Ocp robocop killing all the drug dealers in the warehouse.A very good action movie. "},{"Title":"Funny... But not as good as the first","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone who loved the first robocop and that are huge action fans (like myself)will love some of the movie.  It is average at best.  The most redeemable part of robocop 2 is how funny it is.  But if ain't in the mood to laugh don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"And what's wrong with being mean-spirited?","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film, while not as thought-out as the original Robocop, is every bit as entertaining.  Frank Miller's original script was reportedly chunked for a leaner, meaner version, but even that doesn't stop this film from rocking.This film has been referred to as mean-spirited. Where's the problem?  Isn't this sort of thing inherent to the action genre?  Aren't bad guys supposed to be bad?  And why should good guys be nothing but good?  Nonsense.  It's a comic book with lots of money behind it, and does its job properly.Irvin Kershner did with this film the same thing he did with The Empire Strikes Back - He took the original movie and amped it up to eleven.See both in a row, but avoid Robocop 3 at all costs! "},{"Title":"darker,meaner,smarter film,not better...","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  very different from the 1st robocop,but not a off puting experience!,,,the story is a crazy twist from the first ,,,the bad guys seem to win this time around!,,,,drugs,ocp are still here.the mayor is a good new addition,the main bad guy is so-so,wellers is good too,nothing special though,,nancy allen was not meant to be in this film,,did not belong!but very dark ,entertaining film,watch it,won't ya? "},{"Title":"Not bad at all.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you liked Robocop, you will probably like this. It is on par with the original, it is violent, however I think the first one had more violence. The plot is not quite as strong as the prequel, though still, an enjoyable, funny, worthy sequel to a very good film. It features a great new robot, as good as ED-209. Worth watching if you don't mind a little bit of gore. "},{"Title":"Chrome and wise cracks","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps I was biased, perhaps I didn't require much from my movies to make them good or maybe Robocop 2 wasn't that bad.  Paul Verhoeven's Robocop was more a foray into social satire and definitely superior to its sequels. It mimicked the society in which we live or did rather in 1987 and portrayed a robot that was more human than the automaton characters that surrounded him. Robocop 2 doesn't have time for social satire, he's too busy bustin butt and blown stuff up.Frank Miller better known for his much acclaimed comic books, (which could explain the comic book feel of the film) wrote and Irvin Kershner (Never say never and Empire Strikes Back) directed this inevitable sequel, that should have been called Robocop 2 Back to Cash In!  It's basically a rehash  of the first with less heart and none of the subtle style and  undertone.  So as you can imagine Robocop busts bad guys with sufficient style and finesse, he gets beat up only to come back in a climactic showdown, and saves the day in what has to be one of the best fight scene's in recent cinema history. It almost saves this film.Sure its nothing but a blatant attempt to part you from your bottom dollar but if you allow it, it will entertain you enough not to care.  It brings home the bacon as an action film with a high body count and some big explosions.  Peter Weller does Robocop really well (like Arnie does The Terminator really well).  However Tom Noonan who portrays the role of Cain, the drug lord  and all around evil master mind really lets the bad guys down, something about a villain that looks like a hippie that tends not to scare me. It's really doesn't offer you anything new as film, but it has some good laughs and it is kinda cool to see Robocop stopping crime in a way that only Robocop can.  All in all worth a look on video if you haven't already seen it.  Or if you are just in the mood to see lots of things get blown up by a walking fridge. "},{"Title":"Where's Verhoeven when you need him?","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Irvin Kirschner manages to suck all of the life out of this one.  Peter Weller is wasted in this one, given no chance to portray the subtleties of the lead character.  Instead, we're left with even more violence than the first movie, without the parody/social elements.  The programming by committee subplot is cute, but like any subplot in this movie, is dropped, overlooked, and generally rushed through.  A major disappointment.  "},{"Title":"Appalling Sequel.","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Extremely violent, mean-spirited and heavy-handed sequel about Robocop having to continue his fight against another vicious drug gang, distributing a highly addictive synthetic version that is the worst kind yet, and also the same corruption in the company that controls the Robocop technology, and is not afraid to reprogram or terminate its most successful creation...Sequel goes on too long, and much too far, badly written and directed in a bizarre jackhammer approach that bludgeons the viewers senses, and will leave you numb to all the cruelty on display here. Only the sincere performances of the returning cast saves this junk from complete ruin. Overkill cinema the whole way through in this joyless film. "},{"Title":"Horrible Sequel,","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is a terrible movie with a ridiculous storyline that is too long (almost two hours) and an uninspired cast that are only in it for the money.The only scenes that I enjoyed in anyway are Peter Weller's parts,but he isn't even in it that much,he's in the first half and after that it starts focusing more on the humans,Robocop is the title character,and if his name is in the movies title,he should be in it more than anyone else.The worst part about this movie is the cheesy special effects,and especially Nancy Allen,she wasn't great in the first Robocop,but she's even worse in this,she is a terrible actress only says her lines.I also didn't like the strong use of children in this,it was just creepy seeing such young kids as criminals.Robocop 2 is a stupid sequel that I would not recommend to fans of the original.While the crime rate is only getting worse,Robocop is destroyed and replaced by a newer model,they try their best to put him back together as more memories of being Alex Murphy come back to him. "},{"Title":"Stylish and worthy sequel to the brilliant original!","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following up the original Robocop, which is considered to be a groundbreaking masterpiece in dark, violent movie making was never going to be easy. Robocop 2 has 'copped' some flak since it's release in 1990 but was it all justified? In a nutshell no, not at all.The film is much lighter in tone and the humour is more obvious and not so dark plus the film has lost a lot of that very 'uneasy' feeling of the first one in that it's not quite so shocking. Do not be fooled though, this is not tame by any standards, the gore is still strong and all the phoney adverts and news satire that made the first film so gloriously corny are present.The makers of the movie made a wise choice and rather than take a risk and explore unknown territory they simply offered up more of the same, which is no bad thing at all.Robocop 2 is a fine sci-fi action film with some genuinely chilling moments and when compared to action films of today with their oodles of CGI nonsense and not much else, Robocop 2 stands head a shoulders above the lot.The effects may be dated but that in no way implies that they are bad and they were done with complete skill and there is plenty of comic book style story to fill in between the blasting action.Robocop 2 stands tall and proud alongside it's older brother and while not quite reaching the phenomenal heights of the prequel it can be counted as a stylish and polished action film which continues the story of Robocop, nothing more nothing less! "},{"Title":"How Robocop 2 holds up 20 years later and compared to the first","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched it as a teen way back when and the only thing I remembered was the gruesome scene involving the removal of a brain. I wondered why that was. Probably because compared to the first Robocop (which is pretty good, and that I remembered fairly well), it's not just not a very memorable, or good, movie for that matter. The sarcastic newscast and ads are still there, probably better even with stronger emphasis on environmental issues. The film starts reasonably well with Robocop fighting crime alone, stalking his former family and a powerful scene where the Corporation tries to brainwash him into thinking he's just a machine. Wow, there might have been some psychological depth and dramatic intensity building up from that but that was soon forgotten. There was a clever twist to make Robocop more politically correct (he does tend to shoot first, ask questions later), but it was a bit exaggerated (as in cheesy) and not really exploited well enough. I also thought there were way too many kids for that kind of violent movie as if they were trying to appeal to them. I know the creators must have thought it would be shocking, but almost every time, it brought down the quality. The criminal kid wasn't good enough of an actor to have such importance and so many scenes. Another acting weakness was the mayor who was so over-the-top that there's no way he could have been elected in the first place. The villains also weren't as good as the first film. The female partner cop, who should have been developed more, honestly didn't have much to work with. Peter Weller as Robocop did fine but he also slightly amplified his robotic movements(a good point in the first) perhaps a tad too much, sometimes bordering on corny.They obviously wanted to give us more action for our money but those shooting scenes felt really overdrawn to the point of tiresome. There's a very long sequence in the second half with no Robocop (reason for that but still) and it just goes on and on (15 minutes but it felt longer). The vehicle pursuits and close-in robotic fighting were more interesting but not astounding. Special effects-wise, I was impressed with the way the hurt Robocop was portrayed. The animation on Robocop's robotic antagonist was better than the one for ED-209 (a slight weakness from the first film) but unfortunately the design of that robot was far less memorable. I honestly didn't remember anything about it (except the lame computer generated face display but technical limitations of the time I suppose). Overall, I think they tried to add more of everything that people liked from the first film, but here, it should have been a case of less is more. In particular, the action scenes are too long and not thrilling enough. They tried at first to deepen Robocop character, then to change it, then finally overlooked it in the last part in favor of action (when he was there). Robocop 2 is certainly watchable, but disappointing compared to the strong first. I would just rent it and then only if you liked the first.Rating 5 out of 10 (average) "},{"Title":"Gloomy and violent, but also very entertaining","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The $15 million 1987 original was such a great movie; yes it was ultra-violent, but it had a great charm to it that is unmatched by movies with bigger budgets and less violence. The special effects were mind-boggling (Robo's first-person view and the ED-209 stop-motion, to name a few), the characters were believable, and the storyline was very consistent. Its success encouraged Orion to persuade Verhoeven to film a sequel. However, scheduling conflicts prevented Verhoeven from returning to the director's chair (he was busy with Total Recall) and is replaced by Irvin Kershner, the director of the Empire Strikes Back,the best Star wars film.Set several years after the original, the crime epidemic seems to be worsening in Old Detroit, and, this time, OCP is actually stirring it up for its own ends as they encouraged the cops to go back on strike. The Old Man (Daniel O' Herlihy) makes a drastic change from a seemingly innocent, ambiguous but well-intentioned CEO to a ruthless, cold-blooded corporation tsar getting involved into politics and putting coercive pressure on the mayor to pay back his debts. While Robocop is fighting crime, OCP is grooming for a replacement. After a number of unmitigated (and humorous) disasters worth a total of $90 million, a corrupt psychologist-businesswoman named Juliette Fax (Belinda Bauer) steps in and convinces him to keep investing in the Robocop 2 project. Meanwhile, Robocop faces a criminal force that proves to be even more ruthless than the late Clarence Boddicker's gang, the psychotic hippie called Cain, whose clique is renown for creating a highly addictive and popular drug called Nuke. Ironically, it would be Cain who becomes Robocop 2 following his hospitalisation from a police raid led by Robocop. Robocop 2 proves to be much bulkier and better-equipped than ED-209, Robocop's past nemesis.Robocop 2 proves to be a surprisingly good sequel. It does not intend to rehash the original story, and that is a strong point for sequels, who are often merely part I with different characters. The special effects are still spectacular and more detailed thanks to a bigger budget. Robocop 2's stop-motion animation is amazing, and the action sequences are well-staged and imaginative. The movie does have a lot of funny moments made from the faux commercials, the malfunctioning Robocop 2 prototypes and Robo's one-liners. The two leads are still likable now like they were in the original. Leonard Rosemnam's uplifting traditional music score makes a great replacement to Basil Polerdouris's gloomier, often-synthesised one, and the Robocop 2 theme is the high water mark of the saga. The downsides are The screenplay has several unfinished ideas, in particular Robocop's human story at the beginning which is touched upon so lightly and ends only within the first 20 minutes of the movie. One particular scene which involves Duffy's brutal death is particular shocking to some viewers, but it's not as gruesome as Murphy's in the original. But the most criticised part of this film is including a foul-mouthed 12 or 13-year-old named Hob, a relentless, ruthless member of the gang. I find it excessive, but the movie shows a real aspect of crime it knows no age boundaries.Although Verhoeven left the building, the project was still in good hands with Kershner as most of his trademarks are preservered here to good effect. Love it or hate it, Robocop 2 is a good, under-appreciated sequel that suffered a lot of unnecessary script changes. "}{"Title":"Change of style is not a disappointment","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A change in director has meant a change in style for this Robocop movie. This sequel is graphic and action-packed, as was the first, but our director has swapped the violent, harsh style of Verhoeven for a technological look which he previously implemented in The Empire Strikes Back.Robocop faces this time a drug lord named 'Cain' who is trying to spread the ultra addictive 'Nuke' all around the decaying city of Detroit. Peter Weller reprises his original role as does Nancy Allen and many other original cast members in a movie which is very much a special effects show, and an impressive one at that. Not as good, or quite as funny (almost though) as the first, but fans shouldn't be disappointed.Saturday, September 19, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" May have spoiler! This is a good sequel to this franchise. There are more subplots to this movie then the first one had. Also the tone is fairly dark, and very violent. The first film had lots of violence, but this movie kicks the violent up a notch.Basically, the city of Detroit is going farther down the black hole. The police force is now on strike since OCP decided to make changes, and crime becomes more rampant through the city. Now a large drug dealer is selling Nuke a new drug on the streets in mass.This film also shows the theme of the government attempting to make back room deals in order to prevent OCP from foreclosing the city. The current administration makes a deal with the new dealers of Nuke in order to take back the city, by getting enough money to get out of the debt in turn for ignoring the dealing of Nuke.This is a good film to watch, however some of the violence may turn some people off. "},{"Title":"Cain! Lets Step Outside!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2, following it's masterful first was I think, way too critically panned. Yes, it isn't as good as the first, but it ain't bad. Irvin Kershner assumes the directing duties taking over where Verhoeven left off and while Kershner did not pull off that razor sharp style and wit that Verhoeven so terrifically accomplished he still managed to pull off a fun flick starring our clunky hero.Kershner really gave Robocop a different feel in comparison to the first, which while focusing on action in particular, also gives a great emotional feel, the feeling of loss and the feeling of revenge seering through ones veins. Murhpy's wife and son were brought into perspective in the first Robocop but in this sequel, they are really forgotten after the first 15 minutes due to the fact that OCP wants him to forget about the fact that he ever was Alex Murphy and concentrate on solely what he was built for. So this movie has somewhat of an absence emotionally at times and really concentrates more on the loud torcherous violence, making it supremely entertaining on the happy note. Peter Weller thankfully reprises his role as Murphy and just as in the first was great, he really gives the character a great zing, with his deep metallic voice, something that all the other actors to have portrayed Robocop have lacked and just don't seem believable in anyway, but it's not only that, Weller can make the character real and life like. He can make something that seems so unreal and unhumanlike and turn it into one of us, without doubt he's the best Murphy out there.The story in this sequel is simple, a new drug is sweeping the country called Nuke, highly addictive and it's up to Murphy to put a stop to it but after a run in with the Nuke Lord Cain (played by Tom Noonan)has him dissembled(a really hard scene to watch to warn fans out there), there's consideration as to replacing Murphy in which he eventually does though he gets rebuilt. Using the brain of Nuke Lord Cain (after the 2nd run in with Murphy) they reconstruct a Robocop 2. But Cain knows who he is still and the killing starts. The best part of the movie, Robocop and Cain squaring off. Golden scene setting the stage.A great sci-fi actioner that didn't get enough respect. I know it could have been better, perhaps had they used Frank Miller's original script, which was deemed unfilmable at the time, it would have been something better.Well one way or the other, give this underrated classic a shot.Good Bye "},{"Title":"The Final Chapter","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ROBOCOP 2 starts only a few years after where ROBOCOP has left us. Crime rates have increased, a new drug called Nuke is gaining popularity, cops are on strike or corrupt and OCP is eager to take over control of the city. Only Robocop can save the day, and the city.The story of Robocop 2 is darker and more violent than the first movie, which means more action. And that's what you get, lots of shooting and killing. More than the original movie.With most movies more action means a weaker plot, but this isn't the case with Robocop 2. The story is still a pretty good one and the connection between the first and second movie makes sense in most cases.Most actors luckily reprised their roles. Robocop is Robocop because of the actors. The effect of 'how it is not done' can be seen in Robocop 3. Peter Weller feels more comfortable playing a Robot, but Nancy Allen seems to have had less screen time. Special notifications are for Tom Noonan, the disturbed Cain, and Damon Gabriel, professionally playing Hob at 14-years of age.A bit of a let down in this movie are the special effects and the large amount of clearly visible goofs. I was able to see about 4-5 goofs in a single scene, and I'm usually not good at seeing goofs. The special effects, the stop-motion-recording or whatever its called, looks a bit outdated and too cheap.Overall, ROBOCOP 2 is a decent action flick, underrated by many, that follows nicely into the footsteps of the original ROBOCOP movie. For most people, this movie marks the final chapter of the Robocop-movies as the next one (Robocop 3) no longer features Peter Weller.My score would be a 6/10 or 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie; worthy sequel of a great movie.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My summary pretty much says it all. Robocop 1 was a classic, one of the best films ever made. R2 and R3 (yes, even R3) aren't great, but they're good, and thus worthy to be its sequels. For those who don't want to stop there (and I hope you're one of them ^_^), I'll be happy to tell you why, especially considering that this movie has a reputation of being a gore-fest without any story or heart. First off, the story in R2 *is* as complicated and engaging as the one in R1. The problem is that director Kirshner (sp) made the mistake of making this film a bit TOO violent, instead of giving it the perfect balance between violence and storytelling that R1 had. Thus, R2 has a beautifully-written story that's buried underneath the over-the-top violence, and here's the proof &#150; The film aptly points out the greed and hypocrisy of big business, where the fatcats are smiling in front of the cameras, pretending to care about someone/something other than money, but in private, all they wish to do is look out for money and for those who are rich, like themselves. ******SPOILERS*******Clearly, Daniel O'herlihy's character supposedly wanting to 'fix' the city, but only worrying about having his company sued once Cain mows down dozens of innocent people is just that. And before then sleeping with that gold-digger before selling her out to safe his own image, whether the evidence exists against her or not, we'll find it, indeed. Besides this, there are sub-plots, such as the one of Robo wondering if he's still human (before coming up to the resounding conclusion at the end of the film that he, in fact, is). Plus the kid drug dealer (of all people!) reminded Robo of his now-lost son. It's very easy to hate that little drug-dealing cretin, no doubt. But if one kept watching, even his character had statements to make. For starters, he's eating fries that are drowned in ketchup for dinner, even though he's a millionaire! That says something about the value of expensive luxuries, since something that costs more won't necessarily bring you more joy. Imagine someone who can afford any meal he wants, and all he wants is something you can buy for a dollar at a fast food place. That's a good commentary. And then later, when Robo found him as he was dying on top a truckload of cash, which is another commentary that everyone dies eventually, no matter how much money they have to supposedly protect them. How ironic that the kid asked Robo to keep a vigil over him as he bled to death, considering he was the one who shot a pair of cops earlier, and before then had helped dismember Robo himself. It's still not clear what he meant when he pointed out that Robo knew how dying felt, and that it sucked &#150; whether he meant Murphy's original death in R1 or Robo's dismemberment at the start of R2. But either way, he didn't even apologize for trying to literally tear him apart at the start, which only adds to his realism.There's a build-up of tension when Robo's told that the mass murderer was Cain, and that Cain now is bigger than him, so Robo has got to be wondering if his awesome power is enough to beat Cain. That's a fresh change from villains who appear just to fight the hero in too many movies out there, as the audience can anticipate the climactic fight between these two cyborgs for over half an hour before it happens. There's also Robo being 'neutered' by the addition of 200+ idiotic directives, that make him be less than the tough-as-nails cop he wants to be. So this guy (can he be called anything else? a machine wouldn't do that) decides to risk his life by flooding his system with electricity, if it means going back to his previous self, rather than continue existing like he is. *******END SPOILERS******** But I must've been watching another Robocop 2 than everyone else, because this film is apparently nothing more than a brainless bloodbath. Yeah, right! But it's not perfect, and here's what keeps it from being as good as its marvelous predecessor. For one thing, the human cops kill criminals much too casually. Lewis kills two guys who Robo had locked into a closet at the beginning of the film, then she shoots the baseball team coach as she's trading gunfire with him while hiding behind Robo's figure. It's one thing for Robo to be casual about the righteous taking of a life, but not for the human cops. Humans are supposed to have feelings, and it's hard to take the characters as seriously when they shoot someone in the head and then discuss lunch in the same breath. And the violence IS too excessive, with too many expendable characters who are faceless cannon fodder who show up simply to get killed off, especially at the end when Cain busted out of the OCP building and had his large rampage. But that doesn't take away from the good plot that is lurking underneath all that carnage. It's the kind of storyline that you'll see if you do yourself the favor of watching this film for the second or third times, once you already know what scenes of violence to expect, thus they won't be as shocking any more, and you can thus spend more attention on the plot twists and dialogue instead, because that's where the movie's strength is.  "},{"Title":"Great and under-rated film","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this film... it was just so tongue-in-cheek, you simple had to love it. I've always had a soft-spot for directors who use stop-motion animation rather than computer graphics (which were starting to take hold around the time) - directors such as Sam Raimi - it has such an amusing giggle quality to it.I won't bore you with the plot, but I would have to say that along with Godfather II, Empire Strikes Back (which I believe was done by the same director), Aliens and (dare I say it) Superman 2, that this is a better sequel, despite loving the original. A complete p**s take from start to finish.Lovers of Ray Harryhausen will see my point "},{"Title":"Quite good a follow-up","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A sequel to a perfectum without the same director is ALWAYS a definite bust! That must be the unwritten law every critic thinks when they hear titles such as Robocop 2- otherwise I can't think of a reason why this movie has remained so underrated for over a decade (alongside another good sequel, Predator 2). Okay, so it doesn't match the original, but how could it? In its own league (sci-fi, action) Robocop 2 is still grade-A. What more, it has a quality not many sequels do it's loyal to the theme of the original. There's lots and lots of nasty violence, with a touch of coal-dark humour through the movie. *POSSIBLE SPOILER* They even came up with a match for ED-209! "},{"Title":"not bad I guess","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now this was an OK film, more comedy than the first but less script and plot, I remember the first when Robocop shot a guy in the drugs factory without looking, this was used to show the skill and aiming of Robocop but in this second iteration, Robocop is just firing without looking at EVERYONE and the scenes when he has been re-programmed, this is sort of a semi-joke, most people think it is just pathetic to read the mandatory rights to a dead guy anyway, ridiculous plot, 10 times worse than the first, 10 times better than the third "},{"Title":"Not bad!  Not bad at all!","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen Robocop 1, I figured that everything worthwhile and enjoyable that could come from a Robocop movie had already been presented to the viewer.  Along comes Robocop 2, so I watch it simply because I love the idea of a cyborg fighting crime.Believe it or not, this is an absolutely fantastic movie!  It has it all!  Well-defined characters with unique and important roles, an excellent story line, great action scenes (as expected), and yes, a brave duty-oriented Robocop who STILL manages to regain his humanity.  It's the story of a large company's plan to essentially steal a whole city from the people, a mayor's devotion to preventing it, a drug lord's unfortunate acquisition into the company by the actions of a scheming psychologist who is manipulating the head of the company, as well as her desire to eliminate Robocop as a viable crime fighter in order to clear the way for her own creation.  It doesn't stop there though, these aspects of the film are all closely intertwined throughout.  The plot is brilliant, just brilliant!  Worthy of an Oscar.  I've seen plots with child-like simplicity receive Oscars year after year after year.  A plot like Robocop 2 with awesome action to boot, and it's a shame this movie never won ANYTHING at the Academy Awards.  I guess a movie title containing the word Robocop just doesn't have a fighting chance.  Perhaps its superb qualities are just too obvious for the Academy.  Maybe the film isn't sad enough for the Academy.  Maybe it's not bizarre enough for the Academy.The acting isn't spectacular, but it doesn't have to be.  The plot and the action (which go exquisitely hand in hand) more than make up for it.  But this movie sends a message as well big corporations can be as corrupt and harmful to society as drugs.  In fact, we find the mayor of the city looking to a drug cartel to save the city, and the corporation sending one of their products to assassinate him in order to preserve their plans.  Additionally, the satire in this movie is delightful--the allusions to neighborhood-oriented policing, as well as the hilarious anti-smoking message delivered by Robocop.  I just can't get over what a great story this movie has!  Watch it, and you'll understand. "},{"Title":"A good sequel, but not as good as the original","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film should have been brilliant, but instead was the same as most sequels out there, just cash-ins trying to make some more money out of the originals success. The 2 original versions of the film, which were sadly never made, were brilliant compared to what we got, and only because of an impatient film company was Verhoven not allowed to return to make his second part. Even at that, there are so many cut scenes in this film which were taken out because they apparently didn't fit the film, but they would have made it so much better!Instead we get a rushed job. The acting is top notch as in the first, but the film just doesn't have the same feel. People think the film is too violent, but there was more violence in the first film! The film had a lot of potential, but was sadly treated badly. Hopefully the recent talk of Verhoven and the writers Miner and Neumier wanting to return to make their own sequel to the original classic 'RoboCop' will become solid, and true RoboCop fans will get to see a great character in a great film once again. Overall - 7/10. "}{"Title":"not as good as the first but good","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  peter weller returns as the cyborg robocop. this movie was almost as good as the first but wasent. the plot was good and so was the acting but it was missing something i think it was the intesity. it wasent as intense as the first movie but defently a classic sequel. "},{"Title":"Vicious black comedy-action story","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a dark comic story that follows up the original sci-fi satire movie.Spoiler warningThere is slightly less blood-letting in this one that the earlier film, though it still contains some very graphic scenes - including a live mutilation and a kid getting killed.I preferred the satirical humor of this movie to the earlier one, especially the news pieces and the dig at bland beurocratic political correctness. I noticed a slight parallel in the story to Dicken's Oliver Twist with Tom Noonan's character as a futuristic Fagan, and Gabe Damon as an Artful Dodger type.  I enjoyed the way one of the lead robots of the story is given some personality, twitching its grabbers in anticipation of a treat.My personal favorite scene is a news report on the meltdown of a nuclear power plant in the Amazonian rainforest.  The newsreader announces that Greenpeace is complaining that this is one of the worst natural disasters of our time.  Then Leeza Gibbons responds Yeah, but don't they always.Obviously not for all tastes, but this is rather witty. "},{"Title":"Wild and Chaotic Sequel That Is All Over the Map","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RoboCop 2 is a somewhat disappointing film that is overly violent and ultimately stupid.  This time RoboCop (Peter Weller) is up against a wild gang of drug dealers who are just as crazed as the group of thugs from the original.  Their ring-leader then becomes a robot, ala Weller in the first, and he begins a reign of terror in Detroit that will lead to a showdown with the title character.  Once again the violence is extreme, but there is no real direction or screenplay.  None of the characters make lasting impressions and in the end RoboCop 2 is little more than 110 minutes of pure chaos that never does come together.  2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Bad sequel","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a HORRIBLE sequel to a GREAT movie.  RoboCop is no longer showcased as he was in the first movie (that may be because Weller hated wearing the RoboCop suit) and the plot was very thin.  Peter Weller is still, of course, excellent, but he had very minimal screen time.  I admit that the first fifteen minutes were fantastic, but after that, it went EXTREMELY downhill.  If you're a RoboCop fan, then see it.  If not, skip it and watch the first one.  The first RoboCop is a classic. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently picked up all three Robocop films in one box set, rather cheaply and the only reason I did this was for the special edition of the superb first one. I have seen Robocop 2 before but not for 17 years, the year it came out. I have never watched it since because I can still remember how disappointed I was when I discovered how appalling it really is. Its a complete mess really, it has all the signs of a troubled production with so many sub-plots going on at the same time. It has a very uneven tone also and it is also one of the nastiest films I have ever seen. I don't mind a little violence, the first one was incredibly violent but this one is just plain nasty. Also the SFX is terrible even for 1990, say hello to bad stop motion. Also having a drug dealing, cursing kid as a villain is just a little too much. Peter Weller at least had the common sense not to return for the next one. The only positive thing I can say for this film is it does have a couple of nice gags, like the thank you for not smoking one and the kiddie baseball team robbing an electrics store. To quote the kid who plays the villain It sucks "},{"Title":"An Underrated Sequel","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" To this day my brain aches from trying to understand the harsh criticism towards this film. Okay, I can understand why people would think its not as good as the original, but to say that it was awful is false (But the third film really sucked).Pros- The acting quality is good, given the type of film your watching. - It still contains satirical television commercials. - Good Action - Nice looking graphics - Good storylineThe cons are few in number. I would have liked to see some of the deleted scenes in the movie that would have built on RoboCop dealing with his loss of a normal life, but it is an action flick. Fans might also feel a little cheated because RoboCops theme isn't present in the film. Im not going to give anything away but when we are expected to feel sorry for the death of a certain character it feels forced and cheesy.The film may not deserve 10 stars but I grew up with RoboCop and I feel the film has aged well and my liking for it has only grown stronger. I recommend you watch it with an open mind and make your own decision. "},{"Title":"One of the classic Sci Fi Romp flicks","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 ranks up there with the best of the sci-fi romp flicks, most notably coming out of the late 80s and 90s, but they are still being made. You can't take this one too seriously, whereas the first Robocop had a quite dreary and realistic tone, this sequel just wants to kick butt. I'd called it the Empire Strikes Back of the Robocop series (and ironically it involves the same director), because the plot is more complex and daring. There are many memorable characters, outrageous concepts, and an audacious plot. The best thing is that it doesn't take itself seriously, but at the same time, goes all the way with its bold plot! I'd rank this movie in the same group of genre-defining Sci-Fi-Romps as Total Recall, Running Man, and Starship Troopers. If you like those movies I'm sure you'll agree this fun flick deserves this place of honor! "},{"Title":"One of the finest action films ever made.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well all that can be said to describe this film is BAD-ASS. Robocop was popular when I was growing up and it is one of the most memorable parts of my childhood. Robocop part 1 was fantastic due to Paul Verhoven's great vision of an industrial city in the dumps. Robocop 2 picks up right where part 1 left off. Robo has excepted what Murphy has become and is now seeking to destroy the drug nuke that is plagueing the city. Kain is a twisted phsycopath who plans to spread nuke all over the world and Robocop spends the hole film trying to stop him. Many people are turned off by the film's sick twisted humor, especially the drug dealing 12 year old boy. Anyone who is familiar with Paul Verhoven knows that this is his material so Robocop 2 is merely immitating Robocop 1 and Total Recall's dark humor. The film is directed by Irvin Kershner (The Empire Strikes Back) so the film's action sequences are amazing and the blue lighting throughout the film especially the reflections on Robo's armor is superb. Peter Weller perfects his movements and personality as Robocop that was alittle amateur in the first film. Perhaps the best part of the film is the climax when Robocop battles Kain-the cyborg. Kain is being presented at a press conference until he goes bad on them.Robocop then shows up with a tank rifle and says the best words ever to come out of his mouth Kain, Lets step outside! This is perhaps the most violent scene in movie history. They wreck half the city while trying to kill each other. It is a true comic book movie that I recommend highly. Unfortunatley for DVD buffs I have bad news. The Robocop series is going out of print on DVD so getting Robocop 2 may be difficult and its really a shame that they havent made a Special Edition Box for the series like they just did with DieHard Trilogy. Perhaps they plan to, I dont know. Anyhow get yourself a copy of Robocop 2 on vhs or dvd. Its all over ebay. "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first film was so good I couldn't help myself but to try and watch the sequel. My dad showed me a couple clips of the film on t.v. when I was a kid and I really had high hopes for this film. But unfortunately, I was greeted with a bunch of unneeded, unnecessary, brutal graphic storyline with a sad excuse for a storyline that might as well been three words Bang, Bang, Bang. That isn't to say there isn't some fun to be had with this movie. The film tries very hard to be as action-packed as the original which it successfully achieves but unfortunately it's just so pointless that you grow irritated by it and begin to feel dirty from watching it. The visual effects are also a good factor for this film, it has extremely well done animation (Both stop-motion and surprisingly, a very early CGI that looks great for a 90's film). Nevertheless Robocop 2 isn't worth your time, just watch the original and stop. "},{"Title":"Bring on the 80s trash movies!","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Isn't it wonderful when idiots have money? Damn, I haven't something as bad as this in a long time! The camera work is shaky, close range shots, like in TV movies, no story, dialogs that don't ring true, car chases at 30 km/h. Plus there is a clumsy robot cop, 50 million in a truck with $ signs on the bag and 10 year old kingpins. When someone is shot (even children), they show blood everywhere. The cast is plain horrible, Peter Weller does the best job of them all, but he plays a robot. Ronny Cox decided not to participate in this in hope to salvage his career. After seeing Robocop 2 I actually regret giving Seagal movies 1 star ratings... "}{"Title":"Great special effects, a worthy sequel to a great movie.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the better sequels I have seen to a great movie, Robocop 2 is a great sci fi movie. Robocop 2 takes place not to long after Robocop with most of the police on strike, the city addicted a to new drug called nuke and OCP trying to buy out what's left of the police force and then city for there own corrupt corporate schemes. Robocop's main enemy in this one is a deranged hippie (aren't they all) Cain (Tom Noonan), who is the leader of a gang who uses a drug called nuke to make money and control the underworld of crime. Robocop in typical great violent fashion takes out most of the scum, but ends up being dismembered by the gang. Robocop is repaired, but the female corporate villain, Dr. Faxx (Bauer) of course wants to hinder his ability while she works on her own project Robocop 2. In a great moment in the movie a bunch of men and soccer mom types give there opinions on how Robocop should be reprogramed, to be a typical politically correct wimp, think Al Gore and Tipper programing someone. Talk things out rather then waving that big gun of his. Hahahahha! This obviously fails, Robocop fry's his circuits and goes back to nail Cain and the gang. Cain's brain is taken by Dr. Faxx for the new Robocop 2. Well eventually Robocop faces Cain now in a new body in a great climatic battle in Detroit that ends with his brain smashed all over the ground.Overall a great movie. The special effects I cant emphasize enough are incredible. How did we go from this to the CGI crap that is so popular now? The stop motion and models are amazing. Not flat as with most of even the most high tech CGI that's out there. To bad it so much money to do that now. The story is OK, I don't think it was as good as part ones, but the edition of the Robocop 2 is a great machine that is well worth the wait. Cain the villain I was not real impressed with. Clarence Boddicker from part one was much better. Look out for Ed Lauter with his stupid outfit, always the man. The action keeps up and you are never board, along with a fair amount of extreme violence although not as bad as I had thought when I saw it as a kid in the movie theaters. Maybe a bit tame by today. As with the first movie watch for all the great in jokes about corporate greed, the future (skin lotion commercial) are all funny. Like OCP's Flag? Some familiar characters return including The Old Man and Nancy Allen returning as Anne Lewis as the strong female role that works. There not much to say about Peter Weller, he walks around in his costume most of the time, nuff said. One and 2 are great movies however skip the stupid part three that was obviously taken over by a bunch of soccer Mom losers who ruined it. Overall the story is a little weak, but Robocop 2 gets a 10 out of 10 stars great sci fi action movie. See it just for the special effects if nothing else.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't get much worse than this. . .","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 sure looks good on paper Irvin Kershner directing, whose Empire Strikes Back gets as many votes as the others for best in the Star Wars series, and Frank Miller writing, the comic book writer/artist whose Batman revisions sparked a renaissance in the genre in the late 1980s.  Additionally, both are working from the surprisingly entertaining premise of the original Robocop, in which a deceased cop is resurrected as a law-and-order killing machine with identity problems.The sequel is all but unrecognizable, with hardly two enjoyable minutes to be found in the entirity of this gritty, spiteful film.  The plot is something about drugs, pre-pubescent crime lords, and a brain transplant into a giant killer robot, but none of it is very memorable. The original was full of hammy acting and over-the-top action, but dipped into realism (the threatened police strike, Robocop's ghostly memories of his former life) enough to keep it grounded.  The striking police officers in the sequel are little more than cardboard cut-outs, and a scene were Robo confronts his wife is executed so lamely as to be downright insulting.Things look up when PR-minded execs decide to reprogram Robo with more PC directives and he winds up taking potshots at smokers.  It's a nice 30 seconds, but the resolution (Robo sticks a high-voltage cable down his chassis) is so simple-minded that he might as well have erased our memory along with his.  Movies like this give sequels a bad name. "},{"Title":"As Good As the First!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. I used to rent it constantly before I finally got my own. Heck, I must have rented this film so much, I almost made the retailer a millionaire.This film is alot more violent than the first one. The subject of this film is RoboCop trying to rid the city of a drug called Nuke; my favorite part of the film is when OCP reprograms Robo into being more calm and cool and make speeches. It's funny whenhe tries to talk some kids down from robbing an electronics store and playing with a broken hydrant, they curse him and he says, Bad language makes for bad feelings. The title character is also interesting, but deadly!He makes ED-209 look like a pussycat! It seems The Old Man has turned into a bad guy in this movie. He was a good guy in RoboCop 1, but now he's a bad guy with a real biotch of an assistant, Faxx. They both should've gotten their commupance in the end, but nope, but it's like RoboCop said, We're only human. So in conclusion, I recommend this film! It's as good as the first!!By the way, the boy who plays Hob, the junior gang accomplice of Cain also did the voice of Littlefoot in the first Land Before Time!--  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Instead of spelling out exactly what we're supposed to be thinking at every moment, the filmmakers respect the audience's ability to deduce meaning from the mood and tone, from the light in a frame or the ambient noise of a scene. This is a story about a place most people might not be able to conceive. All the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. Against this backdrop, our robotic hero must fight on. By the end, we feel that we have learned a great deal about the characters and the community that produced them. The film is dark, brooding, intense and most of all violent. Some of the dialog could be better. 7/10. "},{"Title":"This series simply gets better and better","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the middle movie in the Robocop trilogy and we learn that things are getting far worse. The world is going to hell, as usual, but in Detroit, the city is bankrupt and owes millions of dollars to OCP and OCP is threatening foreclosure on the city if the debts are not paid. A new drug, Nuke, is on the streets, and the leader of the Nuke Cult, Kane, is actively trying to addict people and prevent people from getting off of the drug. This goes to firebombing clinics and killing the surgeon general. The police are also on strike so crime is getting worse. We also learn that nobody can create a second Robocop as all of the candidates end up going psychotic and killing themselves. A psychologist appears and tells the Old Man that she has an idea and sets about creating a new Robocop.OCP in this movie is much worse than the first movie, but in this movie they are taking the centre stage and the Nuke Cult, though apparently they appear to be the main bad guys in the movie, being their mainly for support. It becomes evident though that the Nuke Cult is a side issue because the real bad guy is the Old Man. He doesn't land up dead or in gaol, in fact he gets away, but we learn that much of what is happening in Detroit is due to his manipulations. By the end of the movie, we see that OCP has been moulded into what appears to be a fascist organisation. The huge red flags and the black security guards drum up images of the Nazi regime.The other important bad guy is in fact a woman the psychologist. Through her we delve deeper into Robocop's mind to try and understand the struggle that he is going through. We appreciate his strength of mind when we notice that others put through this cannot handle it and kill themselves. Only two people, Murphy and Kane, survived the process. Kane survived it because he is a psychotic maniac who believes that he is God and welcomed the immorality. They thought that they could control him, but realised they could not, especially since the Old Man unknowingly waved a cannister of nuke in front of him. Even then, he did not believe that the Robocop units had any personality.As I said before, we delve much deeper into Robocop's psyche. We learn that he is struggling with his memories of his life, and following his wife causing her trauma. He wants her back but knows that he cannot have her. He is a machine and cannot give her the love of a husband. When he finally confronts her, he lets her know that her husband is dead, but even though that is the case, others still call him Murphy. What is really good is the way that they psychologically manipulate Robocop, attacking him in the area that he struggles with the most - his death.The final thing that impressed me was the problem that the city is in, and there is no simple solution out of it. They try everything and end up having to resort to making deals with the drug lords of Detroit. Unfortunately it isn't that easy because they are busted by Robocop II and then exposed to the media. At the end of the movie, this problem is not solved and OCP seems to still be going strong. What happens? We need to watch the third movie. "},{"Title":"Robocop 2","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ridiculously gratuitous sequel to Robocop has Detroit just wrought with crime and disorder. I mean, pee wee baseball players, led by their coach, raid an electronics store in broad daylight, equipped with baseball bats, willing to use them to break open displays and bash the owner if he interferes. Loaded with corrupt characters at every turn, from the commercial conglomerate OCP (trying to buy the city), to the mayor (willing to form a partnership with drug dealers in order to help keep OCP from foreclosing the city!), the city of Detroit (using Detroit as the epicenter for all of the storyline's disastrous evil and mismanagement is a satire unto itself, considering the city's notoriety in crime) is under a siege of evil certain to topple it to its knees. Oh, OCP's chairman (Dan O'Herlihy, with plenty of the menace still left over from Halloween III to spare; this time he's a corporate powerhouse in need of some humbling) has a masterplan for Detroit, a New Detroit that offers tall skyscrapers of steel and glass, with the citizens even able to own shares of stock after their neighborhoods and homes are demolished and bulldozed in favor of a brighter tomorrow. The mean-spirit and black heart of this film runs rampant as Tom Noonan (as Cain) uses a child (a potty-mouthed Gabriel Damon) and cop (Stephen Lee; Dolls) to peddle his drug, Nuke, to youth and adults alike. Within all this amoral abyss is Robocop (Peter Weller, who does wonders behind the robo-suit of blue&black armour and makeup), still harboring memories from his past with the family now lost, trying to protect the innocent and arrest the wrong-doing criminals plaguing the city. Robocop goes through his share of hell, as Cain and his hoods get the best of him (they get the drop on him, capitalizing on his being alone and outnumbered), subduing and dismantling him, leaving the dismembered parts outside the police station for Detroit's protesting cops to observe (they're striking because of the lack of money available to them). OCP won't even provide the necessary equipment and resources to rebuild Robocop, instead concerned with building a new and improved model called Robocop 2. In charge of that operation is Dr. Juliette Faxx (Belinda Bauer), somebody who uses her looks and sex appeal to gain the attention and position of power by banging the OCP chairman. She has the bright idea of using the brain of a maniac (Cain, when Robocop finally nabs him) for the Robocop 2 (Why? I have no idea. It seems rather boneheaded and idiotic to me.), with his introduction to the press ending in absolute chaos only Robocop 1 will be able to halt.With superb special effects (especially the final battle between Robocop and Cain Robocop as the OCP headquarters becomes their battleground, Robocop in pieces, and Weller's face seemingly plastered to metal (although his eyes and lips move fluidly)), repellent villains, and a warped sense of humor (the lowest common denominator lives in Detroit, that's for sure), Robocop 2 sure as hell isn't boring. It will no doubt leave a bad taste and could very well repulse quite a few with characters so repugnant and vile, and violence so graphic (bloodshed and bullets aplenty), it has little patience for humanity or grace. Funny, isn't it, that the most humane character seems to be a half-man/half-machine?!?! Among the grisly highlights (or is it lowlights?) are a surgery on Lee with Noonan forcing Gabriel to watch, the whole press core getting obliterated by Cain Robocop when it goes berserk, Gabriel understanding he was about to die (wanting Robocop to stay with him as life slips away), Noonan's skull sawed open and plucked away by the surgical staff, and Robocop pulling out Cain's brain from the Robocop 2's control center and bashing in into the concrete. The body count in this bad boy must have been in double digits. The screenplay is foul-mouthed and wholly unpleasant...this is right out of a take-no-prisoners comic book mentality. Probably the most absurd sequence of events comes from Laxx's reprogramming Robocop to act a polite, mannered buffoon. "},{"Title":"Awful sequel to a great movie.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" To be honest, I love action and sci-fi and nerd movies and in my childhood Robocop was my one of my fave movies. To this date I remembered that Robocop 2 was good also and rented both.This movie makes 3 big mistakes. Firstly action with hilarious comic style does not work. You need comic characters for that. Bad actors like major is a joke, robocops handy girl has bad scenes that make her a joke and all and all the whole movie does not take Robocop as a serious movie at all. I found it weird that there is even childish CGI which of original movie was not affected at all and in same time it makes you think what happened to producers after first film? What was they thinking? To me it gave me one thing as I wanted to see after first one. Robocop needed to suffer and then comeback as a hero. But how they did it was comic and failed. It gave me thoughts like did some woman in some meeting suggest one catchy side story of Robocop fooling around with make peace not war attitude. I would of done it so that the woman repairer would had some more serious disagreement with Bad guys and then help robocop to repair it self. I would wanted to see some resistance to elders there but, no lets make it want to smoke weed.Another big issue were, why did they continue to make horrible looking robocops when they had far superior model all ready created. Why they made so childish machines after first one? So much issues in this movie.All and all I find my self so bored that cannot even watch Robocop 3 after this one. I would rate this B or even C-movie.For Robocop suffering and opening theme 3/10. "},{"Title":"Lacks the courage to be it's own film.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" With Frank Miller co-writing story and screenplay, and Empire Strikes Back director Irvin Kershner in the hot seat, you might be forgiven for having greater expectations for this sequel to Paul Verhoeven's popular predecessor. It comes as a surprise then that Robocop 2 invests more time being a note-for-note rendition of the original than developing new strands left over from the previous film. Early on it shows promise of depth as we see Murphy/RoboCop still haunted by old memories while stalking his traumatised widowed wife. Unfortunately, the film abruptly abandons exploring this idea and instead shifts it's focus to straight up corruption and street crime as megalomaniacal company Omni Consumer Products (OCP) attempts once again to create it's own RoboCop with predictably poor results. Dan O'Herlihy returns for more fun as the 'old man' and his new assistant Dr Faxx (Belinda Bauer) adds some pleasingly wicked charm but there's often a lack of impetus and a sense of going through the motions. As 'Robo', Peter Weller gets the chance to indulge comedy when his programming is temporarily sabotaged, prompting him to behave erratically which is fun for a few scenes. Just like in the Verhoeven original, we're treated to a collection of amusing infomercial's that act as welcome relief inbetween the gunfire and mayhem. It's after this that things start to really hit the skids. It's not that RoboCop 2 is a bad film, it's just disappointing that it isn't brave enough to separate from the formula of the original. Director Irvin Kershner did the seemingly impossible with Empire Strikes Back in as much as he made a film that used much loved characters from a celebrated film and set them off on a new adventure that enriched what came before without resorting to mimicry. RoboCop 2 chooses to go down the route of mimcry being the most sincere form of flattery, but for cinema audiences, that usually just spells dull. "},{"Title":"I hate to bring it to ya but robocop 2 is the kind of movie you would watch if you recently had a stroke or if you believe in absolutely no ideas.","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is a badly scripted sequel that feels like a gang-rape of Orwellian ideas, an excuse to make a buck while decrying an evil company's endless favoring of making a buck over doing the right thing. As far as the flimsy piece of twine that attempts to hold RoboCop 2 together and call it a plot, it sits as this Life in Detroit sucks. The cops are on strike and the only one still working is the cyborg RoboCop (Peter Weller) and his perpetual bad-hair-day partner, Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen). On the side of the bad guys there's religious drug zealot Cain (Tom Noonan, and score one for cheap Biblical references), a man who looks like Timothy Leary during a violent flashback. There's also Hob (Gabriel Damon), a kid on the fast track to being the next CEO of Enron, and Dr. Faxx (Belinda Bauer), a psychologist obsessed with making a better, more people friendly RoboCop and a more violent RoboCop 2 (why do bad action movies always have to have some stupid reference to their name in the actual narrative?). The rest of the movie shows a battle between the cops and the corporation so filled with contradictions and stupidity that it's utterly worthless to watch - although it is the first time that 'The Man' has fought 'The Man' in movies. "},{"Title":"If the hero is an assembly line robot it makes sense that the films should look alike.","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first 10 minutes set out to prove that this right here is no cheapie cash-in of a sequel. The two hours that follow have Murph-O-Cop protecting innocent citizens by blowing away various bad guys, recalling his wife and kid while dastardly high ups in the police force seek to erase such memories.It isn't terrible, but it is so similar that if you took the numbers off the DVD boxes and discs you might be hard-pressed to pick one from the other.In the same 'kill or be killed' lawless society that is urban Detroit the privately run Police force look to cut corners and this time actually promote anarchy so they can divide up city assets and sell them.Once again it seems there are precious few good cops &#x96; the bulk are on strike again &#x96; Robocop is obviously one, the last bastion of hope, decency, law and order. The other is Lewis (Nancy Allen), who if you think about it rationally was Murphy's partner for exactly one shift before he became a potato, so trying to remind us of the solid bond they once shared is a little bit rich.Anyway Roby gets toasted again by the bad guy of the day in this dystopian future &#x96; this film's name is Cain &#x96; and his 'Nuke' cult of criminals complete with a well presented but essentially evil young teen in tow calling many of the shots.Roby once again gets an end-of-film nemesis, this time a primitive 90s CGI created one fuelled by the very drug Robocop is out to save the city from.Look they tried pretty hard, this really was all you could when in reality the first film wasn't much chop to begin with. But I think this scene sums up the attention to detail Robocop drives to a gate, he exits the car to open the gate and the camera pans to show that he is being watched through the eyes of many crouching bad guys. The car moves forward and&#x85; BOOM! Explodes in a fiery ball of death. The criminals advance cautiously only to have Robocop emerge and start blazing away&#x85; Re-read that if it sounds fine to you. Did every criminal's eyes follow along when the camera panned??? Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. More 'dark news', zany cynical ads and the usual splatter filled body count largely created by one of the most ineffective so-called 'super' crime fighters in cinema. "}{"Title":"A crappy rehash of the first film","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" (www.plasticpals.com) RoboCop 2 feels like a rehash of the first film, and the few new ideas introduced are bad ones. RoboCop is once again hunting down a drug cartel in Old Detroit, the corrupt mega corporation OCP is up to its old dirty tricks, and there are references to trendy topics like the Ozone Layer. Where the first film had an understated and dark sense of humor, here RoboCop clowns around for cheap laughs. It insults the viewer's intelligence and defies believability too often to dismiss.It doesn't take long for RoboCop to discover that the drug cartel is operating out of an abandoned industrial site that looks awfully familiar. I guess all criminals in Detroit have secret hideouts in old steel mills. They soon capture our hero with some sort of electrical harpoon before dismantling him piece by piece in a caricature of officer Murphy's death scene from the first film. They decide to drop what's left of him in front of police headquarters (rather than tossing them into a trash compactor) which makes rebuilding him rather convenient.The first film was certainly ridiculous in its own way, but the sequel really jumps the shark. One of the main villains is a little boy who becomes a crime lord. Then there's the robbery perpetrated by what appears to be a Little League team. And to top it all off OCP's resident psychologist decides that death row inmates are the best candidates to become next-generation RoboCops. According to her reasoning, there's nothing wrong with giving the worst criminals power over a nearly invincible robot body.It doesn't make a shred of sense, but in the end, the drug cartel's leader is the one who undergoes the operation. As one might expect, he proves difficult to control and soon goes on a rampage. Like the rest of the movie, the final confrontation hasn't aged well at all. There are some pretty decent animatronic special effects, but the computer graphics look like something from an N64 game. And the jerky stop-motion scenes have about as much impact as a pair of action figures grappling in an amateur animation project. It's pretty amazing that only one year later the incredible Terminator 2 would hit theaters.In an attempt to appeal to a wider demographic &#x96; and perhaps to sell more action figures &#x96; RoboCop 2 forfeits the originality and edginess that made the first one popular. Still, as bad as it is, it's probably something of a guilty pleasure for some sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"Who directed this??? Not Verhoeven at any rate...","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Wonder of wonders. Why do they keep doing this? Can't they stick to one qualified director? The loss of Paul Verhoeven is felt throughout this film. It seems we are watching another version of the film by a man who drinks a liter of gasoline before each shoot.This film is like cheap candy offered to kids to do their overdue homework.I think Peter Weller hated to do this project but was forced to do it because of the cash involved. Hope you got the cash Peter.Plot Throughout the city, a new designer drug named Nuke has been plaguing the streets. The primary distributor a man known as Cain, played by the excellent Tom Noonan, who also starred in Manhunter, a 1986 film directed by Michael Mann, in which he portrayed the serial killer, Francis Dolarhyde. Cain is assisted by his girlfriend Angie, his still-juvenile apprentice Hob, and Officer Duffy, a corrupt police officer.Having learned of Cain's involvement with Nuke from Duffy, RoboCop confronts him and his gang at an abandoned construction site. However, they render RoboCop immobile and cut him to pieces, though he remains alive. The pieces are then left in front of the Detroit Police Station. OCP, reluctant to foot his massive repair costs, ignores his fellow police officers insistence that he be repaired. RoboCop is saved when Dr. Juliette Faxx, an OCP psychologist, takes charge of the new RoboCop team. She argues for his importance as a figure of the community, and creates a list of over 300 new directives to be added to his program.Murphy is ultimately powerless to refuse the new commands, and is rendered unable to take aggressive action against criminals, even to defend himself. After the original RoboCop team realizes that RoboCop would need a massive electrical charge to reboot his system, Murphy take it upon himself to grab hold of a dangerous power-line circuit box to erase all of his directives.He then confronts Cain, who is later put on life support. However Faxx, having decided that Cain is perfect for the RoboCop 2 project, arrives at the hospital and switches off his life support. Later, while displaying the new RoboCop 2 (Cain) to the head of OCP, Faxx demonstrates how he may be pacified through a canister of pure Nuke.In the battle that ensues, only one cyborg will be triumphant, Cain or Murphy.In his review, Roger Ebert wrote Cain's sidekicks include a violent, foul-mouthed young boy (Gabriel Damon), who looks to be about 12 years old but kills people without remorse, swears like Eddie Murphy, and eventually takes over the drug business... The movie's screenplay is a confusion of half-baked and unfinished ideas... the use of that killer child is beneath contempt... Many were also critical of the child villain Hob; David Nusair of Reel Film Reviews stated, That the film asks us to swallow a moment late in the story that features Robo taking pity on an injured Hob is heavy-handed and ridiculous (we should probably be thankful the screenwriters didn't have RoboCop say something like, 'Look at what these vile drugs have done to this innocent boy'). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, Unlike RoboCop, a clever and original science-fiction film with a genuinely tragic vision of its central character, Robocop 2 doesn't bother to do anything new. It freely borrows the situation, characters and moral questions posed by the first film. She further adds, The difference between Robocop and its sequel, ... is the difference between an idea and an afterthought. She also expressed her opinion about the Hob character, The aimlessness of Robocop 2 runs so deep that after exploiting the inherent shock value of such an innocent-looking killer, the film tries to capitalize on his youth by also giving him a tearful deathbed scene. The LA Times thought poorly of the film too.RoboCop 2 currently has 35% positive reviews on the film review aggregation site Rotten Tomatoes, with 20 of 31 counted reviews giving it a rotten rating and an average score of 4.5 out of 10.Verdict by all means see this film if you are a die-hard Peter Weller/ Tom Noonan/Nancy Allen fan. Otherwise go for a walk in the woods and talk to the birdies.Another review from yours truly vivekmaru45@yahoo.com.HAVE A NICE DAY! "},{"Title":"Oh while I probably would've paid to see this in theaters back then if I was around...","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... There were a few specific flaws that prevented this decent sequel from being up to par with its brilliant sequel. Now first I'll mention what I liked about this movie the action and visual effects are still very well-crafted if not better, and say what you will about how Irvin Kershner handled this movie but you gotta admit he did a near flawless job at capturing Future Detroit in the daytime. And now, viewers beware some of these notes for they can count as spoilers, here is every single detail I think could've strongly been avoided but alas wasn't that doomed the movie to not going beyond an alright to me * In the beginning part they shouldn't have did that idea of crook after crook stealing from each other * The gun robber should've just nailed Robocop's car 1 time instead because dammit while Murphy can't go down easily he's still no freaking superman! * Irvin shouldn't have made Peter Weller's motivation for being RoboCop be that he still talks robotic cause all us fellow fans are aware of how Murphy regained his human personality and voice back in the end of the 1st film * At the very least the character Hob should've looked 16 and not 12 * I liked the Magnavolt commercial at the beginning but damn they should've just cut the horrifically corny ad for that really powerful sunblock * Filmmakers needed to have that small 5 minute subplot of Murphy's last ties with his family get stretched to like 15 minutes which dragged throughout the whole movie * Biggest beef I had was towards Frank Miller (writer of this movie) was him practically turning the Sweet Old Man in to a Senile Old Bastard * This movie really shouldn't have been a part 1 to the very crappy part 2 that was RoboCop 3, it really should've been its own story and in the end OCP needed to have just get what they deserved or at the very least the character Juliette Faxx (who, for better or worse, was portrayed great by Belinda Bauer)There, those were all the things that kept RoboCop 2 from being one of the most perfect sequels ever in my book. Hope you can side with me on that part. "},{"Title":"Very Good Sequel","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought Robocop 2 was a very good sequel. It still wasn't as good as the original but it had some great effects and Peter Weller was still good in the title role of Robocop. Of course it's not a truly great film or artistic or anything, it is just a fun summer action movie with a lot of shooting and violence and funny one liners. Robocop 3 was truly terrible and that is what ruined the movie series in my mind, I think Robocop 2 is better than it gets credit for. I need ten lines so I will just write what my nephew says about Robocop now, Robocop is stupid but there are some cool parts I guess and his gun is a fine f***in weapon, I agree with the weapon being cool but that is it. "},{"Title":"Almost a good sequel, but not quite","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though not a terrible sequel, Robocop 2 has a little too much instability to be called solid entertainment. Paul Verhoeven is not behind this one. In the director's chair is Irvin Kershner, who with George Lucas delivered what many consider the finest sci-fi. Of course I'm talking about The Empire Strikes Back. In the writer's chair is Frank Miller! but don't let that fool you. As good as Sin City may be, that was fifteen years after this. It looks like he was only starting to get his bearings as a screenwriter with Robocop 2, and there is a lesson to be learned here. Robocop was a good introduction to the setting and characters, now let's see some action take off from it. This is something that T2 did right, but up until the final half hour, Robocop 2 fails at this task.When the movie starts, the Detroit police are on strike, and the city is coming apart. The OCP corporation (which built robocop) wants to use this chaos to their advantage. With no law and order, they can gain control of Detroit. It's up to Robocop to save the day, but OCP has a new trick up its sleeve, the ironic Robocop 2, a machine of supreme power and strength. Is officer Murphy about to meet his mechanical match?The problem with Robocop 2 to comes down to the writing. A large portion of the film acts merely as a slow set up for the rousing climax. There is too much unnecessary story material which at first seems important but ultimately means nothing. Once again, the ending is highly abrupt. In fact, with the possible exception of Spy Hard it is the quickest I think I've ever seen. Perhaps it's just another case of biting off more than it can chew, but Robocop 2 could've been better. It is worth watching if you enjoyed the first, but it is a huge overstatement to call this a worthy sequel. "},{"Title":"How come this one got waisted so easily?","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've always been a big fan of Robocop, an utter devotee of Verhoven's masterpiece and, unless it's part 1 or 2, I pretty much despise everything that's come out under the brand name Robocop. However, I'm surprised that so many people criticize Robo 2 for what it is. After all, we do get Peter Weller doing a great job in the suit, we do get some complex issues such as Murphy's attempt to return to his family life or, should I say, the devastating confession he decides to make to his wife. There's the new cyborg and what a cyborg he is! A cybernetic organism willing to cooperate under the condition they feed it with drugs. Cool. Obviously, the body-count remains high and action sequences are top notch. I truly do not understand the reason why the overall grade for this one is only 5,4. The only explanation I'm willing to accept is that, maybe the majority of voters here aren't really Robo fans, or have started their adventure with Robo from seeing the TV series or 3rd part which are both blasphemy and have nothing to do with part 1 and 2. If it were the case, please reconsider, grab a copy of genuine Robocop movies 1,2 and restate your opinions. Cheers) "},{"Title":"We're only human","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is a harrowing portrayal of what could become of American society in the future. Dystopian cities, filled with drug-addicts and gun-nuts, a broken police force with no want to stop crime, and an enormous sociopath robot with a gigantic machine gun and seemingly infinitive ammunition. The Beginning of the film starts in the fashion of the genre, with a news broadcast stating the most threatening element in Detroit city at that time, Nuke. The most addictive narcotic known to man. The police are still on strike, all except robocop and his partner lewis. Robo's entrance is top notch, a film scene which should be considered a classic. When i first seen his foot slamming on the ground i felt like cheering. The scenes to follow, however, did seem disappointing to me. Murphy-at the end of the first film- had lost the robotic overtone to his voice, the character has regressed though, and this has returned stronger than ever. in the scene where robo talks with his wife, you'll think that robo is being heartless and cold, but when you see the scene after where he watches her getting into her car, you see the disappointment on his face. Peter Weller is fantastic as usual, and this is a little gem of a scene. The rest of the film consists of three things Bad language, humour and violence. The soundtrack was not as good as its predecessors. It sounded more like the tune to a TV show than a Hollywood movie. Irvin Kershner, the director of the empire strikes back, was given a very short time to make this film, a few weeks. I think he did a superb job considering. This film will always be slammed for its over the top violence, especially the scene where Hob dies holding Robo's hand. It was enjoyable though, and as an action film it really is better than most out there. At the end, Robo famously states, We're only human, another great scene, and ending it on a high was a great move.iwikjr "},{"Title":"One of the most criminally underrated films of it's decade","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie and having watched it carefully many times now, and I can say with confidence that it is one of the most underrated films on this website. While it is not as exceptional as the 1987 Paul Verhoeven original (which I rate a 9 out of 10), it is nevertheless an above average film and a great film by sequel standards. First let me say that it does an almost perfect job of continuing the tone and balancing the themes of the original, namely the sardonic humor and the over the top R violence. I think I realize why Robocop 2 falls into the pit of a 5.2 rating on this website; on the one hand you have a die-hard group of fan-boys of the original who get so carried away praising the first film that they low-ball the score of the sequel to emphasize their appreciation of the first, and on the other hand you have a group of politically-minded IMDb elitists that refuse to appreciate a film that seems too typical of the shallow 1980's action films that they perceive fetishize law enforcement or other what they consider to be 'low brow themes'. Robocop 2 continues the two main stories of the original; the corporatization of America and the degeneration of society, and the subplot of the inner conflict of Robocop's machine body and human mind. The new element thrown into the mix is the NUKE-epidemic, no doubt a reference to the real world Crack epidemic that was raging in the inner cities at that time. The sequel shifts a little focus away from Robocops personal struggle and places more emphasis on the politics of degenerating Detroit, which accounts for the fact this film has less of a sad and melancholic feel, and has increased the amount of cynical on screen violence. The film got a lot of negative publicity from uptight mainstream reviewers like Roger Ebert for what they considered the irresponsible and exploitive character Hob (played by Gabriel Damon), a 12 year old drug dealing, misogynistic cop killer. For me, it's powerful characters like that that make a film like Robocop 2 memorable almost 20 years later, something that seems so fresh when compared to the politically correct atmosphere that dominates even R- rated films today. Unfortunately Basil Poledouris didn't return to write the score for this sequel, but Peter Weller did return to reprise his role as Murphy/Robocop here for the last time, as well as a host of supporting cast both in the police force and OCP office which do lend credibility to this sequel. Directed by the same guy that did The Empire Strikes Back is interesting trivia, and having a running time of almost 2 hours, the pace is so fast I never think it drags. The special effects are superb for a 1990 film and hold up very well today, and the sheer amount of automatic gun fire in this film is something to behold when viewing with good speakers. The ending is also spot on. "},{"Title":"Extremely watchable","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 2 is the logical successor to the first part. It's bigger, faster and louder. Everything you've loved about the original is here, too, only supersized the news snippets (albeit less subtle this time around), the evil robotic opponent and the violence - only this time it's more comical. Whereas the original was a dark satire this one pretty much is a deliberate parody of itself. The whole tone of the movie is much lighter. Even RoboCop himself has gotten a light blue shade on his armor as opposed to the strict gray of part 1. It all adds up to a much lighter feel, which is one of the reasons why many fans of the original unjustly dismiss this sequel.Sure, RoboCop 2 is trashy and silly and some plot points and developments are just plain bad (like having a kid criminal in the story - really when has that ever been a good idea? Also, why does Lewis disappear and reappear randomly? Where is RoboCop for most of the third act?). Some of these flaws have to do with bad editing choices by the studio or so I hear. It would be nice to see a director's cut someday.Anyway, all in all for a RoboCop-sequel this one is pretty close to everything a fan could wish for. The original pretty much told the whole story of RoboCop's creation and this picks up some of the questions that were left open Murphy finally meets his wife again and he also has to deal with his inner conflict of being a machine and a man at the same time. OCP at the same time continue their corrupt business. The makers of this one did a good job exploring the rules set up by the first part, turning the sequel into an entertaining and fun 90 minutes. It didn't surprise me one bit when I just found out that Frank Miller - THE Frank Miller is responsible for the screenplay of RoboCop 2 since the movie very much plays out like a comic book adaptation. Robo gets destroyed, humiliated by kids - which surprisingly doesn't kill the character as one would assume - and he gets to fight his evil brother Cain (what a great broad hint that name is). The final confrontation is really great to watch and they did a hell of a job with the F/X there.In the end, RoboCop 2 doesn't hold a candle against its predecessor, but I really don't think a sequel to that movie could have been made any better. Just watch RoboCop 3 if you want to see how messed up this one could have become. Or better yet stop after part 2 and keep a good memory of this franchise. "},{"Title":"A new director who almost emulates the task with less comic relief","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is the sequel to the popular 1987 film directed by Paul Verhoeven where the original film was a work of action and comic work where the film itself was a satire with a plot and not offending anybody. The premise of the first film was a homage to Frankenstein with the idea of using the remains of a dead cop to create a crime fighting cyborg where it didn't have sentiments or show emotions except to kick ass.The sequel leaves off after the first film ended with Robocop (Peter Weller) being a success with Omni Consumer Products (or OCP) paying more for their product than giving the officers in Detroit causing a strike in the city until all demands are met. The city is no better than it was before; prostitution, robbery, rape, homelessness, especially drugs are all on the rise thanks to OCP wanting to sell out its citizens to make ways for a novel city while the only one to do justice is Robocop with his partner Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen) at his side.The new villain in the film is Cain (Tom Noonan) who supplies the popular drug Nuke in the city where he's untouchable. He's a sadistic madman who doesn't leave any witnesses while paying off by politicians and the police. He even orders his goons to dissect a cop in one scene where audience members might be a little more comfortable with Clarence Bodericker (Kurtwood Smith) of the first movie since not only did he give classic punchlines but at the same time wasn't that much of a monster to look at (Ex. He lets a couple of hookers leave before killing the main target).The subplot of Robocop 2, hence the title, is that while OCP doesn't want to pay the officers their pension or help the citizens of Detroit, they want to use their money to make a Robocop 2 to create competition for the original robot while making the city safe with their new innovation.Irvin Kershner, who directed The Empire Strikes Back, brings more darkness than the original where all it's missing was the comic relief, even the commercials themselves looked depressing. On the other hand, it was great seeing Peter Weller playing the role of Robocop one more time before deciding to do other projects. The best parts about the movie are the action sequences including the final standoff between the hero and the villain.It's good, but nothing will ever beat the first movie. "}{"Title":"A worthy and well made sequel to an action classic","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I had just seen Robocop, the original film, for the first time back in 1988 I would have said that any attempt at a sequel would fall flat and not even come close to being as good as the original. Some of it seemed like fluke with it's dark humor and campy spoofing on society in general. So it's with great respect I say that they DID manage to create a sequel nearly as good as the original and certainly just as much fun to watch. Robocop 2 has to face a lot of problems that second installments to Superhero films have to face. There is no creation of the hero, no background necessary so the action has to be non stop and the villain has to be something powerful and noteworthy and the creators of Robocop 2 did both flawlessly. Irvin Kershner helms the film this time around and he might be better known as the director of The Empire Strikes Back so he's no newcomer by any means. He still manages to keep the story gritty and dark and yet give Robocop even more of a human feel to him. In many ways he's an even better hero than in the first film. The tongue in cheek humor is definitely in tact although perhaps not as well delivered as it was in the original. Still the campy little commercials, the news breaks (starring Leeza Gibbons returning to her role from the original), Robocop's dry one liners and the sound effects all make for a hilarious dark action.Peter Weller thankfully returns to his role because he really does encompass Robocop and I can't imagine anyone else playing him although several other actors do. Weller gets to do a little more with the emotions and some really kick butt action scenes in this one. Belinda Bauer plays the lesser of villains Dr. Faxx. She doesn't get a lot of screen time but she also doesn't do a lot with the time that she's given. She's just okay. Tom Noonan is the lead villain of sorts who eventually becomes Robocop 2. Noonan is more impressive as the CGI robot than he is as the actual person. He's decent and he looks the part and he's appropriately evil but doesn't really match what Kurtwood Smith did with his villain in the original. Nancy Allen also returns as Robocop partner Lewis. She is as good as she was in the original but doesn't get as much screen time. She is still the perfect partner for him. Her and Weller have terrific chemistry even as partner and robot. The real scene stealer is fourteen year old Gabriel Damon who plays Kane's right hand boy Hob. Hob is a better main villain than all of them put together. He's downright evil and disturbing and because Robocop won't take on kids he's a deadly adversary. His performance is downright amazing and really over shadows anyone who shares screen time with him. Dan O'Herlihy also returns as the head of O.C.P. (The Old Man) as he is known. He hasn't changed a bit and his character is an awesome addition to the cast. Felton Perry also returns as the right hand man in OCP.They did everything right with this sequel. Brought back some of the original cast, brought in new villains, upped the budget, upped the body count and the gore and exploded everything in sight but still maintained a strong story. Robocop 2 is an awesome sequel and it's easy to see why people wanted more from them. The last half hour might be the best of the entire film as Robocop goes toe to toe with Robocop 2 in the form of Kane. The film holds nothing back as 80's films always don't. Kids are criminals, violence is rampant and it's a helluva good time. Some of the death scenes in the film are brutally disturbing much like the first one. Robocop takes a guy's eye out through the scope of his sniper rifle. Regardless of how future installments panned out I am hooked on Robocop and the first two films are brilliant!! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good and funny","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Film sympathetic but nothing Almighty. One of many'80s films, very cheerful and ironic that ironizzava the saga of robocop. Film certainly for the family created specifically for the saga of movie about robots much in vogue in anni'80. The robots continue to pleasure, even though in reality do not have a well-known commercial use. One of the recent film about robots Trasformers has had some success even though the robotic charm is quite declined in recent years. The'80s were a period full of ideas even if the film fumettistici were lots and absurd. This film for this period was suimpatico. Try to be more lenient dui towards films that period starting with horror films. They were from laugh but had a certain charisma. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original but still very entertaining.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop is one of my all time favorite films, I saw saw it for the first time aged 5 when my Mum bought it for me not really knowing what it was. (Robocop is a pretty silly title!) Needless to say it blew my mind so I quickly wanted to see the sequel! I have no idea why people give this movie such a hard time, Peter Weller is excellent as Robocop, Tom Noonan is great as Cain and to bring in a child (Hobb) who has been taken in by Cain and his crew is inspired as he doesn't really have a sense of right/wrong.The movie is ultra violent, fast paced, the action is 2nd to none, Cain's robot is menacing & the 'Nuke' drug sub plot is very cool. Fair enough the movie does't deal too much with Murphy's suffering wife but there is enough here to not let it bother you.If you like the original this is a must see. Avoid number 3 though! "},{"Title":"Different, yet just as entertaining!","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Robocop was great. This one is a little more challenging. Robocop(Peter Weller) is back on the streets protecting the citizens of Old Detroit as usual. This time he's fighting the spread of a new drug known as Nuke that is being distributed by a dealer named Cain(Tom Noonan). During a confrontation with Robocop Van vs. motorcycle, Cain is critically injured. Then suddenly, an OCP operative kills Cain and puts his mind in her newest creation Robocop 2. Since dead cops often to lose their sanity, the doctor decided to who convicted felons instead. Bad Idea! When Cain returns to his comrades, he wipes them all out, including the errand boy Hob(Gabriel Damon), whom he always trusted. When Robocop found him in the van all shot up, Hob tells him Dying Sucks. He kinda learned his lesson a little too late. OCP will soon get a rude awakening at the display of Robocop 2. All it wanted is the Nuke. When the creator sees the first one she says, You're obsolete! it's because, She's corrupt! Those two cyborgs really duke it out, Robocop 2 may have the arsenal, but the first one got the wits. Robocop took out his shoulder cannon with ease. It appears that the OCP trust is about to totally shrink there. This one has more violence than the first, and the action is pretty much steady, and unlike the first, there's some humor to it to keep it from being boring. Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel.","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Delta City's police department goes on strike due to OCP cutting it's benefits, crime is running rampant on the streets, with no one to stop crimes ugliest & meanest criminals from doing what they want. Amongst them is Caine, a vicious drug dealer/cult leader & his cohorts, who are ruling the streets & are responsible for 80% of the crimes being committed, after they begin to sell a highly addictive drug called Nuke which leaves many of it's users as helpless junkies in need of a fix, killing & stealing to get the money necessary in order to buy the deadly new drug. The only officer still on duty is police officer Alex Murphy a.k.a. Robocop who has so far managed to take down the thugs, but after being brutally dismantled by Caine & his henchmen after attempting to take them out, OCP decides that cutting costs might save them in the long run & are attempting to let Robocop die, since the parts needed to replace his damaged ones will cost millions. However they later recant on that decision & decide to keep him, but with a twist, they want to know from all the parent groups how they can improve Robocop, with the end result to make him a non violent, softer android. When Robocop winds up getting re-programmed & all his new commands jettisoned, he joins Detroit's police force who have located Caine's hideout & are attempting to take down Caine. When Caine is badly injured during a chase, a cold, sneaky & manipulative OCP executive kills Caine in the hospital & snatches his brain, to insert into OCP's new robot called Robocop 2, a faster, meaner & much more deadlier robot. When Robocop 2 is activated, it runs amok, killing everyone in site, with only Robocop able to stop it...or can he&#x85;?ROBOCOP 2 is a really fun & highly entertaining sequel, to the equally fun (though ultra violent) original! Director IRVIN KIRSHNER does well behind the camera, executing a series of impressive, stunt sequences & action movie set pieces & manages to keep the film flowing at a decent pace. The acting is just as strong as ever & the characters are very well written & the film is infused with a really good plot & villains just cold enough, they may even overshadow the group of sadists from the original. Over the years many fans have booed the film saying it was trash & not a worthy follow up to the 1987 film, I strongly disagree with that & felt the film was & still is, a very worthy follow up. In fact, while it's not quiet as good as it's predecessor, there was something I felt this film did better than the original & that's the emotional investment the film-makers give to Murphy & his family, something original director Paul Verehoven skimped on in the original, as we see Murphy's wife meeting her husband for the very first time since his death & Robocop watching his family who has since moved on without him, in another neighbourhood. It's also less campier & a much more leaner (arguably more mean spirited) version of the original. In fact ROBOCOP 2 can get pretty insanely violent at times it also manages to retain the films jokey tone & satire, which includes advertisements for SUNBLOCK 5000, a green & blue cream you have to rub all over yourself, in order to prevent the suns harmful rays (although to much use can result in the wearer of the product getting cancer), a booby trapped car that executes car thieves & the villains of the piece actually have the bones & guitar of the late great ELVIS PRESTLY in a glass coffin!. Plus the film-makers at the very least follow the rules for action movie sequels, the action sequences have to be more elaborate, there has to be bigger stunts & action set pieces & the threats & villains have to be tougher. Well you want a tough villain? You got it! wait until you see Robocop 2 a very big, dangerous robot OCP has created in order to replace Robocop, the problem? as I mentioned in my plot summary it's infused with the brain of a crazed cult leader/drug king pin, who gets his kicks out of killing & mutilating his victims & has an odd assortment of weapons in his new mechanical body. The climatic fight scene between him & Robo is one of the best action climaxes caught on film & it still looks impressive even if the effects used to create the fight scene at the time are outdated. On the downside however, ROBOCOP 2 does have a few problems, some subplots are noticeably (mysteriously) dropped midway, the most disheartening one is near the beginning of the film, where Robocop's former wife has put a restraining order on him, only to break it in order to see her husband, after learning who he really is, after Robocop tells her her husband is dead, she breaks down & leaves & the plot line is noticeably dropped, almost as if the film-makers forgot about it. Robocop being fixed with new commands & laws to become a far more gentler cyborg feels utterly silly & a big waste of the films time since it goes virtually nowhere & is quickly discarded anyways. Pre-teen Hobb taking over Caine's crime empire is really tough to take & utterly silly & the film does get a tad campy at times.In the end, ROBOCOP 2 is still a very worthy sequel & a real fun film for fans of the first, it makes for a perfect double bill with the original film & is highly recommended for fans of the first who haven't seen it yet. Followed by ROBOCOP 3.**** stars "},{"Title":"Very Good Except the Last Fight Sequence","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked this movie quite a lot except the last fight sequence - it went on & on & became idiotic. But what makes this so interesting is that it is more multidimensional than Robocop - the first movie was better, but it focused mainly on crime & corporate corruption. This movie deals with those, but also free will vs indoctrination, the drug culture, corporate as well as political corruption, the arrogance of academic types, & how a powerful man can become an idiot when he gets sex from a younger women. The other impressive aspect of the movie was showing how corporate America can gradually increase their control over our lives. I did wonder why they didn't show more of Robocop's wife & son, but still can stand up to the original. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The Sequel.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 (1990) was a sequel to the surprise and twisted black comedy hit Robocop. This is a very dark sequel. The humor that made the first film is missing and it is overtly violent. A pretty sadistic movie that's lacking in many places. Too bad they had to make a sequel and produce it without the elements they made the first film a true classic.Detroit City is in a far worse situation than the first film. Whilst part one had a glimmer of hope at the end, it was all naught. O.C.P. is even more of a cruel corporation and they're not showing enough profit from the Robocop program. They tried to make cheaper and more cost efficient version but they all end in horrific failure. Meanwhile a new super designer drug is flooding the streets creating all sorts of havoc for the defenseless citizens and out gunned and out manned police department. Can Robocop once again come back and save the day?Not a bad sequel but when compared to the first film it has no legs to stand on. The film makers tried tweaking the sequel and make it a bit different but it just didn't work. Watchable but not an instant classic. The film is just too dark and sadistic. Mixing those with a comic book movie doesn't work nine times out of ten. Followed by a kid friendly sequel that sat on the shelf for two and a half years.Recommended for masochists and Robocop fans only. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS PRESENTSomewhere along the line a whole lot of people took complete leave of their senses and decided that making a Robocop movie without any of the talent that made the first one so much fun would be a good idea. The result?  Robocop 2 one of the worst movies ever made.Irvin Kershner sleeps through the entire thing, providing us with images so riveting that they evaporate almost instantly from your mind as you do your best to keep numbness from settling into your extremities.  The writers, Frank Miller and Walon Green, serve up some really awful stuff.  The psycho drug lord, who winds up being the title character, is supposed to be creepy and unsettling but is no more than the cinematic equivalent of prescription strength sedatives.  His sidekicks - the gun moll and the foul mouthed kid - are given dialogue so terrible, so predictable, atrocious, and painful to behold, that it makes you wish that this were a foreign movie without subtitles.This movie rates a -1 out of 5 stars so bad, it detracts from everything else remotely associated with it. "},{"Title":"Good but not as good as the first","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 has some good scenes in it.  The first 15 - 20 minutes of this movie are great. There's a drug dealing 10 or 12 year old in it that gets annoying during the first 10 seconds you see him. The action was good but better in the first one. Robocop is wussed up some in 2.*MINOR SPOILER* For instance when they tear up Robocop when he goes after Cain. That part was stupid. END OF SPOILER. The part in the arcade was cool. It was awesome to see Robocop throw around the crooked cop into an arcade game machine. It's funny to see those early prototypes for Robocop 2 throughout the movie. If you forget about that drug dealing kid, the woman who designs Robocop 2 , and when he gets torn up this movie is really good. There is a cool battle between Robocop & Robocop 2 at the end. It's cool when they go off that sky scraper.  The end of this movie is nothing but a war zone practically. Fun though. "},{"Title":"See it once...","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have watched this movie twice over the last two weeks, and it is a good movie. There is plenty of 90's style action, some okay humor, and an awesome animation job by Phil Tippet. The blend of real and special effects is satisfactory, and the mood helps portray this decaying Motor City. The actors are okay in their roles, and the story functions well on its own level. I personally would like to own it, but it's not the kind of movie every sci-fi fan would probably go for. However, I still recommend seeing it at least once. "}{"Title":"A satisfying melange of comic book plot twists and set pieces.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best of the series, this installment of RC is nothing more or less than a stacking high of ideas for arresting scenes into one slam-bang set piece after another. Maybe not the way to make a great movie, but you won't soon forget a lot of the things you see and hear in this film --even if you decide you want to later. I kept wondering, as I boggled and boggled again at stuff this flick kept hurling at me, whether it is a film in search of an idea, or a series of great ideas in search of a vehicle with decidedly more philosophical gravitas. Whatever the case, it is a great ride. All action, all crazy and kinky concepts, all great effects. Check your brain at the gate and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Starts off well but then adds new meaning to the word stupidity","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 was one of the movies that I eagerly anticipated in theaters since I simply LOVED part one.  However, this movie became one of the most disappointing movies that have ever graced the annals of cinema.The movie starts off really well, since you have Robocop giving criminals what they deserve (i.e. killing them) 5 mins into the movie.  Then the movie gets REALLLLY screwed up.  The movie is fine *MINOR SPOILER* until they introduce that god damn drug-dealing kid in the warehouse.  Everything before that point was good.  Sadly though, the kid gets introduced 10 mins into the movie, so there wasnt really anything major before that.  Which brings me to my next point- What summarizes the idiocy and stupidity that this movie demonstrates1)  That god damn drug dealing kid.  THe kid looks only 10-12 years old,  but yet you see him carrying out business drug deals and is somewhat portrayed as Kain's right hand man.  The script portrays this kid as a serious villain, as he carries around sub-machine guns in his jacket and literally has high authority in his syndicate.  Unlike Clarence Bodicker or Dick Jones (who are the BEST villains ever in cinema history) in part 1, that god damn kid is impossible to take seriously as a villain.  I wonder how this kid character would be like as a villain on an episode of Miami Vice - damn that would be funny.2)  **MINOR SPOILER**Robocop gets literally cut and defeated so easily in the beginning of the movie and is then revived with idiotic programming.  Its hard to believe that Robocop nonchalantly killed everyone in the drug factory scene in part 1 (which is also one of the BEST action scenes to ever grace cinema), but gets defeated by just a couple of people with no real arnament and that god damn 10 yr. old kid I mentioned above.  Robocop is then revived with some stupid programming which has him talking like a kindergarten teacher to a bunch of kids.3)  Kain is not strong as a villain as Clarence Bodicker or Dick Jones.  Granted, its very hard to match up to Bodicker as a villain as that character is a perfect villain, but Kain comes short of being an adversary.4) **MINOR SPOILER** Kains robotic make over.  Kain gets a robotic body which is supposed to be more advanced than robocop but cant even talk properly, having him give out grunts. "},{"Title":"Badly in need of an overhaul.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The only good thing I can see in this movie is Peter Weller and how he gives an excellent performance once again, building on the character he created in the original movie.  Unfortunately, the movie abondons this character an half an hour into the flick and goes on a half-hearted attempt to parody corporate culture and the then-new political correctness.One of the major plot flaws is the inclusion of a small child having a major role in Kane's whole crime empire.  First off, who the heck would listen to a little 10 year old brat?  Most of the criminals in this gang are nearly 35-40 and are willing to be lead around by some CHILD??  Since this child only seems to be capable of pretending he is a full-grown man, I don't see how he can really follow through with any of his threats.  In reality, if any child spoke that way to a felon the child would be on a milk carton so fast the milk would spoil in seconds. Add to this whole subplots are brought forward to importance then dropped just gives this whole sequel a rushed feeling.What this movie needed was another year of writing and editing and a little more thought and some major rewrites.  The child criminal is just silly and can't be taken seriously in any sort of way.  Plus, the cruelity quotient is taken to an almost macabre extreme for no really good reason.In short a badly flawed movie that with a little more time could have been a very good one. "},{"Title":"A Decent Sequel To A Classic.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has it good and bad pointsGOODLots of action, Peter Weller is back, Robocop 2 looks awesome, some interesting ideas.BADNew score sucks compared to old one, Nancy Allen is given almost nothing to do, too many things happening at once, takes too long to introduce Robocop 2, Robocop absent for long periods of time, and he's blue!Despite all the bad things, this movie really isn't that bad. It could have been a lot worse. They should have waited until Paul Verhoeven was free and let him direct like he wanted to. I guarantee it would have turned out a lot better! Still, it rates a 7 out of 10. Action fans will be happy. True fans of the original will be disapointed. "},{"Title":"Back and better than ever","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop is back in a great sequel, dispite whet other people say. He beats the crap out of drug dealing morons and kicks ass with his big metal boots. He can bounce bullets off of fridges for god's sake. Watch it and don't criticize it, you'll enjoy it more. "},{"Title":"The Sequel","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 passed the original. It is creative, and very, very violent. I'm surprised it's not rated X. But it was pretty good, and it's more horror than sci-fi. "},{"Title":"Fun stuff as usual","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was good though it wasn't as good as the original it sure got a lot cheesier. As with the first one, this one was packed with action, bullets flying everywhere and things exploding everywhere! Highly entertaining and very watchable. Oh and the bad guy Robot was very cool! "},{"Title":"The film sucked, but it was filmed in my hometown!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie REALLY sucked compared to the first one. Peter Weller doesn't move or sound like Robocop from the first film and the plot was just down right awful. Some hippie using some drug called nuke and a violent little kid who really needs a spanking. The writers must have been taking Nuke when they were writing this garbage. The only really redeeming quality of this movie are the commercials, the OCP Communications one cracked me up. Now, Robocop is set in the near future where everything is trashed, crime is rampant, and everything looks like a warzone. Where are you going to film it? The #1 polluted city in the world of course, Houston, and it's equally polluted neighbor Baytown! Why, just today in the Baytown Sun it had an article about Baytown's filth and pollution and it said, This portrayal of Baytown even led to the Houston Film Commission recommending Baytown as the perfect place to represent a town that had been nuked. No changes were even needed the commission told the producers of Robocop 2, who apparently agreed and shot a 30-second segment of the film just off Texas Avenue. Can anyone tell me what scenes were the ones film in Baytown? "},{"Title":"better than the first!!!!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first ROBOCOP movie was awesome,but this is unbelievably BETTER!!.The soundeffects are fantastic and that new evil robot is awesome,that duel the two have at the end is just so entertaining.Why the hell won't they make anymore,they've made 4 BATMAN movies and they all suck.IRVIN KERSHNER is a real cool guy,he also directed EMPIRE STRIKES BACK,which is the best STAR WARS movie. "},{"Title":"A nasty, heartless movie and a wasted opportunity","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  At the end of RoboCop, we found out that the Murphy part of the cyborg was still alive and RoboCop began to act like Murphy again. For the sequel, they have forgotten that and made him just a monotone emotionless robot again. Boring. So this movie is just a typical two hours of shoot-outs, drugs and swearing.  "}{"Title":"If you expected a sequel like Terminator 2, then expect the EXACT OPPOSITE","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is TERRIBLE. I loved Robocop 1 and I was hoping that this would be a great sequel kind of like Terminator 2. But nope, this movie is just a big joke. It makes no sense, it's REALLY hard to understand, it REALLY lacks action and it's instead really BORING, the story is completely screwed up and it's clearly WAAAAAY to lazy. And the worst part is the end, the movie has probably the worst wrap up I have ever seen, it just ends when you're about to expect more. I mean many people say that Terminator 2 is better than the first one and I think there right. But this movie is the exact opposite as well as the biggest excuse for a sequel I have ever seen. I wasted 2 hours with this horrible movie and make sure you don't waste your precious hours on it too. If you haven't seen Terminator 2 but have seen Terminator 1, then watch Terminator 2 instead. But if you haven't seen any of the Terminator movies then go watch 1 and 2 (I haven't seen Terminator 3 but I have VERY low expectations for it).But yeah, anyways, I have THE MOST LOW EXPECTATIONS EVER for Robocop 3 because IMDb actually gives it 3/10 instead of the 5/10 that they gave this movie. So only watch Robocop 1, don't watch 2, and don't watch 3 (even though I haven't seen it). "},{"Title":"Bad Daddy","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes it is more blatant, the pandering to the audience. But business is business. And like OCP in the movie, the makers of this are interested in only one thing profits. So if you are supplying identity porn to adolescent boys, well then go full throttle.Start with a moderately successful idea cyborg cop dealing with issues of good and evil, human and machine, quest and family. The first movie made some money, but so far as you are concerned, it merely establishes characters and a situation for you to exploit. You hire a comic book writer whose career is based on kids. You hire the director who made the only palatable Star Wars film. And then you set about to engineer the story.Boys like action-as-bullets, so you'll have that. There is the inevitability of punishment, so you'll build all the tension-producing scenes around the relentless powerful steps of the punisher. (Note how the sound engineer manages this as a sort of second score.)But you'll put most of your effort into engineering a story about teen angst and fathers.So here we have our cyborg yearning for his lost son, and his new families a mother at the lab and wife in the force. We have a surrogate family of criminals, Father, mother and son, where the father becomes the opposed id, after the fashion of Forbidden Planet.You'll have subplots. For instance here the bad guy in the robot company is vying for parental approval.Usually it is the noise and explosions that are in your face in these things. It keeps you from thinking. But here, the noise takes second place in overt attention-getting to these stories of lost teen boys.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still enjoyable.","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was nowhere as good as the first movie, but it was a lot better than Robocop 3 which killed the series. This movie was missing the touch of excitement that Paul Verhoeven brought to the first movie, and the excellent screenplay by Edward Neumeier. Irvin Kershner took the helm of this movie, and while he did a great job with The Empire Strikes Back, here he looks like he's just looking for a paycheck. The screenplay feels like a pile of unfinished ideas put together to make a film. The only thing that made this movie enjoyable for me is the nonstop action that reigned throughout this movie, and the acting by Peter Weller, and Tom Noonan. I would've enjoyed this movie a lot more if the original Robocop score was used in this film. Overall, an OK movie, but far from the greatness of the first movie. "},{"Title":"Better than the original.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second part of the popular RoboCop series is directed by Irvin Kirstner, the master behind Empire Strikes Back and as in the Star Wars movie, he created a very good sequel, which is the best in the series. The movie is really quite slow-paced in the beginning, but it is full with memorable villains and twisted dark humor. RoboCop himself is cooler here than in the first movie and his new adversary, a bigger and better Robocop is really a formidable cyborg. The combat between the two RoboCops is excellent, but as I already mentioned, the strongest part of the film are its sardonic jokes. In conclusion even if not as good as the Terminator movies, RoboCop 2 is a well-made scifi action, which is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Far cry from the Original","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"     This film lacks the easy mix of dark humor and violence that made the original such a treat. It's clearly a darker and more violent film than the first - more grusesome, with more space between funny lines of dialogue. Interestingly, director Irvin Kershner was accused of doing the same thing in THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK, and that didn't bother me.   What makes this film fail is it's patent unbelievability. For example, after the initial success of the original model, one prototype RoboCop after another self-destructs. They get suicidal, according to scientists in the movie, because they lack a strong sense of duty. Why exactly a strong sense of duty creates a survival instinct is unclear.   The new Robocop is all machine, no humanity - basically, a robot. Which begs the question why build it on a human frame at all? And why do they decide to turn Cain, the drug dealer, into a robot? This like the mad scientist in FRANKENSTEIN using a diseased brain to anumate his creature, only worse, because he doesn't need a brain at all.   The final sequence begins when they bring an armed Robocop II creature into a room ful of reporters, with no safeguards to shut him down. The concluding passages of the movie expend untold thousands of machine-gun bullets, most of them fired at the bad robot despite the fact that it's manifestly impervious to bullets. And so on.   Finally, we see relatively little of RoboCop in this movie, perhaps because Peter Weller rebelled against the inhuman ordeal of wearing that heavy metal suit any longer than necessary. What we do see are lots of violence and action, lots of dialogue between minor characters that never pays off, and lots of humorous TV ads for the world of the future. That, too, is a problem here - little drives the film or holds it together, and the tender, patient character development of the first film is totally missing. "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels ever","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I usually dont care that much for sequels but this is one major exception it almost surpasses the original it is very under rated and that makes me mad what people say about alot of movies makes me made  Well, this movie continues the story of robocop in classic robocop fashion great over kill and interesting new ways to kill criminals. robocop 2 also adds more satire comedy to the mix making it more pleasant to watch on any occasion. "},{"Title":"i thought it could have been so much better","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" man this movie has it all,and i don't mane that In good way.i didn't think the acting was very good in this one.i also thought a lot of the humour in it was mean spirited.and don't get me started on the story.i just found it beyond the bounds of reality even for this type of movie.maybe this movie is supposed to be absurd.if so,it succeeded.the thing about the original is it had some heart and soul to it.i didn't see any of that in this one.Peter Weller and Nancy Allen are back for this one,and they try hard,i think,but they don't have too much to work with.on paper,this movie may have looked like it would work,but i think it lost something in the translation.where the first one managed to look like it had a budget of some sort,this one,looks low budget,and not in a good way.i'm sure it's hard to tell,when you're making a movie if it will work or not so i'll give the filmmakers the benefit of the doubt.by that,i mean they probably thought they were making a good movie.some people might like it,but i just found it tedious.having said that,this movie is nowhere near the worst movie i have ever seen.it could have been so much better true,but it could have been worse.so,i'll give RoboCop 2 4/10 "},{"Title":"Visionary","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Frank Miller's masterpiece is an excellent foresight of a pessimistic but possible future. A troubled society that cannot solve its own problems and is totally dependable of its worse practices companies sees their decadence spoiling its basic needs and the ruin of their dream. The well described characterization of the main personages, their influence in its society and the behavior of all citizens complete a perfect description of a whole worst case scenario of this society. The special effects are a little bit defective, if observed nowadays, but presented a great advance in the time the movie was released, but it is important to notice that a lot of special effect scenes are real and for those real people participated, in contrast to the computer graphics heavily used today. Worth watching twice or more. "},{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Many fans of the first Robocop film would not be disappointed with this entry of the trilogy. Robocop 2 is about Robocop trying to stop a massive drug lord named Cain (Which becomes Robocop 2). Frank Miller's story of Robocop was heavily rewritten during production but its still a great story. This one is just as violent as the first and contains a lot more swearing then the first movie. Peter Weller does a great job returning as Robocop, (he's best person for the job). Nacey Allen is great returning as Ann Lewis, Robocop's partner and sick-kick. Tom Noonan plays the drug lord and ruthless killer Cain.The special effects in this movie are great and sometimes a bit better then the first movie. Irvin Kershner takes over the director's chair from Paul Verhoeven (another great director) and directs and puts the movie together well. The Robocop movies were hard to make and sometimes people called it impossible. Another great thing about this movie is great cyborg fight between Robocop and Robocop 2. (Robocop 2 is like 10 times bigger then Robocop) at the end of movie. This movie full of gory violence, frequent swearing and drug use, but come on Robocop movies were meant to be this way and they work great like this. It's a shame they messed up Robocop 3. "},{"Title":"Not as good as #1, but still great!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Robocop film is one of my all-time favourite movies and easily one of the greatest action films ever made. Though this first sequel doesn't quite live up to it's predecessor, it's still a great movie.Peter Weller returns as the title character, and does as good a job as he did in his first outing as the character. The rest of the returning cast do great jobs as well, and so do the new cast members. Tom Noonan of Manhunter fame fills the role of the main villain this time around, and while he does a good job with what he has, the character was rather poorly written. Nowhere near as awesome as Clarence Boddicker from part 1, though I must say he gets pretty cool once he gets upgraded.I think the real strength of the film lies in the fact that there are few, if any, black and white characters. Most of them have their flaws or their virtues, even heroes like Robocop and villains like Cain. The only purely evil character I can think of is The Old Man, who I must say is a great, subtle villain.Last but not least, I have to mention the humor of the film. The scene after Robocop has had the extra objectives installed and attempts to arrest a corpse was hilarious! Overall, this is a great film. A lot different and not quite as good as it's predecessor, but still a lot of fun and really good.8/10 "}{"Title":"This is actually a great flick, folks!!!!......","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What makes a good movie? Plot? Characters? Action? Robocop 2 has all of these in boatloads.Imagine this A large corporation, OCP, is headed by corrupt execs who want to take over the city. They get into business with the city, then pull the legs out from under it by letting the city's police force go unfunded. Now the police are on strike, the city is in a state of chaos, falls into debt, and OCP is ready to foreclose on the city and advance its plans. Robocop is still on the prowl, of course, and continues to hunt down a wealthy and powerful drug lord. Robocop is nearly killed in the process, but is soon repaired. A bright-eyed ambitious woman of questionable motives, Dr. Fax, wants to make a name for herself in OCP by choosing the brain of OCP's next cyborg. To clear the way for her plans, however, she must keep Robocop out of commission, and upon his repair she programs him with nonsense directives thus keeping him from being a cop. She's also sleeping with OCP's CEO, just to make sure.Robocop, recognizing his humanity and individuality, manages to erase the programming from his memory. Soon enough, with the help of the police force he convinces to go off of strike, Robocop nearly kills the drug lord. Nearly. Dr. Fax, however, murders the drug lord in his hospital bed and uses his brain in her Robocop 2.Meanwhile, in an effort to save the city, the mayor tries to strike a deal with the drug-lord's second in command who promises to pay off the city's debt to OCP. The executives of OCP find out about this and send Robocop 2 to kill his former cohorts as well as the mayor during this transaction.....and the story goes from there.This is truly one of the most intricate, intertwined stories I've encountered in a very long time. I've seen movies with much simpler, much shallower plots win Oscars! Robocop 2 has plot, well-developed characters, spectacular action that is actually relevant to the story, and underlying social commentary to boot.So why in the world has this movie received such harsh criticism? Because it has the word Robocop in its name, and no movie with that kind of name will ever be given the credit it deserves.Robocop 2 is simply a great flick that should entertain viewers of any taste....provided they give the movie a chance. "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 is as great as R1 was. I don't understand why so many people hate R2 so much. R3 is pure crap indeed, but R2... too violent? No way! I love this movie because it's so dark but funny at the same time. The violence is just perfect. Almost everything's good in this film. Great music, good acting, cool action, nice effects and all. I like the story too. It's more interesting and original than in the 2 other Robo films. Peter Weller does fantastic job as Murphy/RoboCop once again and I like the part where Robo gets reprogrammed and he gets way too friendly. The kid baddie is a really cool villain as well no matter what everybody thinks. The final battle is awesome and is a great way to end a great movie. "},{"Title":"Well developed sequel.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 2 had to carry the weight of been a sequel of an immediate classic. The original Robo was such a surprise and a success that spawned two reactions. 1. The producers felt it was necessary a sequel due the success of the Verhoeven's movie. 2. RoboCop became a cultural icon and a cult movie, with lots of fans. All that left a difficult task to new director. Hopefully this sequel turned out great. And this wasn't at all the standard is those days.A list of the good stuff of this film will be too large, that's probably the best compliment a movie could receive. It was a good detail that many of the original cast (the surviving characters, obviously) were present once again plus the addition on new characters. In this case Robo has not new allies just new enemies. Enemies like Cain that has some bizarre characteristics that put them side by side with the semblance of villains of comics, they are nasty but deeply emotional people, and some just misguided like Hob (it is worthy check out those biblical references).Irvin Kershner is a director who knows how to make good sequels, he proved himself in The Empire Strikes Back. Frank Miller along (co-writer) W. Green had clear in their minds what made Robocop the success it was. Violence, irony, social commentary, clever dialogue all that is present here again, yes but it's all a bit less intense, anyway to beat the quality of the first movie it would be necessary the presence of Verhoeven, Miner and Neumeier. But the new creators had respect towards their predecessors and started to build the new story using the previous material. If that's not enough there are lots of incredible action scenes, great even to the standards of today. Everything is tied by the solid thread of a great script. These are the reasons that made RoboCop 2 a great predecessor of the first installment of the saga. If RoboCop 2 would be the only sequel of the original Robo, many things would be different; maybe more people would dig more this second part. It would be nice if people made clear differences between this movie and Robocop 3. At least among all the negativity the future of the two first movies seem brighter than the diet-future of RoboCop 3. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My summary pretty much says it all. Robocop 1 was a classic, one of the best films ever made. R2 and R3 (yes, even R3) aren't great, but they're good, and thus worthy to be its sequels. For those who don't want to stop there, here's why, especially considering that this movie has a reputation of being a gore-fest without any heart. The story in R2 *is* as engaging as the one in R1. Problem is that director Kirshner (sp) made the mistake of making this film TOO violent, instead of giving it the perfect balance between violence and storytelling that R1 had. Thus, R2 has a beautifully-written story that's buried underneath the over-the-top violence, and here's proof &#150; The film aptly points out the greed and hypocrisy of big business, where the fatcats are smiling in front of the cameras, pretending to care about someone/something other than money, but in private, all they wish to do is look out for money and for those who are rich, like themselves. ******SPOILERS*******Clearly, Daniel O'herlihy's character supposedly wanting to 'fix' the city, but only worrying about having his company sued once Cain mows down dozens of innocent people is just that. And before then sleeping with that gold-digger before selling her out to save his own image, whether the evidence exists against her or not, we'll find it, indeed. Besides this, there are sub-plots, such as the one of Robo wondering if he's still human (before coming up to the rushed conclusion at the end of the film that he, in fact, is). Plus the kid drug dealer (of all people!) reminded Robo of his now-lost son. It's easy to hate that little drug-dealing cretin, no doubt. But if one kept watching, even his character had statements to make. For starters, he's eating fries that are drowned in ketchup for dinner, even though he's a millionaire! That says something about the value of expensive luxuries, since something that costs more won't necessarily bring you more joy. Imagine someone who can afford any meal he wants, and all he wants is something you can buy for a dollar at a fast food place. That's a good commentary. And later, Robo found him as he was dying inside a truckload of cash, which is another commentary that everyone dies eventually, no matter how much money they have to supposedly protect them. How ironic that the kid asked Robo to keep a vigil over him as he bled to death, considering he was the one who shot a pair of cops earlier, and before then had helped dismember Robo himself. It's still not clear what he meant when he pointed out that Robo knew how dying felt, and that it sucked &#150; whether he meant Murphy's original death in R1 or Robo's dismemberment at the start of R2. But either way, he didn't even apologize for trying to literally tear him apart at the start, which only adds to his realism. There's a build-up of tension when Robo's told that the mass murderer was Cain, and that Cain now is bigger than him, so Robo has got to be wondering if his power is enough to beat Cain. That's a fresh change from villains who appear just to fight the hero in too many movies out there, as the audience can anticipate the climactic fight between these two cyborgs for half an hour before it happens. There's also Robo being 'neutered' by the addition of 200+ idiotic directives, making him be less than the tough-as-nails cop he wants to be. So this guy (can he be called anything else? a machine wouldn't do that) decides to risk his life by flooding his system with electricity, if it means going back to his previous self, rather than continue existing like he is. *******END SPOILERS******** But I must've been watching another Robocop 2 than everyone else, because this film is apparently nothing more than a brainless bloodbath. Yeah, right! But it's not perfect, and here's what keeps it from being as good as its marvelous predecessor. For one thing, the human cops kill criminals much too casually. Lewis kills two guys who Robo had locked into a closet at the beginning, then she shoots the baseball team coach as she's trading gunfire with him while hiding behind Robo's figure. It's one thing for Robo to be casual about the righteous taking of a life, but not for the human cops. Humans are supposed to have feelings, and it's hard to take the characters as seriously when they shoot someone in the head and then discuss lunch in the same breath. And the violence IS too excessive, with too many expendable characters who are cannon fodder who show up simply to get killed off, especially at the end when Cain busted out of the OCP building and had his rampage. But that doesn't take away from the good plot that is lurking underneath all that carnage. It's the kind of storyline that you'll see if you do yourself the favor of watching this film for the second or third times, once you already know what scenes of violence to expect, thus they won't be as shocking any more, and you can thus spend more attention on the plot twists and dialogue instead, because that's where the movie's strength is.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  No matter what anyone says, Robocop 2 is the greatest movie ever. Don't trust all of these other reviews. They have no idea what they are talking about. This Movie is a cinematic masterpiece. Everything about it is perfect and it deserves a place as the greatest movie of all time.First off, the first Robocop used to be the best movie of all time until its sequel came out. What makes it better you ask? Well it simply improves upon the original in every way. The first thing you need to look at is the coolness factor of Robocop. He is simply the coolest character of all time. He doesn't take lip from anybody. This movie proves it. They try to make him moral and stuff but all he wants to do is kill people in true Robocop fashion.The real reason why this movie is better than the first movie is that it answers an age old question What is cooler than Robocop? The answer would be TWO Robocops fighting each other to the death. With big guns. You can't simply get better than this (Except if you have three Robocops. Why hasn't anyone thought of this genius idea?) Some might say that the big Robocop looks stupid but those people don't know what a good movie is. This key element puts this movie on the pantheon of greatness.If you still aren't convinced that Robocop 2 is the best movie ever made, then they just need to quit watching movies. This movie is so good that you will want to watch it twice in a row. No joke. The acting is incredible. If you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favor and get up now and go watch it. "},{"Title":"Great action comedy","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe this film is hugely underrated, with people comparing it to the first one. Ok, so maybe it is inferior, but that doesn't mean its bad. I like robocop 2 because of how it blends in humor with the violence. Some of my favorites are how the swinging of robocop's hands when he walks is exaggerated, and when he fires his gun he raises the other hand high in the air. I also found it hilarious how robocop is turned into a wussy who tries to use non-violent solutions to solve crimes, with very funny results. MINOR SPOILER Another funny scene is when Robocop is helping the cops take out a warehouse of criminals, and when when a bad guy is to his left, he shoots him while looking to the right, probably to look cool which i found really great. END OF SPOILER These kinds of humor that are acted out in a serious or deadpan tone really help make the movie more comedic. There is a good amount of gore in the movie, with images of a lobotomy taking place, and a couple of scenes which were censored from every form of media I've seen this. So, I advice anyone who wants to see this to just brace themselves for a couple of nasty looking parts. SPOILER!! Oh, and by the way, there are quite a number of scenes showing Robo getting dismembered END OF SPOILER. The stop motion animated Robocop 2 is both ominous in appearance and deadly in effeciency, and while stop motion isn't exactly the most convincing form of special effect, it portrays Robocop 2 in an effective way, just as the T-800 was in The Terminator. Overall Robocop 2 is a terrific film, with a good brand of humor integrated into slick action sequences.  "},{"Title":"Wasted Potential","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was barely 20 years old when I first saw this movie, and I had high hopes.  I had heard that the near-legendary Frank Miller had his hands in the script.  I knew Peter Weller was coming back as Alex Murphy.  I knew Irvin Kirshner had done a great job on The Empire Strikes Back.  How could I lose?  Sadly, I received my answer in no uncertain terms.This film broke Straczynski's Law of Tolerable Dramatic Sci-Fi (No kids or cute robots -- references include Battlestar Galactica, Buck Rogers, STNG, and more) long before it had even been defined.  This film took a gold mine of a subplot (Murphy stalks his own wife) and took it at top speed into nowhere.  This film took potentially great satire material (the War On Drugs, the myriad of additional directives installed by Doctor Faxx, the additional candidates for cybernetic conversion) and didn't do much that was funny with it.  I remember feeling sorry for both Peter Weller and Nancy Allen, both of whom gave heroic efforts trying to wring decent performances out of the final script, but you know what they say about blood from a stone...IMDB Vote = 4Brian Wells "},{"Title":"This is NOT a good movie.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, but this high-tech sequel is a sorry excuse for an action movie. Any movie that goes to the lengths this one does with children involved in drug use and profanity deserves to be cut down by those of us who care.  Anyone who thinks otherwise has a right to their opinion, but you won't convince me that this film is anywhere near the original.   "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the first","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The original ROBOCOP was one of the rare science fiction movies from the 1980s that didn't suck. After the enormous success of the original ROBOCOP in 1987, there was no doubt that eventually a sequel would be made so three years after the release of the original ROBOCOP, there was ROBOCOP 2.   The most common rule with movies is that sequels are terrible and while that is normally always true, that isn't the case with ROBOCOP 2. ROBOCOP 2 is almost as good as the original. It is just as violent and just as entertaining. However, director Irvin Kershner, while a great director, is no Paul Verhoeven. That's not to say that the directing in ROBOCOP 2 isn't good, it's just not as stylish and cool as Verhoeven's directing. One of the best aspects of ROBOCOP 2 is that screenwriters Frank Miller and Walon Green were able to think of an original story instead of just using the same story line as the original film. A lot of the dialogue is kind of stupid, but no one sees action pictures like this for the dialogue.Though ROBOCOP 2 is not a bad sequel, the same can't be said for the second sequel, ROBOCOP 3.   "},{"Title":"Not like the first one at all...but it did have a nice concluding fight.","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well the good here is that Peter Weller is back and there is a rather cool fight at the end. For those who say who does it matter who plays Robocop you must watch the next one and you can hear Robocop is just not as forceful in his voice as he is here. The fight at the end between Robocop and the other robot is rather cool to...though it is a bit of a throwback to claymation or stop motion at times. The story has this new drug on the streets and corrupt business is at it again. You also have Robocop briefly reunited with his wife, he also gets a bit tore up again. You have a mysterious criminal and his kid sidekick, a team working on the next Robocop, the original Robocop being reprogrammed, a police strike and do you get the feeling there is just a bit much going on here? You also get the stupid commercials, but here they are even worse. Still, you get lots of blood and violence as this is just before the lets make every movie we can pg-13 phase that is still the plague of Hollywood. If they could have just worked on the story a bit and took out some of the elements while focusing more on the drug villains this movie could have been as good as the first. However, this edition of Robocop is a bit of a jumbled mess. Sadly though the next one would be worse as it would feature a robot ninja and a flying robocop. "}{"Title":"Over-the-top violence - more so than the first!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 basically picks up one year later after the first movie.  OCP are trying to bankrupt Detroit City and the cops are (surprise surprise) on strike again!  There is a new pandemic on the streets - Nuke - a highly addictive narcotic which is pushed onto the market by the Nuke Cult headed by Kain.  Enter Robocop - who is out to get his arch nemesis Kain...  On top of this, OCP are trying to supersede Robocop with a newer model - they are waiting to find the right human candidate to use for Robocop 2.Robocop 2 is pretty much the same movie as the first - just with a lack of wit, good acting, character motivation and quality direction.  So yes - it is pretty nasty - although the violence is a bit more nastier this time around with even 8 year olds playing King-Pin drug dealers (I'm not sure what this movie is trying to tell us!).Sometimes it is hard to work out what the character motivation is in this film - the OCP sub-plot line is confusing and not well thought out.  Nancy Allen's character is a complete waste in this sequel - she doesn't add anything to the movie - other than to appear with Robocop while wasting copious amounts of bad guys.It is also interesting to note that Irvin Kershner (the Director of Empire Strikes Back) was the director of this movie.  Thank god the only thing he made after this (according to IMDB) was Sea Quest DSV.  Also Frank Miller (an acclaimed comic book writer) penned Robocop 2.  Me thinks the producers wanted lightning to strike twice for Robocop - but alias... it wasn't to be. "},{"Title":"Much less than the original.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop continues to clean up the streets of new york. but things complicate when a group of drug lords manage to blast Robocop almost to death. this opens new doors for the scientists who want to make a new, better Robocop. Violent, corny at times and unpleasant sequal that barely manages to please it's audience. the action is good, the animation of the cyborgs is good, but there's a lot of heart missing.**/4  "},{"Title":"Power Failure","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers.By the end of RoboCop 2, the movie has degenerated from an inventive satire into a made-for-TV live-action cartoon.  Oh, sure it has the mammoth gunfights, car chases, and other silly action material of the original.  That's where the similarities start to disappear.The original was a clever take on the future of 80s society had that decade lasted another 30 years (chronologically impossible, I know, but still possible in the realm of social mindset).  So, the film is stuck doing what comes natural for all sequels, throw in new material from the recycling bin of ideas and try expanding the universe.  Think of what's sustained the Jurassic Park and Star Wars franchises for so long, they keep adding new toys to the series.Speaking of Star Wars, RoboCop 2 is a sad film compared to Kershner's work on The Empire Strikes Back.  While in 'Empire' he overcame the deficiencies of the cast, script, and technology, here he doesn't have the same freedom.  The film starts off bleaker than the original, yet by the end has become the monster it tried to avoid.The satirical portions of the original are replaced with titillating the audience without concern toward the material.  Verhoeven couldn't have done better on the original (amazing given his general immaturity towards film) and he certainly could've done worse, but RoboCop 2 rings a lesser bell because its source material is a weak shock-inducer, a drug, like the hundreds flaunted throughout here.   This belongs next to Total Recall, Die Hard 2, and Predator 2 for other ambitious-yet-failing 1990 sci-fi action efforts.Overall, stick with the original.  This series died pretty quick.  1.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"I've had delusions from high fever that were more coherent","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Proving once again that a writer who is great and revolutionary in comic books is crap for movies, Frank dark knight returns miller paves the way for writers like James starman robinson with this schlock fest. While in parts better than the first one and infinitely better than the third, also written by miller, this movie suffers from 2 things sequels usually suffer from no returning cast and the idea that more is better. Paul Verhoeven's dirty genius cannot be recaptured by anyone else and that is why it was destined to suck. oh well robocop v2 was kinda neat, and the violence was okay, but not nearly as over the top as the first. 6 and a half "},{"Title":"Much squandered potential (potential spoilers?)","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the original ranks as a personal favourite, the sequel shows some glimmer of potential, although lacks much of the satire and dark humour of the predecessor.  There are some great action sequences and good visual effects, but that doesn't make for a solid picture, considering what the original had to offer.Mind you, there are some good moments of social commentary, especially its before-its-time comment on the failure of the war against drugs (some may recall a drug lord's decision to offer large amounts of money to the mayor of Old Detroit in exchange for decriminalization of the designer drug Nuke).  Had this movie been released closer to today with a more solid rewrite, it would have had a little bit more resonance.  Sadly, it does not.This may not have always been the case, as there are reports that the original screenplay made for a 3-hour movie (many elements of which eventually showed up in the even more lackluster sequel).  But either way, one is better of sticking with the original.  "},{"Title":"What happens when your director has a 3 week lead time?","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Answer, this does.....  Robocop 2 could have been a much better film if the production had been stalled to allow Irvin Kershner to become more familiar with the material.  As it stands, this is at best a ham-fisted, repugnant sequel to the original 'RoboCop', and at worst, a reprehensible piece of work that glorifies violence and sadism without the satirical saving graces of the original.Some people have said that this film is a lot more violent than the first. It's true that it may have more scenes of violence, but it's nowhere near as graphic as the original.  That's another of this films problems, and possibly the one that makes it most unpalatable - it's toned down the violent aspects to the point where it becomes almost comic book like, which numbs the viewer to the horror going on before them.  The violence in the original was so graphic to make the audience understand what was actually going on, and to sympathise with Murphy's character.  Alas there's none of that here, the violence is just there for the sake of being there, without actually serving to advance the plot.  The film makes a few attempts at satire, but these all invariably fall flat, all but the continued corruption of OCP, and the overall failure of corporate America as a whole - these two relatively high notes are possibly all that prevents the film being an utterly dire piece of work with no saving graces. The cast try to do their best with the limited material they're given, and Dan o'Herlihy, Nancy Allen and Peter Weller all turn in respectable perfomances. That and the aforementioned attempts at satire aside, this film is an insult to the original, with little of its wit or humour, and none of its understanding of human nature.If only Mr Kershner had been given more time to hone his vision, we wouldn't have been treated to what seems like a 'by-committee' remake of the original, with all the good points taken out.* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Where's Clarence Boddicker when you need him?","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard (shortly after seeing the original RoboCop during its initial theatrical run in the late 80s) that RoboCop 2 was in the works, I began to speculate about the possible plot.  Murphy, aka RoboCop, who was already showing signs of recovering his previous identity at the end of RoboCop, would go in search of his family.  Along the way, however, he would once again cross paths with Clarence Boddicker, who like Murphy, would be resurrected as a cyborg/killing machine.  RoboCop 2 touched upon these premises; Murphy does search for his family, but it doesn't go anywhere and this plot point is quickly discarded.  As for the villain in RoboCop 2, he pales in comparison to Kurtwood Smith's Clarence Boddicker; who can forget, Take a look at my face, Dick.  He was trying to kill me.  The RoboCop 2 villain is played by the same guy, if I'm not mistaken, who played the Red Dragon/Tooth Fairy in Manhunter (the original 1986 version of the soon to be released Red Dragon).  The actor gave a much better performance as the Red Dragon, but in RoboCop 2, he simply falls flat as the main villain.  His villain is resurrected as a cyborg/killing machine, but again, I would have prefered that it was Boddicker, not this Cain guy.   Overall, the movie is lame (especially where the little league is robbing the store) and filled with pointless violence.  Instead of making a movie that would continue the story of the original movie, the makers of RoboCop 2 chose simply to make a violent ladden piece of garbage.   I guess they thought that they would get more of an audience if they simplified the plot and increased the violence.  Where is Clarence Boddicker when you need him?  He's now on That 70s show playing Red, and even though Smith is good in the series, his greatest performance is still Clarence Boddicker in the original RoboCop.  I recommend the original 1987 to anyone; forget about this awful 1990 sequel. "},{"Title":"Whoops, what a disappointment","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ----Possible Spoilers----One year has passed since Alex Murphy (Robocop) wiped the likes of Clarance Boddiker and his gang off the face of the planet. However, the police strike is continuing, and a new breed of criminal is developing on the streets an army of drug abusers, clinging for a fix of Old Detroit's new narcotic, Nuke. Their leader, Cain, has declared war on the city. Meanwhile, O.C.P plan to take Murphy off line and replace him with a new cyborg Robocop 2.This sequel to the 1987 smash hit has potential, but squanders it for full on action. While there is nothing wrong with this, the original had a social commentary and satire to back it up. Frank Miller, the genius writer behind the masterpiece comic books BatmanThe Dark Knight Returns and Ronin, gives the audience his bleak outlook of modern life in his first movie script. Apparently, the script was altered to include more action scenes, which explains certain plot holes. Hob, the ten year old kid, is a little b******. He deserves everything he gets in the end. Full credit to Gabriel Damon for giving the character this edge. However, the fact that the Nuke gang are able to easily dismantle Murphy sickens me. Seeing a childhood hero being cut apart with a jackhammer and a saw is degrading for him, especially after dispensing justice in the original. Also, the idea to reprogram Murphy as a P.C cop is also nausea inducing, seeing your hero dragged through the mud. Prehaps this is why the fans didn't embrace it.The main point of contention is that it feels like O.C.P tried to make a Robocop movie. It's mostly action, and tries to give it the little touches that made the original work, but it's mostly lip service. The action is well staged, during the nineties it held a record as the film with the second highest body count, but doesn't drag the viewer in enough. If Orion had allowed Paul Verhoeven, Ed Neuminer and Michael Miner to make their own sequel, then who knows. However, Verhoeven is (allegedly)working on a sequel, so fingers crossed.I give Robocop 2 a 6 out of 10. (Despite my ranting, it's not a bad film to watch if nothing's on. Just don't expect the original.) "},{"Title":"not a great sequel","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 contains just as much graphic violence and action as the first one. So what's the problem ? Well Peter Weller is back for this one and that's definately a positive since he was the best Robocop ever much better than the guy who played him in Robocop 3 and the ones from the tv series and tv mini series. The problem is Robocop 2 isn't very original. The character called Kane is a complete copy of Boddicker from Robocop. The kid as the drug kingpin was a horrible casting decision. No one kid is that evil. Seeing a kid shooting a machine gun trying to kill cops is disturbing and just plain dumb. The movie trys to get you to feel sympathy for him later on towards the end it another poor scene. The Robocop II machine sent to kill Robocop is definately not as good as the ED-209 from the first movie. One thing about a Robocop movie is you always get plenty of viciously evil bad guys. Robocop 2 has all the campy elements the first one had but it feels more like a rehash instead of a new movie. Again I can't stress how bad the kid gangster is his presence alone made the movie unenjoyable. ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"I didn't know whether to laugh or be excited","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I finally had the opportunity to see the Robocop sequels since my friend purchase the trilogy on DVD, I normally like to see the sequels if I was into the first film, like most movie buffs. I couldn't believe my eyes watching this film or listening to it, I mean I love a good action movie, who doesn't? Well, I know there are a few who don't, but it's all good. But anyways, this movie was a little bit just a little bit over the top. I mean is it that realistic that there are that many explosions in one day? I'm talking like on the same block or city?Basically there is a new drug on the market called Nuke, a drug that is supposed to create like a paradise for people in their minds. To make matters worse is that the Detroit cops have gone strike for low salaries and horrible equipment, but OCP are not giving in, they in fact want to make another robocop but cannot find a willing participate to sign up for the project. Robocop is brutally torn apart by the group who is in control of the Nuke drug but he gets put back together and wants to make the city safe once again, well, then again, it's Detroit, right? Robocop 2 is just action, nothing more, sometimes it's fun like Con Air or the first Robocop, but sometimes it doesn't succeed. But it's all up to you to decide, like I said, sometimes people have different tastes or just wanted to see the sequels like me. So I'm not going to recommend it or say stay away from it, because quite frankly I just can't decide.4/10 "}{"Title":"Jeez, no wonder Frank Miller was disgusted with Hollywood during the 1990s","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Normally, sequels make the franchise better, but unfortunately, this is not the case for the Robocop series. In 1987, a movie Robocop was created, which was directed by Paul Verhoven and the writers were Edward Neumeier and Michael Miner. What made Robocop stand out was that it was one of the best sci-fi movies of its time. The story was down-to-earth, and the principal cast was likable.Now, enter Robocop 2, which gave a number of mixed reviews and both sides had their valid points.Story 5/10 (due to the cut material set by Kirshner). This movie chronologically takes place a year after Robocop was placed on active duty. Robocop and Lewis(Peter Weller and Nancy Allen reprising their roles) fight a drug lord (played by Tom Noonan.) who designed the drug Nuke. The story on-screen felt like there was barely any material the director could come up with. Truth is, Frank Miller had more story material written on paper, but unfortunately, Irvin Kershner made the god-forsaken mistake to cut out bits and pieces of Frank's vision. The only thing left is the over-the-top violence, and Robocop 2 which is the sad truth.Both interviews with Peter Weller and Nancy Allen had one thing in common. There were things missing what made the first movie good, such as moments of crucial character development. I was surprised that Weller didn't want to do Robocop 3, and he made a good decision. The sasd fact is that out of the cut material given, they involved Robocop's humanity.The only way to access those cut material is either a Director's Cut DVD or checking out the comic books. Just watching the movie by itself is reduced to a clichéd Let's kick ass movie. Entertaining, yes, but it just suffered a lot. The subplots making Robocop a complete hippy pacifist, and the Murphy family were badly depicted in the movie. Robocop's pacifist demeanor was laughably bad during both scenes involving children. I don't know how Peter Weller felt when doing that scene, but I felt sorry for the guy agreeing to a scene like this. The Murphy family subplot was resolved *VERY* badly. I felt like throwing up when Robocop was forced to not be himself in front of his wife, and he just stood there like an idiot while watching his wife talk with an OCP-hired lawyer.Sound 8/10 The guns sounded like they are supposed to. The music however was a bit too up-beat for some tastes. Robocop was depicted to be a hero who struggles with the way he is in the first movie, but Robocop 2's soundtrack made him look like a freaking action hero from the 1960s version of comic-book-based movies.Acting and character development 6/10 (blamed on the cut material again) Weller did a good job with what he did for the movie, but what made him memorable just wasn't there during the sequel. The same thing went for Allen's portrayal of Lewis. The actors weren't to blame for this, but the direction Kirshner wanted for the movie.Overall The movie is just average to mediocre. It's a big insult to Robocop fans including myself. I agree with the other reviewers to the fact that it was a rush job, that's all the movie was just so they could get fast cash despite the amount of effort given into the special effects for the battle between both Robocops. "},{"Title":"Worst sequel EVER","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst sequel ever. The characters are cardboard, the plot isludicrous, and the brilliant mesh of social commentary with SF storytelling is all but gone. What was Frank Miller thinking? There really isn't much else to say about this insipid tumor of a movie, but apparently I have to write ten lines in order to have my review posted. So let me say that what some people refer to as the heart of the film (ie, Murphy's struggle to reconcile his cyborg nature) is pathetically weak at best. It's as if the filmmakers took all the most superficially successful bits of the first movie (Murphy's memories, the eyeball twitching in the shot-out socket) and screwed them up in an absurd attempt to stretch them out into a movie of their own.And the less said about the mass murderer's brain used for RC2 and the drug- dealing little kid, the better. Stare at the wall for two hours -- it's a much better use of your time.  "},{"Title":"Behave yourselves!","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Weller and Nancy Allen are back as Robocop/Murphy and Anne Lewis, respectively, and they're searching desperately for a neurotic drug kingpin by name of Cain (Tom Noonan) - meanwhile, the majority of cops are on strike and OCP, the company that built Robocop, wants to replace him with a bigger, better version, and guess who they use as the brain for their walking nightmare RC2? That's right - Cain.Don't hold your breath waiting for the perennial bitch Belinda Bauer to get her punishment - she never does, one of the things working against the film is pushing the buttons that make you mad and then not pushing the ones that make you feel good. The closest we come to Belinda getting throttled is when she gets humiliated when her Robo 2 goes haywire and when she looks mad at Robo 1 defeating Robo 2.When the murderous boy Hob is killed we're expected to feel sympathetic towards him as he reaches out to Robo - even though the boy hasn't shown any signs of humanity and helped torment and tear apart Robo earlier. In short, Hob should have been left on the cutting room floor.Great spectacle and great music by Leonard Rosenman help, along with some occasionally amusing social commentary. Robocop's and the other police battling the Cain-Robo 2 is a highlight. Hard to believe this is from Irvin Kershner, the man who directed The Empire Strikes Back. Well, I guess they all have to direct a few turkeys... "},{"Title":"Avoid!!!","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was so terrible I had to see the original after this to get over it. Can't really understand what was the point of making this sequel. The third and severely underrated Robocop 3 was ten times better. The major problem with Robocop 2 is it doesn't have a direct plot, well at least with all those disjointed action scenes I didn't much care what was going on because there was nothing to combine them. I can't imagine anybody like me who loved the original will enjoy this. The reviews claiming it's underrated, are simply overrating it but still you can check this out for yourself to see how bad it is. Do yourself a favor and avoid! Highly disappointing! "},{"Title":"very inferior...","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS WARNING the first sequel to Robocop is very inferior..... lets start with the story......it can be very confusing for people that are watching it for the first......and ONLY time.....because this is not worth watching........ second......you'll see a lot of unnecessary violence...... very bad special effects.......lots of disgusting things....that are really unnecessary.........third, at the beginning of the movie you'll see some very interesting character angles, but these are dropped very quickly....fourth.....the great musical score in Robocop is changed.......i couldn't believe it when i heard that Basil Poledouris wasn't going to return for the sequel as the music composer.....instead they hired Leonard Rosenman to do the score.....and it isn't bad at all......but it would never be so great as the original score was........so....if you really would like to see a Robocop film....see the first one, but don't bother with this one.....or the third one........** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Peter Weller's Nightmare","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately producers don't know when to leave well enough alone, or are into recycling to the point that every scrap of trash that Hollywood generates is up for rendering into Alpo.  It seems that every sci-fi action adventure flick must endure a sad list of follow-up films, and Robocop is a tragic example.  The first film, under Paul Verhoven's direction was a wild, stylish ride, even finding time for a little social commentary on what the dark side of bio-tech is capable of turning us into.  This film has none of that, aside from maybe telling us that drugs are bad for you and could make you do things you'd regret when sober.  Robocop 2 lacks the vision, the profoundly scary vision of what we are becoming, and instead clumsily takes us on a boat ride into how nauseating drug dealers and their victims really are.  Social commentary be damned.  This one really bit the big one for me. If you don't care for anything but the SFX, go to it, my friend.  Otherwise don't waste your time with this yeastless sour cake, and preserve the first film's accurately measured, heavy-weighted pumpernickle hot out of the oven. It's that simple. "},{"Title":"In every way an improvement over the original. It gives me great pleasure to introduce to you... Robocop 2","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Following which, the touted update goes and shoots itself through the head. Rather apt, considering the sorry state of this movie, a sequel to a film which patently didn't need one.What really irritates about Robocop 2 is that the makers obviously didn't understand why the original was so good in the first place. Robocop (7) was a witty, vibrant satire of bad action movies. Robocop 2 is just a bad action movie.Thin on dialogue, particularly towards the tedious, shoot-out finale, it attracts little interest and possesses none of the energy or spirit of the original. The spoof ads, now a little tasteless (Warning continued use will cause skin cancer) seem merely there as an afterthought. And calling a new designer drug Nuke is nowhere near as subtle or as funny as the original's family board game, Nuke &#145;em!The stop-motion animation &#150; the weakest element of the original &#150; is used more extensively, while this humourless sequel fails to include a credits sequence, which makes it look even more cheap and hurried. Ah, humourless? You might say. But what about the funny mayor, or the way Robo is reprogrammed to spout platitudes? Yes, these are attempts at light relief, as is Robo tightening himself up with a screwdriver (we're only human) for the film's punchline, but none are likely to induce laughter. Like the rest of the film, they're staid and moronic attempts at entertainment.The third and final film in the series (imaginatively titled Robocop 3; 5) saw Peter Weller leave, to be replaced by Robert John Burke, who does well in a undemanding role. With toned-down language and violence, it was an obvious plea to the kiddie market, a Robo action figure much plugged throughout. With it's social conscience too overstated, and Robocop's new-found arm attachments and jetpack getting too silly, the final film was never destined to be a masterpiece. Yet fluid direction by Fred Dekker and a flowing pace make this one enjoyably throwaway viewing.Robocop, then, is the film proper. Robocop 3 is the sequel which you could watch if there was nothing better on. Which leaves the second movie hanging in the middle, an unwatchable dirge of a picture. A franchise vehicle that has nothing to say, save for the pound signs that rung up. Irvin Kershner is no Paul Verhoven, just as comic artist Frank Miller and partner Walon Green aren't the writers that Edward Neumeier and Michael Miner were. A tragic waste of a good, if limited, concept. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"They should've stopped here!!","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2 compared to the third installment is a kick-ass action romp. It's more gritty, violent, and in-your-face. Probably better than the first. There's no jet-pack in this one. There's no cartoon-like villains with a stupid plot and dialog. It's friggin' Robocop the way it's supposed to be! Period. Nothing less. Nothing more. R-cop 2 does not surrender to the P.C. crowd to become a kiddie-hero, as it shows what children are unfortunately doing in real-life. (i.e. shooting guns, swearing, hanging out at 2a.m. and doing drugs)very realistic. But what makes Robocop 2 a better movie, is the bad-ass enemy cyborg Murphy battles throughout half of it. Now that's a villain! There are also very disturbing parts, as well. Such as the disembowelment of Robocop, the drug-lord/cult leader taken off of life-support after a shoot-out with Murphy and placed into the evil cyborg body, and a 12-year-old bastard bossing everyone around like a Nazi packing a 45 caliber sub-machine gun. That and the torture and death of a turncoat police officer in a abandoned hospital. Creepy. But the ending was a total letdown, as the CEO and the whore who placed the Cain in his new body in the first place and caused all of this mess gets off Scot-free! This is where Robocop 2 fails. The third movie should have started where the second one left off. "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequels ever","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first and last ten minutes of this movie are OK, the stuff in between is complete garbage.  This movie is inferior to the first Robocop movie in every way, except perhaps the special effects.I won't go into too much detail because other reviewers have done so already in their contributions, but the major points are as followsThe drug dealing kid is totally unbelievable and you just want him to die as soon as possible.  Not because he's evil or bad, but because he is just so damned annoying!  A gang of hardened criminals taking orders from a jumped up little kid? ARE YOU SERIOUS?Cain is pathetic as a villain, and the way he and his gang are able to defeat and hack apart Robocop with ease is just plain stupid.  Compare this part of the movie with the end sequence, and Robocop should have been flattened by Robocop 2 in the final showdown.The scene following this is extremely poor.  It is badly written, acted, and is full of inaccuracies.  How come Robocop is handed over to some no-brain techies to repair instead of being put back together by OCP's Robocop experts?I know that movies like this require no brains and that we shouldn't expect to do much thinking.  However, I don't think that movies should insult people's intelligence and that's pretty much what I feel is happening when I watch this.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really don't understand who this movie is aimed at. From just the absurdity of it, not to mention the ridiculously bad acting, cheesy dialogue, and the fact that the villain is a child, I'd assume this was meant to be a children's movie... but I think there may be more swear words than Pulp Fiction, not to mention constant references to drugs and general mayhem and killing-so which demographic is it trying to please? This movie is too schizophrenic, like trying to combine Country music with Heavy metal, in the end no one is going to like it because it's a bloody paradox. I would recommend this movie because it's so funny (in a bad way) except the actors are so patently unbearable that I wouldn't want to suggest otherwise.I'm completely serious when I say that I could not watch more than 15 minutes of this. Terrrrrrrrrrrrrrrriiiiiiiiiiiible "}{"Title":"RoboCop-out...","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a shame that they didn't trust the original enough to build on it. But RoboCop 2 takes the great ideas, imagination and characters of the original and replaces them with all the stereotypes that sequels have to offer.The beginning commercial was cute and so was the scene that follows (reminiscent of the beginning in Guys and Dolls!)  but aside from a flash of thought here and there, this is one film that is a slow, dirty slog down into the middle of nowhere.Ideas are introduced then dropped, interesting characters from the original hardly get any screen time here, most of the new characters (Cain, Juliette Faxx) are so boring that they wouldn't hold up no matter what the movie, and then there's the tone.In the Blessed Original, Paul Verhoeven knew how to direct with the kind of attitude where if you cranked up the attitude and the sensibility of a good pulp comic, even the most repellent violence would be entertaining.  Kershner (although he DID direct a Star Wars sequel) doesn't.  And scene after scene either makes you cringe, look away or just tune it out altogether.And what's with RoboCop??  HE should be the main thing here, right?  But there's whole scenes where he doesn't even show up, and what scenes he is in are so half-thought and shakily written that you don't know or care if he's part-human or part-cyborg - since he's all-boring.Never have I seen such a rapid fall from grace.  Why does Hollywood make such bad sequels?  On purpose?  Why; did the film-makers have a bet going?Only one star for RoboCop 2; the FX are good but the story doesn't even try to match them.   "},{"Title":"Not as 'deep' as Robo-cop, but more fun","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"20 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  while Film majoring fake hollywood insiders everywhere take particular relish in trashing this movie, it's actually really good. while the characters are a bit more two dimensional than in robocop, no one is quite so bad as to be a generic Hollywood action archetype. As long as you're not searching for a profound message in what is, after all, a Hollywood action movie, the you can really, really enjoy this. Some of the humor bits are hilarious, and the movie has a lot of classic scenes, in fact, the whole first 15 minutes of it could be considered a classic scene. People screaming about 'Nuke', Bad fat cop Duffy getting slammed into an arcade game, 'Bad Dudes', and the new robocop prototypes are all things that stick in people's heads. A lot of things Robocop says alone will have you cracking up, (when they turn him into a community role model for instance) and considering Robocop possibly represents the easiest acting job anyone has ever done, that's saying a lot if a monotone delivery can make you laugh. Basically, look to Robocop for a more meaningful movie, look to Robocop 2 for more fun, and more memorable scenes. look for Robocop 3 is you want to watch a 90 minute ad for robocop products, and make fun of punk rockers.  "},{"Title":"As bad as Robocop--but in a different way","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop (Peter Weller) is back fighting drug lord Cain (Tom Noonan), his gang and an evil OCP executive (Daniel O'Herlihy) and his helper (Belinda Bauer) who want to replace Robcop with different machines.This starts off OK with Robocop foiling a robbery. Then it goes downhill. You see him stalking his wife he had when he was human. Then OCP convince him he's not human, he rejects his wife...and the storyline never comes up again (????) Why even bother with it???? The movie is not as bloody as the first but it has a mean streak running through it that is unpleasantSPOILERS!!!!!! Robocop is chained down and taken apart piece by piece; a man is cut open and a child is forced to watch; we see children swearing, taking drugs, killing people and being killed. These scenes aren't fun or exciting...just real sick. SPOILER END!!!!!!!!!!!!Also the story gets REAL stupid after the hour mark and, like the first, plot loopholes pop up left and right. The last battle is far too long--I don't care how good the effects are.There are good things--the great stop motion animation and special effects; the dark humor is still present and strong; the tests of cyborgs to take over Robocop are quite funny (O'Herlihy's reactions are priceless) and the story was never boring. The acting varies--Weller is as good as possible in the getup; Nancy Allen is hardly in this (she seems like an after thought); O'Herily is fun; Noonan is OK and Bauer is TERRIBLE in her role. Yes she is beautiful but not an actress.So--on par with Robocop--good or bad is your call. "},{"Title":"Weak Sequel","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 2(1990) Something's wrong. What? Robocop is back. Something is just not right.The story is that just like the first installment, the cops are on strike and OCP needs to do something...again. For some reason, they want to replace Robocop. Robo in the first movie was a successful crime-fighter. So why ask for replacement? The story needs work.A villain here is a kid named Hob. Hob is just plain annoying. He is about 12 and just reeks the place up. Hob comes off not menacing, just irritating. Another villain here is a drug lord named Cain. He is not even close to as menacing and likable as the first movie's villain Clarence Boddicker. Also just like the first(how original),the bad guy has help from OCP as well. How about a villain that needs no ties to some corporate douche and be a regular modern villain? How bad is this? Not dreadful, but damn bad. One other piece of Robocrap, why do some people come to make Robo a tree hugger? Robocop was created to fight the never ending crime in old Detroit. He was a huge crime fighter and no one ever stepped up and had Robo's back after the good he did in the first movie? Lame.This movie had no interesting characters at all.(All the good ones were killed in the first)This movie also suffers from being unintentionally funny. Who cares if the director did The Empire Strikes Back. Sure, that was good, but this is not. He did Robocop no justice.The Last Word A watered-down Robocop. This is a bad movie as many say. This is not as gritty or interesting as the first. This is a lame sequel. "},{"Title":"Crashes halfway through - 55%","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've already spoken, on reviews for other films, how certain films will inevitably have certain memories attached to them.As strange as it seems, Robocop 2 will forever be linked in my mind with my sister because I never would have watched it without her inadvertent help. You see, we were sharing a room in my aunts house which had access to Sky movies (about twelve years ago, I might add). My sister having watched and fallen asleep during Dances With Wolves, I then stayed up to watch this while her snoring tried to put me off. At the time, it was one of the best films I'd ever seen. Not so now as adulthood and experience combine to ruin a former childhood favourite of mine.Peter Weller returns as the unstoppable (well, nearly) cyborg cop, back clearing the streets of Detriot. This time, he's in pursuit of drug lord Cain (Tom Noonan) and his gang, who are up to their necks in designer drug Nuke and good old-fashioned political corruption. Corporate baddies OCP are also still in the picture and ready with a surprising candidate to replace Robocop as obsolete.Gone is the satirical edge from the first film and is replaced, strangely, with a sense of humour. Robocop 2 is much lighter in tone than the first film, though there is promise in the first half of the picture. In all fairness, the first half feels much like the first film as Robocop's many flaws are exploited by the baddies. I don't know why but I used to think Robocop was better than the Terminator but not any more. Murphy is slow, extremely heavy, magnetic, makes tonnes of noise just by walking (hilarious when trying to sneak about), emotionally crippled and damaged by unfunny and uncool one-liners. Plus, his metallic armour looks quite plastic and far too shiny at times - if OCP spent more time repairing him than buffing him with French polish then he'd clean up Detriot in about ten minutes flat.Sadly, the second half of the film can't keep up and quickly degenerates into a bullet-ridden farce. For me, the jumping the shark moment comes during a surgery scene as the new Robocop model is being prepared. A quick glance at the new brain, complete with a full set of eyes glued to the cerebral cortex, sums up this film perfectly. Good intentions but sadly, terrible execution. The final reel is noisy, over the top and worryingly dull which is bad because it's almost non-stop action. Fine if it's done well but this ain't the creme de la creme film-making. And considering it came from the man who brought you Star Wars Episode Five - The Empire Strikes Back (considered by many as one of the best sequels ever made), this is a huge disappointment. The models of the two robots fighting have that Harryhausen feel to them and if it wasn't dated enough, the film has a dirty early-Nineties look to it. Unfair perhaps but if this is the future, why does every street punk have their hair in a mullet? This sort of thing will be illegal in the future, thus outlawing many German rock bands.Perhaps my mistake was watching Blade Runner earlier in the day, a much more effective and enjoyable sci-fi film than this. Despite being made much later, this feels more out-dated than Ridley Scott's masterpiece and that's not a good thing. For a film that portrays money-hungry corporates, it strikes me as ironic that this film probably came about as a pure money-spinner after the success of the first film. Compared to the original, this is a world away and it looks it. However, judging by the criticism levelled at Robocop 3, it doesn't feel like the worst job they could do to the franchise. At least he doesn't fly in this... "},{"Title":"Cynical, Depressing","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this movie was first released in 1990, it was widely criticized for being even more violent than the first Robocop and having an incoherent plot.  Seeing it recently, it still has a cynical view of the future.  Some of those things have come true, such as 10 year old children stealing, committing violence, and handling automatic weapons.  That seemed far fetched in 1990 but not in a post Columbine world where children have easy access to these weapons and use them.  Taking an entire city private sounds like one of those things that current President George W. Bush might think of, since he wants to privatize everything else. As for the movie itself, the action scenes are very well done, especially the battle between Robocops.  Peter Weller and Nancy Allen do a good job in their returning roles.  However some plotlines, such as how much of Robocop is still Murphy are talked about and then dropped.  The movie also has an overemphasis on torture that could have been toned down.  I'm not a person who usually complains about violence in movies, but here the violence is excessive.  Overall a mixed bag that gets 5/10  from me.  "},{"Title":"Sequel not as good","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as good as the original. As with many sequels, this one pales beside the original film. The same main stars, Peter Weller and Nancy Allen are in the film, but it just lacks the zip of the first film. I am a big fan of Nancy's and would be predisposed to like this, but unfortunately, this one just falls flat compared with the original. It may be that the concept of Robocop is no longer a new commodity and no longer surprises me. I don't know. I think the story is as plausible as the first (which means, not very plausible) and both actors do about the same job. It's just less good. Sorry. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Weller returns as the cyborg policeman who takes on a group of sadistic drug dealers (Including a 12 year old kid, who steals the show.) as well as a new machine that goes ballistic, in which Robocop must stop. Disappointing sequel piles on tons of violence with tons of brutality, but lacks the tenderness of the original. Though the commercials in the movie are a hoot. "},{"Title":"Hugely disappointing sequel.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember really looking forward to this movie back when it was originally released, as i was such a huge fan of Verhoeven's original. When i finally got to see it, i was appalled. The movie is a complete joke, & features one of the cheesiest scripts i've ever seen. The violence in the film is nasty & pointless & has clearly been ramped up in order to try & out-do it's predecessor, the attempts at humour miss the mark completely & the bad guys are just plain annoying (especially the kid, who i wanted to see dead the instant he opened his mouth.) It's just plain silly (12 yr old druglords, drug addicted robots & the sequence where RoboCop has been reprogrammed to be polite is almost unwatchably bad.) They should have brought in the team behind the original (Verhoeven & Neumeier, who teamed up again on the superb Starship Troopers) & made a sequel worthy of the original, instead of cheapening the movie by putting this pile of worthless crap out. Avoid like the plague. P.S. Believe it or not, RoboCop 3's even worse! "},{"Title":"Yet another sophomore effort that falls flat on it face.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 starts off with planet Detroit in the worst shape ever. The entire police force is on strike, which seems like an entirely too convenient start for a Robocop film, but then we see that there is actually a believable reason for them all to be on strike. Planet Detroit is so deeply in debt to the evil empire Omni Consumer Products that they are unable to pay the police, who go on strike until the debts can be paid. Unfortunately, this plot is largely ignored in favor of a rivalry which develops between Robocop and Cain, an insane gangster who plans to force the city to legalize the ridiculously addictive drug Nuke so that he can flood the city with it to the point where everyone becomes hopelessly addicted to it and he becomes so rich and powerful that he can pay the city's debt and become its king.This is, unfortunately, the only way that the subplot of Cain and his plans is attached to the far more interesting financial plight of the city, which has become copless but at least has an interesting problem to solve. Instead, the movie focuses on this criminal underworld with Robocop as the only cop who is willing or able to get in and do something about it. The movie wins hands down the Worst Taste of the Year award by throwing in a vicious twelve-year-old who is put into the movie for no other reason than so he can spout a lot of profanity and give us a real test to see how much we can really take before we give up and walk out of the theater.Obviously it would take a lot more than a financial debt for a city like Detroit to be denied its police force so that criminals were able to run rampant in the streets, not hindered by any laws whatsoever, but keep in mind that the Detroit in the Robocop films is not attached to the rest of the United States. It is, in fact, an entirely separate planet, which becomes increasingly obvious as the sequels get poured on. Peter Weller has thankfully returned to once again take on the uncomfortable role of Robocop, who still has the same overall look but now for some reason sports a shiny new blue paintjob, which does nothing but make him look plastic.There is a brief point in the film where the human emotions that always remained in Murphy after he was made into Robocop come up, as he drives by his house lovingly spying on his wife (who, through Murphy's flashbacks, is thought to be dead through much of the original film), to the point where she actually takes out a restraining order and Robocop has to be reprimanded and has to recite back to his programmers that he is not a human, he is a machine. Not a lot of thought put into this scene, by the way. You would think that, given all of the goofy comedy that is put into this movie, a more witty writer would have had Robocop say, `I am not human. I am a machine. I did, after all, build and program myself, so I should really know better.'After this brilliant scene, Robocop is completely reprogrammed (maybe they thought he was getting smart with them and decided that they better punish him), so they implant every bit of goofy polite mannerism into him to make him easier to relate to the human public, and the movie immediately turns from being a bad action film to being an even worse comedy. Robocop walks around saying Hello how are you and beautiful morning isn't it, it would be a shame to waste it, and goes out trying to be polite to people on the street, only to have even children playing in the street immediately lose all respect for him to the point where they spray paint `KIK ME' on his back in bright orange paint. At least they were nice enough to use disappearing paint, which is visible immediately after they paint him and then never again for the rest of the film.(spoilers) In the original film, Robocop had a wonderful and worthy adversary, ED209, who is now replaced by another robot who is created out of the body of Cain, the super-villain from the earlier portion of the movie. Yeah, the drug lord that wanted to flood the city with Nuke and take it over is being granted another chance at life as well as an astronomical amount of firepower, no doubt the same line of deductive logic that led the diminished police force to weigh down the `Splatterpunks' with weapons in part 3. You can tell a lot of thought went into THAT. So we are presented with an evil-looking robot who is supposedly supposed to take over after Robocop, who has committed the crime of still loving his ex-wife.The fact that this robot is presented as a solution to ANY problem pretty clearly illustrates the kind of thinking that has led Detroit down the pit that it lies in, and it doesn't look like things are going to get better with stuff like this going on. Indeed, all they'll have is more and more problems but I suppose that they figure they can at least make more sequels and maybe make some money that way. For the most part, Robocop 2 is a complete failure, not really accomplishing anything other than finding a job for a guy who's specialty is playing the violin with his legs behind his head (If you can play the violin like THIS guy, you might be a redneck!). It takes the Robocop story and stupidly tries to take it in a completely new direction (a direction which turns out to be flat out wrong) rather than build upon the genius of the original. I try as much as I can to avoid clichés in my reviews, but this is a perfect example of a time when you would enjoy your self more if you just watched the original again. "}{"Title":"Weak Sequel, Some Nice Scenes","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK, I'll make this quick...It doesn't live up to Verhoeven's Robocop by any means, BUT, and this is to keep a certain segment of potential viewers from being discouraged from watching itIf you are fascinated by the concept of robots and cyborgs you might get something out of this movie because you will find some scenes that are visually very rewarding in this respect. There is fantastic stop-motion animation of one cyborg and you will probably like seeing Robocop himself in various stages of disintegration.It doesn't get more cyborgy, visually, than this!The other thing that I liked is that on one of my all-time favorite albums, Tactical Neural Implant by Front Line Assembly, there are many audio samples from Robocop 2 thrown into the music ... which is much better than the film, but those samples fit the bio-mechanoid atmosphere of FLA's tunes just perfectly and the album wouldn't be the same without them!5/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly THE Worst Sequel of All Time","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing in this movie made sense.  OCP decides to take a perfectly good Robocop and overhaul his memory, thereby treating him as product when clearly The Old Man thought of him as a person at the end of the first movie.  Murphy's resolution with his family is far too brief, and some of the action is overly violent. My advice Watch the first ten minutes and the last 10 minutes.  Trash everything in between. "},{"Title":"One of the best...movie...deaths...ever","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When the Robot Cain grabs his ex-girlfriend by her head, picks her up and twists her violently back and forth as only a 5,000 pound machine can, well it just doesn't get and better than that. Add in the neck-snapping sound effects, and you have one of the best movie deaths ever. Otherwise, this movie sucked. It missed on all the irony and satire of the first Robocop and instead was just another violent shoot-em-up. I am not sure why comments have to be 10 lines? I've really got nothing more to say. 1634 Racine...You know, I had a friend who lived there. "},{"Title":"OK sequel to RoboCop is extremely mean-spirited and should have been rated NC-17, but effects are exceptional","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Violent sequel to RoboCop was directed by Irvin Kershner (Never Say Never Again, The Empire Strikes Back) will never be as good as the original, because it is almost humorless, and it is extremely mean, and should have been rated NC-17, because of scenes with infants being involved in gunfights, people threatening to brutally murder very young infants with REAL automatic weapons, and even scenes with a 12 year old using lots of explicit profanity, giving drugs to lots of random people, shooting and graphically shooting up and killing policemen and SWAT officers, opening fire on police officers when lots of small and young children are present, and a whole group of children using strong profanity and beating up the store owner (who is a very old man) of an electronics store and stealing and destroying lots of items there. This film gives new meaning to the term appallingly mean, but the effects and action sequences are exceptionally incredible. Overall, an OK movie. "},{"Title":"it ain't like being a robot in disneyland","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2, one must remember, derives from a comic just like its predecessor. While the story is far more sordid than, say, Batman the general themes are essentially the same. Dark, crime-polluted city, a cynical, but resolute and physically-skilled hero and an enemy at every corner from the basic mugger to politicians and leaders of giant corporations who, in fascist maneuvers, take over cities for personal benefit.While Robocop and Batman dealt with these themes to the degree a film based on a comic can, Robocop 2 doesn't attempt more than to shroud a nihilistically violent story in tales of morality and corruption. Nonetheless, it's damn entertaining. And often very funny, though its sense of humor could hardly be considered palatable to the majority. Consider a brilliant scene involving the freshly-removed brain-and-spine isolated in a container full of preservation-fluid, the eyeballs still attached, staring at the hollow emptiness of the open skull (skin and all) from which it was scooped and by which it was once housed. It's hilarious - if you've got the stomach for it.That's the spirit of this film which tries to disguise itself as satire, but simply cannot because its violence clamors anything else the film might pretend to be about. The violence here is extreme not necessarily in the sense of brutality (though it is that), but also in the nonchalant way in which it is presented. Though Robocop 2 was not directed by Verheoven, it foreshadows his obsession with this type of violence that matures (a strange word, I understand) in films like Total Recall and Starship Troopers. Ninety percent of the people who appear on screen are shot, wounded or beaten. Chests explode with fountains of blood, bullets fly tearing flesh like it wasn't human. It's so aggressive and so in tune with the general spirit of the film that it leaves little doubt about its role. This isn't the type of violence that is meant to speak or reveal but entertain.A further example a new prototype of a police-robot is presented to the media. Constructed by the OCP corporation this is a far advanced model of the Robocop. Soon, we see its destructive power as it goes insane because it is presented a vial of a drug on which it thrives; a drug that is also the cause of the crime in the city for the ridding of which the robot was designed. So - it plows down screaming men and women, bullets tearing themselves into their legs and backs as they try to evacuate the building in a horror-show made real by their howls for help. It's almost shot as a merciless news-show wanting ratings over saved lives.In any case, this monstrous machine wanders outside, blows away some more bystanders, blows up a few police cars, piercing through the bullet-proof vests of surrounding cops and turns over a tank. At this point, the owner of OCP looks down from the balcony at the chaos and says to his subordinate This isn't going to look good for OCP. That's hilarious. Shocking carnage reduced to absolutely nothing - complete nihilism on screen. In fact, this nihilism pervades the entire film (and many like it) - simply consider the mayor of the city who goes to strike a deal with drug dealers to buy back the town from OCP. His subordinate tells him These people are criminals. The mayor responds Bob, don't put labels on people. Again, ha-ha funny. But what does it lead to? Absolutely nothing. Robocop 2 is about everyone being evil, self-interested and corrupt. Even Robocop doesn't mind smashing in a face or two to get information. Violence is the only method for settling issues - and money buys violence.So yes, it's easy to laugh if you've got the stomach for it and are in for a completely vacuous story, a story of violence really, or are in a really cynical mood. In Robocop 2 hundreds of people are blown away for no apparent reason, on whim really, blood erupting everywhere with startling realism and no one really seems to mind. It could be argued that the film is more honest than its predecessor which ended with a clear conclusion where good, or at least law triumphs over outlaw. It could be argued that it doesn't take the easy way out - but that'd just be a bunch of crap. The film itself isn't cynical and condemning in its tone or atmosphere - it joyfully revels and basks in this destruction. It likes the ugliness it presents. In the end the sheer nihilism of Robocop 2 is packaged entertainment rather than violent satire - it doesn't have the balls, the wit and the brain to pull it off. But, brain in skull, or brain staring at shell of skull, it can be very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Goofy as it gets!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I knew this would be a bad movie when I saw the title.  The first movie was great.  Ronnie Cox played a good evil man and Peter Weller delivered the goods.  In this horrible sequal, there is some kid who looks like that kid from Malcom In The Middle who is very evil.  He is mean to Robocop and at one point SHOOTS HIM IN THE EYE.  There is a man who is called Cade.  He is a sorry excuse for a villian.  He is the one who tries to torture this one cop by gutting him.  Robocop becomes super silly at one point when he is reprogrammed.  He starts acting all polite and even lets some kids spray paint kick me on the back.  Then Robocop decides to ELECTROCUTE himself to get rid of this silly habbit of acting like a sissy.  All in all, I would say AVOID THIS FLICK.  It's ok if it's on TV and you have nothing better to do.   "},{"Title":"Unpleasant and cold","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of RoboCop, but it is still one of the best action/SF/thrillers of the eighties because of its intelligent script, spectacular action and superb villains. RoboCop 2 on the other hand is a deeply grotesque experience that does well in portraying a completely degenerate vision of the future but leaves a nasty taste in the mouth because of its sheer gratuitous, exploitative tone. This is also a very cold, hollow film, very incompetent too, with cheap shots at satire and a thoroughly illogical and dumb script. Certain characters from the original are so different emotionally and in their behaviour that the film bears little relation to the original (i.e, it reeks of cash-in). And why, why, would they put the brain of a dangerous psychopath in a police cyborg? Why? It is so ridiculously insulting and contrived for a spectacular final battle at the end that I was offended that this film was only allowed to be seen by 18 year olds in the UK, when its real target audience would be a very undemanding, warped child. There seems to be no joy of storytelling here, no drive or emotion, just a soulless (which makes the violence even more unpleasant and gratuitous) empty machine of a movie with false attempts at wit to try and appease fans of the original and violence to appeal to the underage kids who sneak in. A slice of garbage from probably Hollywood's worst ever period (sequels, sequels, Bruce Willis and Julia Roberts vehicles, plus more sequels). Still, if this sort of stupid (and this film really is stupid) garbage gets your rocks off, you're welcome to it. "},{"Title":"Robocrap!","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was so awful that it almost caused permanent brain damage to me.The movie is really outdated and after the first 15 minutes or so you get the feeling when is the torture going to stop.After watching the 1st movie I thought it would be worth watching this too despite the poor reviews but it was a complete waste of time watching it.I feel sorry for Peter Weller who had to work in this God-awful movie wearing that Robocop costume throughout,no wonder why he decided to quit after this.Apart from his performance everyone of those main characters suck big time.Frank Miller must have been through hell to see his ideas literally being flushed into the toilet.The acting is awful(I guess it was meant to be like that but everybody was so high on nuke including the makers of this movie as they forgot to realise that they were making bullshit),the direction is pathetic!!! (The guy who directed it deserves a kick in his pants for ruining Miller's ideas and failing to do his own job of making a decent movie) and last but not least this movie is a disgrace to the first part....I won't even consider watching the 3rd part since it has no Peter Weller and from what I've heard its the worst.My advice to all adults and grown ups- Just stay away from this one.... "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a fine example of what happens when a studio wants to get a sequel to a fine movie out of the gates at all cost. Only with this movie, it truly is a near miss. Everything seems in place for Robocop 2 to be a worthy followup to the groundbreaking first movie. The complete original cast (apart from the casualties, naturally) returns and gives it their best. Too bad a hackneyed script and an incompetent director as good as neutralize their efforts.Irvin Kershner might have been the ideal go to guy for George Lucas to direct the Empire Strikes Back. For a pedestrian filmmaker like Kershner there isn't much to ruin in Lucas' charmless film series. A worthy successor to a classic like Robocop would have needed either Paul Verhoeven to return, or a director with enough brass to give his own spin on it. Kershner doesn't know how to give his own spin on anything (Lucas hired him for that) and he's surely no Verhoeven.So what we get here is a movie that goes through all the motions to replicate the first movie, but with none of the freshness, humor or daring the original had. Kershner probably thought he could top Verhoeven by adding more gore and gratuitous violence, but instead he reveals how much he was at work as a director for hire instead of a passionate filmmaker. And that's a shame, since everything was in place to make this another classic. As mentioned the actors give it their best, but Phill Tippet delivers some groundbreaking stop motion effects and there are some great ideas in the story by Frank Miller, who was born to write a Robocop movie. If only the studio had hired a director who was competent enough to make all the potential come through. "},{"Title":"Promises much, delivers little.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Whether you compare it to a friendly Frankenstein's monster trying to fit into a look-ist, paranoid human society or see it as a grim satire, the original 'Robocop' was a classic, a dramatic and thought-provoking film.Robocop 2 begins isn't a terrible film.  It's head and shoulders over most sequels out there, including the dire Robocop 3.  It starts well, with Murphy still grieving over the fact he can never rejoin his family.  There are also some good plot developments, such as the realisation that the OCP boss is a ruthless old twister, something only hinted at in the previous film.But what lets Robocop 2 down is the fact that the interesting plotting soon becomes lost in a sea of endless special effects and a generally mean-spirited atmosphere which lacks any of the style, wit and tension of the first film.  Added to this is the fact that Cain comes across as such a weed he can't possibly be a drug lord.  His character isn't a patch on the villains of the first film.Entertaining, but lacks any real depth or substance. "}{"Title":"Strange but Worth Watching","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 2 (1990) ** (out of 4) Sequel to the cult-classic has Robocop (Peter Weller) back working the streets of Detroit with his partner (Nancy Allen) but soon a psychiatrist (Belina Bauer) wants to put him back in the shelf in favor of her new cyborg. Robocop II hits the streets and goes on a killing spree after its given the brain of a crazy cult leader so it's up to the original to stop him. ROBOCOP 2 is a rather strange movie that in the end simply doesn't work out because the story just doesn't come anywhere close to the original. I think it's also fair to say that the direction, the acting, the special effects and just the overall product are of lower levels and it's easy to see why this movie hasn't been remembered too well over the years. We can start with the actual story dealing with the cult leader who is selling some sort of new drug to people. I personally thought Tom Noonan did a good job with his role and I enjoyed the way he was playing it like a God-freak Manson. I thought the actor really got into the part and became quite creepy but for some strange reason the movie often goes away from him in favor to one of his pushers, a young kid that just comes across as a major brat and one that you just want to slap and put in the corner. The entire subplot with this kid just really brings the movie down and especially when he takes over the business and gets into his pimp clothing. Another problem is that there's really no connection to any of the characters. Early on they try to build some emotion with Robocop still remembering his family but this simply isn't enough. In the original you actually saw an officer shot dead and this gave you the connection but that's missing here. The film has all sorts of graphic violence, which they often use in a serious tone as people are constantly getting shot apart or blown into pieces. The red stuff is certainly gushing and it's rather amazing that the MPAA didn't hack it to pieces. There's also some comic bits thrown in and I think they're quite distracting. I think violence and laughs can go perfectly together when done right but sadly that's not the case here. There's all sorts of stuff with an over-the-top Mayor that never works and a variety of other funny characters. The one bright spot are some of the fake television commercials about the future. Weller is decent in his role but screenplay doesn't do much for him and the same is true for Allen. ROBOCOP 2 is worth watching if you're a fan of the first film but just don't go in expecting anything close in terms of quality. "},{"Title":"A title meaning this movie sucks ass!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There, I've said it! Ever since I've heard that Robocop 2 was being filmed a year earlier on Entertainment Tonight, I had a strong feeling that it was going to suck! And yet it did, thanks to the bad writing and producing so to speak. Once a bad sequel is always a bad sequel. A true no brain film! The only thing good about it is the title cyborg who battles Robocop, the rest is just weak plot and everything else that's done very poorly. I can't believe I've wasted my $6.00 to go see this movie! Even the ED-209 robot didn't get a big role in this film, just a small cameo, that's all! Movie companies nowadays don't care weather their movies sequels are bad or not. This really kills the Robocop franchise! Talk about an inferior sequel! I would say that this movie is a major disappointment, but that doesn't go as far! It's a total rant! This movie does absolutely nothing for us movie fans. This film of course deserves the award for lousy picture! Frank Miller is worse than Ed Wood. You're fired, Frank! Just avoid this disappointing installment! You're really not missing anything! The worst sequel to a movie since Star Trek V. "},{"Title":"RoboCop 2","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was watching TV in my room when I heard my father calling me. It was one of the first scenes of the movie; bad guys with big weapons shooting around. He thought it was a comedy film, as the acting was awful and they needed to show those men were ridiculously evil (killing an old woman, playing with anti-tank missiles) I suspected we were seeing one the worst movies ever made. Just when I saw that blue metal foot going out of a cop car I realized we were.It was RoboCop 2. Oh, I had seen that film one or two times before! I don't want to repeat, but there is one word that describes this movie... ridiculous. The shooting scenes, the blood, the bad guys, that robot! I know this doesn't seem to be a professional review, not even objective. But RoboCop 2 is just too cheesy to consider it a good option.The plot is simple; there is a gang selling drugs, the city is out of control, a corporation is trying to take Detroit... and they are even about to replace Robo! He has to do something, any suggestions? Of course! Our tin friend gets his gun and shoots all the gangsters. Don't forget he's invincible; bullets make him no harm, never misses a shot and things like that. Isn't that an interesting character?In spite of all this, I didn't have a bad time... the film is a million laughs. Ridiculously violent, stupid-as-can-be, RoboCop 2 is right if you find bad boys firing toy guns and a robots equipped with drug-addict brains hilarious on a Wednesday evening. Do not see this (film?) if you are into serious movies. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people really hated ROBOCOP 2 when it was released in the Summer of 1990   Oh it's not as good as the first one , oh it's too violent , etc , etc  If they thought the sequel was violent did they actually sit down to see the original ? One can't help thinking the critics of this had only seen the TV version of 1987's ROBOCOP , you know the one that had every scene of violence censored along with classic dubbed lines like  You gonna be a bad mothercrusher  DirectorIrvin Kershner deserves little if any criticism so I'll point out that what's wrong with ROBOCOP 2 is Frank Miller and Walon Green's script ,it's by no means terrible it's just that the central plot of a corrupt corporate member putting a criminals brain into a new robocop model is rather simplistic therefore the running time is taken up with the bad guy dismembering Murphy and later Murphy becoming a changed robot By no means an awful movie and one that's far better than ROBOCOP 3 and the following PG rated television series "},{"Title":"You down with OCP? Yeah You know me!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Thats right kid! I can't! Firstly, WHAT WERE you thinking Frank Miller? You can write! How much did they pay you and was there an extra bonus if you made it crappy? Because i know you can write. And yet, Robocop 2 is, for lack of a better term, a steaming pile of armadillo dung. Robocop is under the control of an evil corporation, (You down with OCP?) and he must fight his programming and find the man within. Sounds OK. Nope. Don't forget to add a 11-year-old bad guy (Can't shoot a kid can you f-er?), a bunch of other ancillary characters no one cares about, and a second, crappier version of Robocop which the special effects manage to make look so fake you wouldn't be surprised seeing a large child come into the frame and start playing with it. Oh did I mention they use a drug-addicted ex-con (who also played the bad guy in The Last Action hero so you KNOW he's good!) to be the second project? WHY? Ask Frank cause any rational person would say this was a bad idea. Makes me long for the day when Red Forman was shooting holes in Robocop. Can You believe they made 3????? After this sludge? Now someone somewhere said Irvin directed the follow up to another extremely successful franchise (see EMPIRE STRIKES BACK?) why not hire him for this one? I've watched Empire, I bought the Empire trading cards, this movie couldn't hold Empire's wang while it urinated. That's how bad it is! TRUST ME! This movie is worse than most root canals. "},{"Title":"I did not like it at all.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 2 was a horrible movie.  In letter ratings I'd give it an F--. The first was 1000x better!!!  The worst movie that I have ever seen!  I will not see any more robocop movies after how horrible that was.  Do not see. "},{"Title":"RoboCop 2","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have always thought that Paul Verhoeven's first film has stood out as the best RoboCop film, I can't really remember if this sequel was that good or not. Peter Weller returns as the cybernetic cop in this quite good film where RoboCop both tries to do his job while (I think) trying to be controlled and facing his past before being a robot. I think there is a sequence where he starts telling kids to be bad, but I can remember there is a scene where his memory goes for a minute. He still has the very nice car as well. And is it me, or does his girlfriend from the first film die? Not bad, but the first was better. Worth watching! "}]