[{"Title":"A great and unique film for this genre","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whit Stillman's movies are dialogue driven, which is not everyone's cup of tea. This is the first of a trilogy, all of which take a slice of life of young people coming of age, but in the cusp of a dying culture, with a new order and new responsibilities baring down on them. Here it's the prep and prom culture of New York's Upper East Side, sometime in the 70's. The participants dutifully go through the rights of Christmas Balls and 'orgy' week, act sophisticated, and generally do things and say things which are expected of them. An outsider, Tom, with radical social and intellectual ideas, enters their midst and becomes a catalyst of change here as a romance develops with Audrey. Tom, idealistic, insensitive and naive is embraced by Audrey, emotionally more mature but more vulnerable, accepting his sometimes preposterous social and literary speculation as a sign of substance in comparison to the increasingly jaded and cynical world of her preppy friends. A friendship develops also between Tom and Nick, the most cynical and pessimistic, but also the most aware and responsible, of the group. The conversations are lively and filled with insights into character and maturity. Nothing much happens in this film, but the intricate interplay of characters, dialogue and ambiance make for a fascinating and penetrating look at these young people's lives. It unfolds like a ballet. This is a fine film which doesn't rely on angst or melodrama-- and maintains a humor, poignancy and charm which makes it a rare achievement for the genre. Stillman's other two films in the trilogy are also highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Ironically sad and funny","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    This film is a brilliant talkfest, with the decline of the New York WASP social setting a major point.  It's set on a couple weeks during the Christmas season, with Tom Townsend being invited to a party, much by chance, by Nick and his friends.  He doesn't belong, but everyone likes him, some more than others.  He does seem rather odd, with his socialist ideas, and his anti-party attitude.  What develops is an odd relationship between Tom and Nick, as well as between Tom and a girl named Audrey.  Christopher Eigmann, as Nick, is a stand out in this cast.  He is cynical, pessimistic, yet probably the smartest one in the group.  He spouts of dialogue with conviction and care.  What makes this film work is the slight sadness we feel at the disintegration of this class, without having ever been part of it.   Some people will find it boring.  It doesn't have the prerequisite number of explosions for the action fans, and not much does happen.  But the way this film is executed, where dialogue is the key, makes this film one of the ten best of 1990. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Talkfest","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Metropolitan a couple of months ago, was fairly impressed with it on its own talky, cerebral terms, and took it back to the video store.  Since then, it's grown on me to the point where I have to place its script up there with the best of Chekhov and The Big Chill.  Concerning the Manhattan prep and deb season of some unspecified year past, Metropolitan transports your mind into a social order that exists just beyond our consciousness where young socialites discuss Fourier without conviction, Jane Austen without having read her work, and love without never having really been in it.  It's sweet, smart and touching all at the same time. The characters are flawed and doomed -- though, as one character notes, not doomed to failure, but just doomed to a normal, boring lifestyle -- and we can't help but love them for it.  Go to Blockbuster and rent it tonight; if you can't find it there, go to Amazon, order it, and allow 1-2 weeks for delivery.  It's that good.  This was Whit Stillman's first of three similarly themed films; the second, Barcelona, is subpar, but The Last Days of Disco closes the trilogy with a delicious return to form. "},{"Title":"A small treasure with real staying power","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can say this film has staying power as I've seen it about half a dozen times in the 12 years since it came out; the most recent occasion was a week ago, and it still holds up, like a great play.  It's all in the dialogue and acting Stillman's idea of an action scene is someone opening a champagne bottle a little over-enthusiastically.The characters are beautifully drawn, none of them perfect, none of them without some redeeming features.  They seem very believable to an outsider from England.  The dialogue is a never-ending delight, full of great one-liners, yes, but also some equally cherishable, marvellously  pompous sermonising and theorising from these slightly preposterous yet strangely loveable people (particularly Charlie Black).  It's not exactly a comedy, but I laughed out loud a lot more than I have in some films that have been trying desperately hard to make me titter.For me the great mystery is this whatever happened to this fine young cast??  Edward Clements has done virtually nothing since this film, ditto Carolyn Farina (apart from a small part in Age of Innocence); likewise Eigeman and Nichols, although the former seems to have racked up a few more credits, and the latter was in Boiler Room, although I didn't realise it was him until the credits rolled.If you need action and plot, this film probably isn't for you.  But anyone else can dive in and and enjoy a genuinely independent film that shows what can be done on limited resources.  This film is worth more in my heart than the combined works of Joel Schumacher, Don Simpson and their tiresome, overblown ilk. "},{"Title":"A New Classic","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A wonderful, marvelous, funny movie that I watch at least once a year. A true gem-the writing is great, the cast is perfect, and the arch, somewhat affected performances more than do the trick-that's who these people are! Arch, affected, wanna be know it all rich kid snobs whose currency in life is their intellect and class standing. The fact that the action takes place in a few small apartments only heightens the genius of this film-these locations represent the small world in which these young people's lives intersect, in how they dole out their verbiage, how much belonging to a small group of people can dictate the every day thoughts of each member of the gang. The kids have not yet lived enough to be fully forming the opinions they insist upon shoving down each others throats, and the comedy comes from their own inexperience and total lack of thinking other wise. This is like a high brow Breakfast Club, smarter and much more fun for those of us not into stereotype titillation. With out a doubt on of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Of Austen, debs, Fourier, games, and the allure of Serena Slocum","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Centering on the lives of wealthy, well-educated young women coming out as debutantes and on the equally wealthy, well-educated young men who attend deb parties as the girls' escorts, Whit Stillman's feature directing debut sparkles with incredible dialogue that always wavers between savage wit and heartfelt poignancy.  Few who have seen the picture will forget its hilarious dissections of New York social classes, its elegant sense of vocabulary, or its caustic self-awareness.  The thing I enjoy the most about Metropolitan (and the two subsequent films Stillman has made), however, is the verisimilitude with which the characters are rendered.  I grew up far from the money and privilege of Metropolitan's inhabitants, but I could so easily relate to their fears, desires, and insecurities -- because Stillman never forgets to keep these kids human.   "},{"Title":"One of the best independant films of the 90s......","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reviewing some of the comments written by other contributors I felt I needed to clarify some issues raised.This was an independently produced film made with relatively unknown actors and a limited budget.That being said, the writing is a cut above most films put out to the public and the art direction (utilizing real apartments and settings) captures nicely the buffered world of New York City's Upper East Side.The acting style though it may appear to be arch and affected actually captures quite well the voice patterns and intonations of those people it portrays.The film is truly a small gem. The audience gets a glimpse into the lives of a privileged set of college aged preppy Manhattan-ites. Lots of fun music helps keep the scenes jaunty and most of the actors are well cast.The film while intellectual in bent, plays most of the scenes decidedly tongue in cheek which keeps the movie from feeling pretentious.The movie is a baby Hannah and Her Sisters if you will. I also enjoyed the director/writer's two other films to date, Barcelona and The Last Days of Disco.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely delightful!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is compelling not because of a riveting story, special effects, or manufactured suspense, but because of sharply written characters whose personalities drive the story, rather than vice versa, extensive knowledge of its subject, and beautifully written dialogue.The dialogue, by the way, is great not only for its intelligence and wit, but also because it instantly identifies a proudly unique writer.  We can tell Mamet, because of his fractured phrases and rhythmic line readings.  We know Smith because of his rapid-fire, fiery and profane writing, as well as his sensitivity.  Tarantino is recognizable because of his pop-culture references.  Whit Stillman writes characters who talk, often defiantly, in complete sentences, and say exactly what they mean, whether they're expressing their emotions, or shooting to kill.Whit Stillman was nominated for an Academy Award for his screenplay for Metropolitan in 1991, and with Barcelona and The Last Days of Disco, he's on a winning streak. "},{"Title":"I Wanna Hang Out With These Kids!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very close to my heart. Every time I watch it, I lose touch with any bitterness and cynicism that may reside within me. It turns me into a complete sap. I just love every character. I love the scene with Tom and Charlie in the bar talking with the older version of themselves. I love when they find the panties on the lawn of Rick Von Sloneker's beach house. Although this and Stillman's other films are often described as 'Woody Allen-lite', I think they have more heart than Allen's films.I read somewhere that Whit Stillman said he was going to stop making films about these sort of people after 'The Last Days Of Disco'. I pray it isn't so. Then again, a Whit Stillman action film is something I would definitely pay money to see. "},{"Title":"A well-crafted East-Coast talkie...","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" METROPOLITAN has really aged well - I first saw this when it was released, and watching again a few days ago, it really stands up as something unique. Episodic and without much real plot - the only real forward motion in the film is to be found in the ending, which feels a little contrived, and is my only real gripe with this film. At my first viewing, I didn't really want to like these characters, who all seem from another world - rich, young and good looking, carrying on through elaborate, banal, pseudo-intellectual conversations with a deadly confidence about their place in the world. But over the course of the film it becomes apparent that their secure perch in the upper echelons of the American elite isn't 100% set in stone, as an outsider is able to penetrate this rarefied universe, and manages to hold his own quite well, arousing suspicions (and battling shame over his own proletarian roots, and his battle between his own free-thinking idealism and his aggressive social climbing ambitions), but also making genuine friends among the cute young blue-bloods. Of course he isn't as smart as he thinks he is, and neither is anyone else in here, and they all know it even when behaving otherwise, which greatly humanizes these otherwise not-exactly-pleasant characters. On the strength of the dialog, METROPOLITAN has become something of a cult classic, and deservedly so. In a strange way, METROPOLITAN is almost a companion piece to the surreal and disturbing documentary GREY GARDENS - both are centered upon characters from the well-bred, wealthy elite of American old-$ society. As METROPOLITAN insinuated that the security, intellect, status and wealth of its' characters isn't as rock-solid as the characters would like everyone to think, GREY GARDENS illustrates, in lurid detail just how psychologically destabilizing a precipitous fall from such a lofty, but artificial world would be - you could easily see an aged variant of one of METROPOLITAN's character's ending up like the Edies from GREY GARDENS. The probable best from the very non-prolific Stilman, I strongly recommend. "}{"Title":"An all-time favorite","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Metropolitan reminds me of my own young adulthood in and around New York in the late 70s and early 80s. Maybe that's why it speaks to me so much.  The dialogue is real, as are the characters, and the cinematography is beautiful.  New York really does look like that during Christmas.  I have seen this movie countless times, and still find something new with each viewing. I bought the screenplay and am looking forward to comparing it with the version on screen.  I missed Barcelona, but Last Days of Disco is another example of Whit Stillman's brilliance.  I look forward to his next effort. "},{"Title":"All that's missing is Noel Coward.","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie glistens like a piece of old Belleek. Whether in the subtle gold of an off the shoulder evening gown, or in the vast expanse of a deep, plush, ivory colored carpet, nearly every frame shimmers with champagne like iridescence.And gold is an apt visual metaphor, particularly when juxtaposed against the black satin of a tuxedo lapel or the wintry Manhattan night scape, for a world seemingly vanishing right before our eyes--a world too sleek, too soigné, too genteel to survive the steam roller of galloping blue-jeaned egalitarianism.That the denizens of this vanishing breed, as depicted in the film, are themselves, insecure late adolescents, make its departure all the more poignant.This is probably the last Deb season... one of them observes resignedly, ...because of the stock market, the economy, Everything... Yes, everything...the huge smothering subject that hovers all around the plot itself and from which its characters are only temporarily insulated.In particular, the focus here is on a group of privileged Eastern Seaboard collegians enjoying the Christmas holidays in a series of Park Avenue, after dance parties, in which they loll about and ruefully anticipate the disappearance of their youth, their success, and their kind.That they are one at the same time cerebral, immature, literate, prankish, frightened, polished, well educated but vulnerable and inexperienced, puts them well outside the troglodyte teens that inhabit the deconstructionist zoo in most post 1970 films, (with the exception of a unfortunate and mis-placed strip poker sequence which violates the picture's otherwise overall mood.)Indeed, they seem to exist outside their own time, belonging rather to that group Cecil Beaton dubbed the smart young things from the 1920's, in his The Glass of Fashion. Certainly, one imagines them far more comfortable with Ivor Novello than Mick Jagger. And like many smart sets they seem rather a closed corporation.Until that is, into their number unexpectedly arrives a young man of reduced circumstances, Tom Townsend, (Edward Clements) who by virtue of his sincerity and intelligence, is invited to sup at their table--on a borrowed pass so to speak. His romantic misadventures with the beguiling Audrey Rouget(Carolyn Farina)forms the cynosure of the charmingly fragile plot.Audrey and Tom stand out from the pack, in their earnestess and integrity, though it is assuredly Nick, (Christopher Eigeman) their figurehead and chief quip master who is the groups' un-elected leader. As interpreted by Mr. Eigeman, Nick is the embodiment of the cocktail fueled, cigarette wielding bon vivant--trenchant, self absorbed, far from virtuous, and with a ready verbal arrow that never misses its target. He is George Sander's heir presumptive.Nick's observations are worth the whole price of admission as they say, whether it be bemoaning the Protestant Reformation, the social climbing Surrealists, or the scarcity of detachable collars.Since the film's short, bouffant,cocktail dresses and automobiles unmistakably place the film in very late modernity--the Reagan era in fact, and long after the Ray Anthony's Orchestra, top hatted milieu it depicts, we cannot fail to miss the film's core observation--the parallel evanescence of the groups' own social connections, as placed against the simultaneous collapse of civilized life as we once knew it.As the Christmas season ends, so do the nightly gatherings, and each character is forced to come to terms with impermanence--their own and everything else's. In a melancholy bar scene, an older man warns the youngsters of disappointment ahead, I'm not destitute but...it's all so mediocre.That Producer/Director Whit Stillman manages to fuse the personal with the sociological in such and intriguing and entrancing way is a testament to the penetration of his vision. And, lest we miss the point, he includes a cunning shot of a significant book left on bedside table--none other than Spengler's Decline of the West. "},{"Title":"The Wondrous Wit of Whit","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Brilliantly written. Stillman's first in his trilogy, this sets the standard for the offbeat banter and dialogue of the two films that followed, Barcelona, and The Last Days of Disco. Surprisingly great acting, I think, as well--from a cast of, at the time at least, relative no names. As talkfests go, this is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Metropolitan?  I'm for it!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a very different way to look at people...or, what a different group of characters to focus a movie on would be putting it better.  Stillman took the snobby 'debutants' of upper Manhattan and made a movie about what they talk about.  I personally found 2 kinds of humor in this movie...I laughed with the characters, and laughed at them.  Can a group be this funny and be serious?  It was very intelligent the way this movie had me listening, listening, laughing...quick cut to another scene and start over again.  I have to admit that the acting was something of a humor in itself, as was the frayed ending, but all in all a very enjoyable movie. I wish I could say more about it, but for some reason watching this, 'Barcelona', and 'Last Days of Disco' has left me a little wordless...I wouldn't be surprised to find that every word in the Webster's Dictionary was used between the three.  But kudos to Stillman for doing it right. "},{"Title":"The whole gamut from haunting to hilarious","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess I have seen three or four hundred 'first films' of young American directors in the last couple of decades. None has given me such a sense of euphoria that Metropolitan did.   It stands in a very high position in that much neglected and un-nameable genre that presents us with a bunch of totally unlovable characters and then proceeds to make us love them.That may have started with La Regle du Jeu, but Stillman handles this so well, he should not blush at the reference. "},{"Title":"I don't read novels. I prefer good literary criticism.","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I though I could familiarize myself with Whit Stillman's oeuvre easily over the course of a long weekend. I was wrong. After foraging in three video stores and a library, I had only a copy of Metropolitan to show for it, which was initially unfortunate for me--I had been gunning for The Last Day of Disco (that's right let's blame Yo La Tengo on this pursuit of mine). I'm not so sure my only finding Metropolitan was such bad luck It's a fantastic film and, because I've watched it four times since Thursday, I probably would have had to return Last Days of Disco or Barcelona to the video store before watching them anyway.Nominated for a writing academy award, Metropolitan is a literate and witty film--a comedy of manners not unlike those penned by Wycherly or Wilde--that leaves its audience with a cadre of rich kids during the débutante season one New York winter. Precocious and pretentious and sometimes arrogant, these college-aged lads and lasses are nevertheless incredibly likable and real. They speak of Trilling and Tolstoy and the urban haute- bourgeoisie; they philosophize; they gossip. In other words, they behave like my friends and I did during our undergraduate years (the difference being, of course, these kids are actually part of the urban haute bourgeoisie; my friends and I were plotting their overthrow). They also fall in love. In a way, there's nothing new in the central affaire d'amour. Audrey loves Tom; Tom loves Serena; Serena doesn't appear to love anyone. It's a triangle whose hypotenuse and legs we all know well, yet Stillman imbues it with a freshness through deft wordplay and real feeling for his characters. As I said, we have all seen this story many times before, but we have not seen it done through words. Tom wins Audrey with wit, intelligence, and a daunting vocabulary; Audrey piques Tom's interest with her adulation of Austen. They fall in love, ultimately, through their conversations, which is, after all, how we all fall in love. There's no meet-cute here and no physical passion. It's not unlike Before Sunrise in that respect. Moreover, Tom and Audrey are really very wonderful people (though Tom has several faults). I'm making an ensemble piece sound like a love story. Though the tale of Tom and Audrey holds center stage, in terms of the narrative, there are others to encounter and enjoy. Charlie philosophizes about the decline and fall of the UHB and pines for ideals that fell out of fashion after World War I; Nick despises titled aristocracy, believing them to be the scum of the earth; and Rick, a baron, is incredibly slimy, giving credence to Nick's assertion. There are also the women, who, unfortunately, do not leave much of an impression (aside from Audrey, of course). Metropolitan is also blessed with one of the most realistic representations of New York I've encountered. Like Taxi Driver or After Hours or Manhattan, Metropolitan makes its audience feel like it is walking the streets of the city. It doesn't rely on cheap establishing shots of notable buildings. I really only know the City from the ground and this film's exterior milieu is one I know from my travels. Metropolitan's interiors are also interesting, especially Tom's family's apartment, which is cramped and claustrophobic, befitting his middle class background. Overall, this film, an exploration of human, group mentality and love, is a very warm, charming gem. "},{"Title":"Glad to have seen it (may contain spoiler)","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie about ten years ago now and it is still on my mind.  The quiet cinematography places it somewhere between film noir and a movie like 'Hanna and her Sisters,'  and maybe even with a subdued atmosphere version of The Game (Michael Douglas). Most people who've lived in a bigger city and went to college and aspired to do more with their lives when young adults will be absorbed by this film.  One can relate to one (or more) of the characters, but for me it was removed just enough from my past that I could look at it historically, like a version of what I had been through.  It is open to interpretation by the viewer as it goes along, or should I say open to identification with the situation and characters.  I was the poor guy in the movie.  This is really a psychological drama, with a cruel twist at the end. The movie was strangely captivating and yet the viewer doesn't know where it's going to go next.  This is not because of the setting---it's not some high-adventure action movie---but because of the situational and psychological build-up.   The harsh reality scene at the end told it like it is and made what happened in the body of the movie so tragic. This is a story of youth that has been told in other ways, with very different details but similar psychological plot of deception, friendships, and dealing with the world and one's place in it, a plot here that is tragically quite real to many young men in America today and is under-recognized in movies.  In fact this movie is one-of-a-kind as far as I know.  It is more of a tragic version of the coming-of-adulthood story in this particular slice of Americana.  I find myself recommending this film to young men who I know as a lesson in life when they appear to be undergoing the same kind of difficulties with relationships and their social life.  It provides a needed perspective but not until the end, which drives the point home even more realistically after a lengthy set-up.   A quietly stunning film.   "},{"Title":"A warm and witty masterpiece","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a gentle subtle film that makes you feel as though you have spent an evening with charming, intelligent dinner companions.  It is basically about a series of parties attended by a group of friends during the Christmas season in New York.  The dialogue is incredible and led to screenwriting Oscar nomination for Stillman.  I think this is best of his films.  He is truly a Hollywood radical because he argues for good old fashioned virtues in his movies like friendship and chastity. What could be more revolutionary in todays entertainment climate.  Rent this one if you like interesting characters and snappy banter and you will be treated to some laugh out loud zingers and sweet lover story. A winner all round. "},{"Title":"Other Era Tales from New York's Upper Class","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Metropolitan is a film that hearkens back to an era of old money and tradition, reminiscent of the Gilded Age of the late 19th Century in America. It was a time when men in white bows and tales led girls in pristine, white dresses to their cotillions in ballrooms in gilded hotels like the Plaza in New York where some of this film's scenes take place. The film is a sociological examination of what happens in Park Avenue grand pied-à terres, with after hours parties frequented by the American royalty or upper class. The characters are somewhat hollow, but intellectual in their discussions of 19th century novels and literary critics. These are the children of the very rich, the haute bourgeoisie who attended such hallowed institutions as the Chapin School and Miss Porter's School (Farmington). The characters are fairly well played by unknown actors and actually, I found them to be one dimensional but quite convincing.Carolyn Farina who plays the demure Audrey Rouget is very sweet and you care about her, at least I did. She is self-deprecating and cute and plays this part to the hilt. Her Rat Pack of pals like her, though often she fades into the woodwork, as she is very quiet and somewhat shy. Chris Eigeman, who plays the tiresome and overbearing Nick Smith is at times, quite entertaining with his hilarious hyper critical attitude and cynicism about those who surround him. Eigeman plays this role quite well and though you don't really like him, he is so obnoxious which makes him fun to watch. His talk of how detachable collars on tuxedos and his pretentious wearing of top hats look quite out of place in this early 1990's film. I like the Jane character and the Sally Fowler character played by Dylan Hundley. These two characters exemplify upper class attitudes by their tastes and speech and are in keeping with how preppy, privileged, upper class American girls behave, at least on the East Coast.Not much happens plotwise in the film. You are almost left wondering whether something of any importance is going to unfold, this film doesn't really go anywhere. One wonders if the director had some message in mind, for those who always look for such things in a movie. I think rather than being a great drama film, it is more of a social commentary on a lost era in the modern world. Most people probably couldn't identify with this film, as its characters are far more privileged than the average person and far more worldly and educated as evidenced by their speech and interests. Other than the world of debutante balls and nightly after hours parties, this film doesn't show much happening.Despite its somewhat dated context and what some may view as dull plot, Metropolitan is one of my all time fave films. I guess I like the pretense of it and its refreshingly other era feel with I feel gives it a certain charm and je ne sais quoi as the French say. "},{"Title":"Disarming","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know exactly what I was expecting from Metropolitan, but it was different from whatever notions I had going in. I describe it as disarming because it very artfully resists issuing an invitation to the audience to take a particular stance toward these ostensibly privileged youth. They manage to be sympathetic and human because they are painted very much life-sized. The film's visual style is much sparser than I expected their world doesn't look particularly lavish; it's just a backdrop of traditional settings. Part of the spare feeling may be as simple as the film being set in winter there's little sense of lushness to these young people's lives.I think I felt a sense of relief (in terms of my own defensiveness about class) that Stillman makes it so clear that these people are no better than anyone else; they merely have some illusions or (surprisingly tentative) perceptions about who they are and about their importance in the world. In retrospect, it's amusing how often they accuse each other of pretentiousness in the film when they're all fairly drab characters, all dressed up because they, in truth, have little clue about what else to do. So, the film doesn't force you to take a stance on them (as to their decadence or nobility) as a class; rather, it lets you see them as (emotionally) struggling humans, pretty much like the rest of us. This effect is also heightened by the sense that, in their conversations with each other, they're all using oversized vocabularies they haven't quite yet figured out how to master, much as a child playing dress-up stands lost in his or her parents' adult-sized clothing. So, probably, the pivotal reason the characters are sympathetic is that they're clearly trying so hard to sound knowledgeable about their world when they in fact have no idea what they're talking about, and they have really very little idea about the reality of the larger world around them.So, why did I like the film so much, once my own defenses were down? As is the case with most film genres that are familiar (and Metropolitan does tread the territory of a young people coming of age movie), it is the ambiguities (and contradictions) about the characters' true nature that sustains the film and the viewer's interest. You really don't quite know what most of the characters are going to do next or how they'll react to the others. In this sense, it reminds me a bit of how other independent films that rework familiar genres manage to pull it off well I think of The Crying Game as it reworks the hunted man who's unraveling a mystery story; or how American Beauty reworks the midlife-crisis genre.Overall, it is a small movie (indeed, a talkfest), and if I'm objective, I would say that it might be hard to take for people who are in the age group of its characters (early twenties). For me, in my late 30s, I found it a really textured evocation of what the last fifteen years of my life have been, and how they've compared to my vague notions long ago of what they would be. Also, if a person has no familiarity with New York, the movie could feel a bit obscure.Perhaps the most central theme of the film, and one that could have been handled very clumsily but is handled well here, is that none of our positions in the world is really secure. The threats to them may stem from our world changing around us in ways we don't understand, or they could be the risks of being surrounded by people who call to our worst nature (symbolized in the minor character Von Sloneker), or the threats could just result from the emotional baggage within ourselves.Definitely worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Makes my Top-10 list","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever so glad I saw a trailer for this in a Blockbuster rental tape, this movie was quickly one of my favorites.  Nobody cares how the movie ends, since the dialog is the key to this film.  I had never paid attention to a director's or producers name until METROPOLITAN.  I will watch any Whit Stillman movie that comes out.If you enjoy this movie, watch BARCELONA, then LAST DAYS OF DISCO.  There are some interesting 'ties' between the three, though not important to any of the individual stories by any means at all.Read all of the other people's comments to learn what it is about.  I just give it thumbs up with each hand.Not full of belly laughs, but quite a few I wish I could say that in real life, or better yet, I wish I could think of things like that in real life to say to my friends, and even to strangers. "},{"Title":"A Rare Example of Disagreeing Vehemently with the Critics","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The majority of critics ADORED this movie and the screenplay was nominated for an Academy Award, so I figured it was a fairly safe bet. You can't win 'em all. This film was Mumblecore before Mumblecore (a genre which critics initially poured far too much praise upon). Of course, these characters don't mumble as much as simply drone on and on about their fear of eventual failure that would apparently bring more emptiness to their Park Avenue lives. Bringing us into this world has the potential to keep an audience's interest for a short period of time, but the film never progresses behind exploring this youthful angst. It's not a plot issue. A filmmaker can afford to have 90 minutes where not much happens in terms of plot, provided he or she creates characters and situations that are so compelling, you want to continue watching (not much happens in Hal Ashby's The Last Detail either, but try looking away from Nicolson and company in that film). Alas, that is not the case here. Yet, like Mumblecore (which is thankfully dying a rapid death), this film revolves around post- (or mid-) college, white, upper middle class, awkward youngsters who can't seem to shake their general sense of malaise. The film itself appears to be shot on a shoestring budget, and considering that, the cinematography is quite impressive. However, the acting is often painful to watch (with the exception of Carolyn Farina), and though there are no pyrotechnics, there's barely a plausible moment in the film. None of the characters speak or behave in a way that is even remotely believable. It's one pseudo-intellectual diatribe after another with no hint of a natural segue. The actors all seem to be standing around, with no sense of true life or action, waiting to spew out or be the recipient of the next unmotivated monologue. Aside from a truth-or-dare type party game that involves burning cigarettes through a napkin, there's not one conversation that feels authentic. One scene finds an apparently sober middle-aged man at a local bar pouring his heart out to our pair of 19-year old protagonists for no apparent reason except possibly that the author wanted to squeeze in another monologue. This scene could have worked with a different character if it were more skillfully setup. Finally, the final scene at the beach house is groan-worthy in its attempt to manufacture misplaced drama, but winds up looking like a bad student film with the poor actors looking completely lost as how to try and make the scene look realistic. However, this was Stillman's first film, so I'd be interested in checking out his other 2 films to see where he went from here. "},{"Title":"a gem of a movie","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" People who like this film may feel smug for doing so and who could blame them. This is that rarest of rare things, an American romantic comedy about young people that could have been directed by Eric Rohmer. It's full of talk and it's all highly intelligent, at times almost unbearably so, but the young writer/director Whit Stillman has a wonderful ear for a bon mot and he doesn't take things seriously. He lampoons these smart young New Yorkers but he doesn't despise them; the comedy is gentle and affectionate.It's set among the well-heeled New York débutante set as they embark on a roundelay of parties over the Christmas period. It owes a considerable debt to Jane Austen and acknowledges this by referencing her as often as it can. Another reference point, of course, is Woody Allen when Allen was writing and directing genuinely smart New York comedies. It's even got a nerdy Woody Allen character in the form of Taylor Nichols' pseudo-intellectual.Indeed if it has a weakness it's that the boys are far better developed as characters than the girls and in a good, fine, unknown young cast the best performances come from Edward Clements as the hero from the wrong side of the tracks, or in this case, the wrong side of the city and from Chris Eigeman as the handsome, verbose rich boy who befriends him, (think Emma with the sexes changed). A little gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"The Discreet Charm Of The UHB","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While every other social and ethnic group is deemed off-limits to filmmakers, one remains a target for cheap laughs Preppies. From Animal House and Caddyshack (the slobs versus the snobs) to John Hughes and Savage Steve Holland, to more serious fare like Six Degrees Of Separation, filmmakers have availed themselves of this last group of people they can target with a broad brush of easy scorn.Which is one reason why Whit Stillman's debut film, Metropolitan, is so refreshing. By taking a more sympathetic, inside look at a group of affluent East Side Manhattanites home from college, Stillman makes a case for an underlying core of goodness beneath the Thurston-and-Lovey veneers.Making the foray into their world for us is Tom Townsend (Edward Clements), literally and figuratively a red-headed stepchild in this world of privilege, having little money (his big secret, which he guards carefully with the help of mass transit, is that he lives on the West Side) and a defensiveness about his place in high society he manifests by adopting the stance of a disapproving socialist, though in reality he is more than a little too shallow to feel anything that deeply.The truth of Townsend is immediately obvious to members of an upscale social set that call themselves the Sally Fowler Rat Pack, but they take him in anyway because he knows their world and seems like a good audience. Running the group is Nick Smith, who you can call a snob, as well as sexist, obnoxious, and of late, rather weird. Just don't call him tiresome, or you'll get an argument.Nick is also a good guy beneath his preppie bluster, a fellow who champions Tom and breaks down Tom's highminded resistance to joining their circle with snarky logic (You'd rather stay at home and worry about the less fortunate, but has it ever occurred to you you ARE the less fortunate?) He also has real values he honors, sometimes at no small risk to his nose. Chris Eigeman plays him with such panache you understand why Stillman kept using him in his movies; Eigeman's delivery is a thing of wonder, especially with lines that sound a mite too polished for instant expression. He can speak of his stepmother as a woman of untrammeled malevolence and make it sound like the most natural phrase in the world.Another familiar face from Stillman's movies is Taylor Nichols, who plays Charlie Black, who when we first see him is stumbling through an explanation of why he believes in God and you do, too, even if you don't know it, and later on offers his own alternative definition of the preppie elite as the Urban Haute Bourgeoisie, i.e. the UHB. Is our language so impoverished that we have to resort to acronyms of French phrases? a woman asks.Charlie's more of a preppie snob in his dislike for Tom, though as Tom trifles mildly with the affections of a woman in their circle, Audrey Rouget (Carolyn Farina), we understand Charlie's attitude. The movie is most fun as a platform for Eigeman and Nichols' pithy one-liners, and there are many great ones, but the complex relationship between Audrey and Tom is what gives the movie its plot and much of its interest.It's bizarre how Clements and Farina vanished from the movie scene right after making their accomplished twin debuts. Farina, with her fetching dark eyes and wry, timid smile reminds one of Molly Ringwald at her pre-Pretty In Pink peak. Clements is good as a character that guards himself closely, with a scholarly front that falls apart fast.Pressed on why he doesn't like Jane Austen's Mansfield Park, Tom admits he hasn't read it, just that he doesn't like it from reading critical essays about it by Lionel Trilling I don't read novels. I prefer good literary criticism - that way you get both the novelists' ideas and the critics' thinking. Metropolitan is full of quotes like that, the product of young people who think they know more than they do but aren't quite bad beneath their smugness. It's not a film of great depth or revelation; Stillman isn't so interested in dissecting his creations as he is in giving them room to express their ideas, goofy and grand. His first film does exactly that, pulling off the twin feat of having cinematic fun and giving a preppie an even break. "},{"Title":"Brilliant unique indie","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Manhattan, a group of upper class young people has come home from college for the debutante ball season. Everybody is in formal wear and discussing various things. Every night, they gather to go to a ball and hang out at various apartments. Middle class Tom Townsend, a fan of Charles Fourier's socialism, is pulled into the group. Audrey Rouget is the sweet one who likes Tom. Nick Smith is the nihilistic leader. Charlie Black is the brainy one. Tom is still obsessed with his ex Serena Slocum. He is an outsider growing up around but not in the social scene. He lives in poverty by comparison.Chris Eigeman is great. Everybody else does a reasonable job for a young cast of amateurs. Filmmaker Whit Stillman captures a lot of truth in these insecure characters. There is a great certainty in their idealism and the emptiness of their ideas. It is only the end when Tom actually comes to grips with real feelings about Audrey. It's just such an unique indie. "},{"Title":"Refreshing even if it is old.","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't see this movie until the end of 2013, and I didn't watch it from start to finish until 2014. However its 1990 production date doesn't make the film stale.The plot is a refreshing look at young adults. It's not clear if their on break or fresh graduates but either way this film really spoke to my 21 year old heart.I would compare this to the Breakfast club because of how the kids bond, but this film is for a preppier set. There are a few things that weren't clear like what their school status was. Also when they first meet Tom in the beginning I'm not sure why they are all at the same event. Its not even clear what kind of event it is. Despite the few flaws the film is a masterpiece and it captures NYC so well. If your stuck in Connecticut like me it will make you want to grab the nearest train there. "},{"Title":"Great picture of the early 90s U.S. indie film boom","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Made on a low budget of $210, 000, Whit Stillman's debut Metropolitan was one of the surprise independent hits of the early 1990s - wracking in an Oscar nomination for screen writing and four million dollars at the box office. The film concerns Tom Townsend, a smart, upwardly mobile young man, as he falls in with a group of preppy Manhattanites and experiences difficulty navigating his romantic life. Metropolitan is a funny and poignant comedy of manners, skewering themes of youth, class, and the battle of the sexes while providing ample laughs.The film follows Tom Townsend (Edward Clements), a first year college student home for Christmas who finds himself falling in with a crowd of wealthy and educated young haute bourgeoisie. As he becomes more involved with the group, Tom becomes the love interest of débutante Audrey Rouget (Carolyn Faina), but remains oblivious to her feelings because of a hang-up on ex-girlfriend Serena Slocumb. As this plot line provides a source of ongoing tension throughout the film, Stillman brings us into a world of upper class balls, where well-dressed young people drink fine wine and talk about everything from the differences between men and women to the ideas of French philosopher Charles Fourier.The one criticism I can think to level at Metropolitan is the lack of ambitious cinematography from Stillman and DOP John Thomas, but then I think better and revoke that criticism, because the cinematography does what cinematography should do service the needs of the script. And what a fine script! Metropolitan succeeds because Stillman is first and foremost a great writer, a man with a preternatural skill for dialogue who is able to shed insight into his themes of youth, sex, and class while making us laugh. Praise should also be heaped on Metropolitan's cast of fine thespians, particularly Chris Eigeman - who charms as Tom's cynically funny friend, Nick.In conclusion, Metropolitan is one of the great American independent movies of the 1990's. For fans of Woody Allen and Denys Arcard, it is sure to delight. Metropolitan continues in that tradition of upper-class sex comedy drama, but offers something fresh and idiosyncratic to the mix - announcing Stillman as a singular film talent and laying the groundwork for later (and equally interesting) films like Barcelona (1994), The Last Days of Disco (1998), and Damsels in Distress (2011). "},{"Title":"Metropolitan Review","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Metropolitan-*** (out of 4) Though it can be slightly dull and meandering, there is no denying the originality of Stillman's highly personal slice of upper class life. As intellectual and sophisticated as it is, it manages to avoid pretentiousness and we begin to see true pain and angst in these high-brow people who discuss Karl Marx and Luis Bunuel at their gatherings. However, there are negatives. Clements' character never seemed to click and develop like he should. Though I will say Eigeman and Nichols gave great performances as the intellectuals in the Upper Class NYC. It's definitely an original, definitely a milestone in independent film, and definitely a wonderful little intellectual gem of a screenplay. It may not be for everyone, but it certainly is worthwhile for those who like New York comedies. "},{"Title":"Sparkling","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a comic gem, an utterly charming diversion, a cunningly-wrought fable and a stealth classic that seems to have wandered out of a more sophisticated era of film.Some time in the recent past a group of young upper-crust Manhattanites attend debutante balls and gather afterwards to party, philosophize, gossip, bitch and fall in love. If that capsule description sounds unappealing, watch ten minutes and see if you aren't addicted.Of the four most important characters, three are adorably, refreshingly innocent, idealistic, striving to be virtuous - and the fourth is simply the greatest snob-fop-wasp acid-tongued cynic in cinema since the heyday of George Sanders and Clifton Webb, but still has a code of honour.Other reviewers have already invoked comparisons to Woody Allen and Jane Austen and I can't readily think of anything more apt. Perhaps a funnier, anglo Eric Rohmer? In modern cinema Whit Stillman's dialogue is only rivalled by Allen's. It is elegant, witty and intelligent; almost every other line ended up printed on my brain, and dozens of them float up from time to time to make me laugh out loud again years later. The film is more than just a talkfest, though on repeat viewing it proves to have the momentum and taut plotting of a stage play, and a morality play at that. He has a remarkable knack of crafting both scenes and lines that seem merely comic at first but which prove - sometimes only after watching or rewatching the film, sometimes only when one has grown wiser oneself - to contain a steely moral.The ensemble of unknowns are talented and appealing. I'm mystified that some of them have done little on film since, and like to think that after working on something as good as this they simply turned down all lesser scripts out of disdain. In particular, the charismatic Chris Eigeman makes Stillman look twice the genius he undoubtedly he is every time he speaks.If you enjoy this, Stillman's 'Barcelona' and 'The Last Days of Disco' are also wonderful. "},{"Title":"Not Very Different From You and Me.","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A strange movie, full of conversations about crushes and philosophy and the assessment of others. The dozen or so people we meet are all pretty rich and preppy Manhattanites. Metropolitans, you might say. Or, as one of THEM says, UHBs -- for urban haute bourgeoisie. Except for Tom (Edward Clements) who is accidentally swept up in the round of after-parties during the débutante season.Tom is in a position similar to that of Nick Carraway in The Great Gatsby. He's smart and educated and he has a little money, or at least his father does, but he's alien to this lifestyle. The others try to help him out. Instead of renting his tuxedo, he can simply buy one second hand from the same costumier. And he really SHOULD have a fashionably black overcoat instead of wearing that Columbo-type raincoat, even if, as he insists, it has a lining. Everybody talks a lot. They don't smoke dope or get drunk, except for one of the more fatuous of the group who vomits in the bathroom sink and fails to deliver an important message.There are some remarks that were over my head. That's not Manhattan, that's Southampton. Well, I know both places, except that from my perspective they weren't that much different.If you excise the sophisticated conversation and boil what's left down to Basic English, you probably won't find much difference between these UHBs and the people who jostle you on the subway. But there is as much diversity among them as there is among the rest of us. One or two of them are to the upper-middle-class what Stanley Kowalski is to the workers of America. Still, they're just as mixed up as we are -- always falling in love with the wrong person, uncertain of how they're perceived. The one almost-constantly-visible distinction is that, for them, social class and breeding are what sociologists call a primary trait. It's what defines them. They are obsessed with class in a way that the rest of us simply are not. We take our miserables lives, our out-of-date clothes, the cockroaches, for granted. They take their goyim naches very seriously.In this, they reminded me of a class of geniuses I once had an opportunity to observe in college. Here they are, a dozen trembling ectomorphs, teen agers, deep into integral calculus and pimples -- and the worst thing they can call each other in an argument is stupid. When the layout of the movie became clear I had a sense of impending doom. Nothing but talk and intrigue. But it managed to hold my interest throughout. If I was never gripped, neither was I bored. Maybe a background in cultural anthropology helps. "}{"Title":"A must-see movie for Jane Austen fans","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that amused me the first time around, delighted me on further viewings, and continues to grow in my esteem. The script's light tone hides depths that surprise. Stillman strikes just the right note in a story that touches on pains and fears that are genuinely daunting (divorce of parents, love unrequited, etc) as well as the comic value of his characters' earnestness and foibles, keeping just the right distance so that comedy keeps just ahead; all leading to the modest but charming triumph of the shy and virtuous protagonists. The link to Mansfield Park (the book, not the movie) has been noted by some observers, with a story centered on the mischief some young people get up to while their parents are absent, and the trials this brings for the young protagonists. But this isn't Austen's story, not really. Stillman has done something like what Austen might have wanted to do, had she been a filmmaker in our time. But with his own story, his own times and mores, his own world, his own delightful touch. Considering the budget Stillman had to work with, this is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"First of Stillman's trilogy","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Metropolitan around the early nineties. Reviews were very good comparing it to Woody Allen's work. I found it talky and the characters irritating. I then saw it around ten years on and found it truly captivating. It is a very intelligent piece of writing with a slightly Chekhovian feel. You warm to the characters gradually and by the end I really connected with the 'will they won't they' scenario of Audrey and Tom. Most of the actors in this film are making their debut and they are all surprisingly strong especially Chris Eigmann as Nick -- he is very funny and really energises the scenes he is in. Whit Stillman's screenplay is warm, witty, sensitive and memorable -- a gem! "},{"Title":"The Harm of Excessive Candor","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In prepping to write a review on Whit Stillman's indie talk-fest Metropolitan I glossed at the Memorable quotes page on IMDb and found some pretty amusing quotes. It's a bad sign when reading the dialogue is infinitely more interesting than hearing and seeing it on the screen.Metropolitan concerns itself with a group of downwardly mobile Park Avenue college students who meet up in an apartment after attending debutante balls to discuss philosophy, literature and economics amongst each other. Its more interesting than it sounds but not by much. Within the group blossoms an admiration between outsider and admitted socialist Tom (Edward Clements) and shrinking violet Audrey (Carolyn Farina). Chris Eigeman, Taylor Nichols, Allison Parisi, Dylan Hundley and Isabel Gillies roundup the rest of the pack.Earning an Oscar nod for its original screenplay, Metropolitan delivery is ultimately muzzled by lazy directing, amateurish acting and lackadaisical plotting. Nearly all the characters are milquetoast and bland and their multiple stories and conflicts pile on yet lack any real tension. The dialogue while clever is stilted, abrupt and overtly formal stunting the actors from giving their words any subtext. Here's a notion film is a visual medium therefore instead of telling the audience what a character is thinking maybe you should show it.The film might have made more of an impact if it took more satirical jabs on the entitled class of self-described Urban Haute Bourgeoisie but while the satire is present, it at points becomes too slight that a less savvy viewer might think the film promotes social stratification and bourgeois snobbery. Many American conservatives blogs have pegged Metropolitan as a conservative film much to the confusion of the director.Its odd in a way that a film whose dialogue is so terse can make such a muddled point. But then again, in the words of one of the film's characters I've always planned to be a failure anyway.http//theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Talk, Poignancy & anti-PC","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Metropolitan is like a little piece of jewelry which is beautiful and a bit ornate, and still unpretentious (maybe someone else described it this way too--I don't mean to plagiarize!). It might not sound like the most entertaining movie to watch, but for me its very enjoyable. It has lots and lots of talk, which isn't everyone's cup of tea, but its also a refreshing change from so many movies which bang you over the head with loudness, violence and graphic sex. And many of its characters are very likable. People like me whose idea of a good time includes an evening with friends playing board games would feel a close kinship with the kids portrayed here.One of Whit Stillman's many strengths is that he goes against today's Hollywood stereotype of showing all rich people as evil, idiotic or guilt-ridden. From what I've read about him, he is very familiar with the world of the American wealthy, and so he knows what he's talking about. More importantly, he's also very good at showing human nature in general. In his movies, people with lots of money include nice people and jerks, and that's how it is, of course, in all classes of people.One funny segment shows the big hurdles that the characters Tom and Charley have to overcome when they try to drive from Manhattan to Long Island--most of us wouldn't have as much trouble, but because of Tom and Charley's privileged background they don't have an easy time of it. Yet Stillman doesn't belittle them or turn them into caricatures. They come across as fully human and people with whom we can empathize.Stillman also includes moral messages in his movies, but thankfully they are unlike the heavy-handed, politically-correct and dreary messages in so many other movies. I don't know if he is a Christian or not, but he shows subtle respect in all three movies for Christian values, which has been a rarity during the past few decades in Hollywood. I doubt, though, whether Pat Robertson would be likely to recommend his films, as they show a wide variety of human virtues and vices without simple black-and-white messages.In addition to a sort of mini-epic storyline involving Tom, Charley and Audrey, there are several little entertaining side-shows throughout the movie, often consisting of get-togethers amongst a circle of friends. The slightly eccentric character of Nick is especially funny and appealing throughout, and helps tie things together. Charley, Tom and Audrey are good portrayals of nice, bright but awkward adolescents, and although they move in rich Manhattan circles, they go through much of the teenage angst that other less fortunate kids experience, and they serve as sort of Everyman characters.Metropolitan isn't as polished as Stillman's other two excellent movies, Barcelona and The Last Days of Disco, but its my favorite of the three because of its characters. There is humor throughout, and lots of poignancy. "},{"Title":"Great Filmmaking On A Shoestring Budget And No Name Actors.","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whit Stillman's Metropolitan (1990) is a fine American Indie film. On a shoestring budget, and using no name actors, Stillman cranked out a quite credible instance of Cinematic Art, and dispels the mythology of big studio Hollywood in the process.This is a film that virtually has no tangible storyline, and much of this character/dialogue driven film is set in the cloistered confines of apartments. Yet, through a brilliant screenplay, great direction, and really remarkable performances by a somewhat amateur cast, this filmmaker created a film that features subtle, yet effective interaction within a small group of well defined divergent characters that spout reams of intelligent, and engaging discourse that remarkably holds the viewer's attention.Given a superficial description of this film, a potential viewer might reasonably conclude that it is an exercise in boredom and futility. That Stillman was able to convert such unlikely elements into a truly interesting, and engaging film is a tribute to his filmmaking abilities. I look forward to viewing the films created by Whit Stillman that came after this debut effort with great anticipation. "},{"Title":"Clever, charming, amusing and, yes, somewhat pretentious","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently watched Metropolitan for perhaps the dozenth time, and continue to believe it is a small gem of a movie.After reading most of the reviews I feel I must give fair warning if you resent the Ivy League, or New Yorkers, or Old Money, or well-educated preppies who have impressive working vocabularies, then this probably isn't the movie for you. For the rest of you, especially if you wish you'd grown up in Manhattan, or wish you had a trust fund, or wish you'd made it to an Ivy, then this is a charming comedy with a heart. In other words, it helps if you are one of the 'social climbers' that one of the characters memorably dismisses.Tom Townsend, a kid born rich but reduced to the (relative) poverty of Manhattan's West Side by his parent's unfriendly divorce, attends a débutante ball while on Xmas break from college (he's a Princeton freshman, I believe, though it isn't made explicitly clear in the film). He's alone, but is nice-looking and well-spoken, and falls into a fashionable group that stylizes itself the Sally Fowler Rat Pack. The film follows Tom's introduction to, and immersion in, that year's deb season--there's an escort shortage, and Audrey Rouget, a core member of the SFRP, takes a liking to Tom, so he's invited to a series of parties as Audrey's escort.The plot is minimalistic. Audrey like Tom, but he sees her as a friend, and is still hung-up on his ex, Serena. Nick, nicely played by Chris Eigeman, is a snobbish but very amusing fellow and takes Tom under his wing. Charlie, an old friend of Nick's, has a crush on Audrey and therefore resents Tom. Serena manipulates Tom into taking her home from a party--thereby abandoning Audrey at the party, but she forgives him, although her girlfriends do not. Audrey is again humiliated during a 'truth game', where Tom admits he's still fixated on Serena. A villain is introduced in the form of Rick Von Slonnaker, who Nick despises and defames. Tom realizes that he has affections for Audrey after all, but she has run off to Von Slonnaker's place. Fearing the worst, Tom convinces Charlie that Audrey is in moral peril, and the two proceed to rescue Audrey from Von Slonnaker's estate in the Hamptons. Audrey and Tom are reconciled, and speak of meeting up in France, where Audrey is a student.These events aren't really the point of the film. What it is really about is smart young people speaking to each other in complete sentences. The dialogue isn't particularly realistic, but it is quite witty, and is filled with allusions to Jane Austen, Lionel Trilling, Averill Harriman, Bunuel, Prep Schools like Farmington (aka Miss Potter's School), the Plaza Hotel, regattas, the Cha-Cha, and the fate of the UHB (Urban Haute Bourgeoisie--a more precise term than 'preppie' that one of the characters coin and is used frequent thereafter). Is all of this a bit precious, a little fey, at times pretentious? Yes. But these characters are portrayed with sympathy and affection--these are not the cardboard villain rich kids that are so routinely seen. Yes, they are privileged (though Tom less so), but they are still YOUNG, and still trying to figure out the world and their place in it.I recommend the film heartily to anyone who enjoys witty language and would like to spend some time as a fly on the wall at Upper East Side after-parties. "},{"Title":"A fine conservative rebuttal to contemporary social mores","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This review will be a brief rebuttal to those which said nothing happens in this movie (spoiler alert).What happens is only the most important thing that could happen the protagonist is transformed for the better. With the wisdom of Nick Smith to enlighten, the modern superficiality of Serena and Rick Von Slonecker to grate, and the friendship and charm of the UHB and its standards, he turns into a gentleman. Tom Townsend's change is made explicit when he renounces Fouierism. Shedding his youthful, abstract allegiance to utopian socialism, he becomes a practical man of duty and does what is necessary to rescue his lady from a den of modern barbarism, von Slonecker's place. In an excellently simple culmination, Townsend rebuts the baron's whiny excuse that he can do whatever he wants in his own house This is my place, I can do whatever I want here. That's not true. "},{"Title":"They won me over","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was prepared to hate this movie, even though or because I was one of the extras in it. Most of us were dazed by the mere fact that we were picked for background because we apparently looked upscale, since most of us were sporadically employed actors living in creepy lofts with too many unregistered roommates, creepier basement illegal sublets, and (in my case) an all-female SRO populated equally by out-of-town career girls and old biddies on pension, many of whom were well along the process of losing their marbles. Since I was also being stalked by a genuine upper-class twit at the time of shooting, I had little sympathy for the characters of a project that I assumed (like many other extras) was a student film helmed by a trust baby.When the film came out, it upended all these expectations. I *knew* these characters the outsider who doesn't know if his longing to fit in means he's selling out, the snotty guy who's actually kind of sweet, the nice girl who's never properly appreciated, and the cool girl who takes her power for granted. Even the way the girls try to support shy Audrey over slinky interloper Serena is true to type. They may be stereotypes, but you've met them too, regardless of your socio-economic level. The pseudo-intellectual dialogue didn't make them less sympathetic, it made them more so--they are *desperate* to impress. Well who, at that age, isn't? Some people do it with clothes or athletic achievements these kids do it with words. As for the pony-tailed possible sociopath, he reminded me painfully of my stalker--now I knew that these jerks who think they can get away with anything don't just target little peasants like me. They endanger their own class too.Everything that people have criticized in this film, the stilted delivery, the awkwardness, is what makes it wonderful. It captures perfectly the struggle to be accepted. You could point out that Stillman does a certain amount of this in Barcelona and Disco also, but then do we ever really outgrow the need to be accepted? Only the settings change. "},{"Title":"The last days of the bourgeoisie","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film about ultra-privileged young contemporary Manhattanites romanticising themselves in the doomed spirit of Scott Fitzgerald may sound unbearable, especially as this is a very talky movie. But 'Metropolitan' is actually quite delightful, in fact because of the very quality of the dialogue - the characters are elegant show-offs, which gives the writer the freedom to indulge them with clever lines. And clever in both senses - the characters are themselves clever, but the writing is cleverer, as the protagonists inadvertently give themselves and their absurdities away in spite of their intelligence. However much you may want to hate these people, it's simply a delight to hear them talk. In fact, my main criticism is that the screenplay falls too much in love with its own creations - as it reveals the failings and absurdities of the characters, it starts to forgive them, which is probably more than they deserve. A final kick at the end to remind us (and them) of the nature of real life might have made this great, as opposed to merely good. "},{"Title":"It follows the oldest plot line in the world","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The dialog is stilted and affected but who cannot like a movie full of good-looking young people? I saw it on the large screen just about 20 years ago and recall thinking it was important. Don't think that anymore, but it is engaging, and sometimes fun. It doesn't play as well on the small screen as the large - its low budget aspect becomes clear, but it remains endearing. It would probably work better as a stage piece - it is as old-fashioned as the Jane Austen books it features. And what happened to these actors/actresses - none appear to have advanced to greater lights, but maybe they truly were playing themselves? Anyway, the tenderness is enjoyable. "}{"Title":"The Discreet Harm of the Bourgeoisie","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Middle-class and liberal-leaning Edward Clements (as Tom Townsend) befriends the upper eastside Manhattan snob set when he shares a cab to join the group at a party. Becoming a Sally Fowler Rat Pack regular, he attracts available Carolyn Farina (as Audrey Rouget) while discussing God, public transportation, and literary criticism with preppy Christopher Eigeman (as Nick Smith) and other Christmas vacationing collegians.Debuting director Whit Stillman's Metropolitan is a intellectually written drama about a a group of late 1970s (?) or early 1980s (?) young adults who seem to be stuck in some earlier, possibly imaginary era. They dress funny for parties, travel without limousines, and just say no to the hard stuff (or, cocaine would be readily available at their gatherings). This is a good, ironic, but very particular film; it thrives only in its own world.****** Metropolitan (1/90) Whit Stillman ~ Edward Clements, Carolyn Farina, Chris Eigeman, Taylor Nichols "},{"Title":"Metropolitan","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frequently praised as an indie gem of exceptionally high quality, Whit Stillman's famed debut Metropolitan simply didn't give me a reason to care for the entirety of the running time. A solid enough script regardless of how much I personally enjoyed watching the film with some very interesting observations on highbrow culture. The entire film seems to me just another young people chatting away with romance at the center of the story film (many of these were made in the 90's and I can name one which is far, far better right now Noah Baumbach's Kicking and Screaming, and if I were to go into just talky 90's indies I could mention a dozen more, a good example would be Greg Mottola's The Daytrippers). It's just a more uppity version of it. In spite of the conversations themselves referencing highbrow works the film is still about individuals who are ultimately fairly crass and just as petty as the rest of us. Probably intentional observations on Stillman's part but it doesn't make the movie more interesting viewing. Point-and-shoot direction and okay photography aren't bad points, but don't give the film an edge either. Certainly not bad and I can absolutely understand appreciating it more than I did, but its high reputation amongst 90's indies is largely undeserved and mostly bewildering. "},{"Title":"More of a script than a movie","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Metropolitan is about 2 hours of talking and walking. An interesting idea, which was nominated for best screenplay at the academy awards, the movie in itself is far from anything considered great independent film. The group of actors are all new to the scene. Except for a small group of them, very few have actually made a career of acting. The story itself has its moments where you actually care what is going to happen next. The story begins with Tom and slowly moves away to the story of the group. Tom and Nick are the true force to the movie. However, much of the story fails to answer many questions concerning Tom and Nick. Once Nick is out of the picture, leaving the movie all together, the story is close to pointless. An overall nice try, the story has its moments but far from anything amazing. A nice little movie with an interesting plot, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but not great","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This indie film was an art house hit in 1990. Even though I loved (and still love) art house films I avoided this. It looked boring and the plot uninvolving. I finally saw it now 17 years later. I can't say I'm sorry I missed it.It takes place during a Christmas vacation in New York in the late 1980s. A bunch of rich kids from the east side get together to spend the holidays. Tom (Edward Clements) is a poor west side kid who inadvertently gets invited to their parties. Audrey (Carolyn Farina) becomes attracted to him and he develops a friendship with incredibly cynical Nick (Chris Eigeman). That's about it for plot. This is all talk and the little dramas that happen inside the group.Movies that are all talk can work. I find My Dinner with Andre fascinating as well as Rope and Manhattan. The problem with this is that most of the dialogue is obscure (to put it mildly) and most of the characters come off as annoying or pathetic. Tom and Nick are cold cynical jerks and considering Tom is the main character that is NOT good. Audrey is just pathetic throwing herself at Tom who treats her like dirt. The other men are drunks or obnoxious intellectuals. The women come off far better--they're strong, intelligent and aren't jerks like the other guys.What does save this are quite a few sharp insights into human behavior and a few well-timed funny lines. Also the acting is good all around--Eigeman especially does a good job (and has gone on to a pretty successful career). So it has its moments but the obnoxious characters and bewildering dialogue are off putting. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"perhaps the most awful acting ever","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although Metropolitan's production values are nothing to write home about, at least it enjoyed the distinction of perhaps the most awful acting ever. Someone should have told Stillman that a film so dependent on its carefully crafted dialogue might also depend on the performance of said dialogue. If only it had been a short story, I might have enjoyed the read.Once upon a time, while reviewing a director's reel, an agency creative laughingly remarked, My God, it's like porno dialogue! Metropolitan seemed to go out of its way to prove that bad delivery needs no nudity to make it to the screen. Such stilted performances could only come from one of two places the actors' first time in front of a camera, or incredibly bad direction. Metropolitan must have had both ingredients.I hope the comparatively enormous budget of Barcelona, Stillman's next film, healed the wounds he must have suffered in viewing this one. At least the folks responsible for Metropolitan's lighting and art direction were kind to his first effort.After enduring what seemed hours of such stagey performances, I was sure that somewhere out in the world, the writer was still hunting down Metropolitan's director, with murder as his sole intent. Then I learned that the writer directed it. That explains everything. "},{"Title":"The endless conversation....","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Blah... Blah Blah Blah... Blah Blah Blaaaaa....!This film is so boring that It makes Groundhog Day appear realistic and interesting. Blah Blah...Bitch Bitch Bitch about random people who will never make a difference and spend thirty seconds deciding on what words you are going to respond with so they sound smart.What's with the top hats? Is it 1932 or 1990?I grew up in this neighborhood and believe me, this film is a load of s**t.Yeah, woo hoof... They used real apartments. Well, the taste of the apartments is that of a drunk white trash bible thumper that stole the coin jar from their local church... Ew!I think this is the first film I have seen where they didn't purposely cast a homo.I think fire crotch is going to be serial killer...And now.. I have witnessed the flooding of St. Pats.I'm out, and destroying this DVD... "},{"Title":"Are these people real?","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie extremely disappointing; having been referred to it after IMMENSELY enjoying Noah Baumbach's Kicking and Screaming and, to a lesser extent, Mr. Jealousy.  This, however, was unadulterated crap. Essentially a handful of obnoxious pretentious snobs, the lot of them investing their meaningless little lives with melodrama, since they seem to have no real problems to speak of.  The only even remotely likeable character is that of Chris Eigeman--and I'm probably simply confusing the actor with the character, as I like Eigeman quite a lot.  The character of Charlie Black, on the other hand, made me want to hurt him violently nearly every time he spoke, the arrogant little turd. I confess that much of the dialogue of the movie I found incomprehensible--not in terminology, but the semantics behind it seemed to lack any real logic or sense...almost as if they were speaking a foreign language.  Perhaps it's because I'm a 'lower-class Midwesterner' and not from the GLORIOUS city of New York...gah.So, if you want entertainment, and you're NOT an elitist New Yorker...look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"AND HOUR AND A HALF OF BAD ACTING","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One might be tempted to compare this movie, with its face to face dialogue and complex charaterizations, with DINER or THE BIG CHILL, but that would be unfair to those who are the professionals in the craft of acting. I have no idea what the director of this film was thinking (if there WAS a director), other than a desire to give some out of work actors a chance to show why they ARE out of work. They mumbled their way through the dialogue like even THEY can't wait till the movie is over. There is absolutely NO expressions on their faces when delivering their lines, and the camera roams around the room as if its hunting for a place to rest, further diminishing from what could have been a decent putting forth, had the material been put into the hands of a TALENTED cast and crew. Honestly, it would have been more understandable to have 4th or 5th graders in front of the camera reading the lines from their script pages. I have refrained from being MORE direct lest one of the actors from the movie (probably STILL out of work) stumble upon this review. TWO LOUD YAWNS!! "},{"Title":"pretentious deconstructionism, a waste of time","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It may be unfair to judge this film based on only watching the first 3/4 of it, but we could only take so much punishment as an audience.  The film presented itself as possessing intelligent dialogue that was radical and thought-provoking.  Well, it was thought-provoking.  My thought was, what is this *&%$?  The characters were intelligent and their dialogue and conversations were coherent.  Dialogue was striking as somewhere in the neighborhood of graduate students discussing and philosophizing all types of different issues.  Such would seem to be a foundation for a stimulating dialogue-driven film.  In a word No.Here are my principle complaintsPlot  None discernable.  People are just sitting around philosophizing about ontology, pop culture, and a variety of other subjects.  Mind you, it's just philosophizing with clever little comments about what so-and-so said or so-and-so thought.  A movie doesn't really need a plot, but it's quite beneficial if -something- does happen.Characters  Annoying.  Well-educated, but they are the type of people who sit around and solve the worlds problems instead of doing something to solve the worlds problems.  They are all well-educated, but no one seems to have a soul or any real existential reason for existing.  Their lives seem to hold no real purpose.  Striking as a bit spoiled and lazy.  No character struck me as possessing any humanity.  No soul, no spark of life, just a bunch of people talking about things that they really don't care about.  Extreme deconstructrionism seemed to rule their existence.  I.e., they didn't seem to feel that the world had any meaning.  I found no characters to elicit any sort of empathy from me and I can be very clinical at times.Basic deal  If you want to catch the essence of what this film could have been, secretly videotape a close-knit group of first year college grad students toegether that are studying the humanities and you'll have something more interesting than this film.  These people have created radical theses that no normal person would conceive and supported them logically numerous times in numerous papers.  The world has little meaning to them.  The humor completely failed when it was attempted as the affect of the actors was so flat.  Deconstructionism as an idea is worthwhile, but watching a movie with characters that are seemingly obsessed with the notion and seemingly no emotion is not my idea of a good time.  I may have missed some of their colorful allusions and jokes about famous cultural figures, but ultimately, the problem of flat affect and character ennui bored me half to death.  I've stopped two movies because they were so awful.  This movie, and Captain Ron.  I'm a reasonably well-educated, open-minded person that appreciates good dialogue.  I've enjoyed countless films that focused primarily on dialogue and enjoy classic literature as well.  Movies included Secrets and Lies, Gosford Park, Sneakers, Sense and Sensibility, and Howard's End.  This movie struck me as being a pretender to such a genre. It was not as well acted or written as any of these other films, nor did I find it remotely interesting.It seems to be hit or miss, but watch out people, this film is all about dialogue without any other focus and if you don't like a bunch of self-absorbed, spoiled philosophizers talking about how nothing means anything, then this movie may have as little meaning for you as it did for me. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, well written, well directed, amateur acting","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The hallmark of a professional actor IMHO is to hide behind a mask.  It is jarring if the mask slips, and the actor's true personality does not match the intended persona. This is chiefly what makes school and most amateur theatricals so trying.Metropolitan is witty, intelligently filmed and directed, pleasing to the eye, but the actors seem like high school amateurs - and like many high school plays, the male actors are unable to conceal their epicene nature - I don't have a problem with who they really are, I just want to have it concealed to ease my suspension of disbelief.  As much as I liked this film, it seemed so stagey, the actors just did not convince me as they meaninglessly mouthed the director/author's acid epigrams.I will probably rent this again. And I will enjoy it again. But I will also mutter So fake as the puppets go through their paces. "}{"Title":"boooooooooooring!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This leaden effort is about life in the Waspy social circles of N.Y. (I think it was N.Y.; I was too bored to remember). The critics went ape over this dog, but the endless, pointless, droning, fatuous conversations among people we don't give a fig about were to me a kind of torture by dialogue. Maybe that was the point, I dunno, but they should have put a warning label on this one. The movie to me gave a whole new meaning to the word sleeper. "}]