[{"Title":"A shadow of the original and a mockery of the book","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Michael Ende's lovely book is in two parts; Petersen's 1984 film is really just the story of Part I.  It's very good all the same.  Admittedly it would have been nicer if Petersen had made a four-hour film covering the entire book, but Part I's story is complete enough and works on the screen.  Besides, there's always the possibility of a sequel.Which makes it all the odder that the sequel, when it came, did NOT continue the story in the way that Ende had.  Oh, Miller and his writers mine what's left of the novel for ideas; what emerges is a gross caricature of Ende's work, a hideous, twisted, traducement.  Making the witch Xayide into too big a villain is the central mistake.  In the book Bastian's problem is a deep one wishes take away his memories not because of the contrived plotting of some super-villain, but because of the very nature of the world Bastian finds himself in; because of the nature of wishing, really.  Xayide EXPLOITS this fact; she does not create it.  (Note that in Petersen's film the central villain also exploits rather than creates strife.)  Quite apart from this Xayide is much more chilling in the book.  In the film she's a cackling, cretinous vamp who wears ludicrous bird-of-paradise gowns.  She's a stage villain of the flattest kind.One small change is more damaging than you might at first think in Ende's book, Bastian doesn't leave Fantasia (Fantastica in the translation I read) until the very end.  This makes more credible his chances of being trapped there.  Bringing him back to our world for the start of the next film is enough to make the entire subsequent story silly and enervating.  It feels as if we have entered a sitcom at the start of the next episode, everything is as it was before.  In today's episode Bastian must learn a Valuable Lesson About Life - coincidentally, the same one he learned yesterday (and will probably have to learn again in the next sequel, the dullard).  The first scenes of Part II are almost unbelievably bad.  I almost admire Miller's willingness to ADVERTISE how bad his film will be.  We open with one of the cheesiest sequence of allegedly humorous pratfalls I think I've ever seen; in a matter of MINUTES, I lost faith in the film, as had everyone I was watching it with.And so much of the original talent is missing as to make the whole exercise pointless.  The crew is almost entirely different; the cast - apart from Thomas Hill as Cornelius, who puts in an appearance even though he now has no role to play in the story - is different and vastly inferior, and all the beauty and fantasy that infused Petersen's production design is missing.  It's not that the special effects are TECHNICALLY deficient, although they may be.  It's just that there's no vision to give them life.  When I see the turrets and drawbridges I find myself think of garage roll-a-doors and hydraulic lifts, for that is what they look like here.  The script is full of such clunkers you'll be unable to avoid wincing ... unless you treat it all as a joke, which, luckily, is my siblings and I decided to do.  Treat it as a kind of Plan 9 experience and it may be worth watching. "},{"Title":"Better than it's given credit for.","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm a bit surprised at the heavy criticism this film received. It doesn't take a scientist to figure out that this sequel didn't live up to its predecessor. However, it's not nearly as bad as it's made out to be.Before I continue, I should note that I have not yet read Micheal Ende's novel, so I can only judge this film as just that, a film. Not as an adaptation.Many have complained that the personality of the characters from the original movie were contradicted and the film had little continuity. I disagree. In this film, Bastian is older and wiser, yet still has a lot to learn. That is not a flaw. He is *supposed* to be this way. As for his father, we didn't get to know him well enough in the first film to understand his personality, so the audience needs to give him the benefit of the doubt as well. Kenny Morrison was a fine Atreyu replacement for Noah Hathaway and Xayade is a villain that you'll love to hate.This film goes the Temple of Doom route by offering a darker tale than before. In fact, some of the scenes might be a bit frightening for anyone at pre-school age or younger. I know that those giants used to scare me when I first saw this film at the age of eight. There are some humorous moments regarding the clash of cultures as Bastian and Atreyu often find it difficult to understand each other's vocabulary. A few thrilling moments, a dramatic twist mid-way through, and some nice visual effects round out a solid film.On the negative side, some of the humor seemed a bit forced at times. *Cough* Spray can. *Cough* And while the dialogue was passable, it often sounded too plain without any real motivation behind it.On a final note, and this is overlooked by the earlier reviews, Robert Folk's musical score is spectacular. It's a shame that it'll probably never be released in the mainstream ever again. The score alone makes the film worth watching.All in all, this is an underrated film that needs to be viewed with an open mind instead of a quest to find as many flaws as possible. It's no fun using the latter way. It may not be the best sequel one could hope for, but it certainly could have been a lot worse. Just watch Neverending Story III to find out how. "},{"Title":"This movie completely destroys the magic of the 1st one!!!!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"29 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The 1st Neverending Story was one of my favorite movies as a child so naturally, I couldn't wait for the sequel. I was completely horrified at the transformation of my favorite characters!! Although this one was made in English and the first one German, at the very least they could have done was get actors that resembled the original ones. I thought Bastien in both movies was very annoying, but I was heartbroken that characters were changed significantly. The magic and the fantasy of the first film was ruined because the 2nd looked like a Power Rangers episode. It was completely awful and I was disappointed in so many ways. LONG LIVE THE ORIGINAL!! Do not waste your time with the sequels, they don't have the emotion, fantasy or anything compared to the original. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest, but not the worst.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Never Ending Story 2 did not seem to be as good as its predecessor, however this movie wasn't all that bad. Sure it would of been nice if it had ALL of the original actors from the first one in it and that could be a reason why this film didn't do as well. I bet we would of all enjoyed this movie much better if it did have the original actors in it. I am a big fan of the novel (greatest novel I have ever read) and that could be why I happen to like this movie. This is actually the last half of the book when Bastian visits Fantastica and meets Atreyu and all the others. However one downfall was this film seemed a bit distant to the original making it seem like they are two totally different stories when in fact they are one. It just didn't seem to capture all the magic of the book. But all in all this was a pretty good movie and it wouldn't hurt to get an idea of what the second half of the story is all about. But the first film is the greatest and will put its spell over your entire family!!!!!!! I give The Never Ending Story 2; 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"What was this?","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I am a fan of The Neverending Story the book.  This movie did not live up to my expectations at all (when I saw it again recently)The movie covers part of the book's story, with Bastian meeting Xayide.  Although part of it is followed closely, Nimbly did NOT work for Xayide, there was no Memory ball thing (AURYN made Bastian lose his memories on its own) and the end was a cheesy replacement for the Fountain of Life.In the original story, there was much more substance.And the thing that annoys me most If Bastian met the Childlike Empress in the last movie, why did she appear to him in this one?  If they had only researched the story better, they would have discovered that you can only meet the Empress ONCE.  No matter how many times you meet her, she wil have no memory of you ever meeting her previously. "},{"Title":"Bastian , this time incarnated by Jonathan Brandis, returns to travel throughout the marvelous world of Fantasy","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" THE NEVERENDING STORY II is a wonderful and breathtaking familiar film with adventures and imagination but inferior to excellent original. A lonely and grieving little boy named Bastian(the sadly deceased Jonathan Brandis substituting to Barret Oliver) is only living with his father( John Wesley Shipp in similar role to Gerard McRaney)but his mother has deceased.He seeks refugee in the library where meets a bookkeeper and is taken a fantastic book .Thus, again he enters the storybook world of Fantasia through the ¨Neverending story¨ tale . This time Batian is really in the flick the complete time instead of outside of the pages but happens that with each wish he lost records. There, he goes to Silver City and he meets the young valiant warrior named Atreyu( Kenny Morrison replacing Noah Hathaway)as he must save the magic world of Fantasia threatened for the destruction by the advance of Nothing that will eventually wipe out all the things and rescue the imprisoned childlike Empress . She is detained by evil sorceress Xayide (Clarissa) supported by his large mechanical beetles. Xayide has a dark scheme for Fantasy world and the Childlike Empress. They'll have to fight a magical army of giant bugs on two legs that threaten our friends.The story is an enjoyable fairy tale with great charm from the original novel by Michael Ende,trying to incorporate too much dreamland with fantastic beings like a giant bird named Nimbly, the large flying pink poodle dragon named Falcor ,among others weird and bizarre creatures .They have been made by big puppets and no by means of computer generator effects but at the time had not been invented. The visual beauty of the impressive scenarios give the movie a real sense of wonder.The production design and sets are visually rousing and appealing.The film contains an agreeable moral message about reading books.It's followed by a new sequel, the third part titled ¨Escape from fantasia¨(directed by Peter McDonald)with Jason James Ritcher. Besides followed by a Television cartoon movies. The movie contains spectacular musical score by Robert Folk and colorful cinematography by David Connell. The motion picture filled with imaginative moments is professionally directed by George Miller though with no originality because takes too many elements from previous film. Miller is an Australian director usually working for television (Tidal wave, Journey to the center of the earth,Attack of the Sabretooth) and occasionally for cinema ( The man from Snowy river Zeus and Roxanne,Robinson Crusoe ). Rating  Passable, acceptable, 5,5. "},{"Title":"A decent second installment.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW***The Neverending Story II is a good second installment of the series. As someone who has never read the books, I don't have the fixation of some of the other posters here (They changed the book! WAAHHH!!). To me, it's not about whether it was like the book or not. Another example of this phenomenon is Starship Troopers. Great movie, but I haven't read (and don't care to read) Heinlein's book. I'm judging the movie on its own merits.Neverending Story II is another beautiful glimpse of Fantasia. Though new actors play Bastian Bux and Atreyu, they are quite good for the most part. Clarissa Burt (looking a lot like Christine Baranski) does a super job as the witch Xayide, alternately vamping and chewing scenery. Falkor and Rockbiter return, and some new creatures, like the Giants and the birdlike Nimbly, appear.The plot is - for the most part - tight, the effects are improved over part one, and the atmosphere and music both equal the original.The ending is superb. I really enjoy how we are left with many questions, especially regarding Xayide (who nearly steals the picture). Where did she come from? What did she have against the Childlike Empress? Where does Xayide take herself after Bastian uses Auryn to give her emotions?Perhaps some of these questions will be answered on the new TV series.All in all, I give Neverending Story II an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Essentially worthless.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  There are so many things wrong with this movie its hard to pinpoint.  I myself am one of the biggest Neverending Story fans around, both of the book and the 1984 film.  But while that film didn't stray from the book much, this movie simply takes characters and puts them in entirely new situations.The aesthetic complaints I have about this movie are further.  Bastian and Atreyu look completely different (I know the original actors had aged), Pyorncrachzark (Rock Biter) had a child, and shots from the original film were used for horse-riding sequences.  The childlike empress is older as well.  She can't age!  This truly is a children's film, whereas the original was a truly beautiful movie. Shortly, avoid this movie and see the original again.  Wambos can jump in the Nothing. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not great, but not bad","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is certainly a flawed movie that definitely has some cheesy acting and dialog, but despite these flaws it is still enjoyable. It is not as good as it's predecessor but I think it deserves a positive rating. The NeverEnding Story 2 still has the imagination of the original and some wonderful visuals that make up for it's lack of good writing or acting. I know that that may sound like an odd thing to say because writing and acting are important parts in a movie, but sometimes those things can be made up for with cinematography and set design. Movies are a visual medium and if a movie has strong enough visuals then everything else seems unimportant. This is a movie with fantastical, dream like visuals that give it an other worldly atmosphere which I think, in a strange way, is aided by the weird dialog. Everything in this movie is weird and so the dialog and acting fit and make it seem even more like a dream. I particularly like the way clouds and foaming waterfalls look in this movie. They're kind of an off color that I guess makes them look mysterious, I don't know what else to call it. If you enjoy being transported to other worlds that are so offbeat they are like nothing you've ever imagined then you'll like this movie. If you prefer going to a fantasy world that's more conventional then this may be a weird experience for you. This not the Wizard Of Oz. This is Fantasia and it looks so beautiful that nothing else matters. "},{"Title":"Real enjoyable; I liked it","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'll admit this loses in a contest w/the original, but I still liked it a bunch. I just found a few things off Bastian's innocence has shortened, his hair lightened (& the Empress' curled), he gained courage & confidence in the 1st but seemed to have lost some (it would've made sense if he never returned to earth to lose it); he kept some though - he didn't fear storms, bullies, or his father's shortness. But as opposed as I am to sequels, this was a hit. Bastian re-enters Fantasia to rescue it from the Emptiness, & a group of villains who are determined to stop him so Fantasia will be destroyed & stories will disappear. They've also put a spell on the Auryn, which Bastian uses to wish when in need, so that for every wish he loses a memory. The villains were believable - how often does a henchman change sides? I liked that Bastian's father read the Story, dropping his I'm an engineer, I see what I see attitude to let imagination in. Though the funny characters Rockbiter met in the 1st weren't around, there were still funny parts - Give me 5! 5 what? Those walls must be dangerous. So that's what they mean by remember. I'm IN this book? It was touching. a drippy, feel-good movie. It was only a small step below the 1st, but that was phenomenal, so anything would have to be. Purists of the book won't like it - unlike the 1st, this made only a meager attempt to follow the story. But it's still a 9. Ignore negative remarks - it's good. "}{"Title":"The Neverending Mess First Chapter","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Just take a look at my summary and you'll get a great idea about what I think of this movie. I wasn't originally planning to watch this, but I decided to because it was in a day I had not much to do and so I did, if only to see how weak this would be. I wasn't really expecting much from it, but it turned out to be even weaker than I imagined.But let's go by parts. The Neverending Story II The Next Chapter is a sequel to the original and much beloved 1984 film. Unlike the original, this wasn't directed by Wolfgang Petersen, but by George T. Miller. About the cast, with the exception of Thomas Hill as Mr. Koreander, the whole cast is completely different. This already says a lot. The original one has a cast you just gotta appreciate, but I can't say the same about this one.Bastian is now played by Jonathan Brandis, Atreyu by Kenny Morrison and the Childlike Empress by Alexandra Johnes. Jonathan Brandis had a tragic ending in real life. In the role of Bastian, he wasn't all that bad, but we cannot compare him to Barret Oliver, the one and only Bastian. Kenny Morrison is good as a Atreyu, but naturally not as much as the real Atreyu - Noah Hathaway. Nevertheless, Kenny Morrison looks a bit like Noah Hathaway, but with a stronger Indian-like appearance. Alexandra Johnes really doesn't fit at all as the Childlike Empress, unlike Tami Stronach.The characters from the first movie we all love so much are not as appealing here. Bastian has nothing to do with the loving Bastian from the original and here he proves not to be very smart - including whenever Atreyu warns him to be careful about what he's doing. Atreyu is cool here, but not as much as the Atreyu from the earlier film. As for the Childlike Empress, they really managed to ruin her image. Here, she's just an ordinary-looking girl with freezy hair - she has nothing to do with the angelical and innocent-looking Childlike Empress of the original.Falkor is not the same here. He looks quite artificial and ugly here, while in the first movie he looks so real and perfect. Besides, is it just me or did he become smaller in this film? Another equally bad thing is his voice here. Golly, his voice here sounds awful! It's as if he was talking with his mouth full all the time. And the same can be said about the Rockbiter's voice here. Speaking of Rockbiter, now he has a son? That Junior is a little annoying, isn't he? Mr. Koreander is nowhere near as amusing here as he is in the first movie, despite being portrayed by the same actor. Bastian's father is now younger? And how come Bastian has a mother now, considering she's not alive in the original film?As for the visuals, only a few are still good, but aside that Fantasia is simply not the same Fantasia I love so much from the 1st movie. The gorgeous and fantastic landscapes seem to be gone. The magic and special effects that give the 1st movie a feeling of something out-of-this-world are missing. Besides, Fantasia is now a silver city, which just doesn't please me.The soundtrack is nothing special. Nothing to do with the wonderful and inspiring soundtrack of the original movie.Very little in this movie resembles The Neverending Story. In fact, this seems more like a mix of The Lord of the Rings, Star Wars and a Power Rangers episode, with its extreme darkness and mostly because of all those horrible mechanical giants. I hate creatures like those. I also hate the new villain, the sorceress Xayide. And that ridiculous big bird...As for the humor, nothing worthy to mention. Aside one or two very small things, there's nothing to laugh in this movie. The original has classic and funny humor.So many things just don't fit in this sequel. Conclusion this is a shadow of the original and a mockery on the original. It is an easily forgettable movie. Maybe kids will enjoy this, so I'd only recommend this for them.Just to finish, did anyone else notice that some scenes with Atreyu riding Artax during the quest were literally taken from the first film? I noticed that. "},{"Title":"Thank God it ended","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have to admit I was actually looking forward to seeing this film, especially since I had seen the first Neverending Story when I was a little kid.  It was undoubtedly one of my favorites; it was filled with fantastic characters and a storyline that didn't talk down to me.Then I saw this movie.I have never been a big fan of sequels in the first place, especially if the first story didn't have an ending.  This sequel was one of the worst I have seen by far.  It is overly simplistic, and I felt no sympathy at all for this new and older Bastian, who seemed dumber than rocks before the evil witch/queen/woman-with-weird-eyes started stealing his memory away.  It wasn't even the same Bastian.  Come to think of it, not one of the characters was played by the same actor.  I get the feeling that they, even if they were out of work, wanted absolutely nothing to do with this hack-job of a film. "},{"Title":"Not As Magical as the First But Still Good","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" THE NEVERENDING STORY II THE NEXT CHAPTER was the sequel to the first NEVERENDING STORY movie made in 1984. It was an okay sequel to the first movie. It wasn't as wonderful and magical as the first though. It had some pros and cons. I guess I should name the hates and loves.HATES Xayide is the worst character in the movie. She shouldn't even be there. She made the movie almost seem like a cheap Disney production with an evil woman with black lipstick and a clumsy servant. Although in the end, the servant doesn't seem so clumsy and stupid. Also, this movie has less effects than the first movie. Also, I read what the Washington Post said about this movie and I agree that the new characters seem like they are from a Late-Night comedy sketches.. and that's not good.Loved that in the end, Atreyu is alive and the bird thing changes sides and becomes good. It's heartwarming to know that everything works out in the end. It's also good that Bastian was actually in the story and his father knew except the typical, Where were you son? Somewhere.. wink wink. Lying and hiding is never the answer and it annoys me so.I recommend this movie if you have seen the first NeverEnding story movie or if you have read the books. Or both. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" All I have to say is this. The Never ending story and Jonathin Brandis and the plot were all Terrific. I don't care what anyone says. This film was made as a fantasy...a ferry tale of sorts. Its right there with Willow as far as I'm concerned....it is what it is. Its Fun. It serves as a memory from my childhood, one of a movie I Loved. It's nothing complex, it's not the godfather. But it never claimed to be. I read things about weak plots and people angry about that. But it was made for that audience, it was meant to be loved by children. does Shrek come to Mind Anyone. Not a Super Brilliant plot there either, but Id pay money to rent it again. (Although I've seen it enough, thanks...LL) Bottom line I love this movie. "},{"Title":"this was a great fantasy movie of all time>>>","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" the thing about i liked watching this movie was i got a big, big, big, big crush on Jonathan Brandis aka Sebastian in the movie. from the moment i watched that movie i fell in love with him. the movie was fantastic. i was only 15 yrs old when i saw that movie. until now I'm still fond of watching it. i even had my own DVD of him so that my children can watch it too. so, you guys out there who haven't seen this movie yet try to watch it and i'm sure you're gonna love it. this movie was so perfect for me. i was so sad about what happened to Jonathan Brandis when i heard his death because i really liked him so much. but, even he's not here anymore to give us more movies...he left his memories on us his fans. "},{"Title":"This Movie Isn't As Bad As People Say","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well I bought this movie and Part 1 at walmart for ten dollars. I remember watching the original one as a child and i loved it. It was a true masterpiece. Anyone who saw the original movie should definitely see part two. Although a lot of things have changed in the sequel (actors, settings, characters, etc.) it's not as bad as everyone says. I don't think it was as good as the original, it is definitely worth watching and if you can find it along with part one for ten dollars you should definitely get the movies. Honestly, I think they were right in casting a new actor to play Bastian. The original Bastian wasn't really a god actor and this one definitely did a good job. The plot of the movie was great too. Everything made sense and its a movie people of all ages would enjoy. Bottom line is, this movie is a great movie and definitely doesn't deserve all of the negative comments made about it. In my opinion, The Never Ending Story III is absolutely horrible. And It's boring. Your five year old kid might like it but it definitely isn't as good as this one "},{"Title":"Great movie for children to explore their imagination!!","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I was five years old when this movie came out and I've been a fan ever since. It not only taught me to play make-believe, it has helped me with my writing in my later years. Better than the first movie, Bastian takes us through a new adventure when he must save Fantasia from being swallowed up by The Nothing. With our familiar friends Atreyu and Nimbly, they must team up to save The Childlike Empress and all creatures of Fantasia. During his time in Fantasia, Bastian must overcome with another problem..heights. His fear will ultimately put him to the test in this awesome childhood classic. I recommend this movie for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"This is a truly awful sequel.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't believe people like this movie, but that is okay.  They have a right to like what they want.  For me though I watched this movie with the realization that this sequel looks a lot worse than the original.  The story is basically the same except this time the kid gets sucked into the fantasyland and his father is reading the book.  Now something called `the empty' is affecting everything.  Now, I don't know, but what rule said they had to have another one word nemesis to combat.  Well that is not fair this time there is an evil queen too.  This does not help the story, nor does the fact that a children's movie sequel should not come six years or so after the first, because you are unable to use any of the original cast.  That and the fact after six years most kids who had seen the first have probably forgotten about the movie.  All in this entire movie, to me, is just inferior in every way to the original. "},{"Title":"They could of done better... quite a bit better in fact","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Anybody who thought that the sequel to the 1984 smash hit 'The NeverEnding Story' would surpass it's original in box-office draw and fan count would be 100% wrong!There is no way ANY prequel, sequel or gatwequel would manage that feat - especially considering the first film is one of the best kids/adult films ever made!Although the parts of Bastian and Barney Bux are more recognizable faces nowadays then their original counterparts (Jonathan Brandis was a Sequest DSV regular while John Wesley Shipp resides at Dawson's Creek), they didn't seem to have as much 'panash' as the originals.Granted, they're great actors and play their parts fine, but it just seemed that they didn't appeal to me as much as the previous ones.Anyway, on with the actual story. When Bastian happens to stumble across Mr. Koreander and TNES book again, he returns to Fantasia to fight 'The Emptiness'.Auryn gives Bastian the power to wish for anything he wants, however, villainess Xayide (mediocre Clarissa Burt) has hatched an evil plan - for every wish he makes, a memory he has from earth is taken away.Atreyu is back too, (this time played by Kenny Morrison) and also returning are Rockbiter (now with Junior), Falcore and The Childlike Empress (who's cut, died and curled her hair).The story is good, but just not as good as the first NeverEnding Story's one was. The special effects are improved a fair bit, and a welcome addition to the colourful cast of characters is Nimbly (played suavly by Martin Umbach).As I said, not as good as the first, but then, they could've done worse - they could've made the third edition the second one! "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'll be brief you are in for a real stinker when you've noticed the sequel has recycled stock footage from the first film because the original imagination and production value was so high (think Atreyu riding on his white horse, which has magically came back to life in part II). Yes, cutaways and transitions from the first movie were dropped into the second film and that's about ALL the second movie had to do with the first. Even Falcor's eyeballs in the second movie were the wrong color - a weird blood red color. None of the original voice over actors or cast returned and barely any of the same crew returned for part II. As a child, I was really excited for the sequel and remember that I went to see it opening weekend at the theater with friends. As an adult, I went back to re-watch part II and now recall why I forgot so much - it sucked so bad that I purposefully removed it from my brain bank. The script to part II, a film's blueprint, was an epic fail from the first page to the last. No special effects or superb acting could save this thing. I gave it two stars instead of one because, for a brief moment in the closing credits, the production included a short clip of the original Neverending Story theme song. "}{"Title":"Cheesy, but Very Creative!","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie came out in the early 90s, and, just like the first Never Ending Story, and is still super cheesy! There was an improvement with with some of the costumes, especially Nimbly. He seemed less stiff and more believable as a real character.Like the first Never Ending Story, this movie was extremely creative. The rock biter, Atreyu the Indian Brave, and Falkor the Luck Dragon go beyond Westernized themes into something more creative and more unique. The costumes were very unique too, and it was fun to imagine with again. Even though I was too little to remember when this came out, I'm very sure kids were excited to see the characters again in a new movie when it came out.This sequel was more menacing than the first. Especially the prevalent theme of Bastian loosing his memories, even forgetting his dead mother. Still, if you read the book (like I had to in high school) this happens in the book, so this is very true to the original story. Because of this theme, I do not think this movie is appropriate for little children.I liked the message behind both Never Ending Story movies. Instead of nothing there should be beauty, instead of emptiness there should be love.This movie is a must for adolescents and fantasy fans. "},{"Title":"Bad movie bad adaptation","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There are so many parts and scenes that are not in the book. Plus there isn't much of the book in this movie. The First one captured the book perfectly and the sequel destroyed the second half of the book. If I were to guess the second movie put in maybe 5% of the book in the movie and about 95% of the book in the first movie. Now there was no 2 or 3rd book so why make a 3rd movie. Finally I think they should remake the second movie. The neverending story is my all time favorite book it destroyed me when they distroyed it. So I propose a redo. Also bad acting and very bad role choices. I think they should have kept the same actors and same directors. I know I am not the only one who feels this way. It seems the director of the second movie skimmed the book and the director of the first movie read the book was able to capture the book in every detail. So they should try again with the second one and capture every detail who cares how long it takes or how long takes to find the right cast to do the movie just do it right. "},{"Title":"No, it really as bad as everyone says","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I, like many others, watched The Never Ending Story as a child and of course loved it, I remembered the characters, the basis of the plot and the lesson. I'm fairly certain I watched the sequels but of them I remembered nothing.Recently, I was using time before an appointment and I came across both The Never Ending Story and The Never Ending Story two for just ten dollars, obviously I could not pass up a chance to upgrade my beloved story to DVD, just in case my VHS died.I digress, so I recently watched them back to back. Aside from replacing all but one of the original actors there didn't seem to be any development from the last story. I expected Bastion to be older physically, but I had also expected him to grow up. He was still the same shy kid but he was dumber. His father some how found a potion to make himself ten years younger then he had been and despite seeming to open up, Bastion still had no friends and couldn't even think about his mother without getting teary. I know, I know, losing someone is always hard, especially a parent, but he was suppose to have moved on in the first movie after he gave the empress a new name. On that topic, may I ask why she seemed to be nameless again in this story?The new actors were... Painfully bad, every action and line seemed over acted to the amount of just being a farce. I never read the book so I have to judge the piece for theatrical value and this has very little. The effects are passable but very little of the story seemed to flow.So to boil it down, Bastion never really grew up, he was just replaced with an older actor, Atreyu, as far as I'm concerned, became a less lovable character. He seemed to lose the smooth, truly native American beauty he had and just became a rough looking sort without the same natural fire and independence.Over all the movie was an eyesore, leave it be and just watch the first. "},{"Title":"Definitly not as good as the first but I would overall say enjoyable for kids","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I first rented this sequel I knew for sure it want going to be as good as the first (ex. reviews on this site) and I definitly turned out right. First things first the special EFX were used a little too much and weren't as good as the first. Also this one got a little bit too kiddyish with jokes. I also didn't like how the Rockbiter had a new voice that really didn't match him. Oh and I absolutley hated the Rockbiter jr.6/10 "},{"Title":"Fun Time Watching This Again","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I used to watch this movie a lot when I was younger, but now that I'm sixteen it's a hoot and a holler to watch. It was on the Disney Channel one late night, and I stayed up with a friend on the phone to watch it and give some basic MST3K commentary. One thing you never notice as a kid is how horrible special effects really are, and boy, are there some doosies here. Especially when Bastian jumps from the waterfall or when the cartoon hand graps him by the head. Oh, and how creepy is Nimbly? Those human eyes staring out of a bird costume is just...yikes. And the guy who keeps switching faces was pure Neverending Story, definitely a little wacked out. My friend and I have also decided that, although this was made in 1990, the evil princess is to blame for the '80s. Look at her paper mache 'stained glass' earrings and pointy hat. It's hilarious! The story's kinda cheesy, though. I don't like it when a movie encourages kids to read. Yeah, but buy the video when it comes out! And why didn't Bastian wish for, like, fifty steps instead of one right after the other? It's called common sense, kid. Plus, where the heck is the original cast? NO ONE IS HERE! And there's so continuity problems, namely in the first flick, Bastian was, what, 9 or 10 and didn't have a mom. In the second one he's 13 and still doesn't have a mom, but in a flashback is shown at her bedside at the same age. That means she would have had to die just recently. Helloooo? Other funny moments include the Dad reading the book (I'm in here? Bastian? Who? I don't understand!) and the wishing for a spray can (right). "},{"Title":"Okay, but not as good as the first one","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Alrighty this movie was pretty okay. The acting was better than the third one, and the plotline was somewhat realistic. Xayide really did need a heart; she was a cold, selfish bi*tch. And it was touching at the end when Bastian wished for Xayide to have a heart ) that made the movie all worth it. Falcor looked somewhat real too.. unlike the third one. This movie gets a 5.5 rating from me.. it was pretty good, but not the best NES movie that I have seen "},{"Title":"Better than you'd think...","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I think this film deserves more credit than it gets. I mean, at least the filmmakers tried to make a decent sequel to the film (however, they had source material to go off of, as the first movie was only based on the first half of the book, which probably explains everything). Watch this one and the first one back to back, and you'll see that the filmmakers were at least trying, unlike the third which reeked of direct to video (and explains why it sat on the shelf for years...) Why aren't the first two on DVD yet? "},{"Title":"Poor sequel, but quite interesting.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My Take Fine special effects can't save the weak points in this weak sequel.I've read some rather sad reviews about this sequel to Wolfgang Petersen's classic fantasy The Neverending Story, based on the book by Michael Ende, mainly because it's hardly based on part two. But for me, I think it's simply not appropriate to compare it to the original (I haven't seen the original yet or read the book, so I can't compare). Still, however, I couldn't quite recommend it other than a second look.The Neverending Story II The Next Chapter is made back then, where movies don't have CGI to do the special-effects as realistic as today. Back then, viewers watch it like any other movie. Today, it seemed something new, that's why we think its not as realistic. But I love watching older movies. Today, most movies' main components are CGI effects or a well-known cast. Back then, where there are no CGI, filmmakers let the viewers imagine that the things they see are real ('cause back then, stop-motion or miniatures are as real as CGI counterparts). But even the stunning special effects work can salvage some of this film's weak points. Namely, a story that should easily fit in a Saturday-morning cartoon. But when it isn't about special effects, this sequel lacks magic, better writing and more engaging characters. Nothing but a curiosity piece and nothing more. Rating ** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Never Ending story II","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a sequel that does not disappoint. The opening theme tune brings us to the modern day with smoothness and ease. There are some who stick by the first film, which I personally felt was better than this next edition. However, in the second instalment, we find Bastian actually in Fantasia.Tami Stronach was probably sacked and replaced with a Child Like Empress who looked more like a teenager. But, there is an improvement of affects and is a vital insight into the mind and world of Bastien. Unfortunately the second chapter is no longer available to buy at a record store so will have to go onto Amazon if you wish to obtain a copy.Now Never Ending story 3 was a complete failure. It was crap in more ways than one and the Luck Dragon looked very very fake. He looked more real in the first two chapters. This is my two Euros. "},{"Title":"i've always liked this movie as much as the first","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  this movie is great family entertainment it has a good story, good special effects and imaginative characters. True, it's not quite as good as the original, but i've always liked this movie because of its great look and great special effects. It's a great pity they didn't bring back most of the cast especially the new Atreyu is disappointing. But the kid who played Bastian was pretty good and i loved seeing mr. Coreander being played by the same actor.  "}{"Title":"One of my Favorites","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites, right after its original. An excellent story of the fantasy world with intriguing characters and story elements. As much as I liked it, I must say that it is not as good as the original. There were also some minor changes that I didn't like too much (Falkore's eyes were RED instead of brown) but they didn't interfere with the plot at all. I also wish that the original actor for Atreyu could have reprised his role. Otherwise, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Good,not great.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was actually a sequel to a movie that I can watch (besides a lot of Godzilla sequels).There are still a lot of neat characters and the story is very faithful to the book in a lota ways, but it was the acting that almost wrecked the movie.Some of the voices were dubbed,because some of the actors can't speak good English.Other than that, it's not great,but decent. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the implications are not far enough....","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Perhaps the implications of these films into the meaning of the psyche and the human soul is not far enough for people to see.  They see the facade of fantasy, and immediately think, children's film.  But this is a film for everybody, granted it's not as good as the original film (the never-ending story 1), but nobody sees that.  This is a film that could pull through into many peoples minds, if they would only see it pulling through. "},{"Title":"Okay...","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Good movie. The thing that bugged me the most was that they went through all the trouble to do a sequel to cover the other half of the book, and then left out HUGE rather important chunks and put other junk in. If it could be done right, I would love to see the book done as a mini-series covering EVERYTHING. For a sequel, I give it high marks. As the other half of a wonderful book, not so high. "},{"Title":"Bad sequel","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Bastian has a fear of diving and goes back to the bookstore to ask Koreander for help. When he sees 'The Neverending Story', the Childlike Empress asks him for help and he takes the book again. This time he goes right into Fantasia to rescue the Childlike Empress. The evil sorceress Xayide has a plan to steal a memory from Bastian for every wish he makes until his mind is empty of all memories. Atreyu and Falkor return to help Bastian in his quest.It's six years after the production of the first movie. So most of the actors are different as well as the director. Jonathan Brandis is a lovely boy actor. He's capable but he's a very effeminate boy. I'm not sure what I dislike about him. I think mostly it's the annoying stupidity of the character, the dialog, and his speaking style.The story is one straight quest. There isn't any originality anymore. It's relying on the goodwill of the original. The action isn't exciting. The acting is weak. The dialog is clunky. The production got bigger but not better. "},{"Title":"For the child in us all","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is geared for those who are 13 or younger OR for the inner child which resides in each of us. Very few chapter twos of stories are as good as the original. This one is no exception. You can, however, set you children down in front of this movie with little worry and a bunch of movie snacks. It is a popcorn pass around movie for the family to watch. It is an excellent children's movie, although the plot is highly predictable,but enchanting. The music and scenery make it worthwhile to see. Let your child and inner child relax and watch a nice movie. This is a good movie for a rainy afternoon when horror flicks are not called for. "},{"Title":"Try to keep your food down while watching this thing","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A painfully bad regurgitation of the rancid fantasy that is 'The Neverending Story', this one has Jonathan Brandis taking over from Barrett Oliver as the young kid who enters the horrendous panto land of Fantasia via a magical book. Absolutely NOTHING works in this appalling misfire the costumes, animatronic characters, production design, even the character names are abysmal. Movies like this are supposed to be enchanting and magical, but nobody involved with the making of this ghastly film has the faintest clue how to accomplish that, so the movie becomes a rotten stew of second hand fantasy and puerile moralising. The script is insincere and sugary, the pace is sluggish, the visual effects are incompetent, the sets are cheesy, the puppets are poorly designed, and the whole thing just collapses under the weight of its own banality. The only bearable elements are the scenes set in the real world, and bits of Robert Folk's score. "},{"Title":"The Ridiculending Story","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film doesn't just lack every charming and wonderful feature from the original, but it also has a lot of absurd things.Let's start from the beginning music is not worthwhile in the whole film (not even at the opening sequence, in contrast to Limahl's masterpiece).I don't like it when the same characters from a previous film are performed by different actors in a sequel, and this happens here with many ones. To top it all, both Mr. Koreander and the Childlike Empress act exactly the same way and say the same things they did in the first film (but this time she's not so pretty, her pleas are tedious and her hairstyle is just ghastly).What happened to Bastian? Now he's such an impertinent brat who wastes the precious wishes from the Auryn, asking for more and more stairs instead of wishing a hundred of them at once (by the way, why didn't the Auryn grant wishes in the first film? Pathetic). Besides, he could have defeated all enemies with one single wish... so that doesn't make sense.Other characters like the Rockeater are flat. And I don't even want to mention Xayide. What kind of idiot would want to destroy a world where he lives? Is she a suicide? What were the screenwriters thinking? The film reaches its most pathetic level when the father reads the book and quickly believes everything it says, instead of calling the police (a normal person would have think about a kidnapping).That's all I have to say about this rubbish. Some tender moments between father and son, nice special effects and some entertainment make me give it 4/10 and not a sad 1.Manuel Pérez. "},{"Title":"Not a failure, just a little disappointing","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A really strong film that warrants a sequel is a tough act to follow. The people behind the next chapter have a lot of pressure on them to deliver something that fans will be happy with. Sequels are treated like a redheaded stepchild, but sometimes this is for good reason. Some sequels really are a letdown, which has been the case with some that were made several years after the original. It took them five years to make a sequel to the popular 'The Never Ending Story' and it kind of backfired because 'The Next Chapter' wasn't as successful financially or critically. A lot of the same people from the first were involved, so you would think it would at least be as good. But after all is said and done there is still enough goods to make this above average entertainment.Pros Cast does fine. Amazing production and costume designs. Score is inferior, but still pretty good. Impressive special and visual effects. Stunning cinematography. Moves at a decent pace most of the time and is never boring. Some interesting new characters.Cons Cheesy at times. Pacing is sometimes uneven. Story not as engaging or complicated as if should have been. Lacks some of the heart and excitement of the original.Final thoughts The first film is so good that it's a shame this first sequel turned out to be so inferior. Again many of the people responsible for the original were on board here, but somehow it didn't produce the same amount of magic. Still this isn't a bad film or a waste of time if you're a fan of the original. In fact this one is based on the second half of Michael Ende's book so watching them back to back may be a good idea. Just don't expect something as wonderful and you might like it.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"It tries to hard as a Fantasy film and a sequel to the classic Original","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well wasn't this just a waste of time. Never ending Story no.2 offers nothing new to us at all. The Original already did that and it certainly didn't need this waste of time.After the first 20 minutes or so of this film, I felt the fantasy was taken out of this film and that really disappointed me as it was classified to be a Fantasy film. In terms of magical elements, it doesn't have them.All the actors have change and that's OK because they did a pretty good job, but.... it's the story and all the concepts that I hated. I'll go through the one that really irritated me and for some reason this became a huge distraction of the film.Bastian now gets to wish for anything he wants cause he's got the oracle. But the kid's character is a total idiot, why doesn't he wish for the entire world of fantasia to just go back to normal.... Instead he does a bunch of other things in which that results in him loosing his memories. The whole wishing concept is just over the top along with other things that they would of worked on. I really tried to like this... 4.7/10 "}{"Title":"It was okay I suppose.","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The original is one of my all time favourite movies, beautifully designed, well acted and had the sense of wonder that enthralled me when I was a child. I saw Neverending Story 3 recently, and thought it was absolute garbage with next to no redeeming qualities. NeverEnding Story 2 The Next Chapter wasn't terrible, but I will admit I was disappointed.The film does look spectacular, with lovely costumes and sets- the image of the silver boats on the river was a beautiful image. The music by Robert Folk was gorgeous, very lyrical and atmospheric. And I did think Xayide was a pretty good villainess and Clarissa Burt was superb playing her, and that Ken Morrison did a worthy job replacing Noah Hathaway as Atreyu. I do admit Hathaway was better, he was born to play the part. Falcor wasn't too bad either, if not as wise as he was in the original movie.There are flaws however. The plot is disjointed, and there are a lot of unfocused moments in the screenplay. Also that big bird was really irritating. Not to mention some contradictions in comparison to the original, then again NeverEnding Story 3 had a lot more contradictions, and did do an even worse job than this film. Barrett Oliver as Bastian was great in the original, and I do appreciate that they made him older and wiser here, but I did think as the hero Jonathan Brandis was rather feeble, but he did try his best with superficial material.Overall, disappointing, but it wasn't that bad. If anything I think it is average, so I will give it a 5/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Half of the movie is The NeverEnding Story. The rest, I don't know.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, to tell the truth, I did like this sequel when I first saw it. I must have been five or six years old (din't remember it in the movies).When I see it today, there are an assortment of flaws and awkward moments that make it inferior by far with both Ende's novel and it's film predecessor, and overall, inferior to several fantasy movies before it.Some aspects of the novel, including characters like Xayide and events like Bastian's loss of memories are included, but completely altered for the newly conceived story.Bastian's father, only mentioned in the novel, has a bigger part in this movie, giving it a Spielberg-esque moralist tone. It's not entirely bad, but it's just not what the original story was about.Half of the movie is Ende's stuff. The rest is made up plots and cheap kiddy fantasy. Don't feel obligated to rent it, but if you do, don't read the novel nor watch Part I first. You may feel disappointed. You also may need to think like a kid to find it amusing. "},{"Title":"Not a terrible movie, but definitely more flawed than the original","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently bought this movie along with the original Neverending Story on a one disc Double Feature, so naturally I watched both movies back to back. I remember liking both movies when I was a kid, and I especially recall liking this movie when it came out. Jonathan Brandis was a popular child actor back in the early '90's (although not nearly as popular as Macaulay Culkin or Elijah Wood), and John Wesley Shipp was most famous for playing The Flash. I remember liking this movie because I liked these two leads. As I watch it again in my adulthood though, I can see it hasn't aged well with time.The first NeverEnding Story, on the other hand, has aged surprisingly well. Despite having no-name actors in it, it was a very intriguing movie with an original villain (Nothingness). Its sequel appeared to be more formulaic, and the dialogue spoken by most of the human actors was too wooden and unconvincing.I had to laugh also at the main villain in this movie, Xayide (played by Clarissa Burt). I thought it was clever how her and her army of giants were empty inside, which was a clever homage to the original Nothingness that took over Fantasia. However, Xayide seemed more like a jaded runway fashion model from Milan than an actual convincing villain. I'm assuming the character of Bastian was supposed to be ten or eleven, because if he was any older than twelve, he could have used his wishes to have his way with her (i.e. I wish your clothes would disappear; I wish for a camera). It just didn't seem that the Xayide character created enough conflict, at least not to me.The movie probably would have been better if at least some of the original main actors (not to mention the director, Wolfgang Peterson) were brought back, and the film was made no later than three years after the original movie. It also probably would have eliminated the plot holes better if it has stuck to the original story. For example, Bastian never actually met Atreyu in the original movie, so how did Atreyu know who Bastian was? Also, if every wish Bastian made erased his memories, how did he still know who Atreyu was? Plus, it was never fully explained how the Empty Villains got rid of all the books in the world, or how human in the real world forgot books ever existed. Not to mention that the latter conflict was never resolved in the end.The Next Chapter of the NeverEnding Story could have been better in a lot of ways, but was enjoyable in a lot of other ways. I thought the reappearance of Falcor and the Rockeater (and son) was worth watching the movie for alone. "},{"Title":"I can find two things wrong with the title","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I am such a fan of the first Neverending Story film, it's a film that I grew up with and have always loved, it was one of my first fairy tale films that had cool effects and a wonderful story. Even today, there is still something special about the film, when I saw the double feature of Neverending Story and Neverending Story 2 The Next Chapter, it was was ten dollars, so I figured to go ahead and get the DVD. One guaranteed good movie with a possibility of another good one, even if the title is a little contradicting, lol. So I watched the film finally today and I have to say that while this isn't certainly the worst film, it isn't the best and was pretty insulting to the first film, the story? Nice cover up on how if you read it twice, the story is a different one.Bastian's life really doesn't seem all that different since he finished the Neverendng Story, his life is still lonely with his busy work-aholic father and he has been rejected from the swim team, things are not looking up for him. He goes back to the antique book store and gets Neverending Story again. He finds out that the empress is in trouble and he needs to restore Fantasia once again and with the help of Atreyu, Falkor, and his rock buddy(who somehow has a kid, how do rocks have kids?), he hopes to pull it off. But that'll be difficult when the emptiness is taking over and all Bastain's wishes are causing him to loose his memory of his father and late mother.The Neverending Story Part 2 isn't a bad family film, but it's really cheesy. I was hoping they would've given them more money, because these costumes were really horrible, the bird? God, could it have been any more cheesy? Not to mention the effects, the fact they changed ALL the actors from the first film, it was just a little over the top and wasn't anything special. I would recommend just staying with the first Neverending Story movie, but this is worth a look as a family film, but I'm just too in love with the first film.4/10 "},{"Title":"An all around bad movie.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is thought by many to be a classic fantasy movie for both kids and adults alike. It had amazing visuals, and for a 27 million dollar budget, it better have had good visuals. Now, the unnecessary sequel has a 36 million dollar budget, and looks nowhere near as good as the first. And along with that, the acting, story and writing are worse too.Bastian Bux is back to reading the Neverending Story, and a new story is taking place. Pages in the book are disappearing because of an evil, condescending queen who has kidnapped the childlike empress and locked her away. Bastian and Atreyu go on a stupid adventure and have problems with each other along the way. The first film can be enjoyed by kids and adults. This one is a brain dead, scatter plotted mess, that can only be enjoyed by kids under 10, who don't care about quality. None of the principle actors return from the first film, and the replacements look and sound nothing like the characters in the first. The acting is terrible, along with all of this.In the end, this is just a weird sequel. In no way does it have the same feel as the good first film. This is like a kids action movie, where the first was like an amazing visual (and mental) portal into one's imagination.My rating 1/2 out of ****. PG for violence. 83 mins "},{"Title":"Very Weak Sequel","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The first film was fun, different, had excellent theme song/music and likable characters in Fantasia Land. This film didn't have any likeable characters except those which were carried over from the first. Atretu and his horse Hardtack, Falkor the flying luck dragon and the Rockbiter. Only problem with Rockbiter was his son Junior, a spoiled little rocker. Mr Koreander the old book seller returns. A new Bastian and father have been added. Jonathan Brandis and John Wesley Shipp respectively. Brandis is very active in this film because he actually enters Fantasia Land and battles the evil in the land. Even Bastian's father is more involved by reading the magic book The Neverending Story and reading about his son whom is caught in the book. If you are looking for a childlike fun experience then this fails. It is more serious as it tries to have more appeal to an adult audience. Still, it has its moments.  "},{"Title":"Life is not  neverending; and this film is not a story, it just never ends","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" If you are ever dating a semi-professional baby-sitter, and she backs off from a dinner date because she has to work that night, but then she suggests that you can come-over and watch the kids with her, do not, however tempted for whatever reasons, do not accept such a gross invitation to lose precious minutes from your life. It is not the kids you need to fear, it isn't even the somewhat awkward situation of trying to engage in romantic small talk with youthful strangers straining their ears to hear it. It's that dam' dreaded kid's movie that you will be certainly forced to watch.This movie is just plain awful. I didn't mind the cheesy special effects, they were almost cute. But they not only wrote dreadful dialog patronizing to kids on the assumption that young people are dumb and innocent, but then they had to hire the hammiest actors they could find to blurt and blare these words out at the audience as though they hated having any audience; - for which they deserve to have no audience at all.And the boy who's the supposed hero of the film - god, talk about dumb! I can't think of any young boy who could identify him.and of course the three kids we were supposedly baby-sitting were not fooled in the least, they did everything but watch this movie. So why did we keep watching this movie? yes, it woman I was supposed to have dated that evening, she fell in love with the white dragon (who looks like a big stuffed dog), and had to make sure everything turned out right in the end.Well, one thing didn't turn out right in the end - our relationship. The next day, our raincheck for the dinner date, I called her up and complained of a headache.So would you if you got stuck watching this film. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as amazing as the first","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Considering that the first is a masterpiece of fantasy/adventure that can be viewed by all ages, I'm amazed at how dumbed down and childish this is. The first had humor, but it was humor that everyone could enjoy; this one has unbelievably childish humor, that only, and I do mean only, kids can enjoy. In fact, probably only young kids, kids who are seven-eight years old will laugh at it. Some of it consists of old cliches, including the a person who the audience considers normal meets a person who is from another world/planet/whatever. He misunderstands some of what the 'normal' person says or does which is older than Stonehenge. Even some of what amazed or fascinated you in the first is turned into lousy jokes. Everything I loved about the first had been changed around to something bad; the actors are all new, with one or two exceptions, the voices for creatures such as Falkor and Rockbiter have changed dramatically and now sound very bad. They even managed to screw up the perfectness of the Childlike Empress, who had the most moving and emotional part in the first, and was absolutely perfect in her innocent appearance. This time, they gave her curls... now she just looks like a regular girl dressed up as a princess. But that's not all. Not only did they screw up all the old characters, they also made nearly all of the new ones horrible too; the gigantic bird is just extremely annoying, Rockbiter Junior made me cringe so bad that I nearly turned the film off... and I could go on. I don't know if the story follows the source material very accurately, but the story is reasonably good. It just lacks the 'adventure' feel of the first, somehow. Or maybe it's just the jokes that kill it. The effects seemed overused, and not as well-made as they were in the first; or maybe the first just did a better job of hiding how bad the effects are, instead of flaunting them. The plot is OK, but lacks the adventure of the first; it never excites you the way the first did constantly. Despite this, it does move along at a pretty good pace, and you aren't really bored at any point in the film. The acting is bad for the most part, especially the new actor portraying Bastian. They should have kept the great actor from the first, just as they should have kept all of the other actors. All in all, the film lacks just about everything that was good about the first, and is really only good as a decent followup to a great film. Watch it if you want the adventure from the first to continue, and you don't mind seeing a much less entertaining film. I recommend this only to young kids who enjoyed the first or to any older fans who don't mind the(extremely) childish humor. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad for a sequel!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Why, this movie is getting bashed and doesn't deserve it! Well,it's not as great as the 1st one, but is still decent and is faithful to the novel, unlike the atrocious 3rd one. But I still wished that Barret Oliver and the other boy would have returned as Bastien and Atreyu.Xaylide is pretty cool though, though I think the bird-guy is obnoxious as hell.It's not that bad people. Believe me!  "},{"Title":"This movie is abysmal.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Honestly, I was looking forward to watching this film. What a load of garbage it turned out to be... so disappointing! I am a Netflix member, & have been taking advantage of it mainly for the sake of watching nostalgic movies from my childhood. Upon watching the original The Neverending Story, I was delighted & so pleased with how entertaining it is, even for a twenty-one year old such as myself. Well, I had enjoyed the sequel as a youngster, so I figured it would be the same case. Too bad it wasn't... at all. Oh, no.I don't even know where to start, so, here's a list of why you shouldn't waste your time watching this film &#149; The acting, or lack thereof, is absolutely laughable. Not just with the case of one actor, either; it was everybody. Atreyu, Bastian, Mr. Bux, Xayide, Childlike Empress, even that obnoxious Nimbly. Yikes. &#149; The monsters are entirely unoriginal... The Dark Crystal, anyone? &#149; Weak, undeveloped plot & concepts. The emptiness? Give me a break. Memory balls? Who has that few memories? I was so unconvinced. &#149; The dialogue was also poor... I was bored out of my mind by any exchange between the characters. &#149; Additionally, that Rockbiter baby is so annoying. I regret not fast-forwarding through that sequence.I felt that this movie could have been somewhat exceptional, but it just stopped short with everything. If the people who made this film had just worked harder at making it close to the superior quality of the preceding film, then it could have been worthwhile. Alas... "}{"Title":"Not the worst sequel ever....","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's not the worst sequel ever, I mean have you seen the crap that is NES Film III. NES II was at least an attempt to tell the second half of the book where as that evil thing called NES III was just an attempt to further milk the success of the previous film. What's sadder in the case of all three films is they waited so many years inbetween films that they couldn't even use the same actors. The same bastian/atreyu/child-like empress in a two part film would have made far more sense then the huge gap between I and II that made the actors too old too come back. But even with that, they age Bastian up, aged his father down, and, I believe, age the child-like Empress who shouldn't have aged at all.The best thing that can be said about NeS II is it was loads better than NeS III, though forced to re-cast it still tried to hold onto the spirit of the original characters. The problem was NeS I & II should have been a two part film made with the same actors. Because for the second half of the book he didn't come 'home', he went right into the 'Fantasia' portion of the story. The time gap between films I & II forces them to hit the re-set button with Bastian and almost re-play issues conqured in the first one. As a fantasy film and sequel to the former film, it's simple okay, not too bad, and somewhat fun, but it doesn't hit the emotional mark the first film did. It also doesn't as loyaly capture the spirit of the second half of the book the way NeS I captured the first half. I wish the makers of the first film had thought ahead and invisioned a two part work the way the makers of LotR envisioned thier trilogy.The good things about NeS II It was actually somewhat derived from the second half of the book. It was better than the crap that was NeS III.The Bad thing The time gap with NeS I made some parts of Bastian's character development repetative and parts of the 'new versions' of the old characters story conflicted with the previous film. It had to stray to far from the book, unlike the first film.Okay sequel watch it if you liked the first and are curious (and maybe haven't read the book or aren't a stickler for canon), stay as far away from the third sequel as you can rather you're a fan of the book or one of the films.  "},{"Title":"What a let down","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie at a theatre in London, and it is my least favorite memory of that trip.  The first movie was incredible - the book absolutely amazing. I had high hopes - and it ruined them all.  Read the book.  See The NeverEnding Story.  Forget this movie exists. "},{"Title":"Get off It!","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" You people are crazy! Why all the bashing for the film? I guess I can see what the difference is here. I am 20 years old and I remember seeing the movie as a very small child. I could almost say that his movie molded my childhood! It was completely magical and so full of fantasy and imagination. I grew up idolizing the childlike emporess. i I just don't understand all the hateful words toward the film. Not all of us are middle-age and have read the book before. Some of us grew up on this film and absolutely loved it! Maybe the movie producers and directors didn't plan on aiming at the middle-aged crowd. Would you sit here and bash Sesame Street because the child-like antics didn't appeal to you? I'm sorry, but reading all of your comments kinda let me down on this movie I grew up on! I thought it was a masterpiece at the delicate age of 4! "},{"Title":"What would you do if books were being destroyed, and you forgot who you were.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Rating ***1/2 out of ****Bastian now 12 or 13 years old is still grieving over the death of his mother, and doesn't really care about his father, and when he tries out for the swimming team where he has to jump the high board he finds that water is one of his biggest fears, which leads him back to Coreanders bookshop where he asks for a book on courage. There he grabs the NeverEnding Story again, and is swept into the world of Fantastica to save it from the evil sorceress Xeida, and her armored red mechanic slimy giants, who's faces look like pirahnas, and Xeida steals one of Bastians Memories each time he makes a wish with Auryn. Bastian is reunited with Atreayu the warrior in the Emerald City, where he saves it from the giants, and unwisely wishes for the most horrible fire breathing dragon in the history of Fantastica, which is probably the shows scarriest scence. Bastian and Atreayu are guided by Falkor, and team up to destroy the giants. As Reading is one of Bastians favorite Pastimes, books start to get destroyed in the real world by Xeida, and if he loses his memories he won't remember who he is. Soon Bastians Father reads the story, and encourages Bastian in Fantastica. Like the first NeverEnding Story Taught that reading is good this one teaches an inspiring message about courage (overcoming fears), remembering who we are, and learning to live mor happy, and appreciating what is seen. The film Criticts Such as Leonard Maltin thought the story was disappointing, and lame, but they must not understand the message it told, and let the stupid little water fear ruin the film... talk about being cynical. however they must be the only people who thought that way, because most people really liked this film. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Critics Say, But Completely Unnecessary.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The first installment of this trilogy had a beginning, a middle, and a satisfying ending, making this sequel as unnecessary as many other critics have claimed. THIS sequel, however, does mandate the NEXT sequel, in that it left a bit to be explained.This is really a convoluted, contrived, uneven mess; bearing none of the original talent, thereby losing all of the Magick of the original. These actors are capable, but failed to illicit the same feeling of wonder, creativity, and awe.All in all, this is an exercise in utter futility, and was completely unnecessary. But if you watch this one, you need to see the last, in order to clear up the many holes left by this installment.It rates a 4.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Reasonable fare but not a necessary sequel at all","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" When Bastian returns to read the NeverEnding Story he finds that the page about the Childlike Empress is just blank. He returns into the book to find an unnamed force has imprisoned the Empresses and threatens to turn the contents of the world and the book into just dead reading matter, like so many before it. However as he prepares to set out on his quest, the evil Xayide plans to rob Bastian of his memory by harnessing his wishes. Meanwhile, back in the real world Bastian's father is looking for his missing son.The original film was never anything that special but I must admit I quite enjoyed the adventure and the dark tone it took at times. The sequel tries to basically ape the first film, with a similar story but with Bastian inside the world full time. It work anywhere near as well as the reasonably good original and instead it feels like it is just trying too hard for the majority of the time. The repetition of the characters is a bit pointless because their familiarity takes away the chance for a fresh view of this world while still be unfamiliar because all the original actors were six years older by this point. The story has enough to it for slighter older children to perhaps be engaged by it but it didn't have anything of real interest for me. Likewise the design really; it looks like more money was spent on it but it is not as imaginative as the first film.The cast are obviously all new to the film series &#150; even roles that really could have been played by the same people. Brandis and Morrison are not that good although the former is better than the latter, who speaks far too much modern American English to be convincing within his world (too many totally's and the like). Brandis is a bit hard to watch looking back now because it has only been a few years since the actor (pretty much my age) killed himself. Burt is obvious and uninspiring, Umbach is OK considering the amount of make-up on him. Shipp has somehow turned into a young father rather than the older man of the first but he isn't that good. The support cast are OK but again nobody seems to have the feel of quality that was in the first film.Overall a reasonable film but a pretty unnecessary one. Most children who watched the original will have moved on by the time this came out, meaning that the next generation could have easily just stuck with the original again. "},{"Title":"Why a sequel to a classic film.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't like that film at all because it's an insult to the first one. These are the reasons why1-Jonathan Brandis is not half as good Barret Oliver was and he doesn't even look like him(Did Bastian used coloration on is hair, I don't think so!!).2-Did Bastian father find the fountain of youth or something because is a lot younger than in the first one.How do Bastian fell to have the father from the T V show growing pains.3-What the hell is wrong with Bastian and Atreyu they look like they're the best of friends when you don't even see them together in the first film.4-I felt like punching  Nimbly across the face from the moment I first saw him.5-I knew at the end of that film that they would make another follow up it was just a matter of time,and surprise they did and Bastian had is  hair colour  back to black,what a mess....When I think I actually saw that trash on a big screen. Go see the first one,IGNORE those stupid follow up. "},{"Title":"This movie can stand to be seen once.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was not a very good movie.  The worst part was that they didn't use the same actors from the first movie.  Part II was full of okay actors and the story just wasn't as good as the first movie.  If you haven't seen the first movie, then you will like this one, but if you have, you might want to stay away.  Because of the Never Ending Story II, I might not ever see the Never Ending Story III. "},{"Title":"Wow,this is just confusing!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Man,in the 1st Neverending Story,I could get the story and what the characters are doing.But in this one,it is so cluttered! Oh well,lets give the run-down hereThe GoodGiorgio Moroder composed the soundtrack. They used the original Fantasian/Fantastican characters. Nice scenery. And well,Pia Zadora or Oscar Martin (from Pod People) doesn't star in it. It uses at least some elements from the novel(eg.Emptiness,Xayide,etc..The BadVERY confusing plot (I know some wee-ones that don't get this film)alot of the new actors and actresses can't act,but even the talented ones,such as the Italian model/actress Clarisse Burt (an actress whom usually stars in alot of obscure Italian films and animations)got wasted as a ego-centrical,spazzy acting witch Xayide.I don't think Xayide was suppost to be like that in the book,but I dont think it was Burt's fault (no wonder she was crying at the end of the movie!) Wolfang Peterson did not direct the film,instead,we got the director whom did the other in-accurate from-novel-to-movie flick Babe,the Galliant Pig. Why does Moonchild or The Child-Like Empress look like she is 16 years old and not 10?It's not like Bastian has a crush on her or anything,so they should have kept her child-like. AND WHERE DID ROCKBITTER JR. COME FROM? Makes you kinda wonder about the Rockbitter himself and what he was doing,huh?Okay,well,it's just confusing. At least it isn't the wreched TNES3!  "},{"Title":"An unfortunate production","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Maybe the film would stand up if only there would not be the book upon which this movie was based. The wisdom that prevails in Michael Ende's Neverending Story did not transcend into this movie. It could be said that the same might apply to the first installment of 'The Neverending Story', but here it becomes even more apparent that the movie did not have the cleverness and deepness in mind found in the book that so nicely describes the human nature with all its strengths and weaknesses. Everyone who had the luck to read the book should steer well away from this movie. "}{"Title":"Neverending Boring!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Awful, Awful, Awful...This movie should not have been made. When I rented this movie a few years ago I thought Wow, a sequel to the first movie! Cool! It was not cool. The story sucked and the actors to. Why didn't they keep the original cast? And the music! In the first movie it's a wonderful soundtrack but in this it's like they had a Yamaha synth and just banged at it...When I saw it the first time I was only 8 years so I gave it a second chance last week. It was even worse this time! No I noticed the so called effects they had in the movie. The worst things I have ever seen. Why?Don't see this movie. See the first one, but skip the rest! "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequel...EVER","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Yep, sadly, since the original was one of the best movies ever made. I guess, I could repeat the critics that other users had, but I won't... since all of them are correct (the bad one, offcourse)If I wasn't a movie critic, i would leave the cinema, right after i saw the first 15 minutes of the movie. I've hoped for the best, when story moved to Fantasia, but NO, the story gets even dumber. Princess Xayide...What the hell is that? A Disney movie? I better not mention the plastic operations that Bastians father had after the first part?Is there anything good in this movie, beside pathetic acting? Well, if I try hard, i could mention a joke or two (Bastian Give me five!, Atreyu Five of what?), that brought a little smile on my mouth; what eventually helped the movie for not receiving awful 1 of 10 rating. O.K. And there's again music from the genius Giorgo Moroder; sadly not even half as good as in the part one.2 out of 10 (with a ticket to the 10 worst sequels ever made)  "},{"Title":"Why were the sequels necessary?","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I started watching this one, not expecting much to being with, given a total orverhaul of the cast (except for the bookstore owner) and an opportunity to cash in on the brilliance of the first one. There didn't seem to be any reason to make a sequel. It was more like, what would happen if we could rewrite the first story? In the Never Ending Story II, Bastian plays a kid in need of a lot of confidence and some affection from his dad. But so did Bastian in the first one, who, by the end of the film, learned to build up said confidence and all of that. In other words, Bastian #1 learned all the lessons that the adventure of the first film was meant to teach him (and Atreyu as well, being his counterpart). But then, in the second part, you would never know that any of the character building existed, as they had written Bastian #2 as an inconfident kid who has to go through the adventures once again to learn all of those lessons...again. What was the point? And, unlike the other great qualities of the first, namely special effects, which made the first one really terrific (and really terrific for any fantasy film), the sequel has special effects comparable to a Dinsey musical out of the 1960s. In addition to all of that, the acting was pretty pathetic. I just didn't see any necessity to the Never Ending Story sequels other than a profit motive. But audiences who really enjoyed everything the first one had to offer, were likely not to enjoy the sequels because they lacked so much of that richness the first one had. "},{"Title":"A sad rip-off of the original","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  In short, Neverending story II was a travesty compared to the original.  it doesn't have the same magic as the first, instead it has a cheap Hollywood smell...and bad acting to boot.  the creatures are all poorly designed (except the returning ones from the original).  i found myself thinking about other stuff while watching the movie because the whole plot was totally inconsequential.  i can imagine how wolfgang petersen (the director of the first) must've felt after this was released.  of course he didn't direct this one.  if he did, i'm sure it would've been much better.  i gave up about 3/4 of the way through when i realized i better things to do with my day.  bare in mind though that i absolutely loved the original.  it is definitely one of the top five fantasy films.  go see it...but not this one. "},{"Title":"imaginative","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 'The Neverending Story 2' is the sequel to the first film. It was weaker than the original with an even slower plot, and this sequel did not really add anything new. Again, there are the strange characters, including a giant flying dog which transports the young hero around. Again, the film is pretty low-budget in terms of production, and it is very slow in places. Overall, it is a weaker film that the original. I did not enjoy it nearly as much, but I do not remember too much about it as I saw it when I was much younger. I do know that adults would be bored of this. It is a children's film, and if you did not like the first one, then do not even bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Worst Sequel EVER!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  OK-There are so many things about this film that bug me, I don't even know where to start.  So here is my list of questions about this horrible excuse for entertainment 1. Why is Bastien's dad like, 10 years younger than he was in the 1st movie? 2.Why is the Childlike Empress still called that?  Why doesn't she use her new name? 3.I thought the Empress told Bastien he could have as many wishes as he wanted in the first movie.  Why doesn't he do this? 4.Why does Atreyu now look like a real Native American and not a pasty British kid? 5.What is Bastien's mom's name anyway? 6.Why did they even think about making this movie? 7.Why did they cast Jonathan Brandis? 8.Why'd they make ANOTHER sequel? 9.What happened to the magic of the first movie? 10.Why are Atreyu and Bastien so touchy in this movie?  They get all up tight about the dumbest stuff. Yeah, to make it simple, this movie blows. "},{"Title":"ROCKBITTER WITH A SON ?!!! And a truly UGLY one ?!!... This film is a missed opportunity.","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  After the first one i had high expectations for this sequel, but it became a true disappointment ! I almost couldn´t believe what i was seeing. I kept remembering the situations in the book and hoping that when the movie got to that part things would be better. Instead it only got worst, because this movie kept destroying every good idea of the original story. Never a brilliant book was so ripped apart !!The soundtrack is the best thing in this movie. It is REALLY good, with some beautiful moments. It´s sad to see a such a good musical score wasted in a movie like this. This music should have been part of the original Neverending Story, not on this disgrace of a sequel.This movie has a very good atmosphere, very close to the first one, but we can thank the soundtrack for it.The production design is also very good too, but we get the feeling that the designers weren´t allowed to dream much, because in this movie there aren´t as many imaginative locations as in the original movie. The world of FANTASIA doesn´t look magnificent and vast anymore. It just looks ok.And that is one of the worst things about it, because the second part of the novel is the one which has the most fantastic locations of the book. Wonders could have been done with it, that would easily surpass every scene in NEVERENDING STORY I. Why was it kept so simple ?!!I bet, because in some Hollywood executives head, as usual, Fantasy is just for children and children are too stupid to care about changes in books.If there is a diference between the original NEVERENDING STORY, and this sequel , is that we clearly see that the first one was made as a children's movie but for adults to enjoy, specially the adults who read fantasy. The original achieved the impossible, delivering a movie that didn´t treat adults nor children as idiots.Something that doesn´t happens with NEVERENDING STORY II, which is clearly intended to be a kids movie, something between Disney meets Neverending.Every line of dialogue seems to be written to be  Way COOL !  and fun and not to serve the original story.And the new cast has a big trouble. The new BASTIAN, is good, and it could have been in the original movie, but the new ATREIÙ, is simply unbelievable AWFUL ! Who did ever choose this kid to play Atreiù ?!! WHY ?!! He´s too city american to play a character like that !This kid seems to think he´s in America all the time, not in a fantasy world ! He acts more as if he were in Brooklyn than in Fantasia.This must have been one of the worst castings in recent movie history. This kid simply isn´t convincing at all. Sometimes we can almost feel that he´s going to ask for a Hamburger ! I wouldn´t be surprised to see a McDonalds somewhere in a landscape in this movie !Even the creatures don´t look half as real as they used to.And that bird ! WHAT IS THAT ?!!! ROCKBITTER with a son ?!!! Where did that come from ?! This movie would be the worst adaptation of a book ever, but unfortunately we have NEVERENDING STORY III for that. And i thought things couldn´t get worst.But if we forget about the book for a moment, is this movie any good ? That´s what´s upsetting about it. In fact it isn´t bad at all. If we forget this is NEVERENDING STORY, this is an above average Hollywood fantasy production. Better than many things out there . It has atmosphere, better story than the usual for an american fantasy movie, an excellent soundtrack and it´s entertaining to watch. So i can´t totally hate it as a fantasy movie.As NEVERENDING STORY, it´s very bad, and a total waste of an amazing story.SO, everybody,if you have to see this, READ THE BOOK first, because you´ll never forget it. It´s that good ! And you will appreciate better what was NOT done with this movie.But in the end ,there are worst things you could watch, so it isn´t that bad. NEVERENDING STORY II, is just a good fantasy film which could have been a fantasy masterpiece, but missed the oportunity in an unforgiving way. Anyway, it´s not bad.Number III. Now, that´s REAL BAD ! "},{"Title":"So Glad the Title Is an Inaccuracy.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Another sequel we didn't need or want as Jonathan Brandis takes the role originated by Barrett Oliver in the original and goes back to the fantasy world in the title via reading an impossibly large book. This time though he is being stripped slowly, but surely of his memories as he makes wishes in the alternative world. Many of the fantastical creatures and situations come back for this dud as director George Miller gets carried away with wild art direction and special effects that fail to match those in Babe (a film that Miller helped to co-direct with Chris Noonan). There are some interesting things here, but really there is just not enough substance to make the film worth much. Like its predecessor, it suffers from an uneven tone and an identity crisis. 2 stars out of 5.  "}]