[{"Title":"A magic potion!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"42 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delightful period piece set appropriately in 1963.  Appropriate because Charlotte (Wynona Ryder), like the nation, is about to shed a little of her innocence and face some difficult realities.  Cher, Ryder and an adorably young Christina Ricci are perfect as a single parent family.  Cher, in her best work ever, including Moonstruck, is a free-spirited mom who only cooks finger food because anything else is too much of a commitment.  Ryder, who narrates the film from her character's perspective, is a high school student who, despite her fervent wish to lead a devout life, falls in love with the local handyman.  Ricci is the youngest, a champion swimmer who steals the whole movie with scenes like her pumpkin scene. (Watch it and you'll know what I'm talking about.  It's unforgettable.) Bob Hoskins is hilarious as the shoe salesman who falls head over heels for Cher, family and all.Set in coastal Massachusetts, the scenery is breathtaking, and the idyllic depiction of life in a small town in the last days of American innocence is dead on.  Director Richard Benjamin, who also gave us such charming films as Milk Money and My Stepmother is an Alien, rivals Penny Marshall and Rob Reiner with this gem.This film is perfection, an absolute 10.  It's a magic potion that can make me laugh and feel good even on the worst day.  I sometimes wish I could step inside a la Pleasantville and stay there. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Little Film","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen this film a number of times, and I always enjoy it. What stands out most about this film is the acting, and the overall feel of the film. It feels tremendously authentic to its time and subjects. The acting is very good throughout, and the movie is just a very fun, and very human story. One that is easy for almost anyone to relate to in some way.There are a number of great performances in this film. Winona Ryder plays one of her most interesting characters, and she pulls it off very well. Bob Hoskins is very strong and enjoyable as usual. Personally I have always loved Cher's acting. I can't say I'm a huge fan of her music, but I've always had some respect for her there too. However her acting has always been very strong in my opinion. I know she has been nominated for multiple Oscars and even won one for Moonstruck. However I still think her acting is somewhat underrated by most people. (And she also gave Nick Cage his first huge break after demanding that the studios cast Cage opposite her in Moonstruck. Cage was thought to be somewhat of a risky bet back in those days, and Cher basically made the major studios take the chance with him. Which I find somewhat funny, and also very Cher like.). Cher also had the original director of this film, and the girl who was originally cast in Winona's part fired. So Winona fans also have Cher to thank for her even being in this film. It's hard to criticize Cher for getting rid of these originals either, seeing as how well the film turned out with the people she approved. She is a very strong minded and hearted woman in my view, and if you take a look at Silkwood, Mask, Moonstruck, and this nice little film. You will undoubtedly also see that this woman can flat out act. She has some other decent films as well.Anyway, all in all, I highly recommend Mermaids to anyone that likes character driven film. And basically to any teen, male or female. It is basically a coming of age story in terms of Winona's character, and even for Cher and Hoskins characters to some degree too. ) And there is a lot to relate to in terms of the parent/child relationship, especially the single parent. Those with Attention Deficit Disorder , or those who get bored easy may not get into it however. ) I gave this film a 7, but I'm a pretty strict rater, and this film is a very solid 7 in my opinion. In fact, I'd give it a 7.5 if I could.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"**** Endlessly charming","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film as a preteen and have loved it ever since. Endlessly entertaining performances are the best thing about this underrated and understated coming-of-age comedy that features Cher doing what she does best--convincing you she rules the world, and she really does. As Rachel Flax, a headstrong and independent mother of two (Winona Ryder, Christina Ricci), she thinks nothing of jumping into her car at the slightest sign of trouble and moving to another town (Life is change, she says). Ryder is excellent as the fifteen year-old Charlotte, a girl who thinks that the best way to fight her burgeoning hormones is to devote her life to the Catholic church as a nun, despite the fact that she's Jewish. Of course, the boy next door (the sadly now retired Michael Schoeffling) gets in the way of her holy ambitions. Bob Hoskins is also a riot as the awshucks shoe salesman who falls over himself for Rachel, first out of fascination, and then out of love. Great music, great period feel and very light, warmhearted direction by Richard Benjamin.  "},{"Title":"The 400 Blows, as seen through a girl's eyes","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Small-town Massachusetts fills in for Paris.)Every shot, every nuance in this film is just right. That's mostly Richard Benjamin's doing, but the great cast got inspired -- maybe by the glowing fall colours, maybe by the nostalgic fashions of 1963 -- to really outdo themselves.Richard Benjamin's direction deserves extra credit because he was not filming his own autobiography, the way François Truffaut was in 1959. Similarities in the two storylines encompass more than just the awkwardness of adolescence. (Charlotte watches the Singing Nun on television, while Antoine lights a candle before a holy image of Balzac.)Cher is as good as she was earlier in Moonstruck, while Winona exceeds her performance in Welcome Home, Roxy Carmichael. And they both prove they can be pretty in pink.Bob Hoskins and Cher have a genuine chemistry. Who ever would have predicted that they would make the ideal romantic couple?If there's a better, truer, or funnier story of a girl's coming of age, I haven't been lucky enough to see it.  "},{"Title":"Funny older and still can touch your heart.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say that this movie is incredibly underrated. The movie is from the daughter's point of view and Ryder does an excellent job playing the purtian to Cher's mother role. I can't believe Christina Richie's first role- even back then she was incredible. She has a way of stealing the movie. This movie has a sad vibe. Here's the point of the movie, once you see it , you can remember the feelings and 10 years later I'm able to remember how wonderful it is. The music to the movie is awesome. I, along with several of my friends have this soundtrack which makes me think this was one of the first true soundtrack purchases from the 90's "},{"Title":"Winona's finest hour","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Winona Ryder is fantastic in this movie - its a helluva part and she plays it for all it is worth.  Whether she is worshipping Joe (the local hunk-deluxe), or watching 'The Singing Nun' on television, she is completely believable. Her relationship with her less-than-perfect Mother (Cher) is also believable. As a bonus, you get Christina Ricci and Bob Hoskins and some beautiful cinematography.  It also has a real feel for the 60's.Downsides are one cliche too many (WHY does every movie that takes place in the 60's have to feature JFK's assassination?) and it goes on a tad too long, but its worth watching for sure.  "},{"Title":"A Fun Way to Spend an Evening","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cher and Wynona Ryder are very believable as Mrs. and Charlotte Flax, respectively. Mrs. Flax is a single mom who lives by the motto Real women never get too old. Her bright, bold, sexy ways make her a special woman but aren't enough to spare her from all the characteristic pains of single motherhood. Moving from town to town with every new relationship, she finds herself at odds her 15 year old daughter, Charlotte.Charlotte wants to be everything her mother isn't - pious, proper, humble, and pure. Her good intentions, however, are constantly in conflict with her basic nature, which is more like her mothers. Charlotte develops a fierce crush on Joe, the caretaker at a nearby convent. When Mrs. Flax's potentially serious relationship with the endearing Lou, played by Bob Hoskins, hits a rough patch, she too finds herself attracted to Joe. With competition for his affection to add fuel to the fire between Mrs. Flax and Charlotte, the only thing they can seem to agree on is caring for Katie, Charlotte's little sister, charmingly played by a young Christina Ricci. As things come to a head in the small town where the Flaxes are living, Katie's well-being hangs in the balance while both her mom and older sister try to work through their impulses. "},{"Title":"Delightful coming-of-age film","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a delightful movie.  The period details are fun, Cher is GREAT, and the chemistry between Hoskins, Cher, Winona Ryder and Christina Ricci is excellent. Ryder is especially good at capturing that mixure of idealism, angst and embarrassment which is adolescence. "},{"Title":"A Quirky Comedy With Engaging Characters","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not to say that this movie is a rarely talked about movie, but an underrated chick flick. Mermaids tells the story of an upbeat mother named Rachel Flax (Cher) who after every failed relationship she moves to another state along with her two daughters Charlotte and Kate (Winona Ryder and Christina Ricci)and finally settles down in a small town in Massachusetts and finds herself in a relationship with a shoe-salesman named Lou Landsky (Bob Hoskins). However, she's fearful of commitment and the struggles to accept this man to be in relationship is a fear she must overcome. Meanwhile her oldest daughter Charlotte wants to become a nun (although she happens to be Jewish and not Catholic) is also smitten for an attractive older school bus driver Joseph Porretti (Michael Schoeffling). Her youngest daughter is obsessed with water and the ocean and has a future planned to peruse a career in the aquatics (she has already won several awards for her accomplishments).The characters are so rich and it should be thanked to the great performances by the cast who made it all possible. It seems that the performers were custom made to fit his and her respected roles, though several of the major stars were not the original choices for these parts. The director of the movie was Richard Benjamin who was hired after Lasse Hallstrom and Frank Oz were given the ax by the star Cher. For the part of Charlotte Flax, British thespian Emily Lloyd was slated but she was let go because they wanted a character that had some physical resemblance to Cher and so Ryder became her replacement (she was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress). To me it was a perfect match.Though she's been snickered and jabbed at by the media, but I think she's a very good performer and she has never once turned in a performance that made me want to put a bag over my face. Rachel Flax reminds me a lot of my own mother. She's light-spirited, spontaneous and just the right person to visit for a tuna sandwich and lemonade. A bit of a philanderer, but that soon changes once Lou wants to be in a committed relationship with her.The story caters through the eyes of the eldest daughter; Charlotte who seems obsessed with everything that is Catholic and at the same time cannot keep her mind off of Joseph. She does not want to end up inheriting any of her mother's unorthodox traits, while at time feels obligated to take up that task of second mother to her much younger sister Kate. Charlotte's trials and tribulations add the right touch of humour and pathos that flow by very immaculately as the film carries through.Based on a novel by Patty Dunn, Mermaids has an equally amount of laughter and choices the right time when serious issues come into fruition. The chemistry between Cher and Hoskins are just as equally engaging as the chemistry between Ryder and Schoeffling. The direction was simple and easy to follow and the feeling of the 1960's plays along very nice with a great soundtrack, this is a romantic comedy that isn't sappy or preachy, just a lot of fun and chuckles that will amuse you in the 150 minute duration. "},{"Title":"Mermaids (1990)","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mermaids is the story of a family of three ladies, a mother and her two daughters. Winona Ryder plays the eldest daughter who actually looks down her mother. Ryder dreams of becoming a nun so that she can live a pure and honest life. Cher is the mother, who constantly moves her family around whenever she fails at a relationship. Ryder is tested by a young man that she starts to have feelings for while Cher has difficulty adjusting to a serious relationship with Bob Hoskins. It's a fine film on all accounts as both a comedy and a romantic drama. The rift between Cher and Ryder is an easy one to understand and they both play it brilliantly. You always get the feeling that they are tired of one another, but the love is always present. Hoskins is a fantastic and surprising romantic lead. He gives off a strong dominant force, but also comes across as fragile. It's his strength that gradually repairs this family. Christina Ricci stars as the youngest daughter and it's no surprise she became a star. She manages to do young and cute without being annoying. The soundtrack helps to capture the time period very well. The pacing is often off and it feels like an edited down novel, but when it's hitting those high notes in terms of comedy or drama it is a great watch. "}{"Title":"wonderul, cute, sweet comedy/drama, winona's best ever!!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film was wonderful!!, i loved  winona's and christina ricci's acting in their roles for this film!  this film shows the lengths, and the  relationship, of how a mother and daughter work out their relationship together! it was funny, tragic, sexy, and  works for winona fans. it takes place in 1963/64. vcher is snobby, yet, hysterical in a mean way for this film! bob hoskins is wonderful in this film! he's very talented  when he hides his english accent. this movie is foir drama lovers, who love mother/daughter dramas!  it seems long, but, is enjoyable if you watch it a number of  times!  see this movie!! if you love winona! "},{"Title":"Winona's finest performance!","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good stuff. Cher plays the realistic slutty single mom who is never really happy and doesn't know how to commit to any man. Bob Hoskins plays the realistic average guy who wants the hot mom but can't quite have her. ChrisTEENY Ricci is one of the most bad ass 5 year olds or however old she is in this. Chugging red wine and holding her head under water for fun. But it's Winona Ryder who really shines through as the troubled 15 year old who is completely focused on 2 things 1. becoming a nun, and 2. losing her virginity to the cute bus driver who drives her to school. The awkward love story is quite compelling, as is the believable tension that is constantly erupting within the walls of the family's home. This is probably the greatest performance I have ever seen from Winona. She is intense and emotional throughout and it's extremely genuine feeling. A classic chick flick right here! It's got a lot of personality! Very well done! "},{"Title":"Enchanting coming of age drama","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mermaids is directed by Richard Benjamin, has a screenplay by June Roberts, is based on the novel by Patty Dann and stars Cher, Bob Hoskins, Winona Ryder and Christina Ricci.Charlotte Flax(Winona Ryder)and her younger sister Kate(Christina Ricci)have to learn to cope with their mum moving them all over the country whenever things don't go right for her in her failed relationships.Their mum(Cher)is a glamorous woman who can be a bit shocking at times.She adores Kate but doesn't know what to do with Charlotte who's just trying to find her place in the world.They family move to a small town near to a convent(at which Charlotte is thrilled) and she ends up falling in love with the gorgeous caretaker there Joe(Michael Schoeffling).Mrs Flax finds romance of her own with kind shoe salesman Lou Landsky(Bob Hoskins)who is the one man to reach her heart and he may just be the man for her.Funny and moving Mermaids will have you laughing and crying. The whole cast give superb performances especially Cher and Winona. A great family film. "},{"Title":"Under rated classic","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Coming of age classic! Mermaids, with simplicity, is able to capture the hearts of many. Seeing this movie first at age 14/15, I could heavily relate to the character portrayed by Winona, who by the way played the role brilliantly. Cher, someone I never until watching the film, thought as a serious actress, blew me away by her role in mermaids, her fluky mom persona is addictive and humerus. The combination of Cher, Winona and Christina Ricci make the perfect family for this film. The story is so relevant and familiar to everyday life, it's easy and fun to watch. Not only is the movie hilarious and heart warming, it's moving. A must see. "},{"Title":"A teen girl obsessed with NUNS!?","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charlotte is the older sibling in a family of three. Her mom is always moving her two girls from town to town, so both Charlotte and her little sister Kate have trouble making friends. Charlotte is like any other girl her age, but there's one exception... she is obsessed with the Catholic religion and while other girls are thinking of The Beatles, Charlotte dreams of one day being a nun.One day Charlotte meets a boy and her mom meets a man, who happens to work at the local school. As events such as the J.F.K. assassination and kissing her new boyfriend Joe come up, Charlotte's life gradually stops making sense, until a horrible accident makes her family stop and think.This movie is GREAT, I've loved it since grade 5. The acting is amazing with actresses Cher (Silkwood and The Mask), Winona Ryder (Beetlejuice and Edward Scissorhands), and Christina Ricci (The Addam's Family Weird is Relative and Casper). The soundtrack is excellent and suits the date in question (takes place in 1963), and the plot is a fictional memoir of one of the most original characters you'll ever see. I highly recommend this movie, it's one of the best 1990's movies I've seen. "},{"Title":"Unusual and very enjoyable","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A plot synopsis makes this film sound weird, and I think maybe it is. Told through the eyes of older daughter Charlotte (Winona Ryder), who is at that awkward teenage stage when, well, you know, it concerns the Flax family in 1960s middle America. Mother Mrs Flax (Cher) has trouble settling down. Every time anything close to permanency approaches, Mrs Flax ups sticks and she, Charlotte, and little Kate (Christina Ricci, cute as a button an an early child role) move somewhere else. Charlotte badly needs to put down some roots, especially as she has an eye on this handsome local lad. But local shoe shop proprietor Lou (Bob Hoskins) has his eye on Mrs Flax, and things are nearing the tipping point again.This film is quite charming, with terrific performances from the four principals, a lot of laughs, and a little bit of heartbreak too. The period era is nicely evoked and there is a good selection of music from the era. And the closing sequence, with the Flax family preparing a meal (with Mrs Flax's typical selection of picnic finger foods - she's not a big fan of cooking) while singing and dancing along to the Shoop Shoop Song, is absolutely joyous.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My mother is obsessed with Cher, consequently she has all her concerts and two movies - 'mermaids' and 'moonstruck'. i'd always see them and never once watched it until one day i was listening to a newly downloaded 60's song by Percy sledge- ( which very coincidently is the song they all sing to at the end of the movie) and i felt really giddy and happy. It was late at night and i had that fresh feeling, so i went to look for something to watch and saw mermaids, i read the back, saw little Christina Ricci and decided to give it a go. As soon as it started i adored it. It truly is an adorable film, it has everything, and of-course some quirk, which is extremely fresh in movies.Cher is so gorgeous and warm, although her character is not, i still love her in it. Winona Ryder is perfect in it! she's truly amazing, cringing at times, but she's just so damn beautiful! naturally gorgeous ( damn her ha-ha ). And adorable Christina Ricci, to say she's cute is a complete understatement, she is more than adorable in this movie, and compliments all the characters. She gives the movie the warmth Chers character lacks and compliments the warmth Cher's face has.I really loved the movie, every moment, i also liked Chers love interest, and i absolutely LOVED a line he says to Cher, i thought it to be extremely powerful more-so than actions  i never wanted to hit a woman as much as i want to hit you right now (sorry if its not word for word, i don't have the movie with me at the moment, i lent it to my friend so she could enjoy herself as much as i did !) i thought that line was great, its so much more powerful than any hitting would be. All the cast was amazing and great!. Its such a good watch, really if you haven't already, watch it as soon as possible. Its hilarious too! i laughed out loud many a time and rewound just to see it again. This movie is beautiful. i give it 10 out of 10 , purely because it is a simple, honest, down to earth gorgeous piece of work. very nice.Rocio "},{"Title":"great movie to start the nineties off.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cher may not be a true actress, but she plays a hard part with ease. with 2 daughters, (winona ryder & christina ricci), she does a great job of raising them. for some, this is where both ricci & ryder may have gotten their breaks and who better to star with than cher.A 8.5 on my scale, very authentic and direct to the audience. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, funny, moving movie","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A single mother, Mrs Flax (played by Cher), relocates to a small town with her two daughters, Charlotte (Winona Ryder) and Kate (Christina Ricci). We see how their relationship evolves and new relationships are formed.Beautiful, funny, moving movie. Tackles a range of issues, and tackles them well. Plus, add in some hilarious one-liners and scenarios and you have a great movie.Cher surprises by proving herself a competent actress. Winona Ryder is gorgeous and great as her oldest daughter. I am not usually a fan of precocious kids in movies, but 10-year old Christina Ricci, in her first movie role, is great - adorable, bubbly and funny. Bob Hoskins is his usual solid self.Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Girl Interrupted","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Richard Benjamin, Mermaids stars Winona Ryder as Charlotte Flax, a 15-year-old girl who lives with Rachel (Cher), her eccentric mother.Set in the 1960s, Mermaids watches as Charlotte struggles to cope with her mother's inability to settle down. Rachel's promiscuity irks her daughter even further. In response Charlotte develops an infatuation with Catholicism, nuns and convents; she hopes to evade her mother's supposedly sinful life by becoming its pious opposite. By the film's end, both mother and daughter have learnt to accept each other, Rachel settling with a kindly man (Bob Hoskins), and Charlotte learning that happiness can exist outside conventionally perfect nuclear families.Terms of Endearment (1983) spawned a decade of imitative Hollywood comedy-dramas. Mermaids is one of the last. It's elevated by Cher and Ryder's movie-star charisma, the former with her concrete cheeks and diva sassiness, the latter with her pixie hair and adorable wisecracks. Elsewhere director Richard Benjamin carefully juggles schmaltz, truths and comedy, all held together by beautiful Massachusetts scenery. The film's title alludes to both Charlotte's sister (Christina Ricci), a swimming prodigy, and the film's three central characters, all transient, itinerant women who refuse to drown in the face of life's little tsunamis. 7.9/10 - See Anywhere But Here and Wendy and Lucy. "}{"Title":"nice coming-of-age movie","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1963. Charlotte Flax (Winona Ryder) is a teen obsessed with Catholicism despite being Jewish. Her sister Kate (Christina Ricci) swims like a fish. She calls her mother Mrs. Flax (Cher). After yet another failed relationship with her married boss, Mrs. Flax randomly chooses coastal Eastport, Massachusetts and leaves Oklahoma. Charlotte falls for local handyman 26 year old Joe and overjoyed with the local convent. Meanwhile Mrs. Flax is courted by shoe store owner Lou Landsky (Bob Hoskins).It is a fine coming-of-age movie that concentrates heavily on the interior monologue of Charlotte. Her imaginative confused teenage mind lends itself to some comedy. It does need more and funnier jokes. It's more like a slice of quirky teenage observations. The movie needs some kind of end point or goal. Even if the goal is something fanciful like Charlotte wanting to be a saint or maybe simply wanting to be a nun. "},{"Title":"Mermaids","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm conquering another Cher's film, perhaps her lesser-known one, MERMAIDS sets up in the 1960s with an unorthodox pair of a middle-age single mother and her adolescent daughter, both try to manage their lives in their own ways (dealing with the conundrum with men is a befuddling task for both), also attenuates the accruing conflicts between them. The film is directed by actor-turn-director hack Richard Benjamin and the overall reception is a sloppy sentimental piece of essay on woman's independence and religious ambivalence. The story goes smoothly with an occasionally witty, but otherwise run-of-the-mill narrative (the highlight for me is the ocean in the room time which effectually casts a genuine uplift upon me), Cher seems to steer onto a more restrained way of acting to manifest her modern new woman pioneer archetype, unwed mother with 2 children, casually flirting with men, sleeping with men and taking on a not-so-serious relationship with Bob Hoskins (a deliberate set with a jarring comparison). But this time, the film's saving grace is not from their adult cast (considering a considerately miscast Michael Schoeffling as the handsome but rather stiff love interest of Ryder), but two young starlets, Ryder and Ricci. Ryder has her own terms of endearment moments near the finale, a mutual emotional burst with Cher, and most of the time she is the leading role or at least the co-leads (ironically Golden Globe thought hers is a supporting role, a typical discrimination still prevailing now towards the young talents). Her incessant voice-over of a young girl's world inward is the driving force to propel the film and its audience into the (now) somewhat dated world-of-view in those days. Ricci is simply endearing as the young mermaid/swimmer sister, there is a soppy point one dreads her safety during the drowning accident, and labelled as a comedy-drama, the film dares not to risk dragging itself into a self-reprimand moral abyss which could sabotage all the generic concoctions it has achieved. "},{"Title":"Rather charming","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie when I caught it on TV one day. I agree with the other users about the cliches--there were perhaps one two many-- but I wasn't bored, and I had a good laugh or two. The emotional parts were also quite touching.As a big fan of Cher and Christina Ricci, who are, needless to say, extremely talented, it was a real treat to have them co-starring in the same film. I think that Bob Hoskins did a great job, as well.Despite its flaws, 'Mermaids' is well acted and directed (I also liked many of the costumes), and I think it's worth your time. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  maybe it was because i saw this movie at a 'tender' age, but it really got to me, it's one of the few movies that can portray you. winona is, as usual, amazing, it's a tough role but she outdoes herself, really, she expressed so many faces of the teen years, complete with doubts and regrets, pain and curiosity and most of all, this want and almost need to hate the mother and then the impossibility to do so, the need to trust her and not knowing how. this is also a critical moment for christina ricci and she too is very believable, and not being a fan of cher, i loathe myself for saying, she gives a damn good show. it's an honest peek into a family that is so much more than meets the eye.  "},{"Title":"Good drama comedy","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good drama comedy film that entertains well enough particularly for the fans of this genre.The main characters tend to be exaggerated versions of reality but still comes off real enough to deliver the basic idea of the story.Great cast and performances by the lead actors.The story was good but nothing grand.Set production was very good and attention to detail was awesome as well in order to effectively illustrate 1963-64.Only for big fans of the lead actors here and fans of family drama comedy movies......  "},{"Title":"Not the best film ever made...","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What we have here is a film about the mother and daughter relationship. However, the film is not content to merely be a mother-daughter film, and so adds in two love stories to run simultaneously against the main theme. That's the film's main problem; it's over-ambitious for what it is. Although the romance's do add to the plot; they aren't developed enough, and therefore they don't quite feel right. Add that to a lackluster (and at times just simply awful) script, and the film falls apart like a straw bridge with an elephant sitting on it.As mentioned, the film charts the relationship between a mother and a daughter. The alienation between the two people is shown straight away by the way that the daughter refers to her mother as Mrs Flax. We later find out that the mother never faces up to her troubles and ups sticks and leaves every time something goes wrong; with an obvious detrimental effect on the daughter, who thinks that the way to handle problems is to run away. This film does the character relations well, but as I mentioned; the script is iffy to say the least. There are parts of the film where we get let into the secret of what Winona's character is thinking, and it comes off so ridiculously that it's almost farcical. And that does the movie no favours in the credibility department. Mermaids does, however, feature a good cast. Cher is surprisingly good for a singer-turned-actress, but her performance begins to show cracks later on in the film when she really has to act; although she always retains some believability. Winona Ryder has proved before and since this film that she can act, but her performance here isn't one of her best. That being said, she isn't bad; and the aforementioned lackluster script, of which Winona gets the rubbish end, can account for a lot of her bad acting; as she has to utter some truly terrible lines. In contrast to Cher, Winona's performance improves as the film goes on and the stormy scene between Cher and Winona towards the end is Winona's best (and Cher's worst). Aside from the two leads, the film also stars Christina Ricci, who despite being very young, impresses in her role and Bob Hoskins; who was the standout for me. His role didn't require any real acting ability, but he does a great job at inspiring sympathy. He's almost tragic, in a light hearted sort of way.Mermaids is far from being a masterpiece, but it is worthy of the title; 'good'. Everything in this movie has been done to a better effect somewhere else, but the film should be enjoyed for what it is; a quirky, and at times funny, coming of age tale. And one that is easy to forget.  "},{"Title":"Mrs. Flax is an unconvincing comic creation","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What with Cher struggling her damnedest in a role which makes no logical or emotional sense, it's up to plucky Winona Ryder as Cher's daughter to salvage the picture--and she almost succeeds. Mermaids is best described as 'cute' or 'heartwarming' (i.e., it's not a laugh-out-loud farce nor is it an intimate character study, it is lost somewhere in between). Young girl coming-of-age in the early 1960s fantasizes about becoming a nun while her flighty, unmarried mother moves her and her sister from place to place. Reportedly troubled production does show its seams in the early scenes (which aren't thought-out clearly by anybody), but it does settle into a comfortable rut midway through. Tone is gentle except for Cher, who doesn't have a grip on Mrs. Flax is she flashy trash, sexy hostess or concerned working mom? Bob Hoskins is teddy bear-ish as Cher's new guy, although they seem a little mismatched and uncomfortable with each other. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Mermaids","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recognised the title because of the two leading actresses and leading actor, but I was interested to know the origins of the title, and I knew it would feature the song that the singer/actress got to number one with, from director Richard Benjamin (The Money Pit, My Stepmother Is an Alien). Basically, set in 1963, fifteen year old Charlotte Flax (Golden Globe nominated Winona Ryder, who also narrates throughout) lives with her glamorous but eccentric mother Rachel who she refers as Mrs. Flax (Cher) and her little sister Kathryn 'Kate' (introducing nine year old Christina Ricci). The family are forced to constantly move when the mother's relationships or circumstances go wrong, they have now relocated to Eastport, Massachusetts to a small town near a convent, Charlotte is fascinated and idolises the nuns despite being reminded by Rachel that she is Jewish, while Kate loves swimming and ocean, she has won many swimming competitions. In the town, Charlotte has feelings for twenty six year old handsome convent caretaker and local school bus driver Joe Porretti (Michael Schoeffling), while Rachel has affection for local shop owner named Lou Landsky (Bob Hoskins), while remaining selfish, self obsessed and hopelessly promiscuous. Following the assassination President John F. Kennedy, Charlotte kisses Joe in the church bell tower, and being naive she wrongly assumes that she is pregnant, and she cannot talk to her mother about her fear, but later an obstetrician examining her confirms that she is still a virgin, she is relieved. At a New Year's Eve costume party Rachel dresses as a mermaid (hence the title), and Lou, dressed as a pirate, asks her to move in with him, but she refuses and they fight, and being driven home she is kissed by Joe, and watching them Charlotte thinks her promiscuous mother is trying to steal him. Later that night Charlotte takes the mermaid costume and goes with Kate to the convent with Joe, while the little sister collects rocks the older sister loses her virginity (for real), and distracted she does not realise Kate fell into the river and almost drowned, she was saved by nuns. Rachel is very angry and wants to move house to avoid embarrassment of her older daughter and Joe being talked about, but Charlotte fights her corner to avoid this, and the argument ends with the mother convinced to stay at least one year. In the end Rachel stays in the town where her relationship with Lou continues, Joe keeps in touch by postcard after moving away, Charlotte is studying her passion subject Greek myths, Kate has recovered with only some deafness, and for the first time in ages the family sit down at the table to dinner. Also starring Caroline McWilliams as Carrie, Jan Miner as Mother Superior, Betsy Townsend as Mary O'Brien, Richard McElvain as Mr. Crain and Paula Plum as Mrs. Crain. Cher is good as the oddball and out there mother, Hoskins does his accent okay and is likable, Ryder is a great surprise as the opinionated and confused girl, and Ricci is so adorable and cute with her sweet nature and attitude. The story is simple, a quirky family living the nomadic lifestyle, the love interest plots with the two women is interesting, the bickering and emotional arguments are engaging, the period of the film is convincing, and of course it is great to hear The Shoop Shoop Song (It's in His Kiss) (both the Betty Everett and the number one version by Cher), it is a nice gentle, funny and light-hearted romantic comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"Oh-So-Cute","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had Mermaids on tape for quite a while- my aunt taped it for me- but I never got to seeing it. One day I was bored and scrambled through my video collection and found Mermaids. This movie has nothing to do with _real_ mermaids but it is very pleasant. Cher plays a Jewish mother of two girls (both from different dads, both whose dad's abandoned them). Everytime she encounters a problem she moves. One day again she encounters problems and moves to a little town (I think it was in Massachusetts but I won't mislead you because I'm not sure). Her eldest daughter (played by Winona Ryder) Charlotte, a teenager who is not exactly the world's best Jew- she's a Catholic in her own spirit who wants to become a nun. The younger daughter (played by an extremely young Christina Ricci) had definite swimming talent. But things change in this new town they have moved to- Mrs. Flax (Cher) allows her self to fall in love with Lou (Bob Hoskins). And even Charlotte's hormones kick in as she falls in love with a Catholic man, Joe who is older than her. A cute little movie about a cute little family in a cute little town. One of those that you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"This one really gets to you","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There´s no real reason why this tale about the coming of age of a nerdish teen and the loves and life of her outlandish mom in the sixties should be the delight it definetly is. Except for the bunch of actors evidently enjoying themselves and thus the audience and an excellent screenplay that couldn´t even be harmed by various directors. Between laughing out loud you will sport a constant smile watching this. "}{"Title":"absolute teen kitsch classic","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have seen this film six or seven times already, and every time I just holler, swoon, laugh my head off, cry my eyes out, and generally have a good time. To start with, interpretation  they're all excellent, Cher being surprisingly good, Hoskins being Hoskins. As for Winona.... ah, Winona..............  big sigh, let's just say that this is possibly The Sweetest Thing On Earth's finest hour. (Of course not, but I'm making a point here !) It's obvious the girl truly was a star from the start, able to change tone, mood, expression and body language at the drop of a hat. Complex emotions at play here  funny but touching, shy but determined, laughable but never ridicule, the film, like all great comedies, deals with serious issues. Namely teenage angst, (resort to/loss of) religion, puberty, (social/family)responsibility... It's hard to think of another studio (big names) film as subtle as this unassuming one, and I would imagine that Miss Ryder, in a few years' time, after she's finally ascended to the rank of goddess which so clearly awaits her, won't be too embarrassed by this kitsch, amusing, little thing. (Plus ten extra points for the start  Dominique, nique, nique... -Ask a French speaker !) "},{"Title":"Mermaids is a great movie even if it does have Cher","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rukiya Belagam used to watch this movie everyday. In fact I have it memorized. It is not because its so well written, or because it has great acting, or even a good story line. But because its a sweet movie you can watch over and over again. It makes ya feel good. Winona Ryder is a convincing neurotic and Christina Ricci is soo cute as a kid. Heck even Cher has some good moments. I like the sound track and all the feel good. My favorite quote that I use in life even today is  You drive like old people make love - this is what Cher says to Wynona Ryder as she is driving. Its just a cute cute movie - very much for girls and single mothers or kids of single mothers By some finger foods and enjoy the movie! Rukiya Belagam says so. "},{"Title":"Experiencing a new life..","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, it's a strange summary.. but maybe it sums up what a play originally was about. This movie takes us into the intimate world of an oldest daughter's coming of age in a transient single-parent family. We haven't all experienced this. If we have, this story would be pointless. The point is the differing experience, there is no value in merely reflecting viewers' own realities.As for me, the drawing card was Winona Ryder. The surprise is the supporting cast a very young Christine Ricci, wild Cher, horny Bob Hoskins, all make a wonderful compliment to Winona's portrayal of a young woman in the early American sixties.The movie title is deceptive. I suspect the book would be a little clearer in explaining the meaning. It is Cher who dresses up as a mermaid, yet the characters of Winona and Christine who may be the mermaids. The story, despite this, is a clearly directed and wholly engaging thought-provoker, and well worth your time in watching it. "},{"Title":"Mermaids is as enchanting as a beautiful sea creature","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rachel (Cher) has two daughters. Each of them has a different father. Charlotte, the older daughter, has some knowledge of her dad but Kate was the result of Rachel's brief encounter with an Olympic swimmer. Although the setting is a small town in the early sixties, Rachel is definitely a woman before her time. She is happier without any longterm commitments and moves the family around on the spur of the moment. Charlotte (Winona Ryder) is mortified by her mother in every way. She prefers to think of the pure and sacrificing lives of nuns, the exact opposite of her mother. When she meets a nice young man in the new city, she dreams of him even as she is committed to chastity. Alas. Sometimes, things do not go as planned and Charlotte finds herself in a position where her scruples are severely tested. Also, she unwittingly puts her younger sister in great peril by her actions. What does the future hold for these three intriguing females? This movie is a charming and sweet look at the rough nature of adolescence. Ryder has never been better and Cher also makes a striking impression as the carefree mother. The script is funny and poignant and the costumes quite wonderful. Bob Hoskins also lends his great skills as a friend of the family. Do you want to go back and relive a bit of your life vicariously and then feel content that you've been there and felt that? This is a great choice for ladies and their companions everywhere on any given night. "},{"Title":"Director Richard Benjamin Strikes Gold...","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MERMAIDS is an enchanting and heartwarming comedy set in the 1960's about a free-spirited (read trashy)woman struggling to raise her two daughters (who have different fathers) in a small New England town during the early 60's, as seen through the eyes of the elder daughter. Cher delivers one of the best performances of her career as the off-the-wall Rachel Flax, an independent, way-ahead-of-her-time, aging party girl who sometimes puts her own good time ahead of the welfare of her daughters. Winona Ryder is appealing as Rachel's elder daughter, Charlotte, who is so embarrassed by her mother that she refers to her in her off-screen narration as Mrs. Flax and Christina Ricci already begins to show the gifted actress she would turn into as Charlotte's little sister Katie. Bob Hoskins is also solid, as always, as the man who is smitten with Rachel but she keeps trying to keep at arm's length. Director Richard Benjamin really hits a bullseye here...recreating a turbulent period in history by contrasting it with a central character who seems to be oblivious of all that is going on except for in her own little world and backing the whole story with some wonderful music from the 1960's and Cher's cover of The Shoop Shoop Song during the closing credits is the bomb. An absolute delight from start to finish. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"God bless the mermaids, and Winona Ryder","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Winona Ryder portraying a character on screen can make you think she's a little crazy. She's always been, without a doubt, a great actress, and a very selective one, if you take a look. Consider her role in Mermaids; her character shows flashes of wildness. I want to add; maybe we should have expected what happened with her in real life, but you've got to give me that she was 19 and at the acting level of Oscar winner Cher.It's the most thrilling experience to watch Winona in any role at any time, because as I've said, her performances are always screaming Oscar to me. As she narrates the story here, you feel the character immediately; and you sense a human being. Subtly, Ryder expresses Charlotte's every minute feeling with a rough and soft voice that transmits I'm going to make a real sandwich, she says while she waits Joe (Michael Schoeffling) to pick her up.The film's main character Rachel Flax (Cher), Charlotte's mother, is one of those unique women that actually exist in real life. One of those women who have two daughters from different men and that carry her last name because both of the fathers are men she never saw again; one of those women who takes her daughters and luggage to everywhere and never stays in the same place for more than a year.As selfish as Rachel is (without knowing it), with a teenage daughter and a little daughter (Christina Ricci, probably the cutest thing in the film), she can't really handle it, we sense; because Charlotte won't talk to her and Kate (the Ricci character) isn't much around. Then a manly figure appears in the picture. A teacher called Lou, a nosy town man who finds himself amazed with Rachel, her girls and their situation; and tries to be a helping hand.Lou is played by the always reliable Bob Hoskins with such certainty that we fear him when he makes a threat that isn't really a threat. He is placed as the parental icon in the plot, and he does many things (some right and some wrong) for the good of these girls. Based on a novel by Patty Dan, June Roberts wrote the movie. She focused a lot on Charlotte's issues and faced them with Rachel's, generating a lot of impact in Ryder's character.It's something to analyze, but not now, that Winona Ryder won the National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actress and was nominated for the Golden Globes in 1991, but strangely couldn't make it to the Oscar. That's underestimation; and I'm not lying when I talk about Winona, she's really something.The picture's best scene comes from Cher and Ryder, in a fight they have. It's very well handled by the calm director Richard Benjamin, showing shots of both actresses talking. Ryder is so convincing that you want to cry with her, so is Cher. The fight finishes with both of them in the sofa. The title of the film means a lot inside the characters (you'll see), but it's represented in it when Kate wants an ocean in her bedroom (which Lou creates), because she swims.She says she would like to live in an ocean, like the mermaids, you know? Constantly swimming in the deep&#133;And that's something we all want during a certain time of our lives. "},{"Title":"Such a feel good movie.","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this film when i was younger and its only recently that i bought it on DVD. I love this film to bits. It is such an easy film to watch and you can relate to at least on of the character. Charlotte (Wiona Ryder) plays her part beautifully. Such a confused teenager, to be a nun and worship God, but at the same time shes lusting after the gorgeous Joe. So many teenage girls will watch this film and understand her predicament. Cher plays the Mother you cant help but love, even though she isn't the worlds number one mum. When she is being lovable though, she does it so well. My favourite part is probably when the three of them are singing in the kitchen, it kind of ends the movie with a feeling that everything works out in the end. Its the movie that will let you know that no one is alone, from the little girls who crave the lime light, to the Mothers who want to be the best mother they can but also don't want to leave a part of their past behind and also for the confused young women torn between two loves. I guarantee this movie will be loved, its an easy film to watch to pick you up when you are down!! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Two women,   two men, and one little girl.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Made in 1990 but set in the early 1960s (news report of Kennedy death in 1963), Rachel Flax (Cher, 44) is an unconventional, some might say 'flaky', mom of Charlotte (Winona Ryder, 18) and Kate (Christina Ricci, 10). When there is any kind of disagreement, it is always about her. The children are just incidental. When she has a relationship go bad, her solution is to pick up and move to another town. Since the girls knew nothing else, they just accepted it as part of their existence. Until now, when Charlotte wants to finish high school and establish some connection to a community. Rachel goes to buy shoes one day and meets Lou (Bob Hoskins, 47) who is a nice, stable guy with a big grin and a good heart. Somehow he develops an immediate attraction for Rachel, and she encourages him. But we learn eventually that she doesn't want to get too close to Lou. Charlotte is a conflicted young girl. She talks to herself and is always worried that she might be punished for having impure thoughts. She develops an infatuation with Joe (Michael Schoeffling, 29) who is driving her school bus. During a moment of grief after hearing of the president's death, she kisses Joe, their lips lock, she is worried that she might be pregnant, goes to a doctor as 'Joan Arc' to see if she is pregnant, even though she is actually a virgin. Lou brings some sense of order into the lives of the Flaxes. They actually begin to sit at a table and have occasional meals together. They actually begin to have conversations. Rachel is uncomfortable about all this, accuses Lou of getting close to the girls just to work his way into their family. Charlotte has a run in with her mom, and to get back at her borrows a nice dress and seduces Joe in the bell tower, as a tipsy Kate falls into the cold stream and is rescued by nuns at the convent, almost dies. Rachel threatens to move, Charlotte argues with her, says she will not go. Mom listens for once, both mom and daughter are on their way to growing up.This was Christina Ricci's first movie, she was just perfect as Kate. "},{"Title":"Cute, cute, cute!","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although it came unnoticed at the moment of its theatrical release, Mermaids has proved itself as a great rent for a rainy evening.The story involves the lives and loves of Ms. Flax and her daughter Charlotte, played convincingly by Cher and Winona Ryder. Ms. Flax leads an eccentric life that makes her move from one town to another every time she has problems in her love life. The quirky personalities of mother and daughter make the movie very funny and cute, and so does a young Christina Ricci's performance.  It may be nothing special, but I own it and watch it from time to time when I need to cheer up. Overall rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"The best kind of soap-opera!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the issues explored here might reasonably be considered mundane, but the sheer likeability of each member of the main cast keeps one watching happily.  The script also has a lot to do with this - by turns funny, poignant and sometimes insightful.  Cher is great, as she has been in every acting role that I've been fortunate enough to see.  It's a no-contest between her and Madonna in terms of theatrical - if not perhaps musical - performances.  Hoskins coasts by with the native charm he possesses, and I always enjoy watching Winona Ryder.  There's even Christina Ricci in a rare 'cute' role!The period setting provides an excuse for a great 'golden-oldie' soundtrack as well, capped off at the end by Cher's own charming cover version of The Shoop-Shoop Song.  (The classic accompanying video sadly not present here; it's worth it just to see Winona dancing as a schoolgirl!  Come to think of it, she also did the same in the brilliant Beetlejuice... )It does sag a little due to contrivance when the real problems are introduced (JFK, why??), but that's often a hazard in examples of this genre, it doesn't indicate a bad film.  For most of its running time it's actually just the opposite something of a delight! "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love watching this movie. Mermaids was made in 1990, starring of course the wonderful Cher, Bob Hoskins and Winoya Ryder. The movie was set in Boston Massachusetts in America. Set in 1963, the year when JFK (John F Kennedy) was shot. It would have been a terrible, very upsetting shock to everyone on that day when the news was revealed to everyone in the country America. He was shot dead in Texas in 1963. Now that the years have gone by, John F Kennedy will always be remembered by everyone i'm sure. Proberly when people hear about him in History or other things. To me and to everyone else, he will always be remembered as President of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. As one of the best presidents. I give Mermaids 10 out of 10 because i think it's a great movie to watch. "},{"Title":"~~spoilers~~","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mermaids is a charming movie, moving, and funny at times. But it doesn't have a great plot. Basically just two kids growing up with an eccentric and outrageous mother, and their having to deal with that. The plot sort of wavers and doesn't concentrate on one main problem. And it is stretched, it shouldn't be 110 min., but I find myself watching it and liking it, so 7 1/2 of 10. "},{"Title":"Wynonna Rider and Cher are excellent","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wynonna Rider was brilliant in this coming of age movie about a religiously obsessed young woman struggling with her sexuality.  Cher and a young Christina Ricci round out the cast of dark eyed beauties.  Good renter. "},{"Title":"Ryder done good in this sweet nostalgic movie.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always love seeing the talented Ms. Rider and this film is no exception, it is one of my favorite Ryder films. I don't know why it didn't do better at the box office,this is a very sweet mother/daughter story. Cher and Winona are both very good in this, I was always baffled why this wasn't an instant box office hit.In addition to being a very moving story, it also has some hilarious moments due mainly to the talents of Winona. She really makes her mark here as a girl developing into a young woman. There is a lot of coming of age to this story and although, there is some predictability in the movie as well as some very sad moments, the top notch performances bring the characters to life and there is a gentle sweetness to the movie, that reaches out and touches. The characters are realistic and unforgettable and like the film, they make their mark. The humor, when it's there is is very good and the movie is above all touching.This is a particularly good choice for females, there's a nostalgic tone(first love),not that men won't enjoy it as well, but it does have a chick flick tone to it and Winona's character will be very relateable to many a female. All in all it is a very sweet and moving film. I'm giving it an 8 of 10. Definitely see it if you haven't. "},{"Title":"An Old Favorite","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mermaids is a sweet, heartwarming, funny story. It's about the life of a selfish mother who doesn't act her age and decides to move away with her two daughters whenever something doesn't go her way. Wynona does great in this movie, actually she does great in every movie. She was such a real character and you can sometimes what feel what she is feeling. Christina was so cute and little! Cher was annoying, fake and ugly. She was such a tramp in this movie. Everytime i see this movie it makes me happy 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not the greatest movie, but very charming","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I always watch this movie when it is on TV and have seen it countless times. To sum up my opinion of this film, I would describe it as a feel-good movie. It isn't the best movie-it suffers from some really hokey dialogue in some parts, but it has enough funny moments, charm, and the story and characters are well written and developed to make it worthwhile to watch. This movie was based on a book, and I have a strong feeling that the book is probably much better.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourites.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mermaids is one of those films that you can see over and over...and never get tired of it. Cher, playing the role of Mrs Flax is terrific. I saw Mermaids and I haven't stopped watching the video... I think I'll have to get another copy!!! And the soundtrack is amazing!!!. As a teacher I think I could use the film to talk about the 60's in the States, the music,etc. Excellent!!! "},{"Title":"Plenty of laughs","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mermaids, from director Richard Benjamin, is quite a funny movie, and it needs to be. The comedy is definitely the only thing that really holds it up.Set in the early sixties, the material from novelist Patty Dann sadly has little substance for the big screen. Yet the cast do well with the script from screenwriter June Roberts, and all of them manage to entertain us.Cher and Winona Ryder are good, but Bob Hoskins really wins you with his smile and his uncanny ability to make you laugh. Also starred Christina Ricci. Not bad at all.Friday, May 17, 1991 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"A Brilliantly Charming Movie.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really great. The movie was very charming and entertaining. Cher, Winona Ryder, Bob Hoskins, and young Christina Ricci make up a cute and fun cast for this movie. This movie is about Mrs. Flax (Cher), a mother of two who makes tv dinners every night while raising her religious daughter (Winona Ryder) and swimming young girl (Christina Ricci). But then Mrs. Flax meets Lou (Bob Hoskins), and is starting to realize her motherly side isn't all that great. This movie was very funny. I give Mermaids a 10 out of 10! ) "},{"Title":"Well worth it","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1991, and thought it was pretty bad.  but now, eight years later, I've matured.  So I rented it again, and I thought it was very good.  The photography was startling, the acting was overall excellent, but it would be fair to mention Winona Ryder and Christina Ricci as the standouts.  The whole thing of Charlotte  (Ryder)  thinking she's pregnant was initially moronic, but became more and more convincing.  Winona is perfect at portraying an embarrassed teenage girl.  Well worth the time and money to watch it.  Plus it hasn't dated much; it still looks very modern, even though it's set in the early sixties.  "}{"Title":"nothing (repeat nothing) works here","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The challenge in watching this witless, would-be comedy isn't finding what went wrong; it's finding anything that goes right. The problems begin with an embarrassing script, loading every conceivable coming-of-age cliché on a set of characters overburdened with contrived eccentricities Winona Ryder is a Jewish teen obsessed with Catholicism; younger sister Christina Ricci wants to swim the English Channel; and Cher is&#x85;well, simply Cher. The lame attempts at wacky humor, conveyed almost entirely through Ryder's superfluous voice-over narration (a sure sign of weak screen writing), are further undermined by Richard Benjamin's lackluster direction, and in answer the actors pitch their performances to the edge of hysteria (the otherwise reliable Bob Hoskins is especially irritating). Every tired convention of early '60s nostalgia (the music, the fashions, JFK's assassination) is dusted off and put on display, and every predictable crisis in the formula plot occurs right on cue. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Flax - The Best Mother In Town","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A creative, hilarious movie about two girls and their liberal out-of-this-world mother. The glamorous Cher plays the world known Mrs. Flax who moves around a lot because she's afraid of town gossip about herself. Wionna Ryder plays a lost girl searching for her father and for her true self along with her sister Katie played by a young Christina Ricci. Growing up is hard to do, but it's even harder for these girls with a mother on-the-run from gossip. You can describe Mrs. Flax as a person who has been around the block a few times, has different ideas about almost everything in life, a person who runs away from her problems or as she says moves on, and doesn't believe in anything. This is an excellent film mothers should watch with their teenager daughters. There will be tons of laughter and probably heart felt feelings shared at the end of the story. Girls should definitely see it, but maybe not with a guy around. It's a strong woman story with special stuff only women go through. Cher, Bob Hopkins, Wionna Ryder, and Christina Ricci all provide wonderful chemistry on screen. They were all perfectly cast even to the point where Wionna and Cher look very much alike. This film is one ladies should see and will be remembered for the quirky rituals of Mrs. Flax for ages (a.k.a. marshmallow kabobs!!!). "},{"Title":"A happy mother with two daughters","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is more a drama than a comedy, it touches important aspects of the relationship between mother and daughters. Mrs. Rachel Flax (Cher)was a very happy lady, sometimes forgetting her duties as mother, which are not only to feed and to dress the children, but also to educate and prepare them for the future. She was ready to go to the parties discharging the function of taking care of the younger daughter to the elder one (Winona Ryder) and without taking into consideration that the latter was becoming a teenager with desires to have a boy-friend. So anything nearly tragic happening in this film is due mainly to the irresponsible behavior of Mrs. Flax. From this point of view this Drama is good to be seen by the parents, sons and daughters, all may have a lot to learn. Very good acting of Cher, Winona Ryder,Bob Hoskins and the rest of the cast.        "},{"Title":"Cute and funny","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cher plays a free-spirited, uninhibited and saucy mother of two. Charlotte (Winona Ryder) and Kate (Christina Ricci), who are about 15- and 8-years old respectively, are her daughters. Cher's behavior and appearance is an embarrassment to Charlotte who is trying to think pure thoughts on her way to becoming a nun. Ironically (considering Ryder's recent troubles) the part she plays has no interest in new clothes and even refuses new shoes, content with her old square boots that look like they were made in the former Soviet Union during the reign of Stalin. This is a nice (but increasingly familiar) switch on the mother who is embarrassed by her daughter's precocious sexuality, and Cher and Ryder play their parts well.The story, from a novel by Patty Dann, begins with the trio moving into yet another town, this time somewhere in New England. They are always on the run, so to speak, because Cher is afraid of commitment or of staying around long enough to lose her heart to some guy. Enter predictably a man (Bob Hoskins) with the right stuff to win her over and a cute guy (Michael Schoeffing) to rearrange Charlotte's priorities. Director Richard Benjamin plays it as a romantic comedy cum coming of ager with wit and charm. Ryder is adorably cute as a conservative Christian miss goody two shoes who is always lecturing mom while Cher is voluptuous as the kind of woman who says yes, early and often, but underneath it all has strength and a kind of intuitive wisdom about herself and the people around her. Little Ricci really is the mermaid since she likes to practice holding her breath under water.Part of the strength of the film is in the dialogue and the sharp repartee between Ryder and Cher. My favorite line is from Charlotte who is always dialoging with God. After seeing Schoeffing, who drives the school bus, and realizing what she is feeling, prays Oh please God, don't make me fall in love and want to do disgusting things!(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing about this movie was that Cher starred in it.I liked the film as well,Cher just proves she's as good at acting as she is at singing.Bob Hoskins and Winona Ryder are also impressive.The story takes place in the sixties,it is a comedy/drama about a poor family,a mother who sleeps around and pays no attention to her daughters,the youngest daughter,who is obsessed with swimming and the eldest daughter,who is deeply religous and confused of her own sexual problems and frustrations.Bob Hoskins plays the man who falls in love with Cher and becomes closer to the family.Mermaids is a sweet comedy that works in an emotional and very dramatic way and I loved how it all went together.I would say if you like that kind of thing this film is great.If your not a fan of these feelgood movies then stay well away.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Different to many of the other early 90's comedies.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mermaids is a strange comedy starring Cher, Bob Hoskins, the brilliant Winona Ryder and a really young, sweet Christina Ricci. Mermaids is quite a good movie with some good music. (Including The Shoop Shoop Song (It's In His Kiss).)  Well, Mermaids is definitely different to many of the other early 90's comedies and I'm sure it will be enjoyed by most people. "},{"Title":"Funny & romantic, with knock out performances","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like this film, certainly its not perfect and from a historical perspective its probably questionable as to how accurate it may be, but there is something about it that I'm just drawn to. Winona Ryder is fantastic as Charlotte a girl who is having difficulty with her own sexual awakening, and Michael Schoeffling is great as Joe the man who Charlotte desires. Its only a little film, but for people who have a soft spot for romantic comedies they will probably like this. Its also interesting to see Christina Ricci, in one of her first performances. "},{"Title":"5/10 how NOT to do character development","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So we got a mother who gets around.  A daughter who wants to be a nun; when she's not thinking about getting it on, and of course a daughter who is obsessed with....swimming.A cute film that wears its welcome out quickly.  Bob Hoskins is the only actor who can fully develop a character in the film -- but admittedly -- Ryder is a joy to watch.  The film is predictable coming of age story. "},{"Title":"Childhood favourite","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can i say, every time i see this film i feel happier. I watched this movie for the first time about 10 years ago when i was really young and liked it then.So if you want to watch a funny film with a good soundtrack then this is the movie you want to watch. "},{"Title":"the only beef I have is","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...with the lines said by that guy who's whipped for Cher Never in my life did I want to hit a woman the way I want to hit you right now. I was like, Whoa, hey! Watch it, there, shorty....  Of course I think Cher is beautiful, and is such a talent in this coming-of-age movie. The coming-of-ageness is done partly by Cher's character Rachel, and partly by Ryder's char, Charlotte.  I thought the screenplay/dialogue was ingenious. I also agree that, even though, in movies, subplots feel the need to force you into believing that it actually does take place in the 60's, this flick lightheartedly makes reference to it. The JFK thing was obvious, but that's only because he was a very big deal, especially back then in little towns such as the one they had moved to.   Mermaids doesn't try to politically correct any ism, but just acts as an omniscient character delving into the lives of a cute Jewish family. Maybe that's why you really feel like you're in the 60's watching it.-Sep  "}{"Title":"Cheery","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is set in the 1960's, so everything is pretty old fashioned and friendly.  Mermaid's is a really cheery comedy about young Charlotte Flax (Winona Ryder), who was growing up and her interested change every now and then, which is normal for most teenage girls.  I thought this movie was good, even though through the naked eye, it looks boring.  "},{"Title":"The Last Film","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I walked into the cinema expecting this to be a film. I was right, but I thought it was going to be about women with tails swimming about the ocean, perhaps a sequel to The Little Mermaid. I was wrong. This is a film about a woman and her two daughters riding from town to town trying to get a break. Who cares. Who writes these things? Who watches these things? Seriously. Do you want to watch a film about a mummy shouting at her daughters and flirting with Bob Hopkins? No. Then they burst into a rendition of the Cheep Cheep song written by Dusky Springfield. It wasn't long before I fell asleep and dreamed a dream.I dreamt that I was a mermaid, or in this case a merman like in He-Man. I had a big 3-pronged fork which I used to catch my dinner- giant shrimp, octopussies, sea burgers etc. I wasn't the King or anything, but I was pretty well off as far as ocean dwellers go. I had a few concubines who would answer my every sordid whim. The main one looked like Winorda Rider so the film had some impact on me. One day I was relaxing on the ocean floor when a little lost boy swam round the rock shouting 'Kali Ma! Kali Maaa!' This disturbed me greatly so I gathered a group of my mates and went off to investigate. The source of the trouble was a giant dragon which had erupted from the ocean floor. We started to beat it with sticks and throw crabs at it but it laughed and turned into Les from Coronation Street. I was quite taken by surprise, and even more so when I looked down and saw that I was no longer a merman but a cup of tea sitting on a table on the set of Britain's most beloved soap. Vera had a suck of me, then Rita, then the ginger one, and Les dipped a digestive in me. Even now I feel his crumbs floating around my insides. All of a sudden Chair came running in singing the Woop Woop song, her and Bob Hostile dancing together, faster and faster. The youngest daughter from Mermaids (Lionel Ricci) came bounding in, tripped and banged into me. I tipped over the edge of the table and fell towards the carpet. Just before I hit the ground I woke up. The cinema was empty and the screen was blank. I realised I had slept over so decided to get up and go home for some sausages and whiskey.I noticed my watch (a Timex) had stopped. I walked out and found that no-one was around so I thought they were all in other screens, watching better movies. My footsteps seemed louder than usual, and there was an eerie quiet. An empty bag of minstrels rustled on the floor. Eager to put the whole episode behind me I made my way down the stairs and out they door. What greeted me I can only describe as silent carnage. Cars lay upturned on the streets, bikes and clothes lay strewn in the highest branches of the trees and on top of the lamp posts. Fires were burning all around, but in their dying stages. There was no wind. No sound. Everything seemed stale and artificial like a reality TV show commissioned by Channel 4. I had a feeling in my groin like some unknown force from centuries ago had taken residence there with no intention of leaving. The air had no taste but seemed like Polystyrene. Worse, there were no people. Shell shocked I stumbled across the street, still looking left and right for traffic even though the nearest car sat half in half out of the third storey of an office block behind me. I entered the corner shop looking for some fellow humans; not were to be found. Wait! Maybe some took shelter in the pub next door from whatever had happened here. What had happened? Terrorist? Aliens? Bomb? Earthquake? Act of God? I couldn't be sure, and my thoughts were not following logically anyway. Words bounced spontaneously about my head. Like. Unfocused. Wasps. Chasing. Jigsaw. Lullaby of descent into something something hell don't can't know no this isn't me here, why, why not whine aught? The pub was no less empty than the shop before. No-one anywhere. This was 4 days ago. I am home. I am alone. It's getting dark and I mostly get scared at night. Mostly. I haven't met another living soul in days. TV and radio are gone. Is there anybody out there? Let me know. I'll be at the town hall at midday everyday for an hour. I won't stay around for long though. I'm taking my bike down south to see if every town is the same. Head for the coast. Get a boat or swim if I must. Leave this place and find another way. Surely this can't be the only place. Please God.Best Bit Taking all the DVDs from HMV now that everyone's gone. "},{"Title":"Bad, worse-than-bad","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What diabolical karma is needed to so effect a large group of writers, a director, producers that they create, with one large exception, a movie that stifles honesty in virtually every scene? I give this dishonest film a 2 instead of a 1 because of the brilliant performance of Winona Ryder (at 18, how was it possible for her to escape the banal direction of Richard Benjamin?). But Ms. Ryder aside, the film has some notorious performances and character creation in it; Christina Ricci, trying her best, has created a loathsomely cute character. When this character falls into the frigid waters of a small pond I was praying that there would be a final shot of her breathing bubbles stopping what an insufferable little brat! Cher's entire persona and character made me think of what some critic said of a Katherina Hepburn Broadway performance she runs the gamut of emotions from A to B! The Mask of Cher, possibly o.k. to see once in a career, had become institutionalized by 1990 and I found myself having to look elsewhere on the screen when she appeared (in this case not much of a hardship given Winona Ryder's nuanced portrayal). Director Benjamin also should be given another dubious award. For the first and only time in my experiencing Bob Hoskins career, he is made to look foolish and bad.In closing I must mention that I have never in the past, as far as I can remember, mentioned another reviewer's comment; we can't and don't, as people, have the same reactions to things, but in the case of someone who commented earlier on this site, who mentioned Truffault's 400 Blows in the same breath as the atrocity Mermaids, I must set a precedent. The 400 Blows is one of the most honest films about a youngster I have ever seen. Mermaids is among the most dishonest one I have seen in many years. Compare Truffault and Benjamin favorably? My mind boggles and shudders simultaneously! "},{"Title":"sad movie a foreshadow of future moral decay","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot was very disturbing a 15 year old girl with a 26 year old guy and the mother encouraging it? no wonder we have such problems with pedophiles and such today.... If this movie were to happen today then people would be all up in arms over the content, instead its cute Great performances by the cast including Cher A slow moving movie the requirement of ten lines is bad some movies do not have enough information to make ten lines wonder if they have to get permission for rearing broadcast? the interview of the Kennedy assignation and such, or was it done Forest Gump style and faked? wonder what living in MA was like when their local boy was killed? "},{"Title":"What a waste of cellulose","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Turn the TV off and spend the two hours staring a blank screen. Barring neurological dysfunction, your daydreams will be more interesting.This movie is like a well-intentioned friend that is perpetually concerned with pleasing everyone and inevitably ends up pissing everyone off. It tries to be funny, insightful, artistic, removed and searching all at the same time and FAILS miserably at them all.Except for Michael Schoeffling, whose character would have been showed to better advantage using a scarecrow with his hands shoved in his pockets and his tongue shoved down anyone's throat (I'm glad he had the good sense to give up acting), most of the acting was decent. At the climax of the film, Winona Ryder was even impressive. The cinematography was fine, just not memorable. It's the script that kills them all. Not just a syringe of morphine killing either - this is a lying by the edge of the road in a million pieces killing. It's ridiculous without being funny (even ironically) and slow-moving without being insightful or inspiring. Even more unforgivably, it makes too-abundant use of tried and TIRED plot elements and twists.The only good thing about this movie was that the frustrating prospect of being stuck watching it while on my treadmill made me angry enough to run at full speed the whole time. Rent it and give it to your worst enemy while simpering Oh I know you'll LOVE this! "}]