[{"Title":"Great action flick","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Let's face it; You either like Steven Seagal or you don't. His movies aren't masterpieces, they're all predictable and pretty similar and old Steve is always...well, just plain old Steve. His older films, starting with Above the Law in 1988 and concluding with (I think) Exit Wounds were however all filled with great production values and a certain kind of ambition to give action fans what they want. From that point on, his films (all going directly to TV) have lessened their standards somewhat and old Steve is all but forgotten. I happen to be a huge fan of Seagal's early work, particularly this film, along with Out for Justice and his Under Siege flicks.Here, Seagal is ready for retirement when he accidentally pisses off some Jamaican druglords who have in turn marked him and his family for death. Seagal naturally gets mad and what's more important; He gets even.I love these no-nonsense action flicks that delivers what you most crave for; ACTION and plenty of it. Director Dwight H. Little (Halloween 4, Rapid Fire) handles the proceedings well and actually gives the film some stylistic flair as well. In most parts, the script is well written and it gives Seagal some great one-liners.Seagal, as always, is reliable and delivers the same performance as usual. His roles don't require much range, but in the action department he kicks ass. Keith David, a regular supporting actor, gives a good performance and overall the cast do a good job.Unfortunately Seagal's days of high class movies are gone and will probably never come back. But his body of work in the twentieth century will satisfy me, it's the twenty first century Seagal I'll mostly skip through. "},{"Title":"They sure  as hell don't make em like this any more....xXx2 anyone?","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"30 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" First off, Seagal rules. I don't care what anyone says. He is the greatest American action star (well in his early films at least) and marked for death portrays him at his brutal bone snapping best.This is one of the fastest films i have ever watched, not only is it never boring but it is constantly entertaining. Seagal slays lots of hapless goons right from the off and manages to act well in the non action scenes. But thats what its about ACTION. No it never won any awards, of course not its an ACTION film. Screw kill bill no one serves up a bit of revenge like Seagal.You know the plot.........find it elsewhere thats not important he and his family are MARKED FOR DEATH. Of course Seagal cannot have this so he goes and kills a lot of people. Not original but who actually cares? The Jamaican view provides interest,and there's a good twist near the end. The ending itself is excellent, ending much more openly than the average action fest.Seagal is on top form as always, Keith David is good as his friend, Basil Wallace justly insane as Screwface and Tom Wright is likable as the Jamaican sidekick. Overall more should see this film, but the American version mind, UK one is heavily cut.Warning this film is full of extreme violence. If you do not enjoy peoples arms and backs being broken, eyes being gouged out, hands chopped off, people being shot left right and centre the you will not enjoy this film. And thats just what I'm looking for! "},{"Title":"No superior force can dash Seagal's style...","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In 'Marked for Death,' Seagal is simply a retired undercover troubleshooter for the DEA who moves back to his home town ignoring that Jamaican drug pushers known as posses are invading his old neighborhood... He sees his little niece hit after a shootout, and later his sister almost sacrificed in a voodoo ceremony...Torture and maiming are posse trademarks and posse gunmen are said to prefer shooting their victims in public... Seagal never gives up and never loses his temper... He lets his actions speak for him... He perfectly knows that he has to strike the root in order to stop the evil-doers... He has to destroy their system, and kill their supreme leader... Otherwise they will never stop until he and his family are dead... Seagal is steely eyed and calm yet quick on the trigger, skillful with the use of sword, and no superior force can dash his style... However, it is not just his talent as a martial-arts champ that has attracted his growing legion of fans but his enigmatic charisma... "},{"Title":"Seagal delivers","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Of Stevens Seagal's movies, this is clearly one of the better. It's from 1990, and that was around his prime time as a action star. (Under Siege came two years later). There are a couple of really cool fights in this movie where Seagal handles lots of bad guys without any effort at all. The last part of the movie, where he's invading the Jamaica-man bad guy's base is especially entertaining. In this movie, he has one of the best comments of all his filmsOne thought he was immortal, and the other one thought he could fly. Both were wrong. Watch the movie to find out what I'm talking about. You won't regret it if you like easy action. "},{"Title":"Cartoonish and silly but still enjoyable and lots of fun","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie is really dumb but it's full of belly laughs. The silliest part is the fact that Seagal has a black sidekick, played by David Keith, which I guess was implemented to make the movie seem more politically correct since our hero mangles or kills countless Jamaicans. Later in the film the duo enlists the help of a Jamaican cop who's supposedly obsessed with nailing Screwface-the film's antagonist who is the ruthless leader of a drug dealing posse around which the plot is set. The action is silly and the fight scenes are funny. In this movie Seagal manages not only to shoot, but also to decapitate, to impale, to gouge the eyes of, to sever a hand of, and to break an arm and a leg of several different bad guys. I know that this sounds gruesome, but the villains always seem to be asking for it so you'll end up cheering or laughing. Like all low-budget action flicks, this movie is plagued by some serious continuity errors. My favorite such error is in the car chase with the Ram Charger and the BMW that supposedly takes place in Chicago but was filmed in Los Angeles. To be exact, the scene where the BMW jumps on the sidewalk was filmed on the Chapman Plaza which is located on 6th Street between Alexandria and Kenmore, just North of the Equitable building. I lived in that area from 1990 to 1995 and recognized the site right away. What really gives it away though is the clearly evident tall palm trees that are all over Korea Town. I don't know, maybe it started snowing in Chicago or something and the producers did their best to avoid an in-your-face continuity error. This movie is great if you like old-school 80's action (don't get me wrong, but 1990 is still the last year of the 80's decade). It thrills, it excites, and it will definitely make you want to sign up for martial arts lessons or go beat up your younger brother, despite your age. If you're looking for drama then watch the soaps, but if you want the best of Steven Seagal, then go rent this film. "},{"Title":"One of Seagal's finest","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I cannot believe this film got such bad ratings as it is one of my favourite action flicks of all time.  Marked for Death has Steven Seagal playing John Hatcher a cop whose out for revenge against a gang of Jamaican drug dealers. The film has some terrific action sequences and set pieces, example being the shopping centre fight which really showcases Seagal's talents. This has excellent pacing as well as good location shoots. The score for Marked for Death is amazing, suiting the film so well, giving it the right sinister kind of atmosphere. The voodoo elements were cool, Screwface has to be one of the best villains and the twist at the end is unexpected. The violence in the uncut version is some of the most brutally realistic you can find in a mainstream action flick, with Seagal snapping bones as if they were twigs. Be warned though, like most of Seagal's films, in the U.K Marked for Death was cut badly by the censors so nearly all of the bone breaking violence is now gone, leaving just a standard badly edited action film. If you want to see the real power of Marked for Death then you would be advised get your hands on the uncut versions somehow. The only minor flaw with this film is that the beginning in Mexico is a little ropey, but apart from that the only Seagal flick that Warner bros didn't make but Fox did, deserves a place next to Under Seige 2 as being one of my favourite Steven Seagal films. "},{"Title":"AS CONFIDENT AND BRUTAL AS ITS LEADING MAN.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one tough movie that shows star Steven Seagal at his arrogant,strutting,confident and brutal best.The movie itself follows the example set by its leading man.The story of Seagal's battle against the patois spouting Jamaican bad guys led by the sinister Screwface is compellingly told with many in your face action sequences littered throughout,not the least of which are several bone crunchingly covincing Aikido fights which are tougher and more prolonged than is usual with Seagal.When I first saw Seagal onscreen in ABOVE THE LAW I remember commenting that I thought he was the most charismatic individual to hit the screen in many years.His piling on of the pounds in recent years plus his somewhat inflated and frankly ludicrous self image have diminished his presence and box office impact recently but he remains compelling to watch and one hopes that he still has one or two more action-filled surprises up his sleeve in the future before he(perhaps inevitably)goes the route of Chuck Norris....WALKER,BUDDHIST  DEITY anyone? "},{"Title":"One of Steve's finest","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Okay, that may not sound much, but after seeing Segal's recent outings I can look back at films like this with a certain nostalgia. This was made back in the day when Segal was in shape, did his own fight scenes and the film makers in question didn't have to resort to using lame CGI and camera tricks during action scenes. It has an edge that is just lost in these hideous later outings (the kind where an overweight, 54 year old man jumps from a moving train with 2 pistols and wipes out a squad of heavily armed thugs).This time Segal is under the guise of DEA agent John Hatcher. He retires from the job shortly after loosing one of his colleagues in a deal gone wrong. Hatcher goes to visit his sister and niece to try and 'find his old self', whilst visiting he also encounters an old friend and military partner Max(Keith David). Hatcher and Max soon run into a bunch of ruthless Jamaican drug dealers who have moved in on the area, and their voodoo practising leader SCREWFACE...Que violence galore!!Expect bone breaking violence from this film, as Hatcher and Co. shoot, beat and tackle their way through the posse in order to save Hatcher and his family's lives-who have been marked for death by the gang. I would say this is one of Segal's most violent movies, and that is saying something. "},{"Title":"Who do it... the white boy Hatcher? A decent action film from Seagal back when he made good films.","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for Death starts as undercover DEA agent John Hatcher (producer Steven Seagal) decides he has had enough of his job after his partner Chico (Richard Delmonte) is murdered in a botched up drugs bust. Hatcher retires & heads to the town of Lincoln heights in Chicago where he grew up & where is sister Kate (Bette Ford) & his niece Tracey (Danielle Harris) live. Hatcher also meets up with his old friend Max (Keith David), there is a big drug war taking place in Lincoln Heights as Columbian drug lord Tito Barco (Al Isreal) & Jamaican drug lord Screwface (Basil Wallace) fight for control. While in a pub a shoot-out between the Columbians & Jamaicans takes place & Hatcher steps in, he instantly becomes a target of the Jamaican dealers & not only do they make the mistake of shooting Hatcher's favourite bar up but they target his family & shoot his niece which makes Hatcher very, very angry...Originally shot under the title Screwface this early Steven Seagal action flick was directed by Dwight H. Little & comes from a time when Seagal films were actually entertaining. The script by co-producers Michael Grais & Mark Victor certainly won't win any prizes for originality, some ex cop/secret service agent/military soldier has to come out of retirement to avenge a family member/friend/injustice by killing everyone in sight. It's a fairly standard Hollywood action film plot which doesn't hold many surprises although the twist ending was quite unexpected even if the makers wasted the opportunity to do something truly different in favour of having it as another excuse for Seagal to kill people. The usual inappropriate message that violence needs to be fought with even more violence is present & although you know it's wrong you can't help but enjoy it in a satisfyingly macho sort of way as Seagal, the supposed hero, kills all the bad guy's in a variety of violent ways. The violence is extreme, some of the dialogue is unintentionally hilarious like when Hatcher confronts a bad guy he eloquently & poetically notes 'I know your a scumbag & a puke, I don't mind that. You give me what I need & I leave here a nice guy. You don't, I'm gonna f*ck you up' & the cheese factor is entertainingly high. It passes 90 odd minutes with the minimum of pain & overall this is a good fast paced gratuitously violent foul mouthed action flick that even has a bit of Voodoo as well, would we have them any other way? Of course not.Director Little does a good job, some of the fights are very brutal which were a trademark of Seagal's films back in the 90's. There are some seriously painful looking injuries from broken arms, necks & backs, people beaten with mallets, knifes stuck through throats, shootings, table leg beatings, decapitations, eye gouging, hand severing, naked woman shooting, samurai sword fighting to head smashing fun. The fights & action scenes are well choreographed & there's even a decent car chase too which ends as a car crashes into a jewellery store although where the police are at this point I have no idea. Also, how does Seagal manage to smuggle all those weapons & ammunition into Jamaica? The montage showing Seagal making & testing the weapons was before the shot of the air-plane taking off from Chicago & landing in Jamaica so presumably took place in America, right? Security wasn't so tight back then but it wasn't that bad surely? Besides being very violent Marked for Death also has some fairly graphic gore in it including decapitations, an eye gouging & someone having their hand cut off.Technically the film is fine, it isn't going to win any awards for style but it's well made having been shot on location in Chicago & in Jamaica. Marked for Death was Seagal's third film coming after Above the Law (1988) & Hard to Kill (1990) & before his 'masterpiece' Out for Justice (1991), back then he wasn't as fat as these days & he actually looks impressive as he kicks the crap out of everyone in some well stage & excessively violent fights. Unfortuneatly Seagal can't act, either now or back in 1990 when this was made & I still think the pony tail looks gay. The rest of the cast are OK with Wallace as Screwface putting in a surprisingly effective over-the-top performance.Marked for Death is a throughly entertaining overblown unnecessarily violent & foul mouthed action film, the sort of film which Seagal was perfectly suited to star in. Sure it's predictable & unoriginal but when a films this much fun who cares? A must for Seagal & 90's action flick fans. "},{"Title":"A Segal film from the old school","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" You can split Segal films into 2 categories, the early stuff (Hard To Kill, Nico) and the later stuff (Fire Down Below, Today You Die). The latter group doesn't usually even get to the cinema but the former has some real action gems. Marked for death is one of them.This film has loads of martial arts, Yardies, drugs, black magic, Drive by shootings, people dressed like Aswad, and the big black guy from platoon who escapes from the shootout at the end by getting rotated back to America. One of the things that ruins Segal films is having too much shooting and not enough fighting, But the action is pitched just right here, with still enough shooting thrown in to spice it up. The guys playing the Yardies are fantastic and the dialogue is second to none, in fact for those IDM fans out there Luke Vibert sampled some in 'screwface'. Other than Segal and the platoon guy the only person I recognised was Danny Trejo, Hollywoods default Mexican criminal. This is an action classic folks, watch it or Screwface will give you a thousand deaths worse than mine. "}{"Title":"Plenty of action, car chases, explosion,corpses  and usual violence for this genre","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A war veteran and ex-drug agent named John Hatcher (Steven Seagal) retires himself from his dangerous employment. He returns to his family , his sister (Bette Ford) and nephew(Danielle Harris). But he confronts against a Jamaican dope delinquents led by Screwface (Basil Wallace who's a better villain than Seagal's previous films). And as the title says marked him and his family for death. Hatcher and his pals (Keith David and Tom Wright) are back in action to track down the Jamaican killer who is threatening his family. Then Hatcher and Screwface playing a cat-and-mouse game.Elaborately produced action film with tough Seagal is just another action film full of struggles ,thrills, noise and lots of violence. Ever-wooden Seagal as almost always, playing a two-fisted and loner cop, he delivers the goods in his own style full of usual violence and fights with snapping wrists and worth it just to see Steve in Jamaica where appears singing Jimmy Cliff. Atmospheric musical score by James Newton Howard though composed by synthesizer and appropriate cinematography by Ric Waite. The picture was made in the Seagal's best period when he played high budget movies such as ¨Hard to kill¨(1990 by Bruce Malmuth), ¨Under siege¨ ( Seagal's best film to date, 92, Andrew Davis), ¨Dark territory¨ (95, Geoff Murphy), ¨Executive decision¨ (96 by Stuart Baird), ¨Glimmer man¨ ((96, John Gray), ¨Exit wounds¨(2001, Andre Bartkowiak), among others. Nowadays he does fairly low standards, lesser budget and direct to video movies, such as ¨Half past dead¨, ¨The foreigner¨ and its sequel and many others.Director Dwight H. Little who gave credibility to Wesley Snipes in 'Murder at 1600' teams up with Aikido expert Seagal for this action-filled cop thriller. The result is a strong outing for action enthusiasts and Seagal is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"I hope they weren't Triplets...........","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Chicago DEA agent John Hatcher has just returned from Colombia, where his partner was killed in the line of duty by a drug dealer who has since been taken down. As a result of his partner's death, John has decided to retire, but his retirement may not be permanent. On the next day, after reuniting with his sister Melissa and Melissa's daughter Tracy, John gets into a shootout against a Jamaican drug kingpin known as Screwface, taking down some of Screwface's men. John brings himself out of retirement when Screwface retaliates by attempting to kill Melissa and Tracy. After the shooting, John is reunited with two old friends - a local high school football coach named Max, and a Jamaican Chicago cop named Charles. John and Max set out to hunt Screwface down, only to discover that Screwface has gone back to Jamaica.John and Max take Charles with them to Jamaica for an all out war against Screwface and his drug empire.Back in the day when Seagal had his ponytail, he made some great movies and they were a lot of fun and action packed, but than fire down below happened and it all went downhill from there.This has got to be his most fun film to date, it's got one of the best villains ever, who is genuinely menacing and psychotic, and instead of going for the normal Gangsters AKA Italians in this movie, they opt for a Jamaican Posse, who have an eerie mysticism of their own.We know that the villain is bad, because he wears really awful jumpers, gets mad when plays dominoes, wakes up from nightmares in a really dramatic way, and spits Bacardi in Seagals sisters face.But the more evil and over dramatic the villain, the more we Want Seagal to Kick the guys butt, so Kudos to Basil Wallace.As for Seagal, he's how he normally is, Average acting, getting heavier, and starting to wear odd clothes. But his fighting skills in this are some of the best he has ever done, and the set pieces are awe-inspiring, even if they do get a bit over the top toward the end.It's more fun than Above the Law and Hard to kill, and on a par with Under Siege.A great film to start with Seagal. "},{"Title":"Who is John Crow?","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This one gets my vote for best Steven Seagal action picture. Sure UNDER SIEGE is slicker and more expensive, ABOVE THE LAW has a more serious and compelling story, and OUT FOR JUSTICE has Seagal at his self-righteously most over the top, but none of those are half as fun as this little gem.Admittedly the plot to this film is on the simplistic side and it takes itself quite seriously for the most part. Seagal here is an originally unwilling crusader against drug gangs and violence but of course kills more people and causes more mayhem and property damage than any cartel ever did. Already at this point was he starting to exhibit some of his quirky mannerisms (obvious stunt doubles and enigmatic heroes who disappear to let their lackies do the boring stuff) which turned into B-action tropes over the years. He also starts to find his own identity as a bonafide 80's era action star with snappy post-mortem one-liners and creative almost artfully balletic corpse-kills.A lot of the fun comes from the ethnocentrism at hand in the form of the ridiculousness assigned to the antagonistic Jamaican cartel. Their heavily accented dialog and Basil Wallace's performance as their leader makes it feel as though Seagal is up against a gang of cartoon characters. The movie casts aside any shred of realism and treats us to seeing Seagal cathartically and unemotionally taking down multiple adversaries at once without even breaking a sweat. This was the only film I think Seagal did for 20th Century Fox so perhaps that's why it breaks a mold a little bit and allows the villains to land a few punches on our mighty hero (not that it makes any difference).One cannot talk about this movie without mentioning Basil Wallace's delirious portrayal of perhaps the most emotionally unbalanced villain of any action movie, and that includes anything Vernon Wells has ever done. He enthusiastically incantates voodoo and mysticism with wild-eyed abandon in an effort to intimidate his posse, but it largely comes across as quite comical. He's the polar opposite of the wooden and inexpressive Seagal, who just sort of drifts around and looks annoyed when there's no more baddies to murder.Pathetically the film tries to go the PC route and with the casting of Jamaican Tom Wright as a vindictive Island cop and American black character actor Keith David as Seagal's buddy vigilante. Amazingly, David's character is the close-minded one and no chance is spared to teach him how Jamaica as a tough but unfortunate breeding ground for vermin, though mostly populated by mostly good people. I don't know if it was out of PC-ness or in keeping with the tone of the villainy in the film, but the soundtrack contains a lot of great reggae tracks, largely by the one and only Jimmy Cliff who even appears in the film as himself singing about the upcoming death of the film's villain (!). The film ends on a high note with a nonstop action spectacular and immediately rolls into one of the most unforgettable reggae songs of all time. I really don't know who John Crow was or what he had to do with anything (perhaps they changed Hatcher's name at some point during production?) but at least we got a great song out of it. "},{"Title":"This movie dates back to when Steven segal was making entertaining movies.","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked For Death is a lot of fun. most of Steven segals movies are made by warner bros but this one is made by 20th century fox. The plot is John Hatcher (Seagal) is a jaded DEA agent. After witnessing the death of his partner, he resigns from the force and vows to return to family life in a quiet neighborhood of Chicago. However, he arrives to find his hometown teeming with Jamaican drug dealers, headed by the psychotic voodoo cultist Screwface (Basil Wallace, Blood Diamond). Though he does his best to ignore the impending danger, Hatcher finds both himself and his family in the dealers' sights after interfering in an assassination attempt, prompting him to team up with an old military comrade (Keith David, The Thing) and take the fight to the criminals. this film is not perfect. the points of incompetence are limited and don't permeate the entire picture.It's a shame that this movie isn't recalled as readily as some of our hero's other work, since it supplies the adrenaline just as well. Btw Steven segal gets beat up a little in this movie unlike some of his other films we don't see him get hit once. "},{"Title":"Vintage Fun!","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" 'Marked for Death' is Vintage Fun. Power-Packed, Fast-Paced, Action-Packed & Loud, it has it all. Also, its damn cool to watch bad-ass Steven Seagal getting it right completely.'Marked for Death' stars Seagal as John Hatcher, a former DEA troubleshooter. Upon moving back to his home town, Hatcher finds it taken over by a gang of vicious Jamaican drug dealers, led by the twisted Screwface.'Marked for Death' is Power-Packed, Fast-Paced & Loud Cinema at its best. The film never loses pace & always keeps you engrossed. Michael Grais & Mark Victor's Screenplay is Great Fun. Dwight H. Little's Direction is decent. Cinematography & Editing are fair, while the Action-Sequences/Fights are awesome.Performance-Wise Seagal gets it right completely. His fights are a pleasure to watch & does his part with great energy & style. Basil Wallace as the twisted Screface is frightening. Keith David is perfect.On the whole, 'Marked for Death' is Vintage Fun! "},{"Title":"Fleetingly entertaining but forgettable action flick","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" DEA Agent John Hatcher (Steven Seagal) is busy kickin' ass in Colombia when he decides to make his return to the U.S. after some spiritual enlightenment from his priest. He returns to find his city overrun by Jamaican 'posses', and when at a bar, he and his old friend Max (Keith David) find themselves caught amidst a gang war shootout. Hatcher, naturally, kicks the s**t out of some of them and finds that he and his family have been 'marked for death' by gang boss Screwface (Basil Wallace). His sisters house is attacked and when his niece is shot, Hatcher and Max team up with Jamaican police man Charles (Tom Wright) to find Screwface and end his reign of terror.Clearly neither Screwface nor his ever-dispensable gang of cronies have ever seen a Steven Seagal film, or they would have left him the f**k alone. Guns, swords and even voodoo cannot stop the pony-tailed action hero. This is actually considered to be the 'finest' of Seagal's vast action backlog, which is quite tragic given that this film is pretty s**t. I will say this for it, however - it's relentlessly entertaining. Yet this derives from the unintentionally hilarious dialogue, woeful acting, some appallingly gruesome action scenes, and plot devices that simply defy logic.Possibly the funniest moment in the film has Hatcher, who has, by the way, just committed murder (he's retired from the police) and has to be the police's main suspect, taking part in a high speed chase through the city that sees one car drive along the pavement causing massive damage, only to later fly through the window of a department store. Hatcher walks in shooting and stabbing his way through the bad guys only to calmly stroll out afterwards. Surely the police would have noticed something during the carnage? Yes, yes, I'm missing the point, this is a dumb action film - this is hardly trying to be The Wire.Marked for Death does have the sense to show off Seagal's martial arts skills. While many of his other films have him mainly either carrying a gun or simply throwing people onto tables, this has him breaking many, many bones with his bare hands. It's shockingly gory for an 90's action film, which naturally makes the whole film more likable. Basil Wallace is plenty of fun as the interestingly named Screwface, all wide-eyed and using an over-accentuated Jamaican accent. The voodoo element is certainly different, and the practises shown in the film are apparently well-researched and accurate. Definitely one for the action junkies, but for me, it's a laughable nostalgia trip into an overly macho time, and ultimately a rather forgettable one.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"When you mark someone for death&#x85;","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Make damn sure it isn't Steven Seagal. Seagal has come back again to bloody the silver screen with another actioner Marked for Death. This time, it's bloodier, more violent and less complex than Above the Law and for action fans with a short attention span that is always a good thing. Not that there isn't a story, but it's very by the numbers that you have probably have seen it before and for that, Seagal and Director Dwight H. Little(Rapid Fire, Phantom of the Opera) more than make up for it through a hail of bullets and a plethora of broken limbs.Seagal plays a retired DEA agent who decides to quit the job when his last drug bust ended violently with his partner being gunned down by a topless prostitute. Anyway Seagal decides to return to his quiet neighborhood life. But since this is a Seagal movie, we know his longings for personal peace would be in vain. Jamaican gangs (led by a Voodoo magician/drug lord named Screwface) in the neighborhood are dealing dope in the neighborhood and are having a messy turf war with the local Italian gang. Seagal gets involved&#x85; gets marked for death and then proceeds to systematically wipe them all out.Like what I have said earlier, the story is nothing special. Sure, it's spiced up with elements of Voodoo from time to time, but in the final analysis, we know that Seagal can't be harmed by any stinking black magic. In fact, one can't help sometimes but feel pity for the Jamaicans and all assorted filth in this movie as Seagal uses them to showcase his exciting (and very painful to watch) bone snapping/breaking moves. The films violence is definitely what sorts this Seagal movie from the other bunch. Like Under Siege and Out for Justice, Seagal takes normal B-movie action to unprecedented heights. While the shootouts come off as typical and maybe uninspired, the scenes of hand to hand combat are violently thrilling and have an undeniably cathartic feeling to it. Every time Seagal twists and breaks a Jamaican creep's limb, something inside you cheers and tells you that they deserved it for all the moral degradation they have brought to the community. Anyway, we are also presented with scenes that highlight Seagal's real-life prowess in Kendo (and the corresponding ineptness of his enemies).The technical aspects of the movie are also well done, with the production design and the music perfectly capturing the seedy environment of the Jamaica underworld. The acting is mostly OK, but the strongest performance in the movie doesn't come from any of the protagonists, coming instead from leading bad guy Screwface (Basil Wallace). His performance came off as menacing and threatening. Seagal gives another one of his so-so performances, this time less ambitious and charismatic than his acting in Above the Law. The pacing of the film is also great, but one thing that bothers me is the group of the scenes between Seagal and Joanna Pacula. They are supposed to add to the symbolic theme of the film but since all of that is sacrificed for bloody action, these scenes are empty fillers and do not even add cheap thrills. But then let's remember, this is a Seagal movie and the plot is always secondary to the action. Also watch out for the great song by Steven Seagal and Jimmy Cliff John Crow. It is a great and relaxing song that should tide you over after witnessing all the acts of bloodshed on screen. Seagal might not be the best actor in the world (he will NEVER be) but his vocals are amazing. Overall a great Seagal movie! "},{"Title":"one of seagal's best","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" only problem I had with this movie is with the over-dramatic ending fight scene.. Seagal should have kicked the guy's ass and THE END. Instead, it was overdone just a bit. A lot of seagal's aikido is on display in this movie which I really like. and , once again he's wearing the same puffy black jacket as he did in his other earlier movies to cover up his gut..(but who really cares about that anyway.) A shame his career/life took such a dramatic turn for the worse. He could have been known as one of the great martial artists in history.well, I don't have 10 lines yet so I can't post this review so I will just write this so it will give me ten lines. I have nothing more to say about the movie. "},{"Title":"One thought he was invincible, the other thought he could fly....They were both wrong!","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Of course they were! (That is the best line from this, or perhaps any movie)This, the third of Seagal's 4 greatest movies ('Above the law', 'hard to kill' and 'out for justice' being the others) delivers on all fronts. It is vintage Seagal. If you have seen and enjoyed 'Under Siege', then check the afformentioned titles out. They are truly gritty action movies, with the usual glimpse of Seagal-like humour. Simple stories with simple and often brutal outcomes.In Marked for Death we focus on John Hatcher, who is forced to retire from the DEA after his partner and friend is killed when undercover. Fed up with the system, he returns to his hometown and finds gangs of 'Jamaicans' (known as Posses) selling drugs to schoolkids. This sickens Hatcher, and when he and an old friend try and stop it, they become 'Marked for Death'. I must say, this is a great action movie, they just don't make it like this anymore. My personal favourite, 'Hard to kill' is slightly better in my opinion, but they are all great movies. They don't try and complicate the plot too much, because it knows the audience wants action, not plot twists and a simple story, that's somewhat believable. One fault is the ridiculous body doubles used for some Jamaicans in some fight scenes (white people with Bob Marley wigs painted brown), but for me, this just adds to the enjoyment.Check it out for sure. "},{"Title":"Seagal Kicking Ass.","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked For Death is by far the greatest film featuring Steven Seagal. It's action heavy, and not for the faint of heart (Steve shoots a hooker like, 8 times). The film contains many memorable scenes, like when Seagal runs like a girl scout chasing drug dealers through Mexico or wherever the hell they are. If he seemed like a pansy in that scene, just wait until he gets to the middle of the film, He breaks a dude's arm in half, throws a guy out of a window, stabs a Jamaican guy in the junk and then cuts his head off with a Samurai sword. No big deal. This movie rules hard. "}{"Title":"Steven Seagal vs Jamaican drug dealers","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked For Death is the only Seagal film which I own on DVD.I had not actually seen the whole film until recently when I bought it.This is a great Seagal film! As usual, it is action packed and also fairly violent like Out For Justice.The plot is basic like Seagal's other films.The film has Seagal who is a cop going back to his old neighborhood. He finds that there are plenty of Jamaican drug dealers who sell marijuana and crack to teenagers.One day, he is at a bar with his old friend and a shootout between the jamaicans and these other guys ensue.Seagal protects one of them by beating on a Jamaican, afterwords he swears revenge.So the jamaicans start trying to kill his family by shooting at them.They also engage in voodoo rituals.The gang is led by Screwface who is probably the scariest villain in a Seagal film.So Seagal with the help of his friend and a Jamaican cop, go and try to kill Screwface before he can kill them.As usual, the fight scenes are great. I think this is one of Seagal's best films! "},{"Title":"Back when Seagal was good and Jamaicans were bad...","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Steven Seagal on a string of late 1980's action hits returns as DEA agent John Hatcher who leaves the profession for a matter of minutes before getting pulled right back into it after his family is attacked by some dope crazed islanders. The Jamaican drug posses of Predator 2 are moving from LA into the white bread suburbs of middle America and Seagal will have none of that; he and his high-school football coach buddy start a private vigilante war on the nappy 'ead fiends, but not before following the drug trail all around the seedy streets and beyond. Huge plot twist at the end (well huge if your IQ is only double-digits). The film is nice and violent and realistic when the bones break. Highlight is when Seagal is flooring his SUV through a downtown playground in the middle of the afternoon in hot pursuit of some irresponsible drug dealers. There are a couple nude Voodoo rituals throughout the film that are good for some laughs, and some epic Schwarzenegger-worthy one liners Steven E. de Souza would be jealous of. "},{"Title":"Seagal kicking butt","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This one was pretty decent,, not his best work,, but pretty good nonetheless, he is supposed to be retired just coming back from Columbia where his partner was killed, he get's mixed up with the Jamaican's and get's Marked for Death both him and his family, the film is mainly set in Chicago, which i always liked, then switches to Jamaica at the 3/4 pole,, there are a lot of good fighting scenes, and martial arts where Seagal just does what he does best in these films and kicks butt up and down the street,, he even has a few funny lines in the movie. There is even some swordplay in the movie also, the plot line isn't too bad,, mainly it's a story of revenge in this one, overall i'd say that this is a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Action at its best","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Yes, Steven Segal has packed on the pounds lately - haven't we all. He doesn't move like he did in his early films. I believe this was his second film and it has all the action one could wish for in a kick-butt martial arts action movie.You are not here to see Oscar-worthy acting or sumptuous costumes and sets, you are here for an adrenaline-pumping vicarious thumping of the bad guys - in this case Jamaican drug dealers. so, sit back and enjoy the ride with a big bowl of popcorn and you will not be disappointed.Now, if I could just figure out the name of that drop-dead beauty he was dancing with in the Jamaican bar, I would die a happy man. "},{"Title":"The very best from Lord Seagal!!!","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Wow! Can it get any better than this?. This movie is awesome. It's been fifteen years since the last time I saw this movie, and I was afraid that I would be disappointed, when I decided to give it another shot. Well...That definitely was'nt the case. I am very surprised that Marked for death have defied father time, and still seems as cool and refreshing to me, as it did in 1992. Guru Steven Seagal defined action in the 90's, and deserves much credit therefore. If you long to see The Master at the absolute peak of his movie career, then this is the film to watch!!!. He kicks, he hits, he breaks bones, he shoots, and he smiles while doing it. This movie has it all It's action-packed, it's funny, it's dramatic and it's very violent. Deserves a place at the Martial Arts top 5, along with The prodigal son, Fist of fury, Drunken Master and Once upon a time in China. "},{"Title":"Successful bone-breaking hit for Seagal.","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This, the third installment in what I like to think of as Seagal's Tough Guy Sequences, is every bit as good, if not better, than Above the Law and Hard to Kill.Seagal's first four movies; aka Above the Law, Hard to Kill, Marked for Death, and Out for Justice, are the movies which broke Steven Seagal into the action genre, although his heart seems to be more interested in his later environmentally responsible movies such as, The Patriot, On Deadly Ground, and Fire Down Below.While I enjoy Seagal's earlier movies, I tend to prefer those later movies over them. His acting is better and more convincing, as I lean towards the feeling that he is more himself in those movies, and not just wearing the hard core mask of a heartless b*st*rd.In this installment of Seagal's Tough Guy movies, he is up against a Jamaican posse (gang) headed by a very strong bocor (pronounced ba-kwa) of the Dark Arts, and all his drug dealing minions. It's a nice twist on the usual drug lord/hard-line cop confrontation. The action is very compelling and the acting is believable and professional. I even enjoyed the dialog which is a rarity for me, with action flicks.One thought he was invincible and the other thought he could fly.Chicago DEA agent John Hatcher...So? Max...They were both wrong. *lol* Both witty and gritty. Nice.I personally have had a little exposure to the path of Voodo, I have had no experience with its dark counterpart; certainly not enough to intelligently comment on the authenticity of the spell ingredients and rites used in this movie; however, I can say that the various VeVe's used (magickal symbols/idiograms) were of proper design. There is a nice love interest between Seagal's character and Joanna Pacula who is only named Leslie, in the credits AND in the movie itself.I finally met a guy who is nice, not married, gay, or trying to find himself, and he's trying very hard to get himself killed.While there is more than the usual amount of Seagal-styled bone-breaking, the chase scenes are not too frequent, there are minimal explosions and this production carries more drama/tension than you might expect. What effects there are, are realistic and kept small (thus adding to the realism in my opinion), and the confrontational scene in Tiffany's totally redeems whatever the movie may or may not have been lacking up to that point. Hatcher's pursuit of the notorious Screwface takes him to Jamaica's darkly beautiful and mysterious underground where he learns the secret of his new nemesis, before engaging him in a final explosive (and eye-opening/heart-rending) confrontation. All in all an enjoyable and entertaining 90 (or so) minutes.It gets a 7.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Marked for death is a waste of time , stupid as anuthing.","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for death , is corny , i don't care i hate this film it is a story about Jamaican drug fdealers ,, oouuggg horrible the accent and dialouge goes into a childish form , kids will love this garbage but as an action film it is a cartoon , the violence is tame and horrible because the film has no realistic fights the revenge action scenes ares simple , ohhhhh , shoot em up , no death that is good. Steven is a bad actor and in this mutters a stupid plot and just puts you off , i mean the actors and characters are in some kind of wannabe good film but is only for you cheesy corny film lovers . Avoid anyone who is good.Overrated 15 certificate for moderate violence and language. "},{"Title":"Undercover cop takes time away from job only to get marked for death.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Yes, first he was Above the Law, then he was Hard to Kill and after that Marked for Death. There was Out for Justice after this one, but that is the weakest for me of the three I have seen. The only one I never saw was Above the Law. This one was rather good, not quite as good as Hard to Kill, but not all that far behind either. This one does not have quite as a good plot as Hard, but it was more evident than the almost plot less Out for Justice. This one has Seagal as a cop who has been undercover for a while and has done quite a few terrible things during his years undercover. He confesses his sins to a priest and the priest suggests he steps away from his life of fighting crime the wrong way and go back to his family so perhaps they can help him become the man he once was. Well he does just this, unfortunately the neighborhood he goes to is having some trouble with drug dealers. So instead of getting out, he gets pulled back in to take down the strange Jamacin's who control the drugs in this neighborhood. Suffice to say the action is probably the best I have seen in a Seagal movie as far as the ones I mentioned. The plot is a bit simple though and it is basically Seagal kicking butt, but it is done pretty good here. They try to do a bit of a plot twist near the end, but it does not really add anything or take anything away from the movie. "},{"Title":"Screwface, mon VS de Whiteboy Hatcha","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for Death is a bit of an anomaly in the early, golden-age of Seagal cinematic rampages. The man was virtually owned by Warner, but M4D was released by Twentieth Century Fox. As his third big screen movie, it's not really THAT much different from the rest of the vintage. Once more he's out for revenge/justice, and is hard to kill and above the law as he does so.Seagal plays John Hatcher, a ruthless DEA agent who lives the life of killing/maiming absolutely everything and everyone in sight. There's virtually no one he hasn't killed. Tired of making death a living he retires to the cozy, strictly white and middle-class Lincoln Heights suburb of Chicago. Upon arriving home he greets all his old pals, and his mother who appears to be Italian or Spanish (another lame attempt by Seagal to quietly imply that he's got some mysterious roots when in reality he's Steve Seigel, an Irish-Jew). It's not all happiness and handshakes though, as the terrifying Jamaican Voodoo Posse, run by Abu Qua High Priest madman Screwface, have infiltrated Chicago and are dealing death to schoolkids.Irie, Irie.Hatcher wants nothing to do with it, and would rather just mind his own business despite the protest of best friend Max (a mostly wasted, but brilliant as always, Keith David). But after a couple of close encounters Hatcher just can't help himself and returns to the business of killing absolutely everyone and everything in sight.Basil Wallace, as Screwface (and Screwface), is honestly one of the most enigmatic, mesmerizing, and downright weirdest movie villains of the 90s. He's really, really out there. I recommend watching this with the subtitles on as you'll have absolutely no idea what the Jamaicans are saying. Some of the things they say, while being mostly gibberish, are highly quotable. One of Screwface's many quirks is the fact despite his millions and magic powers he spends his spare time sitting around playing dominoes with his minions while wearing the world's best jumper.Director Dwight H. Little handles the action competently, if not brilliantly. The fight scenes and chases are relatively straight-forward, but in terms of story coherence the editing is all over the place. It appears that the original cut of the film was in a different order, and had much more plot. There are several established threads (the Voodoo, the Professor, the Columbians, the FBI) that are never developed. At 93 minutes, M4D is too rushed and has a rather abrupt ending.James Newton Howard provides a score that is sporadically brilliant, much like the movie itself. There are some lovely cues in there, but overall it's brought down a few notches by the generic nature of the rest of it. If only a few more elements of M4D were developed and taken a few stages further we would have had a true classic, as it is it's merely low-brow entertainment with a truly bizarre and outrageous villain. "},{"Title":"Action packed","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Seagal goes to confession early in this one and actually tries reforming, but when Jamaican drug dealers target him and his family, well... he has a relapse. A perfect example of the kind of action picture he does best short, simple and lots of good action scenes. And I have to admit, I wasn't expecting the little plot twist at the end.  "}{"Title":"a highly entertaining action movie","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Marked for Death is an entertaining movie.  Steven Seagal stars as retired Drug Enforcement Agent John Hatcher who is hot on the trail of a Jamaican drug lord.  The fight scenes are excellent, confirming my belief that Steven Seagal is one of the best action stars in the world. The movie itself is exciting and dazzling, and it moves at a fast pace. It is one of Seagal's best films. "},{"Title":"Seagal tosses aside any pretense at style and heads full throttle into exploitation. (* 1/2 out of * * * *)","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for Death (1990) spends more time on action sequences, than it does with focusing on its characters. After his first two impressive efforts, Above the Law (1988) and Hard to Kill (1989), this third Steven Seagal picture makes the idea clear anyone who opposes him is meant to look like a fool; the bad guys are just there to make him look good.Seagal had been steadily building an audience that seemed a bit larger than those that follow the kick-'em-up antics of Chuck Norris or Jean Claude Van Damme.In Marked for Death, Seagal tosses aside any pretense at style and heads full throttle into exploitation. This film contains loads of graphic violence, gore and nudity that seem to be there for no reason other than to please rowdy moviegoers, who are unable to distinguish between action pictures that tell a story and those that simply pour on the thrills without rhyme or reason. And he deserves some real blame for this lapse in taste as a producer of Marked for Death.Seagal plays John Hatcher, a retired DEA agent who comes home to Chicago, where his family is being attacked by a Jamaican street gang, who attack his sister's house, and the film proves that it isn't squeamish when Hatcher's niece (Danielle Harris) is shot in the crossfire. Hatcher gets mad, and he decides to team up with his old friend, Max (Keith David), a school gym teacher, and Charles (Tom Wright), a Jamaican cop.Naturally, Hatcher declares war on the chief bad guy, a dread-locked Jamaican voodoo priest called Screwface (Basil Wallace), a nickname that apparently means outrageous overacting. And it is almost unbelievable in the way Seagal picks off various members of the gang he gouges one guy's eyeball, he breaks a guy's back, and he breaks numerous arms and limbs.All logic for this movie is thrown out the window- -through the glass, that is. Why aren't Hatcher and friends indicted for all the property damage they cause or the body count that piles up? And how did they get their cache of automatic weapons from Illinois to Jamaica by plane without being detected? Seagal has a Clint Eastwood stoicism about him that fans once seemed to enjoy, and despite the three different characters he's played in as many films, each dresses in Oriental black bathrobes, and wears a ponytail. One of the problems that I have with some of Seagal's movies is that the main characters never seem to be in serious jeopardy, and because he's the star, of course, no one can lay a glove on him, except for the bad guy.Seagal's heroes are all interchangeable, as are most of the plot lines and action sequences. Regardless of whether he's masquerading as a ship's cook, a fire fighter, or an L.A. cop wearing love beads, Seagal is always Seagal, which is exactly what his fans want. In fact, the sameness of these films is such that, if I wanted to, I could take an old review, change the names, and have a reasonably accurate take on the new movie. Not that I'd ever really do that... "},{"Title":"Very Brutal Mon!","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Here's another Steven Seagal movie I've enjoyed. Marked for Death is another martial art flick that really gives the term of butt-kicking. Just like the other films he was in, it also proves a point as well. Another law enforcement officer who tracks down a Jamaican by the name of Screwface(Basil Wallace). At first this was some seriously cruel joke, but when I saw his face, I said, Man, with a face like that, anything else would sound a little more horrid. That 1970 Ford Mustang was the bomb baby. Love that car! It's such a shame that Screwface and his cohorts had to blow it up, after he tell John Hatcher(Seagal) to meet his sister goddess of fire. Screwface really went to far when he did a ritual on Hatcher's sister. And the sword fight was amazing, first he beheads Screwface. And then, he breaks his back a sends him down the elevator shaft hoping he doesn't have triplets. That's a laugh. So what was Screwface? The modern day Hydra? Better yet, his name should have been Hydra. This movie is another hit for Seagal, and I would disagree with anyone else about it. There was enough action to make it watchable. Rating 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1990","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Steven Seagal in his prime took Hollywood by storm. This was his 3rd hit movie and some consider it one of his best ever.While many action movies tend to recycle the same basic premise, Marked for Death actually has a creative story. Accompanied by some very good actors this movie stands out as one of the best all time martial arts action movies and one of the best action movies in general.Seagal plays a special operative who quits because he's just had enough of the life. He's tired of seeing people he cares about die...and for what? He comes to the conclusion that all the work he has done in the end amounts to nothing....that it didn't make a difference.Upon returning home to spend time with his family he learns that things have changed and the element he has retreated from is now prevalent in his hometown and he cannot escape it. Reluctantly he returns to the fight and begins a personal campaign against the local threat consisting of drug-dealing Jamaican posse members with ties to the mafia.Seagal appears to do all of his own stunts. His style and on-screen charisma really stand out in this film. If you like Seagal this is a must watch film. "},{"Title":"Now we're talking serious fun, man.","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Don't you just love watching insane people in movies? Take Screwface for example; he's so over the top and out of control that you don't know what he'll do next. Even made his posse shudder.This is one of the few Seagal flicks that got by me back in his heyday. Probably because between him and Van Damme, the pictures have such similar titles I probably thought I'd already seen it. No matter. This film delivers pretty much like all the rest if you go for this stuff.But there's always been something that bothered me about action films in which the bad guys never follow through. This picture had two instances where Hatcher (Seagal) was on the ropes - in the car wreck and at the warehouse in Jamaica. Both times Hatch would have been a goner if the bad guys just finished him off right then and there. Especially the second time when it was Screwface (Basil Wallace) holding all the cards. Not that I'm rooting for the bad guys, but in real life, wouldn't you want to just get things over with? Instead, Screwface must have thought about revenge just a bit too long and then just lost his head. "},{"Title":"Seagal kicking and shooting","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" DEA agent John Hatcher (Steven Seagal) returns from Colombia after the death of his partner. He goes home to his sister's family in Chicago. He and army buddy Max (Keith David) have a drink and he reluctantly gets in the middle of a shootout with the drug gang Jamaican Posse. The leader of the gang is Screwface (Basil Wallace). John arrests one of Screwface's man and his sister's house is shot up. His niece Tracey (Danielle Harris) is left in critical condition.It's one of Seagal's better efforts for what that's worth. He kicks some bad guys and shoots up a storm. The bad guys use Jamaican voodoo but that adds to the atmosphere. None of it should be taken seriously. It's straight forward and without any apologies. "},{"Title":"Its not just Steven, its the plot and dialogs itself","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I find the movie acting and action scenes over-toned, but I am not a fan of Steven anyway. What does come at deeper level is the choice of enemy.Well, its no secret Jamaican gangs (posse) exist. Whether they rule US streets, that is pretensions. However, Stevens movies were never realistic, but about action and defense of US pride and justice but this one kicks it over the edge with a lot of stereotypes.Dreadlocks are criminal stereotype, instead of Rastafarians who are peaceful and certainly not a violent international drug dealers (even when it comes to herb).While Screwface does display some Rastafarian features such as Patois language, and observing US as Babylon system he does practice belief in Voodoo and magic (which isn't prominent in Jamaica at all). Gang members call each other Rasta - while real faith opposes crime and violence and is often victim of it (e,g. Robert Nesta aka Bob Marley was a a wound victim of a paid assassins of such a posse)Such elements have ruined something that could have been a good action movie with a message, and depicts overall Jamaicans as primitive and drug dealing people.That this isn't alone voice is indicated by real Jamaicans / Rastafarian protest at time of movie release, being put on a list of most racist movies ever and overall today perception of how not to do movie and play with other cultures.What is even strangest is that movie featured some nice reggae and rap music, such as Jimmy Cliff. I suppose buying music for soundtrack goes before movie is presented to the musicians. They do also appear live in clubs of Jamaica. "},{"Title":"What a marked man is Steve, in a mark down of movie","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Hot on the heels of Hard To Kill, with again, a less than impressive performance, one could say undemanding now, as we don't go to see Seagal films for acting talent. One in a long line of films before Seagal did straight to video dreck, this third Seagal instalment sees him back on a personal trail of revenge, after earlier retiring. His captain making a potent statement What are you gonna retire too?, this same actor playing the bartender in that redneck bar in 48 Hours, sardonically suggesting Murphy's choice of drink. When Seagal's undercover mate is blown away in a drug deal gone wrong (a great start of location) and blowing away a woman shooter in return, he decides if by some sort of redemption or salvation to pack it in. When returning to his old neighbourhood to get some peace and tranquillity, he inadvertently stumbles into another drug war, when him and old buddy (Keith David) are witness to an open shootout involving Jamaican drug lords, better known as possies. A nice little educational note there. When his niece takes a bullet, he's forced back into action as we love to see him, him and David walking out of the hospital room, both intent and fierce again has as asking, what's a great actor like David, working with Seagal. Their objective is Screwface, the great Basil Wallace, the standout performer in this who provides a twist too. There are some humorous scenes in Marked for Death, 1) The confession scene. 2) a slightly amusing scene with Seagal, tinkering with some old gun parts or ornaments of some kind at his Sister's place, but 3) Seagal's dialogue to Davi,. concerning two bad arses, one of who'm he just shot, while the other, a Jamaican who made his choice. The family/homely scenes worked well for what isn't a bad actioner, or badly made film, which way you want to term it. It's a solid piece of action making, some potent and memorable dialogue too, as in Seagal's following hit, Out For Justice. This one just doesn't rise to the quality of Seagal's prior flicks. Pacula too as a reporter, provided another homely scene, when Seagal recounts olden days of soup kitchens. Another amusing scene, just before I sign off has Screwface's girl dancing for Seagal, who lets him in on a little wise information, in order to catch her ex. End Song by Jimmy Cliff and the band, is no better way of song to finish this heavy action vehicle, with some occasional but heavy gore. "},{"Title":"Decent Seagal action flick","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When DEA agent John Hatcher's partner is killed he decides it is time to retire as no matter how much they do and how many villains they arrest there is always somebody else waiting to take there place. When he returns to his home in Chicago he finds the Jamaican Posses are selling drugs. At first he doesn't want to get involved but eventually he has no choice and deals with one of the gang. This puts both him and his family firmly in the sights of Screwface, the gang's leader. After an attack on his home leaves his niece critically injured he sets about hunting Screwface down; a mission that will take him from Chicago to Jamaica and back again and everywhere he goes he fill have to take on Screwface's many men and the black magic they claim to wield.If you enjoyed other early Seagal films you are sure to like this as it is packed with bone crunching action; he frequently has to fight several thugs at once. As well as the expected martial arts action there is plenty of gunplay, a car chase and even a sword fight! The story isn't too deep but there is an unforgettable twist that first time viewers are sure to enjoy. Seagal isn't the best actor in the world but he knows how to do action so if that is what you want you won't be disappointed. Some of the Jamaican patois is a little hard to understand but that doesn't spoil anything as most of what they say can be guessed anyway&#x85; it is nearly always a threat of some sort! "},{"Title":"A solid Seagal vehicle.","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In one of his early vehicles with the three-word descriptive titles, Steven Seagal this time is fighting the war on drugs. Or, to be more accurate, he's out to annihilate the Jamaican drug pushers who've infiltrated his Chicago community. He didn't feel like doing so at first; he'd burned out while on the job as a DEA agent and realized that in order to win he'd become no better than his adversaries. It's only inevitable that he'll once again get motivated to righteous fury when his own family is victimized. The bad guys in these movies never ever learn that simple lesson - mess with the hero's loved ones and they're just as marked for death as the good guy. Here, Seagal showed that in the earlier years of his career how he really gave more of an effort and could be quite engaging. He's given a truly kick ass sidekick in the form of eternally cool Keith David, as the old buddy / football coach disgusted by what he sees around him. Also lending assistance are Jamaican cop Tom Wright and a professor played by Joanna Pacula. Marked for Death does its job in a number of areas; as directed by Dwight H. Little (Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers, Rapid Fire), it hits the ground running, and delivers exactly what we as fans of Seagal movies expect rampant brutality, with broken limbs aplenty, bullets in foreheads, bodies crashing through windows, impalement, eyes gouged out, etc. The topicality of the script does take a back seat to all of the violent action - there's always one great scene around the corner. There's even a little bit of nudity to spice things up. A major appeal of the movie is the soundtrack, which features some tunes by Jimmy Cliff, who also appears on screen performing with his band. The supporting cast is full of familiar faces - Kevin Dunn, Tony DiBenedetto, Peter Jason, Danny Trejo, Gary Carlos Cervantes, and Earl Boen, with Danielle Harris, whom Little had directed in Halloween 4, in a bit as Seagal's niece. Basil Wallace, an actor who should have broken bigger after this, has enough intensity and charisma to make for an effective villain. All in all, Marked for Death is good fun and builds to a really good finale as well as an amusing twist and resulting final one-liner. Seven out of 10. "}{"Title":"Well, I liked 2 things, and one of them was Seagal's car !","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" We all know that it is B grade B movie. The afternoon or rainy night kind of time filler. So I won't get harsh, though with the presence of Steven Seagal it's impossible not to ! After Seagal's first movie (Above the Law &#x96; 1988), some critic said about the new rising star He's a fine mix of John Wayne, Bruce Lee and Clint Eastwood. How deceived that miserable critic was ! In fact Seagal is nothing but another Charles Bronson yet with marital arts experience. Observe well Seagal's so-called acting to discover easily that he must have watched Bronson's Death Wish movies for countless times !The conflict this round is some tough cop fighting some voodoo drug dealers. The friction of the two's worlds was done absurdly. That cop's violence is too much; he walks like a deadly epidemic that leaves no wounded guys, only corpses. The attack at the gang's headquarters reminded me of (Commando), 5 years earlier. However the real reason of bothering was Seagal himself. It's not about the eternal truth that he doesn't smile, or doesn't know the way to. It's about another thing. They gave him a little dialog, which is a good idea, till you know that it was filled with many one-liners. OK, how they got the nerve ?! That guy is the worst of the worst at delivering any one-liner ! Watch him saying They were both wrong or I hope they weren't triplets; if Tom from Tom and Jerry said these lines, he would be less awful and more cool than Mr. Steven-The Whispering Zombie-Seagal !The action is average, but it works. In movies of that kind don't ask much, just watch the fights. In general I liked 2 things, one of them is Seagal's black car; it was a stunner for every guy back in the 1990s start. And the second is of course the surprise of the evil guy as alive; that trick of having a twin brother was excellent (that fake decapitated head was so real it's freaky too !). Other than that...Seagal's grins could have killed me !P.S  I read that Seagal didn't want to make this movie, hating it openly from day one till now, so how come he produced it ?! "},{"Title":"Uninspired plot, voodoo silliness, endless martial arts sequences, and lower common denominator dialogue","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for Death follows a predictable formula that is really based on U.S. relations with Germany and Japan just before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. At first our hero John Hatcher (Steven Seagal) wants to retire from the narcotics division in law enforcement and ignore the drug dealing (a metaphor for foreign wars) that is going on around him. Then after trying to live peacefully in isolation, Hatcher is pulled back into his profession when Jamaican drug dealers, led by Screwface (Basil Wallace), fire machine guns at his sister's home and wound his niece. Hatcher realizes that he cannot isolate himself from the evil forces anymore and so he confronts them in a good vs. evil struggle in which he eventually emerges triumphant.With this predictable plot, only great dialogue, great villains and a great Seagal performance can save this movie. Steven Seagal has a great screen presence, but the screenplay only has him perform standard car chases and routine martial arts sequences in which he breaks arms, legs and other body parts. But what I find ridiculous about this film are the villains. Screwface and his cohorts come across as very silly performing all of their voodoo magic. I don't know if there are Jamaicans who are so stupid as to think there is anything to voodooism, but it is hard to believe based on this film. Moreover, the voodooism seems all the more ridiculous considering the dreary atmospheric soundtrack in the background. Somebody at the screenplay or production level was way off in introducing voodoo rituals in order to spice up the plot. It actually made the film boring because the voodooism was not relevant to the plot and the villains were reduced to stock characters that fit the image of the primitive savage as imagined by European colonialists. The Jamaican cop Charles (Tom Wright) in the film and the explanation half way into the movie that not all Jamaicans sell drugs came across as a pathetic attempt at hedging by the filmmakers who were worried about their film coming across as anti-Jamaican. "},{"Title":"great villain elevates the material","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" i might be a little biased towards this Seagal film as it's actually the first of his that i saw and one of only two i have seen in the theatre.i just finished watching it again a couple hours ago,for only the second time.compared to his two previous movies,there is less action here,but the ferocity of the action more than makes up for it.the broken bone(not to mention deaths)quotient in this one is off the charts.Seagal is starting to become wooden in his acting here,and it shows,but the movie is still a romp.the villain is great here and is played with gusto by Basil Wallace.i'd recommend it to action fans in general and certainly to Seagal fans.for me,Marked for Death is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Screwface is going down Seagal style","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Seagal is back at his best in marked for death. Seagal plays John Hacher a narcotics cop who goes up against Screwface a sadistic Jamaican drugs baron who wants john dead.marked for death is a brilliant action packed Seagal classic bone crunching fight scenes blazing action and the acting is top notch Seagal is good as john hatcher and basil Wallace is good as the evil Screwface Kieth David is also good as Seagals side kick. Top action makes marked for death a classic Seagal movie also good directing by dwight h little who also did rapid with brandon lee and murder at 1600 with wesley snipes pure entertainment makes this a good rental 8 out of ten "},{"Title":"Great film, typical Steven Segal","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I loved this film from start to finish. It's Steven Segal at his cheesiest best, and although I feel that he's not not exactly the greatest actor in the entire world, I do think that he is the best at what he does, which is deliver great one liners (most of the time painfully cheesy but also brilliant in equal measure, but hey it's Steven Segal, he's allowed!), and then fill you and you're mates in for even looking at him in the wrong way. He's been around for a long time now and I think it's great that he continues to promote the beautiful art of aikido in all of his films; I don't know many other people who remain such a constant with regards to martial arts in film. "},{"Title":"Marked for Death","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The 1990 Steven Seagal martial arts action flick Marked for Death marked a bit of a change for the then-sixth-degree black belt Aidiko expert. In Marked for Death, we see Seagal at what is arguably his most brutal and violent, and the action shifts from the Chicago suburbs to the exotic land of Jamaica. These all might make it seem more entertaining but the ultimate question is, is it?Well, yes and no. Seagal has and (probably) always will be a stoic martial arts action star with limited acting capabilities but stellar skills in snapping limbs and breaking necks and here (dare I spoil it for everyone), his first dual-vasectomy/decapitation combo.Seagal is former DEA agent John Hatcher, who decides to retire from the job after a drug bust gone bad in Mexico that leaves his partner dead. Once home, he reunites with the family and renews connections. (I guess even The Great One has a heart, or at least tries to pass off as having a heart.) But his retirement is cut short by the recent invasion of Jamaican drug posses, who have flooded the streets with cocaine and other choice narcotics and are also responsible for the increase in violence in the area.Hatcher reunites with football coach and ex-Army buddy Max (Keith David), who has lost both his 13-year-old nephew and star player to overdoses supplied by the Jamaicans. Hatcher remains on the sidelines of the battle but once they attack his family and total his prized Mustang, the heat is on. Taking the war to rid the Chicago 'burbs of drugs and their suppliers to the Windy City's streets and ultimately the slums of Jamaica, Hatcher and Max make mortal enemies with the posses' piercing, blue-eyed psycho leader, Screwface (Basil Wallace).Unevenly mis-directed by Dwight H. Little, Marked for Death has all the trimmings of a nice kick-'em-up that's characteristic of any Steven Seagal action flick. As I stated earlier, the action does get pretty vicious, and I caught an uneasy vibe about the underlying racist portrayal of the villains, which I guess is remedied by the inclusion of nice-guy cop Tom Wright as the only Jamaican cop in the movie. The plot is also cookie-cutter, its only high point being a twist at the end that helps to explain Screwface's apparently mystical powers in black magic (he has two heads and four eyes, we're told).At the end of the day at center stage, though, is Mr. Seagal and his remarkable mastery of his Aikido craft. He hasn't had too many hits as of late but despite everything bad aimed in his direction, he remains one of the martial arts movies' biggest names.5/10 "},{"Title":"Screwface gets screwed up...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A DEA agent decides to retire and live life in the slow lane and settle down in the suburbs however a Jamacian drug posse puts his plans on hold and although our DEA agent keeps a cool head at first, when they gun down his niece and attack his sister, it's time for the DEA agent to chuck his reserve and deal out justice. Marked For Death is on par with movies like The Punsiher(1989) and American Ninja, in that the ridiculous story gives way to lots of action which of course overshadows the script and story. In Marked For Death we have cheesy villains who practice hokey voodoo rituals which add to the goofiness that make this a compulsively watchable effort. Also Seagal's fight sequences consist of bad guys getting bones broken and killed in mean spirited ways. I of course hold this is in high regard. There maybe hardly any development but when you have a one man army snapping bones and beheading the bad guys, one hardly cares.* * out of 4(Fair) "},{"Title":"one kick ass beat'um up martial arts flick on the grandest scale","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The glowering brutality that is aikido headbanger Steven Seagal's substitute for a star persona at least gives us a rancid taste of authenticity in this cookie-cutter action picture. This glum lug seems to really enjoy hurting people; he snaps limbs and shatters noses with visible relish. Pitted against a crew of Jamaican gangsters who invade his (white ethnic) Chicago neighborhood and threaten his family, retired DEA agent John Hatcher sets out to solve the case with robotic efficiency, kicking butt in just about every scene. Not quite as pudgy in this 1990 outing as he became a few films later, Seagal looks like the genuine, lethal article in the fight sequences, but like a hopeless amateur when he tries to act his way out of the waterlogged-paper-bag of a script. So what else is new? The one bright spot here is Basil Wallace, a mostly unsung actor who throws himself into the showy role of the Rasta gang-boss Screwface, a garishly scarred psycho with piercing ice-blue eyes. if i die the bury me upside down so all the haters can kiss my ass "},{"Title":"Cool because Seagal gets his butt kicked.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've watched a lot of Seagal's movies and I've noticed that almost all of the villains are very easy to kill, what kind of fun is that? So, I watched this movie just to see if Screwface was a tough bad guy, and I was rewarded. I saw a fantastic sword fight finale between Wallace and Seagal, and sure Steve got in some hits, but Wallace kicked his butt in this fight. The rest of the movie is ok, but it's worth it to watch just to see Seagal gettin' his fanny beat. "},{"Title":"One of his better efforts","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Channel 5 have been showing quite a few Steven Seagal movies recently in the UK and they range from pretty poor to pretty good. This is one of the better ones. Actually apart from Under Siege I think this is the best Seagal film I have seen. It has great fight scenes, great car chases and a good bad guy too. Also some good supporting actors and a good soundtrack ( Jimmy Cliff appears in it too! ), well worth watching. *** out of ***** "}{"Title":"The best plot of any of Seagal's cop movies","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a great Seagal movie. I've seen the other reviews and many say it's crap, but if you like action, you'll love this movie.  I really liked this movie, of course because of Seagal's Aikido skills.  I think he did a good job with this movie.  His acting was as expected, but he choreographed the fight scenes (amazing one at the jewelry store), and he actually researched the voodoo scenes in the filmA movie about Seagal out to kill a Jamaican druglord and the rest of the posse after he and his family have been marked for death, it's a great plot. I am a huge Seagal fan, so it's easy for me to say I loved this movie. For you to like this movie and remember it, you have to appreciate Seagal's Aikido.  He fights with sophistication.  It does look rough with the joint breaks and throws, but that's what makes it mind blowing.  Go out and rent this movie if you haven't seen it, I think you'll be amazed at what Steven Seagal can do.Great plot, Seagal acting, Great overall... **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Nice Action with Horror undertones...","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Really, this movie borders on the line of horror more than one time. I mean, look at all this voodoo stuff and the gratuitous gore (eye gougings, a great arm snapping, one guy gets a sword where you pretty much least want it before Seagal decapitates him etc...). And I for once think that's pretty damn cool ). The plot itself is pretty pedestrian, but the over the top violence makes it work beautifully. The cast is mostly good too (Tom Wright, Keith David, Joanna Pacula) with the notable exception of Seagal who's, come on, Seagal, so cut him some slack there. I mean, he's here to break bones and kick @$$, not to act. So, all in all, this is one of his best movies, but a pretty good movie on its own too, if not judged by the Seagal-Suck-Scale... compared to Ticker and stuff this is Oscar material... "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was a great movie.   Steven Seagal as John Hatcher a retired DEA Agent, returns to Chicago, only to find out it's being overrun by Jamaican Drug dealers.   Hatcher teams up with his friend Max to end the violent reign of Drug Lord Screwface.   This a film is worth watching for people who like action movies with taste.    "},{"Title":"Kinda dumb, but kinda fun too.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Haven't seen this in a while, but I used to see it a lot. The fights are kind of cool (and sometimes makes you cringe at the joint-breaking sounds), but is just a typical action movie. This is also back before Steven Seagal was a has-been. The twist at the end really has no point, but it gave an excuse for more fighting. "},{"Title":"Seagals best film yet","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When you talking about Steven Seagal you talking about a guy who bring the most modern martial arts (aikido) on to the silver screen. You expect special aikido scenes & good action. Seagal is the reason that i started to take aikido lessons long time ago. Aikido is like a dance. It gives you self confidence and its 100 per cent self defense. It is very soft but it could be dynamic too (watch Steven in action). So Marked for death is simply his best film yet and it is including some of his best aikido scenes in his career. I really miss him but i hope that he coming back to us with aikido scenes like marked for death, out for justice & Nico. Steven Seagal is one of my five favorite action stars along side with Jackie Chan, Bruce Lee, Arnie & Sly. Go Steven... "},{"Title":"Steve Seagull at his best","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film is the epitome of a good segal flick. Violent, funny and best of all has some of the most unconvincing Carribean accents ever. On the whole it is his most inventive film to date and, lets face it, at least its not 'Fire down Below' or something else with a stupid moral message. And remember 'Screwface give me a thousand deaths worse than you'. "},{"Title":"I want Hatcher dead!","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Being the third one off the ranks (behind Above the Law and Hard to Kill), comes another three title name (no wonder I sometimes confuse it with Hard to Kill) in what is a familiar one-note, bone-crunching action vehicle for Steven Seagal --- but hey that's the way we love 'em! Simple, little story and Seagal handing out plenty of bloody action. However he's hard-pressed to do so, until it becomes personal. Then it never lets up, so Seagal in his usual cool and collected manner does it easy. Somehow despite the vicious threat and arousing situations, never do you feel that his in any real danger.After seeing his partner get shot-up on a botch job, John Hatcher begins have second thoughts about his life and retires from the Drug Enforcement Agency to return back to his small hometown. Through of his old pal he learns that a Jamaican posse led by drug lord Screwface have infiltrated his neighbourhood controlling the drug scene. At first Hatcher just looks away not wanting to get involve, but when he finds himself caught up in an incident between the Columbians and Jamaicans. Screwface vows that he and his family are now marked for death --- and when he lives up to that threat he goes after Screwface and his posse.After a blistering start, it does slow down before vamping things up again when Hatcher eventually breaks out his short-lived, self-pitying slumber when payback becomes a driving factor. It's so forced and overblown (this is all happening in a small town), but it's engagingly exciting and furiously staged with director Dwight H. Little's streamlined handling consisting of a humid edge. The camera really likes watching Seagal in the grove, and his quick abilities are simply are marvel to watch. Be it with a gun, sword or hand combat. It's all brutal and high-octane, and surprisingly at times it can become a nasty piece of work. The performances are acceptable with Seagal stoic as ever, but where it matters he's quick on his feet. Basil Wallace is a fearfully hammy treat as the commandingly, over-the-top Screwface with those glaring green eyes. His presence just seems to linger, even when he isn't on screen and he does get some insane dialogues. Keith David is solid and so is Tom Wright. Joanna Pacula appears in a minor (you could say nothing) role and horror fans will recognize a young Danielle Harris.Marked for Death is over-the-top, ruthless, but mindlessly fun. "},{"Title":"Marked for Death","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Screwface has two heads and four eyes, and that's the secret to his magic.Lincoln Heights, a cushy suburb of Chicago, is being overrun by Jamaican drug-lord Screwface who is selling to the white youth on school grounds. Burned-out, retired DEA agent John Hatcher(Steven Seagal) gets in the middle of a blood feud with Screwface and his cronies when they threaten his family after he exposes them in a bar shootout with Colombians that goes awry. Teaming with old Vietnam war buddy Max(Keith David;now a football coach with a player and family exposed to the ills of Screwface's drug trade)and a Jamaican cop Charles(Tom Wright) who has spent his career trying to take apart Screwface's drug trade, they will infiltrate the cartel with many dead bodies lying in the wake. The title of the movie represents a Voodoo curse placed on Hatcher and his family for he has corrupted their business with his involvement in putting a stop to them.About as dumb as these typical actioners come, it supplies fans of Seagal for what they ask for..car chases,gun-fights, sword-fights, and snapped limbs. Seagal's hands are amazingly swift and he's able to mow over these Jamaican scum with ease. It doesn't stray far from the usual formula of a Steven Seagal picture..it's all about the man taking out the trash in graphically violent ways. Many arms and legs are snapped like a twig and the villains are merely clichéd vermin to be eradicated like cockroaches..Seagal is the quintessential exterminator. The lovely Joanna Pacula has a thankless role as an expert in Voodoo assisting love-interest Seagal with information about his nemesis' religious practices. Basil Wallace is unintentionally hilarious as the over-the-top, spitting, bulging-eyed drug-lord. The Jamaican gangsters are presented as uneducated twats who can not pronounce a single sentence plainly. "},{"Title":"The Secret Of His Magic ..","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Segal plays John Hatcher, a former DEA agent who decides to go inactive and visit his family. Hatcher crosses some members of a Jamaican Posse, headed by a really nasty leader named Screwface. They mark his dwelling with Voodoo symbols, and Hatcher learns that they are death symbols.The basic story is simple Hatcher can know no peace as long as Screwface lives. So, he goes after him, maiming and killing Possee members on the way.Spoilers But there are interesting touches. Rival criminals try to have Screwface eliminated by hiring a young lady proficient in Brujeria to slay him, magically. She goes through an interesting rite, and save for something I'll touch upon in a bit, the spell would have succeeded. However, that brings the lady to Screwface's attention, and from that, to her demise.During his quest, Hatcher visits Jamiaca. He meets a beautiful young lady, a night club performer, who indirectly provides him with the secret that saved Screwface. Hatcher doesn't understand the hint ... then.(An aside the secret is consonant with the operations of Sympathetic Magic, FWIW. But that level of accuracy is strange in a film like this.) Later, Hatcher and Screwface tangle, and after that, Hatcher learns his secret. But at the physical level of action, it would be of little good to the former DEA man.The film is violent, but so are most Seagal films. It's okay, but not his best. "},{"Title":"Terrific Seagal Film And One Of His More Unique films","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a terrific Seagal film That's one of his more unique films. I loved the story, and there is non stop action throughout the movie, plus Basil Wallace, is extremely menacing as the main villain. It's really unique, and Seagal is excellent in this, and is TONS of fun to watch. All the characters were cool, plus it was cool to see Danielle Harris in a small role. It had a cool twist near the end that i didn't see coming, and as i said i really dug Basil Wallace. The Direction is very good. Dwight H. Little, does a very good job here, keeping the film at an excellent pace, he had some neat camera tricks, and overall did a solid job!. There is TONS of blood and violence. We get 2 bloody gunshot wounds to the head,2 bloody slit throats,cut off hand, bloody stabbings, nasty bone breaking, 3 bloody impailings, including one to the balls(ouch), decapitation, severed head, slicing and dicing,gouged out eyes, and TONS of EXTREMELY bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is great!. Steven Seagal is AWESOME here as usual, he kicks that ass,gives one of his best performances ever, had great chemistry with Keith David, and was very likable! (Seagal Rules!). Basil Wallace, is one of the coolest villains ever!, he had very creepy eyes, was extremely menacing, and gave me the creeps!, he ruled!. Keith David, is excellent here, he was very likable, and had good chemistry with Seagal. Tom Wright, does what he has to do well. Kevin Dunn, is very annoying and here is no different. Bette Ford, is good here, and did well. Dainelle Harris is AWESOME in her small role she rocks!. Overall a must see! for action/and Seagal fans! **** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Violent, yet engaging...","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This Seagal film is really quite good. There is a good balance between the characterisation and how the physical events play-out. There is a Walking Tall sort of echo throughout this film, but it is abandoned as the plot develops and the team finds themselves in Kingston, where they begin to organise quite a cold-hearted assault on Screwface's compound - (the sniper rifle really whacks 'em hard).Anyway, this is one of Seagal's best films - and the Jamaican theme and actors themselves add a refreshing spin/colour to the genre that the later film Predator 2 might have drawn upon.There are a lot of bones being broken in this movie and Seagal has a field day on some of the helpless Jamaican crew. Violent and engaging... "},{"Title":"god made men.....","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ...States STEVEN SEAGAL, just before shooting an unsavoury character named JIMMY FINGERS (the paedophile from THE EXTERMINATOR),  the reason being, mr fingers, proclaimed himself to be a 'made man' This was a snappy comeback, from SEAGAL....and this movie is full of snaps (snapped necks, snapped backs, and most notably, in the shopping centre sequence, snapped arm!)...crunch...arrgghhhh!!!SEAGAL stars as JOHN HATCHER,  ex DEA agent, now retired, after renouncing his violent past (i just hope the informants he's claimed to have slept with, were women!) settles back into his old town, but finds that drug dealers are everywere, and after stopping a drug heist, he, and his family are MARKED FOR DEATH (nice link, eh!) As you can imagine, the tall one does not take kindly to such threats (given out by a strange rastafarian villian, called SCREWFACE) which only results in (SEAGAL-like) bloodsged.STEVEN SEAGAL, ever since ABOVE THE LAW (88) has proved himself, not only to be the baddest man on the planet (except maybe for SONNY CHIBA) but to also have a great deal of personality.I pitty the so-called 'intelectuals' that don't see the cruel streak of humour running through all his movies. The only thing people ever latch onto is the violence, admittedly, SEAGALs aikido, is beautiful to watch. But unlike, KEANU REEVES (quite frankly..sh*t) martial arts in (the dire)MATRIX, SEAGAL is the real deal, and could (even now in his fifties) perform every move, that he does in this ,and other movies.If JOE PESCI beats a guy to death in a MARTIN SCORCESSE picture, then it's art, but if SEAGAL snaps a guys arm, it's trash, and treated with contempt (eh?)America (at least) should rejoice in STEVEN SEAGAL, as he is in stature/personality and prescence of the late great JOHN WAYNE, and if that isn't a compliment, then i don't know what is!Truly beautiful arm-snapping sequence, though.Big lee has no other option, but to award Big STEVE...10 OUT OF 10peace.  "},{"Title":"Many twists and turns","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was one of the better ones Steven Seagal made. It was a little bloody but it kept me on the edge of my seat.   There were twists around every corner and I found it to be a very interesting must see for Seagal fans like myself. "},{"Title":"Fun Action Film","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked for Death (1990) ** 1/2 (out of 4) If you're wanting smart and interesting character development then this here certainly isn't going to be your cup of tea. Steven Seagal plays DEA agent who returns home from a deadly mission that killed his partner so he retires. Things take a turn for the worse when he's visiting his family and a Jamaican drug lord named Screwface (Basil Wallace) puts a hit out on them. Sure enough ol' Seagal takes vengeance. There's no doubt that this is an extremely stupid movie with one stereotype character after another but it's that type of dumb action film that is nearly impossible not to love. Yes, everything here is stupid but the film will at least keep you entertained, which is a lot more than many films do. What works so well is that we're given that DEATH WISH-type story of a good guy who has his family hurt by a bunch of scumbags and we want to see those scumbags crushed. That basic plot can keep just about any movie entertaining and Seagal perfectly fits the bill as this agent. His fighting here is at the top of his game and he also gets a nice supporting cast to work with. Keith David plays his best friend and the two share some good chemistry together. Wallace is a lot of fun as the drug dealer and we also get a young Danielle Harris from the HALLOWEEN movies playing Seagal's niece. The movie might offend some people from Jamaica but I doubt anyone is going to take the film serious enough to believe all people from there are like what we see here. We get silly stereotypes that are at least fun to view and some of the dialogue will have you laughing out loud. The action scenes are pretty well directed and we get plenty of the red stuff in some of the more violent shoot outs. "},{"Title":"No one ever accused me of being sane","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" **SPOILERS** After a blotched up drug bust in Mexico where both his partner Chico, Richard Delmente, was killed and the women member of the Mexican drug gang who killed him was in returned shot to pieces by DEA agent John Hatcher, Steven Seagal, the very dependable and cool as a cucumber drug cop just about had it with his job as a law enforcer. Feeling that he's turning into the very thing that he's been battling all these years a cold-blooded and inhuman monster is just about to call it quits.Given a two month vacation, with pay, from his job by the DEA in order to get his nerves and head straighten out Hatcher goes back to his hometown in Chicago to take things easy and relax . Hatcher soon runs into an unexpected problem in a nightclub. It's there that he's caught in the middle of a gang rub out where he ended up knocking out and capturing a member of a vicious Jamaican drug posse. Enraged that anyone would dare lay a hand on one of his gang members posse leader Screwface, Basil Wallace, has not only Hatcher but his entire family marked for death.One of Seagal's lesser efforts not that Marked for Death lacks any of the usual trademark gore and violence, in fact it's one of the most violent films that Seagal ever stared in, that's so common in his movies. The story is a bit muddled due to the fact that Screwface and the Jamacian gang members talk is such an unintelligible Jamacian/English dialect. It would have been very wise for the movie to have put in sub-titles or, for the TV audience, closed captions so that you can get to understand just what their saying!Hatcher, or Seagal, has a bit of trouble here with the Jamacian posse who come across as if their so doped up on pot that their almost immune to both bullets and Hatcher's karate fists and kicks. The posse members end up giving Steven Seagal the hardest time I can remember him having with the bad guys in any of his movies. The posse attempts to murder Hatcher while he's visiting his sister and badly wounds his niece Tracy. Hatcher now throws off and sheds his good guy and new found pacifist persona and goes full out after the posse in a number of wild and bone breaking scenes. One of the most notable in a downtown Chicago department store where he ends up putting almost all of Screwfaces boys not just to sleep but into traction as well.The posse's last hope to put Hatcher out of business falls apart when he, after being trapped in his car, slips out of the trap they set for him. Before you know it the posse is out packing and on their way back to Jamaica; reduced to putting voodoo and black magic spells on Hatcher as a last and desperate attempt to defeat and kill him. Taking his friend high school football coach and former DEA agent Max, Keith David, as well as visiting Jamacian police captain Charles, Tom Wright, along with him and an arsenal of weapons Hatcher is now going to make sure that Screwface and his posse will never threaten him his family or anyone else again. Hatcher does this by taking the fight, that Screwface started with him in Chicago, back to his home turf.Very violent and bloody ending with Hatcher not only showing his unmatched fighting and marksman abilities but his fencing skills as well. There's a knocked down and drag out battle with Screwface that last far longer, with the crazed Screwface getting in a few good and solid licks and jabs, then with any of the bad guys that Steven Seagal ever had it out with on the screen. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive movie from the golden years of Seagal","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" GOOD THINGS  I like two songs from this movie , both by Jimmy Cliff  No justice and John Crow . Cliff even makes appearance in the movie . I was good to see Joanna Pacula in small role of Leslie &#x96; expert of foreign cultures . She gives the best performance in the movie. The girl who plays the part of Screwface's ex-girlfriend is hot. It was also good to see Danny Trejo in a small episode. MFD has a little more budget than typical Seagal movie , so we get to see a little bit of Mexico and Jamaica. It was also interesting to use Jamaicans as the villains . Maybe the writers were inspired by the Predator 2 ? Marked for death  is certainly more watchable and better than all those straight to DVD crap movies Seagal is now making &#x85; BAD THINGS  but it doesn't mean it's a good movie . The characters in this movie are one-dimensional . The story is flat and lacks a heart . The acting is rather poor (with the exception of Pacula ) , especially from the actor who plays the main villain . All the fights and action sequences are rather unimpressive and not too exciting. Despite some decent budget MFD feels like a made for TV movie . The twist at the end could be impressive , but the movie hints it to us too early and not in subtle way . The romance between Seagal's character and Leslie seems forced , undeveloped and rather unnecessary. There are some attempts at making the characters more human and the dialogue tries very hard to be funny and cool , but both those efforts are fruitless.VERDICT  Nothing really worth watching . Still , it's one of Seagal better movies . His fans should be pleased . I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"First Steven Seagal movie I seen...Well didn't make me a fan of his","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is the first Steven Seagal movie I seen. So I wasn't familiar with his films but from what I know, he usually plays a arrogant and cocky character that goes after the bad guys without hardly ever getting hurt or breaking a sweat. So in another words it sounded like some absurd and ridiculous action movie with bunch of kung-fu thrown in and to some degree that is exactly what this movie is. In this Steven Seagal's character is a retired DEA after on a the line of duty things don't go according to plan. And now he is going after Jamaican drug dealers with dreadlocks and is in some sort of cult with a couple of friends after they mess with his loved ones. Yeah the plot is very very narrow and the villains are comical and not in a good way either. After just few minutes in the movie just seemed to drag, constantly putting excuse to put some action sequences in which this has a lot of. Steven Seagal beats people up while saying catch phrases, some works some just don't. Just about everything about this movie is generic and predictable and almost nothing is all that engaging. The fight sequences with Seagal using judo or aikido was sort of cool though and watchable thus I give this movie a 4.5 even if the acting is atrocious thus I am being generous. I will just say this movie didn't make me a fan of his.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Marked for Death- Marked for Horror Face **","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This action packed story could have been told in about a half an hours.It goes back and forth between Colombia and Chicago, USA, where our hero, Mr. Hatchett, played with the usual vigor by Steven Seagal, is fighting drug lords. This one, Screwface, is as ugly as they come and a real misery to boot. Just looking at him can send shivers down your spine. With that Jamaican accent and enlarged-like eyes, Screwface presents a horrifying person. He is committed to selling his drugs and creating mayhem in order to destroy Seagal and his family.There is enough fighting, shooting and violence to last a life-time.The film is a frightening portrayal of these drug gangs and their potential to wreak havoc on society. "},{"Title":"Macho Man","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Have you ever wondered why these guys -- Seagal, Stallone, Willis, et al -- manage to survive all those gunfights in which they're outnumbered? I think I've got it figured out. The enemies always miss, and the hero doesn't.Here, Seagal has a pistol and outshoots a half dozen heavies firing at him from a few feet away. One of the heavies has a shotgun. Or maybe two of them have. It doesn't really matter. There could be a thousand shotguns blasting away at him and Seagal would still emerge with his ponytail intact.And when it comes to mano a mano combat -- forget it. The evildoers may or may not be armed with swords or knives or blunt object but Seagal, with his skill in aikido or tempura or sushido or play-do or whatever it is, brushes them aside with a few dismissive blows. Not only is he a master of these outré skills but his physical strength is Herculean. More than once he snaps somebody's long bones as easily as we would break a toothpick. One he breaks a guy's SPINE over his knee.I'll tell you something. (I'm getting into the spirit of the film here because Seagal uses that line, I'll tell you something, several times, along with, What's that supposed to mean?) These guys are fully deserving of extinction in any good Xenophobe's handbook. They are all black, speak with unintelligible Jah-MAY-can accents, wear dreadlocks that look in dire need of a shampoo, they torture and murder with aplomb, and -- here's the worst part. They're unchristian. That's right. They practice voodoo.Actually the voodoo element comes close to being the most interesting element of the film. They got the constituents of the ritual pretty well -- cigar smoke, rum spitting, the sacrificial chicken. They only left out the possession dance in which the spirit rides the dancer. They should have read Metraux on voodoo.Otherwise the plot adheres to the usual conventions. What was done to Jaqueline Bissett by the voodoo-practitioners in The Deep is done here to a friend of Seagal's. What was done to John Wayne when he was stuck between trucks in McQ is done here to Seagal himself. At the movie's very opening, when Seagal makes a brief speech about having seen too much pointless violence in his DEA career so he's now happily retired, and when we are introduced to his friends and family, I tried to keep track of his affiliates to see if I could pick out which ones would be horribly murdered or maimed to generate his quest for revenge.The acting doesn't really require much comment. But Charles, the Jamaican cop, played by Tom Wright, is really pretty good. Wright has considerable range. Here, he's an associate of dubious allegiance, rather sinister. But in The Pentagon Wars he has a comic part that he underplays perfectly.The Jamaicans never flew as movie villains. I don't know why exactly. It's a small movie market. And if you go to Jamaica stick to Montego Bay. However, if you want to see Jamaican voodoo drug dealers as heavies, and if you're in the mood for another typical-standard action flick, this should be a satisfying view. "},{"Title":"Starts strong...finishes weak.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I had pretty good hopes for this one after the first five minutes,but then Seagal quits the cia and returns home,where the action slows down and the story gets pretty stupid.Still some very  good action scenes,untill the 3/4 point where he and his pals go on a shooting ramage...real dumb..(in Jamaca). The only reason to watch seagal... is action,this one is about 35% action.This one falls just a notch above middle in the Steven Segal genere. "}{"Title":"It is hard to not get involved.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  And you say that all Steven Seagal movies are not the same. This time out Seagal is a recently retired DEA agent that reluctantly gets involved in a war of drug dealers. The situation gets personal and that just gives enough reason to boost up the ass kicking. Plenty of what you watch a Seagal movie for. The best acting actually is by the villain Screwface(Basil Wallace). Other players of note are Keith David, Tom Wright and Bette Ford. Couple with any of the other Seagal movies and bring down the house. Martial arts fans will be satisfied. "},{"Title":"A great Steven Seagal movie!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is one of My favorite Steven Seagal films ever!Kevin Dunn and Keith David were good.I love the fight scenes and the mystery of the great villain!The music is spooky and great by James Newton Howard.I am a huge fan of Steven Seagal and this film really kicks it!If you haven't seen Marked for Death I don't to spoil it for you but if you like beat em up films and Seagal then this is one fighting film you don't want to miss!  "},{"Title":"Decent action film","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is definitely not Seagal's best movie, but its still not bad.  There are a lot of good action scene's, the best being the car chase, but the fight scene's werent as good as the ones in his other movies.  Still, if you like Seagal than you have to see this movie but if your not too fond of his movies, dont bother.  Being a Seagal fan I was satisfied with this film, but they never told us whether his niece survived the surgery or not after the drive-by. "},{"Title":"Typical Segal film. Still alot of fun.","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  What can I say? I'm a sucker for action movies. And even though the plot in Marked for Death is the same as every other films that the man has made, it is still a lot of fun.Plot goes like this Segal plays a cop, who is sick of killing people, taking drugs and sleeping with informants. So, he decides to retire and move back home. There, he gets in touch with his old high school buddy, and they become entwined with a gang of Jamaican drug dealers. Segal is then marked for death. When his niece is injured in a drive by shooting, he decides to go out for revenge.Can anyone think up another role for ole Steve? How many times can he play a cop that is going out for revenge? Anyways, even though it is like all of his other films, it is still a lot of fun. One of his more violent films. Rent this one if you are into mindless action films (I sure am!!). However, you can check your brain at the door, as you definately won't need it.Still, the action is not up to par like Out For Justice, the greatest Segal film. "},{"Title":"Not bad...........","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as a retired DEA agent who must wipe out a drug posse.Not much of a plot just Seagal slashing,Kicking and breaking wrists however this is a fun one to watch. Steven Seagal is one helluva bad actor but the movie is more about fighting rather than talking and the movie entertains. Although the movie isn't great the movie is okay.The voodoo stuff is ridiculous but hey it's an action movie.**1/2 (Out of four) "},{"Title":"guiltiest of the guiltiest pleasures","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This review contains spoilers, but if you really plan on following the plot that closely, you're watching the wrong movie.I have admit that I'm not much of a Steven Seagal fan, having been exposed to Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan, Jet Li, etc., before checking this guy out in detail.  Despite all the comments about his lack of acting ability, I really don't think he's that bad.  It would be interesting to see him take on a very different role, particularly if he played a villain; I always thought he'd be perfect in a James Bond movie as the Obligatory Super-Strong Henchman (like Jaws or Oddjob) that 007 takes on at the end.I suppose the biggest shortcoming in his movies is the fight sequences, but it's not really his fault; His Aikido is marvelous, but pure Aikido simply doesn't translate to the screen as well as many other martial art forms. Aikido is a strictly defensive style, which means that there are no attacks, kicks, punches, etc.  The only actions are in  response to someone else's attacks; this is why Seagal's opponents are always so absurdly persistent; would YOU keep getting up and trying to hit him if he threw you halfway across the room every time you moved?  Unfortunately, perhaps to compensate for Aikido's cinematic shortcomings (for lack of a better word), the violence is always amplified beyond any reason; I studied Aikido for several years, and we never learned to break a guy's arm like a Twix bar or gouge someone's eyes out with our thumbs.I have a strong feeling that Sensei Morehei Uchiba (the founder of Aikido, who can be seen in the old documentary footage that opens Above the Law) would strongly disapprove of these tactics, and I wonder if Seagal, being an acknowledged Aikido master, worries that he's giving his form an undeserved reputation for sadistic brutality.  But back to this movie...It's actually not bad by Seagal standards.  He's playing his usual Zen-supercop character, gruesomely dispatching anyone who messes with him, then going back home to bond with old friends and family, perhaps to prove that underneath the anger and violence, he's really just a nice guy.  He runs afoul of some wacked-out Jamaican crackheads who have him, well, Marked for Death.  They're led by Screwface, a scary Rastaman who has magical voodoo powers and is one of Seagal's more worthy adversaries.  Much mayhem ensues, including a goofy excursion to Jamaica that makes some weak attempts at social commentary about something or other; this is sandwiched between two fight scenes that showcase Steve's arm-breaking, vasectomizing, and decapitating skills.  There's also a silly twist ending that only occurs so that we can see Screwface suffer two hideous deaths instead of only one. The climactic battle is actually one of the more successful fight scenes in the Seagal ouevre, in that Screwface knows how to use a sword, and actually gets a few minor shots in, before Seagal beats him by utilizing THE dirtiest move I've ever seen in ANY martial-arts movie.  Again, a major shortcoming of this movie, and all of Seagal's movies, is that there is never a single moment when he appears to be in any danger.  I mean, even Bruce Lee got kicked around a bit in his movies.  When Seagal's unarmed and facing half a dozen guys armed with machine guns, you just know that he's going to walk away without a scratch, and the only question is which opponent will be dispatched in the cruelest way.  This is no way to build tension, and it makes for a boring fight sequence when it's so one-sided.  Unfortunately, this is a problem that occurs in every movie he's ever made. "},{"Title":"Give it a try!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Okay, Seagal gives us a lot of reasons for not taking him seriously. First of all he doesn't really act. I don't think he can't but for some reason he seems to think that it wasn't necessary. It almost seems as he expects that his fighting abilities would bring the audiences into the theater. But Seagal CAN act. Watch The Patriot and see his best acting performence yet.Second, his clothes ARE ridiculous. The Patriot, Glimmerman, Fire Down Below. He dresses like he was on the way to celebrate carnival.If he would change his dresser, take acting lessons, and finally take more care of the stories of his films (which are not as bad as some might think)he could really rise to the rank of Schwarzenegger and Stallone.Steven Seagals third film Marked For Death outdo the previous, Above The Law and Hard To Kill. John Hatcher (Seagal) is a DNA Cop and gets tired of killing and everything what his job implicates. He quits his job, thinking he couldn't change anything at all and goes back to his family. Soon he gets involved in a shooting between the mafia and the columbian drugdealer who try to assume the leadership in the drug business. John blights a murder on a mafiosi and he and his family get Marked For Death from Screwface (Basil Wallace) the leader of the jamaicans. The only chance to survive is to destroy the leadership, Screwface...Marked For Death shows us a glimpse of what Steven Seagal is capable of (though he doesn't show what he really can). His acting is not as good as it could have been. There are a couple of scenes which seem as he wasn't able to handle (The Confession-Scene, the Flirting-Scene). But I am pleased. The fighting is great as always, the action scenes were suitable. But its still a typical Seagal flick. If you like action films, if you like Seagal, then this one is a must.  "},{"Title":"Good action movie","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  When you watch a movie like this you might think Well why is Seagal so famous, anyone could do it But Steven Seagal has charisma. Just try to imagine anyone else as the main character, it wouldn't work as well.Sure there are some things that don't make sense, like the fact that Seagal and friends can destroy half a shopping center without any police interfierence, but mindless, cheesy things like that are what make the movie good. Talking about Cheese, this movie actually doesn't have that much of the cheesiness factor you will see in so many other action movies. The emotional scenes may not work for some people but at least they put good effort into it. The acting in this one is decent with Seagal playing a tough, rough retired cop, John Hatcher, who wants to get revenge on this Jamaican gang once they try to brutally murder his familly. Pretty typical story that they try to make different.But hey forget about the acting, or the story folks, it's just an excuse for the good action. And let me tell you you're not gonna get any more bang for your buck than in this one. Seagal delivers again, kicking @ss and looking damn good doing it. I wouldn't consider the action very extreme but compared to other action movies I suppose there is alot of blood and gore, which is good for the action fan. You've got the love the ultra violent, the bone crunching action, just the way Seagal just breaks everyones bones with such ease. I would have like more violence (I can never get enough) and Seagal to take more punches, but hey that's okay, still very entertaining.The first few minutes in Mexico or wherever was a very good start, it almost takes you into another world. A world of danger and intrigue.And it's not as typical as most other action movies, especially if you compare it to Chuck Norris and Van Damme. The writers actually try to be creative. The twist at the end was surprising and the final showdown was probably the best of the whole movie. I love the line Seagal says after finishing the job. If you haven't seen the movie the line will probably be a spoiler so don't read the next lineSomething like, Let's hope they're not triplets That one had me laughing my head off.The faults with this movie? As I said, I would have liked even more action and more violence, but that's just me. I would have liked it if they would have re-shot some of short sequences where Seagal's acting wasn't at its best, like in the Confession in the Church. It would have also been better if they would have actually tried to freak out the audience a bit with the voodoo, but what makes these movies so good is that they're mindless and have some little faults like the ones I mentioned. If all the women didn't right away want Seagal's character, hey it wouldn't be a Steven Seagal movie.If I had to rate the movie I would give it 7 out of 10. Not very high but I didn't expect this to be a masterpiece, never expect that in an action movie, so I liked it.So watch it and enjoy the entertainment. Enjoy the action and anything else you can get out of this one. It's an escapist movie and it succeeds at entertaining you and entering you into the world of John Hatcher. "},{"Title":"Seagal`s best!!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Marked For Death is with no doubt Steven Seagal`s best movie! Steven plays John Hatcher, a cop who retires after a violent mission in Bangkok.  He returns to his childhood-town to visit his family.  The society in the town is not how it used to be, as drug-dealers from Jamaica terrorize the neighbourhood. John and a friend of his visit a local bar, when some of the drug-dealers enter and shoot a lot of people.  John interfeers and is therefore marked for death.   Afterwards, the drugdealers try to kill John`s family, which really pi#¤es him off.  John gets very angry and decides to take down the whole organization by himself. Marked For Death is a true action-classic, and the best movie of Steven Seagal.  The actionscenes are many, very cool, the most violent and Seagal really shows his best fighting scenes in this movie. Buy it!!!!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Seagal vs. freaky Jamaican crackheads&#133;","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" So Seagal plays a DEA detective named John Hatcher who lost his partner on a drug investigation into, surprise surprise, Colombia! Not to brag or anything, but my father was born and raised in Colombia (hence my last name), and now he's a doctor in California, so no matter what the movies would have you believe, there are some things other than drug dealers and cocaine that come out of Colombia!At any rate, in a drug bust gone bad, Hatcher loses his partner and accidentally kills a naked Colombian prostitute, inspiring him to go to confession, somewhere that I have never seen him go before in any of his movies, before or since. It was actually pretty interesting. Seagal has a tendency to come off as almost asexual the way he never gets much involved with women other than as a plot device and the way the occasional seduction attempt, whether by a stripper or by a lover, never piques the slightest bit of interest from him. He's all get-the- bad-guys all the time. But in the confession booth, he confesses to having lied, sold drugs, falsified evidence, and even slept with informants in order to get the information he needed to put the bad guys behind bars (I hope I'm not getting in trouble with God by telling you this&#133;). The priest tells him to go to his family, so he decides it's time to retire from the force. The next third of the movie is an exercise in the paper-thin characterization characteristic of Seagal's films. Marked For Death is the story of Seagal against a band of mystic Jamaican drug dealers, and these guys have no discretions about pushing their products in broad daylight.Hatcher goes back to visit his old high school coach, Max (a minimal effort by Keith David), and right in the middle of practice there are some of these dread-locked crackheads sitting right there in the bleachers peddling crack to some bookworm-looking high school girls.Maybe I just had a sheltered experience in high school, but I didn't know crack dealers and crackheads hung out AT SCHOOL in the MIDDLE OF THE DAY. At any rate, it's not long before Hatcher learns how evil these guys are. They're not just peddling crack to high school kids, but the coach has been losing football players regularly to their drugs, they engage in smartass stare-downs with Max, and since that's not enough, his 13-year-old niece died in their crackhouse.Ah, OK. We get the picture. I'm sure they also torture puppies and beat up old women, and maybe steal candy from children too, just for good measure. Is it really this hard to establish who the bad guys are? 13-year-old niece died in their crackhouse. Wow.Anyway. Not only does the movie not know how to develop villains without resorting to what basically boils down to movie name-calling, where evil deeds are shallowly assigned to them through dialogue, but they also don't know how they should act. The leader of the drug dealers, is named Screwface, and I suppose that alone should tell you something about the kind of movie this is. Screwface is a cartoonish Jamaican man with these bright, bizarrely green eyes, which I am guess must be an important part of his character because he spends a good majority of his screen time with his eyes half bulging out of his head. His favorite means of intimidation is to scream really loud in his wildly overblown Jamaican accent with his face quite literally less than an inch away from whoever he's yelling at. This guy likes to get so into guys' faces that he has to turn his head to the side so their noses don't touch. All I could think about was how the poor guys would deal with his breath.Man, they do not want you to forget that these guys are Jamaican, by the way. Their accents are so exaggerated and overblown that for most of the movie it's nearly impossible to understand them. Not that it matters. It doesn't matter what they're saying, all you need to know is that everything that comes out of their mouths is some kind of evil drug-related thing, they're just the psychos that peddle drugs and kill people. The movie must have been a huge hit in Jamaica!My biggest problem with the movie is that the theatrics, particularly of the bad guys, as I've described, are spectacularly goofy, even for a Seagal film. They are so cartoonish and weird that it's impossible to take them as anything other than a goofball b-movie creation, something slapped together to provide fodder to whom Seagal can distribute his characteristic brand of smack-down retribution. But there is also a bizarre kind of mysticism in the movie that just makes it all come off as weird. For example, a mystic, I guess you would call her, at one point puts some kind of curse on Screwface by (if I remember correctly) spitting mouthfuls of Bacardi onto a live rooster that's hanging upside down before beheading it and dripping its blood onto a picture of Screwface. Hmm. Interesting. Sadly, it's this same woman that warns Hatcher that his family has been marked for death by these people, meaning they've got some voodoo hex on them. Not to belittle anyone, but if I was told that my family had been cursed by people like that, I would just laugh at it. Hatcher doesn't strike me as the kind of guy to take much stock in freaky voodoo curses! But the set-up, as you can see, is pretty standard for a Seagal film. Unique villains, I guess you could say, although not very impressive. Definitely the weirdest film of Seagal's early career&#133; "}{"Title":"Favourite Segal Movie!!!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Marked For Death is Steven Seagal's 3rd movie that he made. In Marked for death Seagal is up against the Jamicans. Seagal is John Hatcher as a retired D.E.A. Now This movie picks up half way into the movie when the Jamicans To a drive by at his house. Seagal P.O goes off with his friend Max for some revenge looking for any Jamican dealing drugs. Later on they chase some Jamican drug dealers into a store where Seagal kills most of them and breaks one of the Jamicans arms. Later on he confronts Screwface at his Palice. The final fight is a Sword fight. This is a classic Steven Seagal ass-kicking movie and any action fan should see it. "},{"Title":"Poor acting, some good Aikido fight scenes","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well, if you're after a decent martial arts bang'em up and not expecting a masterpiece of thespian theater this is a pretty decent movie.If like many Steven Seagal fans what you're looking for is Sensei Seagal in action, this is (IMHO) one of his better pieces. The shopping centre does have some nice Aikido. "},{"Title":"dumb and bloody, but fun","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars in this tale of a cynical cop looking to bust a Jamaican drug lord. Although I loved the fights, this movie seriously leaves something to be desired. There was basically zero plot (which was what I expected), but let's face it, Seagal can't act. The guy is almost painful to watch, especially when there's a serious moment between him and any family members. And look out for a hopelessly bizarre plot twist near the end that makes absolutely no sense at all... "},{"Title":"Screwface? More like stoneface.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal and fellow actioneér Jean Claude Van Damme has seriuos problems, the film makers try so hard to make them look tough that in the end thay both look stupid. Now they are not anyway near good acting but while Van Damme makes fun of himself Seagal never can. He keeps up his old stoneface look and hisses at the badguys while trying to look mean and cool. Both Van Damme and Seagal have about two movies worth watching, in Van Dammes case it's Bloodsport and Double Team and with Seagal it's Above the law and Under Siege. Marked for Death was made after Above the law and Hard to kill and you can tie together these three and Out for justice because they all have much in common. Seagal plays cops in all of them but in two he is something else also. They all show Seagal coming into places where he meets some badguys and he kicks their ass one by one, they don't have any real humour and no real plot, stupid dialogue and old stoneface showing a disturbing talent for violence. In this movie DEA agent Hatcher (Seagal) has returned from a drugbust gone bad in South America and he tries to seek up his family and friends to live a quite life but he soon has to show his mean side once more when Jamaican drugdealers are interefered in a massacre by the stoneface and craves revenge against Hatchers family and he himself becomes marked for death (but you would expect it that it's the drugdealers that are marked for death in this case). Hatcher hunts them down and kills them in various violent acts and then turns his path towards Jamaica for a showdown with the badguys leader Screwface (with an overacted performance by Basil Wallace). But this isn´t really the end but who cares because in the end everyone has to pay the piper in the worst kind of way as in all Seagal movies. Now this may sound like I didn´t enjoy this movie but acctually I did. It may be only for dumb people but I didn´t say I was ever very smart so when I see Seagal trying to act tough while breaking arms and shooting and decapitating people it just makes me laugh because it is so extreme and when Seagal with his over the top stiffness makes the violence so awful and none-entertaining this is when the fun acctually starts.  "},{"Title":"Seagal vs. Jamaican Voodoo Posse","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Yeah, what can you say about Seagal movies? He's a maverick ex-DEA agent in this who gets on the wrong side of a bunch of voodoo practicing Jamaican stereotypes trying to corner the dope market. The Jamaicans led by Screwface take a shot at Seagal's sister and niece, so Seagal, his old war buddy (David Keith), and a Jamaican cop go gangbusters on the Jamaicans chasing them through city parks, department stores and eventually back home to Jamaica. There's plenty of clumsy bad guys getting their limbs bent in the wrong direction, gunfights, knifeplay and other mayhem, heck even a swordfight. Seagal'a character in these movies is untouchable and not to be denied so he always wins of course. His shooting and killing of so many bad guys in public places without any real consequences is evidence of this. Seagal's actions and character make sure he comes across as a bloodthirsty maniac rather than the cool anti-hero he tries so hard to be. "},{"Title":"A piece of junk.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal is a particularly inexpressive actor, and he always plays fascist, particularly repulsive characters. Here, he is supposed to be the good guy, but I was actually fond of the villains. The film is extremely, graphically gory, almost disgusting at times it belongs really to the horror rather than the cop thriller category. "},{"Title":"Not a Good Film","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the three worst films that Steven Seagal has done, Marked for Death(1990) feels like something that could have been done by Chuck Norris during the 1980s.  Heck, it even reminds me of the plotlines of many Chuck Norris films from late 1970s/early 1980s, and some of those films were even better than this.  A cross between voodoo horror and samurai action, a combo, which doesn't mix well.  Only bright spot is opening action sequence, and cameo appearence of Jimmy Cliff.Marked for Death(1990) feels bored and looks bored, especially after looking at performances giving by main actors.  Steven Seagal's attempts at dry humor are always a mix bag in his films, and here they half work, and half not work.  Talented actress, Joanna Pacula is given little to work with here, thus her role is a very wasteful and insignifcant one.  Another bright spot is the early appearence of Danielle Harris whose presence makes it in some degrees tolerable to watch. "},{"Title":"Pile of trash","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I found the violence in Seagal's first two films easy to stomach, but this one is totally different.  You hear bones breaking, a chicken's head being cut off, a butt-naked woman graphically shot in the stomach and a scene with Seagal holding a Jamaican druglord's decapitated head in his hand.  Disgusting!!!This looks a lot more like a snuff movie than an action film.  Don't waste your time.  Just skip this one and rent Under Siege instead.Ironically, Leonard Maltin made an interesting comment about Out For Justice.  He said Lots of action.  But as for Seagal, don't hand out the Best New Hero award yet.  Middling. "},{"Title":"A wrong movie","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I guessed i got confused with my 1st movie experience with S.Seagal. Under Siege was a nice enjoyable movie, and I remembered it so. That brought me to the purchase (on sale yes thank you) of pathetic marked for death. It seemed to be a basic action film, with no high expectations. It did not even match the criteria for that type. It is just my humble opinion, but I got really bored with the cheap acting, the cheap scenario and the very puzzling story. Which is unusual by any action movie, since they usually tend to make it easy for the viewer to follow. Add the fact that the bad guys are black rastas selling drugs to young children, and you may find yourself irritated with the too obvious simplicity of it all. In a nutshell, my word is stay away from that awfully bad movie, and watch Under siege one more time instead. cheers. "},{"Title":"Bloody Stupidity","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie makes no good sense at all.  The plot is outrageously stupid, Steven Seagal is only in here to fight (I enjoy him but he aggravates the heck out of me.)  Steven Seagal was only good with the two Under Sieges, that's about it.  Basil Wallace was Screwface, but his part was just as bad as Seagal's.  He can act but his character is just plain stupid.Overall if you like Steven Seagal, you might hint at liking this movie.  If you like bloody stupidity, you might like this movie. If it comes on TV and you are really bored, then try to watch.  But do not rent it. There is a plot twist at the end but its pretty dumb. Rating 2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Steven Seagal stars as John Hatcher an Ex-DEA agent who single handedly wipes out a Jamaican drug posse, in this ridiculous and inert actioner. Steven Seagal maybe the only actor in history who can make Chuck Norris seem like the next coming of Laurence Olivier, while the actionscenes, while good, can't save this lackluster effort. Watch Out For Justice instead. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal's worst without a doubt!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was just plain nonsense showing us the stupidity of people who believe in the supernatural, even though yes one might say voodoo exists and so on i won't disagree, but in this film it starts off dull, has a few fight scenes that were Steven Seagal's worst fight scenes ever, the voodoo doesn't seem to have any effect on the person it is intended for and it ended even duller than i could possibly imagine. A former DEA agent John Hatcher wants to quit and has done so. Even though he tries to stay out of trouble, trouble just seems to find him as he gets in a mess with the Posse a group of Rasta men that sell drugs and since everybody is afraid of the leader Screwface no one dares to get in their way and Hatcher accidentally does making him and his family marked for death. When his niece gets shot, his sisters panic and one of them even gets attacked by Screwface, Hatcher goes on a rampage that lasts 5 seconds.Terrible stunts, terrible acting, terrible fight scenes and an all around avoid this movie. 1 out of 10... "},{"Title":"Waste Of Time!!!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a terrible movie. "}]