[{"Title":"Hilarious movie...one of the best of the '90s","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"40 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  People who dismiss this as juvenile humor or another stupid buddy comedy are totally off the target. Emilio Estevez's screenplay is quite an intelligent story with a number of colorful characters. Real-life brothers Estevez and Charlie Sheen have EXCELLENT chemistry together - their comic timing is perfect, and the scenes where they're just hanging out, talking about their plans to open a surf shop are a true highlight.Another true highlight is Keith David. This is, without a doubt, his finest performance captured on film. Playing the rough boss's brother-in-law Louis, who is employed to keep a watch on the mischevious garbagemen pals, David is just perfect. Hearing him lecture about another man's fries, his Vietnam days in the jungle, and his speech to the cops are just all priceless moments. It's one of the funniest marriages of actor and role - and Mr. David just plays it all so well. Watch him snap at the pizza man who's seen too much.All in all, Men at Work is a delightful, crowd-pleasing comedy that is able to make me laugh far more than the types of films that are heralded as excellent comedies like Dr. Strangelove and Annie Hall. Give me this any day.And Charlie, you may put this down...but in all honesty, this is your finest work to date, even ahead of comedic roles in Ferris Bueller's Day Off and the two very good Major League movies. It's lightyears better than the low points of Spin City, too.Men at Work is highly recommended, and is one of many films on IMDb whose low rating you can completely disregard. Or don't disregard it, but then you'll just be even more pleasantly surprised by the ensuing hilarity. "},{"Title":"Emilio+Charlie=Funny","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This somehow forgotten movie is pretty funny by todays standard.Not that the comedies today are that smart really... Brothers Sheen has nice chemistry together and delivers many funny and memorable dialogues.A hoot is also Vietnam-vet Keith David,this guy is one bad dude...You've seen this before,but the script is not that bad and the movie moves along in a pleasant pace.The villains are also portrayed as idiots and the cops as smart asses,who will get what they deserve by time. This is easy entertainment and you don't remember it for that long,but it's a pleasant journey while it lasts-just don't think too much. "},{"Title":"golfclap!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very funny film, which most people who saw it when it first hit video stores will agree.  Watching it years later it holds up very well indeed, Emilio and Charlie as Carl and James, are clearly having great fun working together and this chemistry heightens the comedy.  Our 2 favourite binmen (garbage men)go about their job with a relaxed attitude to working and ultimately pursue their dreams of running a surf shop.  A personal favourite moment is when they answer trivial pursuit questions with comedy responses before answering correctly, proving both wit and intelligence.  After apparently accidently executing a women hitting politician all hell breaks loose and the hilarity ensues.The montage scenes are great, flying dustbin lids etc, and the other characters are funny, comedy mafia goons, rival binmen, a shouty boss, a meek pizza delivery boy and the obligatory vietnam vet providing laughs as their loco supervisor.  They don't make montage scenes like they used. The dream of a sequel still lives on, if you will it it is no dream. "},{"Title":"Local sanitations workers find body of local politician, mayhem ensues.","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In his directorial debut, Estevez directs self and brother Charlie Sheen in a small budget comedy about two garbage men (sanitary technicians) who come along the dead body of a local politician on their route. Mayhem follows them as they try to find the killer on their own instead of going to the police, who are looking to bust our two unsuspecting heroes. Estevez does a good job for a beginning director and doesn't try to overdo it. Sheen and Estevez are good, not great, together as they were in 'Young Guns'. Keith David is the solid part of the movie, his portrayal as the 'ex-military' Viet Nam Veteran, asked to baby sit garbage men carries the movie with his unpredictable cop hating nature. Leslie Hope is very nice to look at and give credit to Estevez, makes her character a strong one, not a helpless female as women once were portrayed in movies. Movie has given me much enjoyment over the years as my children enjoyed playing garbage men around the house in their younger days.  "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure At Its Finest","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This little known movie written and directed by Emilio Estevez is near the top of my all time movie guilty pleasures list.Estevez and Charlie Sheen play two garbagemen who stumble upon a plan by Maxwell Potterdam III (John Getz) that involves dumping hazardous waste into nearby harbors, thus destroying the underwater environment in their area. The city councilmen is also involved in this scheme.However, this is all a loose plot for the hilarious shenanigans that ensue with Carl and James (Sheen and Estevez), their observer, Louis (Keith David), and a couple of unlucky cops.Keith David comes close to stealing the show from Estevez and Sheen with his character of Louis, a Vietnam vet who still suffers from a bit of shellshock. He sees everything through the eyes of war, and this makes for some hilarious sequences, particularly when the friendly pizza delivery man is kidnapped.All in all, this is mindless, but funny entertainment. It is funnier than 90% of the comedies made these days, and many have never seen or heard of this film.It should be noted that the VHS tape is out of print (although Amazon.com did release it as an Amazon Exclusive, but it is now on special order). It can still be found at some rental locations, but has also yet to be released on DVD (I believe MGM has the rights to the film, but I'm not positive). Here's to hoping we see a DVD sometime soon!Grade A "},{"Title":"Laughed my a** off!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Now this is what most of Adam Sandler's films should be. Because if you're gonna do camp humor, this sure is done correct. Men at Work features stupid jokes and tongue-in-cheek performances. Especially Keith David is in top form. Sure the plot is stupid as hell and sure this ain't no Tarantino film, but hey.. SO WHAT?! Isn't comedy's most important duty to make you laugh? This sure made me laugh. Recommend.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"A Classic for all the Wrong Reasons","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Are you looking for perfectly structured Mise-en-Scene? How about eloquent dialogue and acting?? No? Neither am I when I sit down and watch a comedy about two looser garbage men played by the Estevez brothers. This flick is what it is, and in that respect, it's amazing. Sure, the last 25mins are total garbage, but what comes before has me and my friends rolling on the floor in hysterics. Here's these two idiots, they seem to have no friends besides themselves, and their relations with women appear to consist of the odd peep into their windows or occasional stalking. They suck at their job, and have the local cops hating them for what appears to be a variety of reasons we are not privy to. What flows within this basic framework is a ridiculous 'adventure' in which the boys attempt to solve a local crime and avoid a murder rap by dragging a dead body around ala 'Weekend at Bernie's. Add to the mix the always amazing Keith David, playing an insane Vietnam vet who is charged with monitoring their activities on the job, but only ends up being crazier than the ?Sheens? ever could be (Never, EVER, touch another man's fries). The antics reach a fever pitch when David's character kidnaps the Pizza Boy played by that dude who played 'Chainsaw in Summer School. Eventually the dead body dons a Nixon mask, and the traditional we couldn't think of a funny ending, so here's some lame action sequence ensues (See D.C. Cab). I usually stop the film here. You don't need to finish 'Men at Work' to love it. The pratical jokes, the memories of Da-Nang, and of course the infamous Pellet gun, make the first hour worth every minute. A comedy classic ... at least I think so.     "},{"Title":"One of the few movies that really takes me back..","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Its funny how some people try hard to capture images and moments of REAL LIFE in a film.  Most try too hard.  I can remember watching this film as a kid.  I would rent it from the rental store every other week or so, i still dont know how i got started. Although its jokes are pretty bad, the acting is sub-par, and the behavior of every character is overly juvenile for a group of adults, there is something relaxed about the whole movie.  The cast is very good, including Keith David as Louis (one of my favs), and a number of other goofy cliqued characters, like the hitmen, the crooked business exec, the uptight leading lady, and the comedic garbage buddies, Carl and James (Sheen and Estevez). I can remember some of the situations ghosting ones i had experienced in my own life. Men at Work proves that movies dont have to sell, or be critically acclaimed to be thoroughly enjoyable.   "},{"Title":"Men At Work Midnight Classic","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The fact that this is a memorable movie, meaning I still remember it, says a lot. The fact that this takes one of Hollywood's greatest actors' sons and makes them garbage men, even more daring. The fact that Keith David is in it, is even more accommodating.Men At Work is a comedy classic.You're probably ready to shoot me with a gun marked common sense, but no, this is really something else. Men At Work is the last in a long line of midnight movies that were released heavily in the 80's(i.e. Weird Science, Little Monsters, etc.) The formula of taking one situation and going over the top with everything, on an extravagant night when everyone else is asleep is a midnight movie. This just happens to involve toxic waste, which must have been a big deal in the eighties, because now, it's only packed with action figures.Anyway, it's a classic and stands out because it's just fun. The directing by Estevez isn't bad and it's also got some funny situations. The acting is what it's supposed to be, low key, but fun.Just imagine Double Dragon, but as garbage men. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell!!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez star as two garbagemen on the road to nowhere. One night, in Carl's (Sheen) apartment, they see a confrontation between a couple across the street. Carl shoots him with a pellet gun after he sees the man push the woman. What he doesn't see after that is two men go into the apartment and kill the man, put his body in a garbage can, and leave. Carl and James then find the body the next day on their garbage route. Then all hell breaks loose as they try to find the killer. Very funny movie!! "}{"Title":"This movie is hilarious","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No this film is not about that New Wave 80's band from Australia, but its a funny film.  This movie is satire, and over the top characters to the max. I love it!  David Keith as the unbalanced ex Vietnam vet supervisor is great.  I hate cops and I even hate rent a cops more is great.  He pushes an already unbalanced situation farther.  One feels for the pizza guy, and the part we give no food to the enemy.  It has no real slow parts. There is a chemistry between Martin and Emelo.  I wish they would act together again.  Even has an un wimpy environmental theme to it.  Watch it today, get the movie NOW! 8/10 "},{"Title":"In need of much funnier material","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carl Taylor (Charlie Sheen) and James St. James (Emilio Estevez) are two slacker garbage men who dream of their own surf shop. Then they get saddled with the bosses' angry brother-in-law Louis Fedders (Keith David). Meanwhile politician Berger had taped his conversation with the corrupt business owner Maxwell Potterdam III (John Getz) about their illegal dumping conspiracy. A couple of goons kills him, but they retrieve the wrong tape and lose the body after it falls off their car. The garbage men find the body. In an unlikely coincidence, Carl had shot him with a pellet gun the night before. Now they're not sure what to do and it's Weekend at Bernie's time. They think the girlfriend Susan Wilkins (Leslie Hope) is involved and the bumbling group tries to investigate. When the pizza guy (Dean Cameron) sees the body, Louis kidnaps him.It's an oddity to see the brothers working together in a movie written and directed by Emilio Estevez. It tries to be funny but the writing is not there. There are a couple of slightly wacky characters with a few funny lines. It could have worked if either brother put in an outrageous performance. When the jokes on the page aren't good enough, a special kind of performer is needed to make up the jokes on the fly. It has a couple of moments but there are not enough of them to be truly funny. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a 9 out of 10. I watch it every time its on. The only reason it is a 9 out of 10 is the interaction between the characters. Sheen, Estevez, their black trash partner, the rent a cops, and sheens new girl friend are all so funny together. The story is basic and anyone could write it, but the feeling the characters give you during this movie is special. You have to be impressed with anyone who could make a movie this simple to be so good! "},{"Title":"Trashy Fun","Date":"12 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Men At Work is to me a timeless classic. I thought the script was hilarious containing many great quotable one-liners and terrific comedic performances. The brothers Estevez/Sheen play off each other well and it just occurred to me that it would probably be interesting if they starred together in a buddy cop movie but I'm getting ahead of myself here. This movie stands the test of time meaning it is still funny to me after all these years unlike some other movies that I thought I would love forever such as The Breakfast Club which now is a bit boring when I go back and try to watch it.This movie is terrific until the end where it seems like Emilio ran out of time or money because it just seems to end without resolution to some of the story lines. This movie is admittedly silly but that doesn't matter because it makes me laugh which is about the only requirement I have anymore for movies. The script was funny and the characters were as well. So what if the story line itself was like cardboard. Aside from Charlie and Emilio, I thought the hit men as well as the garbage men nemeses and even the bicycle cops nemeses were all funny. I always enjoy Keith David who is a flawless character actor and John Getz is always amazing whether he is playing a good guy or bad guy. Emilio Estevez does a fine job in his directorial debut and it makes us wish that him and his brother Charlie Sheen would be in more stuff together.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One thing I've learned from this movie...","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...Never mess with another man's French fries!Writer / director Emilio Estevez and his real-life brother Charlie Sheen are engaging as a pair of not terribly ambitious garbage men who want a little more out of life but don't do much about it. One day on their route, they discover the dead body of city councilman Jack Berger (Darrell Larson) inside a barrel. Berger, a fairly corrupt man who'd been in league with a toxic waste dumper, Maxwell Potterdam III (John Getz), had developed some scruples and decided to blow the whistle, so arrogant rich jerk Potterdam has his two (not terribly competent) thugs kill Berger. While all of this is going on, James (Estevez) and Carl (Sheen) are in trouble for their escapades while on the job, so their boss has assigned his own brother-in-law to keep an eye on them. The trouble there is, the brother-in-law is an absolutely nutty Vietnam veteran (the hysterical Keith David, who walks away with the movie) who actually keeps getting the guys into more and more trouble. You see, he HATES cops, and REALLY hates rent-a-cops. Overall, Men at Work is a pretty successful comedy, and one particularly amusing thing is the way Estevez has created various pairs of characters Frost and Luzinski (Geoffrey Blake and Cameron Dye), two fellow garbage men forever locked in a war of practical jokes with James and Carl, the two moronic hit men, Biff and Mario (Hawk Wolinski and John Lavachielli), and the two smug, self-important cops Mike and Jeff (John Putch and Tommy Hinkley) who look down on James and Carl and assume them to be no-goods. The only problem is, most of the characters, while funny, aren't nearly as funny as Louis (David), and it may make one impatient to get back to any and all scenes with him. Try not to crack up at some of the things he does - such as his recurring motif whenever he incapacitates victims, or his reaction to the voices he hears at one point. He also has most if not all of the best lines, especially The Commie bastard gets no food! and Ah, lookie here, somebody threw away a perfectly good white boy!. Men at Work does work as farce quite well in the way things just keep going from bad to worse, and there is some brief, priceless Weekend at Bernie's type humour with Berger's corpse (which is made to wear a Richard Nixon mask). The actors all do a good job, with Leslie Hope as the female lead, an attractive campaign manager and love interest for Carl, and Dean Cameron as the put upon pizza delivery guy. Getz is hilariously unsubtle as the ultra sleazy criminal, who gets an awfully goofy comeuppance at the end. Men at Work is good, undemanding, check your brain at the door comedy that entertains well for a solid 99 minutes. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A $1 rental fee for a bunch of laughs... who could hate this film?","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another underrated gem. Men at Work is unfairly thrown into the not quite cracking it bin at the video shop along with the countless thousands of crappy comedies that are released annually and fail to find an audience.OK if you've seen it you are probably rolling your eyes now, and I can see that.So why do I love this movie then? You've got me, I just do. It must have been the perfect film for me at that time, because I loved it when I watched it 20 odd years or so ago and I love it now, even though I know almost every line well before they are said.The plot for what it is worth. 2 garbagemen come across a dead body in their daily pick up. They incorrectly assume that they are somehow involved (not really a long story but not important here), and spend the rest of the film dealing with the consequences and trying to avoid the attention of those really responsible.James (Emilio Estevez) and Carl (Charlie Sheen) are the two Working Men, they aresurfin', drinkin', loafin' dudes with dreams of owning a surf shop and no everyday aspirations greater than minimising work and pissing off the other garbos and local cops.Into their lackadaisical existence comes Louis (Keith David), an combat vet assigned to make sure Carl and James are good boys on the job, much to their disgust. Keith David steals the movie for mine, his bizarre rants and resentment of all authority causes him to act in generally insane ways and to jump to random conclusion with no basis in logic, he even gets away with an early Weekend at Bernie's moment and makes it funny.As the movie rolls along a love interest and the pizzaman get involved, the real killers close in and the boys discover the full scope of what faces them. Being a lightweight comedy the characters coincidentally and conveniently keep running into each other, kinda like Crash a few years ago but with laughs and less clumsiness. (I still hate Crash.) This is at times cheesy, always likable and totally unassuming fare that was definitely not made with awards consideration in mind. To explain the jokes without transcribing them is pointless, but I find that more than most hit the mark and I would rather watch this 27 more times than have to put up with another cookie cutter Will Ferrell or Rob Schneider yawnfest.And it'll cost you a buck to rent for a week if you are lucky enough to find it. What's the worst that could happen? Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"And the air is just right for drinking!","Date":"15 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A guilty pleasure if ever there was one, Men at Work sees Carl (Charlie Sheen) and James (Emilio Estevez) as two no hoper surfers/garbage men who pipe dream about opening their own surf shop. Carl has a slightly disturbed habit of spying on his neighbors with binoculars and seriously aggravating situations without changing the course of history by occasionally shooting them with a pellet gun.After an evening of beer and Trivial Pursuit, Carl and James witness City Councilman Jack Berger (Darrell Larson) seemingly assaulting his campaign manager Susan Wilkins (Leslie Hope) in her apartment across the street. As she runs out Carl shoots Berger with the pellet gun. He and James miss two men then strangle Berger and leave with his body. The following day they happen across Berger's discarded corpse on their garbage route, and, fearing they may be implicated in the murder, hide the body. Madcap antics ensure as they try to figure out who killed Berger and why.There's lots to like in this silly comedy, from the inept hit men whose car bears the licence plates HIT MEN, to the recurring joke of the misplaced tape (work it, work it), and the great chemistry between the two leads. But the highlight is Keith David as Louis, Carl and James' boss' brother in law who rides along with them in the garbage truck as an observer (as they are known troublemakers and on probation at work) and becomes mixed up in the movie's ensuing chaos. David is perfect as the unhinged Vietnam veteran, and from the sight gag of him doodling a helicopter firing missiles at innocent families on a boardwalk, to the infamous another man's fries line, to the hilarious kidnapping of the pizza boy he was provokin me! the character is a constant source of laughs.Leave your brain at the door and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Harmless Fun","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When Charlie was on SNL he 'apologized' for Men at Work. That and some reviews led me to think this was a disaster of a bad movie.For me, it was a very fun way to pass the time. This is not laugh-out-loud funny, but the (few, subtle, stupid, recycled) jokes in this movie do work. Some smart movie references here, too.If you like Charlie Sheen and/or Emilio Estevez (the movie's writer and director), check this one out.BTW, the actor brothers are clearly having fun, and one performance in particular, by the main 'villain', John Getz, manages to be somber, and yet hilariously campy. Some of the actors can't hide their laughter very well, and it shows. Well, at least we know that production was harmonious.Forget plot. Forget logic. Accept it as it is.And as it is, I think it is a fun, harmless, refreshing comedy.6/10 "},{"Title":"fun at times, very silly movie.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Emilo Estevez and charlie Sheen both star as garbage men who sneak up into this woman, Susan's window, then carry a weapon, and accidently shoot susan's husband. then, the police start chasing after the both of them, when they were convicted of the crime, and when they were being folloed. there other Cool friend played by wonderful actor Keith David  is very slick and funny in this movie role.  being their man, who helps them to hide the body. this movie was funny, and had a fun  old school soundtrack.  "},{"Title":"Total Slapstick","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Garbage men Carl(Charlie Sheen) and James(Emilio Estevez) dream of opening a surf shop, the two men often land in trouble with their boss for messing around while on the job.Their boss has his brother in law Louis(Keith David) watch over them.Carl has a telescope with which he observes his neighbors. One evening he sees a man giving a female neighbor named Susan(Leslie Hope) a hard time.As she leaves And the man still in the house Carl shoots the man with a pellet gun. Hiding, he and James miss two men strangling the man and leaving with the body. When he appears in a can on their route they are afraid and hide the body, fearing that they may be implicated in the death. James blames Carl for the death, but then Louis see the man has been strangled to death.Carl and James begin to think maybe Susan had something to do with it.So Carl, James and Louis go back to Carl's house and spy on Susan.Carl decides to go over to Susan and see if he can find anything out.Before he leaves he orders a pizza.When the Pizza man(Dean Cameron) shows up he sees the dead body.The Pizza man is taken hostage.Louis, Carl and James set out to find the real killers with the help of Susan and The Pizza man.Writer/Director Emilio Estevez does a fine job, he never lets Men At Work get too serious.Solid acting from the cast, Sheen and Estevez work great together.Some really funny moments here.I give Men At Work 7/10   "}{"Title":"top film","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a top film for when you,ve got no money and nothing to do. This film is nothing but pure fun to watch. From Carl and James shooting blokes in the ass with a pelet gun, to louis' nam flash backs, to the two quarreling hitmen who lose a body, to a pizza guy who has with out doubt the worst night of his life, to the two peace officers intent on giving james a hard time. This film is not ment to be a big screen classic, it's a little film thats got good actors in it and a fun story line. If you get a chance to seen this film you wont be disappointed. If you are, go and rent titanic! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Estevez Brothers (or is it the Sheen brothers) are great together. Funny story, great sarcasm.  You'll laugh the whole way through.I always thought Charlie Sheen was great in his sarcastic, screw the world, tongue-in-cheek comedic roles.  Emilio is equally as good.If you can't appreciate then unpucker that butt-hole of yours and loosen up, Movie Snob!!!!!!!Gotta love that Pizza Guy, too. "},{"Title":"this movie is great","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  men at work kicks ass!  Carl, James, and Louis are hysterical! this is the best comedy of the late 80's/early 90's period,  it's got all the elements of a great comedy. Funny characters, a funny plot, great slapstick. i totally recommend for any fan of low budget comedies! "},{"Title":"Pump Up The Jam With A Dead Tricky Dick And A Couple Of Beach Bum Binmen.","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Men at Work is written and directed by Emilio Estevez, who also co-stars with brother Charlie Sheen, Keith David, Leslie Hope, Dean Cameron and John Getz. Music is by Stewart Copeland and photography out on locations that include beaches at Redondo and Hermosa, is by Tim Suhrstedt. Plot finds Estevez (James) and Sheen (Carl) as two carefree garbage collectors who find a dead body in a barrel during their rounds. Trouble is, is that the dead guy is the man Sheen shot with his pellet gun the previous evening. Thinking they might be responsible for his death, and prompted by their newly acquired chaperon, cop hating Louis Fedders (David), they unwisely decide not to call in the cops. So with an unhinged Vietnam War vet and a dead body on their hands, Carl and James are in big trouble.Undemanding picture that's more enjoyable if you happen to be a fan of either Sheen or Estevez, Men at Work often struggles for laughs but is intermittently lit up by the odd humorous moment that comes with a side order of cool. There's a little drama in the mix, and even a delicate hint of social commentary via the illegal toxic waste dumping core that the frivolity is wrapped around. But really this is all about the two Brat Packers running free and Keith David superbly stealing the movie from the both of them. When the we got a dead body to keep from the cops comedy runs out of steam, and it does a little too early in the piece, it's left to David to bring the laughs with his cop hating rants and coiled spring like intensity ready to unleash on anyone who gets in the way or dares to eat his fries. Hope is amiable and pretty, though she only serves as a love interest for Sheen, while Getz isn't in it much and the two hit men on the boys tail don't bring anything new to that well trodden comedy table.When it hits its comedy stride, the funny sequences that drop in are just that, funny (golf clap, the nasty, human waste exploding balloons, Keith David), but these moments only serve to highlight the scripts shortcomings elsewhere. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This is what a GOOD B-Movie looks like","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When one looks back at this film (released in 1990, thus displaying all the characteristics of the 80's), one's first reaction might be to deride it as cheap, or at least silly. That being said, the more one watches it, the easier it becomes to identify the factors that make this a classic, even if it's of the cult variety. For one, the movie never takes itself too seriously. Two, despite some of the jokes falling into the badoom-ching category, much of the humor is genuine, and one or two running themes are paid off quite well. Third, and most importantly, there are a handful of good performances in the movie; Sheen and Estevez are excellent together (not to mention their 80's style haircuts), as are their two rival trash men, played by Geoffrey Blake and Cameron Dye. Interestingly, the movie contains quite a few pairings of characters, if you will, with a duo of hired thugs and tandem of self-important bicycle cops beautifully adding to the humor. However, the finest performance in the film might come from Keith David, who plays the deranged and imbalanced veteran, Louis Fedders. All things considered, this is not cinematic genius personified. In fact, by today's standards, this is a garden variety comedy. However, neither of those statements diminish, in any way, my enjoyment of this film, and I fully recommend it to any fan of Sheen, or anyone who enjoys a good blue-collar comedy. So, in that vein, I salute you, Carl Taylor and James St. James!!! "},{"Title":"That's my car  looks pretty undriveable to me.  Great fun everyone in the cast is great, especially Emilio and Charlie, who worked incredibly well together!","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is great fun for everyone, I really enjoyed it, everyone in the cast is great especially Emilio and Charlie who worked incredibly well together!. All the characters are pretty cool, and the story is a lot of fun, plus Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez are simply amazing in this!. This is seriously underrated and should be higher then 5.4 in my opinion, and while it's nothing great movie wise, the movie is hilarious, and is totally fun all the way, plus Keith David is an absolute riot as the psycho Vietnam guy!. It's also very good as a Buddy Buddy movie, and it's very well made and written by Emilio Estevez, plus it had some funny action scenes as well. I laughed my ass off when Charlie Sheen shot the mayor in the ass with a pellet gun, and it was also amusing when David Keith went nuts on the pizza delivery guy! plus it had some really funny lines as well. John Getz is fun as the villain,and Charlie and Emilio really impressed me with there fighting skills, plus the ending was very funny. This is great fun for everyone, I really enjoyed it, everyone in the cast was great, especially Emilio and Charlie who worked incredibly well together, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Emilio Estevez does a great job here with very good camera work, and keeping the film very funny throughout. The Acting is lots of fun!. Emilio Estevez is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely hilarious, seemed to be enjoying himself, had amazing chemistry with Sheen, had a really cool character, and cracked me up throughout (Emilio Rules!!!!!). Charlie Sheen is also amazing here, he had amazing chemistry with Emilio, had a great sense of humor, played a really cool character, also had good chemistry with Leslie Hope, and put a grin on my face throughout (Sheen Rules!!!!!). Keith David is absolutely hilarious as the psycho Vietnam guy, he added some great humor, really seemed to be having fun, I would love to see him work in a sequel with Emilio and Charlie, he stole a lot of the scenes!. Leslie Hope is hot, and well with what she had to do I liked her. Dean Cameron is funny as the pizza delivery guy and as a hostage, I dug him. John Getz is fun as the villain, and didn't take himself seriously. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5, here's to a hopeful sequel! "},{"Title":"Good, lightweight entertainment","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Men at Work is not a memorable film, or one I would watch on repeat viewings, but I had fun with it.  First of all, it's great to see two brothers work together on a film.  And of course, it helps that they're both talented actors.  So naturally, Charlie and Emilio have an immediate chemistry.  So far, I've seen a movie where Charlie teamed up with his Dad (Cadence) and one where Emilio teamed up with his Dad (The War at Home).  This is the first time I saw the two of them on screen together, other than a short scene in National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1. There's many funny moments, including one where the two of them are hanging off the back doors of a truck.  It's not a very smart comedy, but it's damn entertaining.  Emilio shows his talent behind the camera as well.  And I liked hearing that song Pump Up the Jam, which I haven't heard in a while.  The plot is predictable and nothing special.  Basically, you gotta be in it for the laughs and the fun.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"like Citizen Kane, only WAY better","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't use the word awesome lightly, but I think that 'Men at Work' obviously falls into that category. The first time Charlie Sheen (Carl) and Keith David (Lewis) teamed up, it was in Platoon. And if you thought that movie was funny, well then you'll have trouble locking and loading your funny sac after seeing 'Men at Work,' truly a great film.To paraphrase, two garbagemen--James (Emilio Estevez) and Carl--are in dire straits. Few films had tackled the plight of American garbagemen before 1990. And after this movie, there is really no need, because never has the job been portrayed so accurately on the silver screen. In supporting roles, Leslie Hope and Keith David are spectacularific; never again would they get roles that afforded them such creative balance in the rest of their careers.The deeper social message is further conveyed when brothers Carl and James find the body of a politician in the trash in a scene that though today might seem tame, was in 1990 (and pre-Sept 11) a very daring and controversial move by director (and star) Estevez. Also, there is the evil corporate powers that want to dump toxic waste into the Pacific Ocean. These scenes are really where the movie shines, making it the most thought-provoking examination of environmental issues since Frogs (1972).When I first saw this movie a few years ago, I knew there was something special in the chemistry between Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez. Later that year, by the water-cooler at my office, a co-worker informed me that the two actors are in fact brothers! Wow, I thought and moments later said. You will express similar amazement at this awesome film, which I give **** (four stars). I only hope that, like the Incredible String Band, this movie will someday get the appreciation it never recieved in its own time. "},{"Title":"Excellence in sibling acting","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Few movies have family members together in them.  This movie shows that these two brothers (Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez) are a great comedy duo.  I cannot stop laughing every time I watch this movie.  Even though it may be pretty stupid, I still think it's funny when drunken garbagemen shoot people in the ass with a pellet rifle, and Vietnam vet gets defensive over his fries. "},{"Title":"Slower than molasses","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was duped into watching this by the many friendly reviews here. Boy, are they way off mark! To give this 9 to 10 points and call it one of the best movies of the 1990ies is just unjustifiable. The big problem here is lack of pace and a paper-thin plot. It's like slapstick on Prozac. Everything trundles along predictably and listlessly. The plot is weak to begin with -- two garbage men peep on their foxy neighbour, witness a murder and unravel a waste disposal conspiracy -- and the movie never manages to go much further. There are some amusing situations and decent acting, but that's not anywhere near enough to save this jalopy of a movie.It's simply a comedy that doesn't get its fat ass off the ground, so why waste your time? "}{"Title":"Thank you Mr. Estevez 4 this FANTASTIC MOVIE! U ROCK!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Men At Work is simply one of my favorite comedies ever. Written and directed by Emilio Estevez the movie manages to be close to perfection in every department.The story is light, with numerous scenes that are just hilarious. Coming very close to being ridiculous but always managing to stay away, Estevez builds a wonderfully crazy plot that never has a dull moment. It's so unpredictable and wild we never know what's going to happen next. There's action, romance and a lot and I mean a lot of laughs.Every joke works. One after the other the audience just never gets tired of these guys. The characters are as cool as possible. Carl and James are awesome but Louis steals the show. While Estevez but especially Charlie Sheen show they have a huge comedic talent, Keith David delivers a performance I have never forgot. He is the demented, tough, war veteran Louis and this guy is just `out there'. David uses his scenes to shine and he is the big soul and light of the movie. I have always loved this guy. I've followed his career with movies like The Thing or Platoon and he's one of the most versatile and talented actors I know.Also notice Leslie Hope, famous for `24' today, then still an unknown.Men At Work doesn't take itself serious. It's just a great comedy. A very entertaining movie with an original story and wonderful acting.Funny, funny, funny. I love it. See it.     "},{"Title":"Sometimes Funny, But Nothing Special","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Men at Work is a somewhat enjoyable film about two garbagemen (Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez) who find the corpse of a high-ranking political official in the trash.  Now they are scared that the police may think that they had something to do with it, so they just carry the corpse with them all day and try to find the real killers.  It is as stupid as it sounds.  Estevez must have gotten some of his inspiration from Weekend at Bernie's.  However, as previously mentioned there are some very funny moments.  Keith David and Dean Cameron both do good work as they get involved with the action as well.  There is no real direction and the screenplay never does come together.  Not much to sing about here.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Oscar winning plot and acting","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of my favorite all-time movies. It just doesn't get any better than this. The actors interact in a subtle, yet comedic fashion. The movie shows that good triumphs over bad. It is hard to understand why this has not become a classic! "},{"Title":"where are my gloves amigo?","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sheen and Estevez are a hoot together, their fraternal chemistry is there for all to see in the 90's comedy romp. It's quite hard to make a comedy about bin-men but hey, this is it! It's childish, stupid, silly and dated (clearly outdated homophobia) but some great physical humour. Keith David, the scary guy, brings the crazy up a notch and makes for some even weirder situations because of the Vietnam PTSD and his clear psychological issues. It's not a film for great intellect but it's got some superb one liners and is highly quotable and you will enjoy it. There are great laughs and it's a fun popcorn evening movie which will give you a flashback to all the silly films from back in the day. Sheen at his best. Not the best cinema but enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good Action-Comedy!","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Emilio Estevez directs & co-stars in this 1990 action-comedy with Charlie Sheen, Leslie Hope, Keith David, Dean Cameron, Darrel Larson and John Getz. Sheen (Major League) and Estevez (The Breakfast Club) play garbage men, Carl Taylor and James St. James. Soon, they stumble onto an environmental conspiracy after they find dead politician, Jack Berger (Larson) in a trash can along their route. Hope plays Berger's campaign manager, Susan Wilkins who meets and gets romantically involved with Carl, David (They Live) plays Louis Fedders, a war vet who is assigned to work with Carl & James, Cameron (Summer School) plays a pizza man who gets taken hostage by Louis and Getz (The Fly) plays corrupt businessman, Maxwell Potterdam III who dumps waste and is the one behind Berger's murder. This is a good action-comedy, Sheen & Estevez are great in it together and Getz plays a good villain. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a pretty a good one. The brothers are really funny in this movie. The BB gun that Charlie uses to shoot a couple of guys in the ass are priceless. They are a pair of garbage men loser's who stumble on a body while doing their route. The body turns out to be someone they saw across the street in an apartment with a hot woman. The high jinks among the garbage men teams are kind of typical for male interaction at work although it is carried to extremes. When they follow the leads and end up at the dump things get interesting in a (of course) very comedic finish. The main bad guy ends up getting his in the end, of course, and the brothers come out the winners. "},{"Title":"Caution Men Not Really at Work","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two garbage men, a psychopath, a pizza man, and a dead man make up Men at Work. This is a laidback movie that was what the 1990s were all about. Movies that weren't trying to live up to something their not , they were just movies made to give audiences enjoyment. These movies don't care about a star rating or a percentage score on what would soon to be known as Rotten Tomatoes. These films are now Saturday Night flicks with big actors who weren't big at the time.Sheen and Estevez play Carl and James, two garbagemen who slack off similar to the way Dante and Randal do in the movie Clerks. Since their screwing around bothers residents, they are assisted by at psychopathic Vietnam War Veteran Louis Fedders (Keith David). One night they see a neighbor girl being bullied by her boyfriend, which causes Carl to react and shoot him with a pellet sniper. The next morning the three discover the body of the guy who they shot in a garbage can, and turns out he is a politician. Noticing strangulation marks on the man's neck they suspect its was the neighbor girl and it becomes a stakeout at the boys apartment when one goes undercover to the neighbor girl's house to get her to confess.It's a stupid funny buddy film and overall it plays out pretty well for itself. We do see an appearance from Dean Cameron as the pizza man so the film doesn't fail in the surprise star field. The movie sometimes falls flat with gay jokes often made by the Vietnam Vet. The first time they were funny, but then it just becomes a little grueling to keep watching the same stupid thing.The music in the film is something great too. It seems I've been getting good music in a lot of movies lately. But Im a Cheerleader and The King of Kong A Fistful of Quarters both have impressed me with their musical scores and its nice this one didn't fail either. The Sheen/Estevez duo should have done more Comedy films. They did this and Sheen made a cameo in National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon which Estevez was the lead in. It doesn't seem like they will work again since Sheen has been in numerous amounts of trouble and Estevez's last film was Arthur and the Invisibles in 2006. His newly directed film, The Public is rumoured for a release this year, but has been delayed a lot too. So who knows if they'll ever work again in a movie, though this one deserves a nice golf clap.Starring Charlie Sheen, Emilio Estevez, Leslie Hope, Keith David, Dean Cameron, and John Getz. Directed by Emilio Estevez. "},{"Title":"Charlie Sheen and Emeilo Estevez are at their best here.","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I found this movie to be very funny and very entertaining, then again if we are talking comedies I usually like stuff that is off the beaten track rather than the more popular mainstream fare. This movie follows the mundane lives of two trash pick up men trying to make their jobs a bit more interesting by doing stuff to get them selves in trouble and having to be placed under the watchful eye of a Vietnam vet. Well their lives are about to get more interesting as our two heroes as it were witness a man being a tad abusive to an attractive girl, well the two guys armed with a pellet gun take aim and fire, they later discover his dead body and must now try to figure out the mystery. Well it will not be a mystery to you or me as it is shown who is responsible. During their adventure they must infiltrate the beautiful girls place, deal with the crazy vet, kidnap a pizza guy and finally have a showdown at the dump. Great movie, very funny for me anyway. I like Charlie Sheen in comedies and he is very good and funny here as is Estevez though I will say Charlie had me laughing more. Though the Vietnam vet got the most laughs out of me when he started having flashbacks. "},{"Title":"Emilio scores again with his work","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Multi talented Estevez, has delivered once more. He has delivered a nice, little and entertainingly funny comedy, where more so it's drama and action. Moving across into comedy, Emilio a dab hand here, has proved he's capable of amusing material, from which, another winner in his box. Him and his bro, Charlie, play friends, not brothers from what I remember, or may'be they were brothers, who are garbage men, with no real respect for their work, which is understanding. They haven't made their selves popular with these two uniformed cops, who have a hard on for making their lives hell. Too, the brothers are clashing with two other, rival work colleagues. Now more misfortune has come their way when a dead body shows up in their dumpster, a former wife beater, who Charlie hit with his pellet gun, the night before. Are they being framed or what? They decide to find the perpetrator. Bad timing too, as a work adviser and fries eater (Keith David) has just come on board, riding with the two, as reports have come back about their tardy work ethics. First clashing, cause of Emilio's backtalk, he teams up with his colleagues to try and clear them. Oh yes, a much deserving and naked revenge awaits those cops, you must see. There's a little romance too. With this comedy, Emilio in the writing department, has brought a rewarding and entertaining pic to the viewer, especially for fans of talented two. "},{"Title":"A Fun movie about a couple of guys who have fun","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There seems to be really little point to this movie. To me it is a movie that Esteves put together just for a little bit of fun. He plays alongside Charlie Sheen who is his real life brother and this seems to work well. They are buddies and living life just for the pleasure of it. In fact, James (Esteves) and Carl (Sheen) have been life long buddies they went to school together, they surf together, and they work together. The name of the town that the film is set in, Las Palayas, sounds to me like some place where people go and have fun. Serious this movie is not, and there are so many holes that a serious movie would fall down, while this movie manages to stand on its own.The plot is simple though the story becomes really complicated. In real life, everybody would be locked up in gaol for kidnapping, assault on a law enforcement officer, theft of a police car, hindrance of police, stalking, and second degree murder. As I said, this movie is not serious. Here the cops are stupid and everybody hates them, and they only exist to make the life of the main characters a nightmare. Somehow, the main characters also seem to be able to work a very demanding job yet also have enough time to surf and stay up late only to wake up at five in the morning.There is a plot though it doesn't start up until a fair way into the movie. Esteves spends a lot of time just following James and Carl around on their daily routine, and it is only after this that he begins to move the plot along. Basically somebody is dumping toxic waste off shore and a mayoral candidate is being paid to allow this to happen. The candidate decides that what he is doing is wrong and pulls out, but not before getting a recording of the conversation to incriminate the bad guy. The candidate is then killed and dumped in a garbage can which James and Carl find. This wouldn't be a problem except Carl shot the candidate with an air rifle the night before and did not realise that he was murdered.This rather relaxed movie raises the idea of environmental protection, though this seems really ironic as the main characters are garbo's who dump huge amounts of garbage in landfill. They are stopping this one man from dumping toxic waste only to do it themselves. Still, this movie doesn't go beyond a final embarrassment of the bad guy, and thus any repercussions do not exist. "}{"Title":"Pizza Kong comes with us.....","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carl and James are two unambitious garbage men. Carl has a telescope with which he observes his neighbours. One evening he sees a man giving his girlfriend a hard time. As she leaves he shoots the man with a pellet gun. Hiding, he and James miss two men strangling the man and leaving with the body. When he appears in a can on their route they are afraid and hide the body, fearing that they may be implicated in the death. Trying to crack the case, they spy on the woman, join up with a crazed Vietnam vet, kidnap a pizza man and help to protect the environment. After all, it's the nineties.When global warming was rife, and the world was going to end, or we would have to have an atmosphere like Highlander 2, Estevez decided to make a comedy, with a hint of global awareness.It's one of those random weird comedies that were released around this time, Weekend At Bernies springs to mind, and you know that you shouldn't enjoy it, but you do, because the film makers brainwash you.The two leads have great chemistry, well they should after all. The music in the film is popular music of that time or very recent, so this gives you a comfort zone.And then it's sunny all the time, Women are beautiful, and garbage men can afford to stay in nice apartments and drink in the afternoon, all in the world is good.Add all theses ingredients with some bad guys you know are going to lose, and the film is a safe bet to entertain, not amaze, but entertain.And it does, it never out stays its welcome,a nd the humour never gets too immature.It won't be on anyones favourite list, but when it crops up on TV, I bet a few people will be transmitted back to the early nineties, with fond memories. "},{"Title":"men at work","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i loved this movie this movie was different then some of the movie released on Zune and napster net-flex also it not that often you see a movie on TV with Charlie an Emilio beside other actor from previous movie like K2 with Mikael Behan and others great movie also Charlie sheen was raise a family on two an half men and he was taking a break form other movie type because it was long day on set just like any other actor and he needed it. also men at work even if it was old brought out the best in Charlie and Emilio and other cast members because they got payed and they were committee service to the movie bisnus and they were supporting there family's and created a legacy also most of the actor must have been diagnosed with a Diversability at one time at life in early childhood like me. also i wish Charlie and Emilio good luck in there next movie together and i love squeal's just like any other fan in the world. but those thing don't come easy but forgiveness's and positive walking and judgement is the key. also the government is alway make changes the effects others even family actor two and it with them the rest of there lifes and Charlie and Emilio base this on there move take steps back and forward in different part of men at work. "},{"Title":"Probably the best comedy of the 90's","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Having read a few of the user comments about this film I simply had to add my own. How can anyone dislike or not find Men at Work funny? It is by far Mr Sheen and Estevez's finest movie. It's fast and pacey, full of slapstick and hilarious one liners that will surely stay with you forever. There's a great comic performance from 80's comedy goof Dean Cameron and then ultimately the glue that binds the whole thing together is the comic talents of Keith David. This is his finest performance by far, his turn as the paranoid ex military vet is simply a laugh a minute and the line about the fries in the diner is priceless.See this film for yourself and make up your own minds, but if there isn't something in here that makes you laugh, you're a very scary individual indeed. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favour","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Writer-director Emilio Estevez shows a definite lack of talent here with this un-redeemable, supposed comedy. The script is completely hopeless, let alone the fact that it is unoriginal and badly worked. The comedy just does not work. When Estevez isn't using poor taste sex jokes, he is borrowing used gags and re-doing them very poorly. You would think the teaming of Estevez and brother Charlie Sheen would be cool...but...it isn't.The entire cast is uninspired and unfunny, never managing to raise a laugh, and barely coaxing a smile from their audience. Do yourself a favour and leave this one on the video shelf.Thursday, June 25, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Comedy fans avoid this as you would an oncoming garbage truck","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought I had seen this film before as the plot summary sounded familiar. However, when I watched it one afternoon (in need of some mindless-but-amusing entertainment), I didn't recognise anything - if I had seen it before, I must have blocked the horror of it from my memory.This film is dreadful, and it shows its age. In fact, it looks older than it is more like a mid-80s moronic comedy. Whilst I am a fan of toilet humour and can see the funny side of many things, this is comedy at its most puerile and homophobic. The plot is as thin as a Supermodel, which wouldn't bother me if only the film were funny.There is only one amusing line in the whole film, spoken by the character Louis Looks like somebody threw away a perfectly good white boy! In fact, Louis is the only likable character (and that's not saying much). James and Carl are the type of irritating, immature men that a sensible woman would run a mile from, their practical jokes about as humorous as the war in Iraq; the character of Susan Wilkins is colourless (looks like Julia Roberts, but lacks her charisma) and there is zero chemistry between her and Carl - though it may be unfair to blame the actress, as I don't know what she could have done with such a poorly written part; and the villain is neither funny nor scary nor memorable.There is good trash and bad trash. This is trash that definitely should not be recycled. "},{"Title":"The Sheen-Estevez Brothers Ring In The 1990s","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two garbage men with dreams of opening a surf shop (Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez) stumble upon the dead body of a local politician in a drum -- a man who Sheen coincidentally shot the night before with a pellet gun. Not wanting to get blamed for the murder, the two men (along with another co-worker, played by Keith David) kidnap a pizza man, capture a girlfriend's heart and unravel corruption.When you watch this movie, it screams that it's from the cusp of the 80s and 90s. The poofy hair, the jeans and everything... and especially the women's outfits. That's a look that was hard to pull off much beyond the 1980s (and thankfully so). So if you like 80s films, especially ones with Charlie Sheen, this is one you'll like.There's not much more to say than that -- there's not a deep plot, huge jokes or intense action. It really relies on Sheen and Estevez (with Estevez's writing and directing) to make you interested. For some, like myself, that works. If not, you're going to think this is just another stupid movie that you see on a Saturday afternoon flipping through channels. I admit, it's not nearly as good as The Chase.But hey, you have Keith David (They Live), one of the weirdest looking tough guys in Hollywood. You have two white rastafarians who have a running theme of encountering fecal matter in their locker. And you have the mysterious love affair between Sheen and the politician's girlfriend. Let me go on about that a moment.So this chick's boyfriend is murdered. She doesn't know he's dead yet, just thinks he's not home, but begins to be romantic with Sheen anyway (who she's just met under false pretenses). I understand the powers of the Sheen, but this chick really has loyalty issues. Kissing some dude you don't know when you're currently dating a powerful politician? Not much later, when she finds out who Sheen really is and finds out her boyfriend is a corpse, she has only minor issues with this (overcome in 30 seconds). I know it's a movie, but my goodness -- I know who not to trust.But yeah, that's it -- Sheen, Estevez and Keith David in an early 1990s movie. You may find that worthwhile. There's also a really good message in there about fighting corruption and pollution, as the politician is something like Paul Wellstone, but Estevez never wrote that deep of a script so it's really only a marginal issue and almost becomes more of a joke than anything. "},{"Title":"WOW!  Doesn't live up to its so bad its good as the norm with these types of flicks","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is bad as we all knew it would be. Most times i usually love the bad 80s / early 90s trash-can comedy (haha no pun intended). I list Ski School, Career opportunities, Hot Shots, Summer School and many more made around this time. This even has the classic yet forgotten comedy of Dean Cameron (aka.. ski School section 8 instructor and Party Maniac for Summer School). But this movie is just to slow. It takes almost 30 min to get going and we have to sit through pointless dialog between to half-wits the Sheen boys (E&C). And yes i can hear the bloggers dieing to trash me with obviously you don't watch 2 and 1/2 men). Well Charlie was not at the level he is now during this flick...not that he's anything worth watching now. Charlie only shines when his co-stars support him and Emilio isn't anymore than an overused wonder bra offering little support. Actually, this movie was written by Emilio and it shows. It has no real ending (come on Emilio, even the Ski School 2 writers barfed out an ending). No idea how any issue brought is solved, no hot babes, no swearing to lighten the bad plot, characters, acting... I'm now tired of this tirade. Just save your time and watch the movies i listed above. You'll enjoy them much more. "},{"Title":"Hilarious at times, let down by the ending.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film started out promisingly and had me laughing out loud at points but it was let down by the unrealistic action sequences at the end.Good fun though. "},{"Title":"And this comment makes nine - TOTAL","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  which says all that needs be said about this film.You've heard of Straight to Video  .... I think this was made for Straight to Comedy Channel.It's better than Who wants to watch be a Millionaire.Good cast, hackneyed plot, poor writing, merely adequate direction.Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Insipid, depressingly un-funny","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was not entertaining or funny, in fact it was depressingly un-funny. Emilio Estevez should stick to playing bit-parts in other peoples movies and leave the making of movies to those that know how. After seeing first rate comedies like The Big Lebowski and Kingpin this little film is a waste of time. "}{"Title":"Retarded yet strangely compelling","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I won't lie to you, this movie is pretty lame. The acting is weak, the characters are stupid, but for some reason, I enjoyed it.The plot is like this Carl (Charlie Sheen) and James (Emilio Estevez) are garbage men who happen to find the body of a local politician in the trash. However, they are reluctant to go to the police because Carl shot the guy with a pellet gun the night before (long, long, long, story).The plot is lacking, and there is probably much more profanity than there needs to be, but this movie does have its humorous moments. Watch it when there is nothing else on, or when it's raining outside. Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Indefensible, but Estevez and Sheen look like they're having fun","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The theatrical trailer was the best thing about this movie. It's an extremely amateurish and indefensible attempt at moviemaking.And yet... It's still interesting watching the two brothers play on screen, like the first half of Young Guns. Despite the terrible, terrible characterizations, it's still fun to watch them when they're on screen together because they actually look like they're having a good time. "},{"Title":"Silly but Funny","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Men at Work (1990) *** (out of 4) Emilio Estevez wrote and directed this comedy, which also has him playing the lead along with his brother Charlie Sheen. In the film the two play garbage men who dream of setting up their own surf shop but when they find the body of a man running for Mayor they get involved in a political cover up. If you're looking for some sort of high art or masterpiece of cinema then you're certainly looking in the wrong place. If you just want some cheap, juvenile fun then MEN AT WORK is just for you. I remember being 10-years-old when I first watched this movie and I found it hilarious then and it continues to be a very funny, if incredibly stupid little film. I think what the film has going it its favor is the terrific cast who really dig into their roles. Both Estevez and Sheen have no problem playing together as they have a certain chemistry that could only come from real brothers. It's funny seeing the two work together because you can tell that they know how to bounce off one another and it's clear they know which buttons to push. The screenplay leaves a lot to be desired and you can't help but feel that the two actors make a mediocre story and at least put some energy to it. Another major plus is the supporting performance of David Keith who plays a crazy Vietnam vet who tags along with the two men the day the body is discovered. Keith is hilarious in his scenes and it really pre-dates the type of character he would eventually play in THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY. Just check out the sequence where he has a flashback to his Vietnam days and takes it out on a pizza man. Even Leslie Hope as the love interest comes off well. The biggest thing working against the film is its screenplay because it's just a tad bit too silly for its own good. We get the typical, low-rent type of comedy including the garbage men going up against a couple jerk cops, doing battle with some co-workers and of course there's the hit men that are idiots. MEN AT WORK is certainly far from a classic but it contains some of that 80s comedy that was slowly making its way out of movies by 1990. "},{"Title":"Close to as bad as a comedy gets","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those movies that I watch every time it's on not because I like it, but because it's so bad I can't take my eyes off it (like Battlefield Earth or 3000 Miles to Graceland). The first time I watched I kept waiting and waiting and waiting to laugh and didn't get my chance until about 3/4 of the way through the movie when they strip the harassing cops to their undies and handcuff them in the park in a unflattering position. Beyond that, the jokes aren't funny, the characters aren't funny, their mishaps and missteps aren't funny...add it up, it's not a very funny movie! Not even at a slapstick level! And what's with the reggae soundtrack? It's a movie about two white garbagemen and the music is all reggae. Seems out of place, don't it? If you like a good trainwreck, this is for you. If you like a good comedy, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The job of the main characters is pretty much how the movie is","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know i loved this movie when i was 12-14 years old. Now that i am 24 i watched it again, and i wished i hadn't. Because all the things i laughed at when i was younger, is no longer funny. so this is an hour and a half without fun. For me the jokes were lame, not funny or just too childish. So the same thing i loved about the movie when i was a kid, is now the things i don't like about it. Besides not being funny it is not actually believable at all. The evil character is very poorly done but i guess that is the kind of movie it is. And the last 20 minutes of the movie is pretty lame with bad fighting sequences and so on... But if you are young you will probably love it. I rate this movie 4/10 "},{"Title":"A treat for Estevez and Sheen fans","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not a highly intelligent environmental thriller, but fresh and light-headed amusement about two garbage collectors who find the corpse of a murdered politician during their morning rounds. Emilio Estevez wrote the script, directed and stars in the leading role along with his brother Charlie Sheen. Estevez gave himself one of the coolest sounding names in cinema history (James St. James) but Sheen gets to have the girl (played by a gorgeous looking Leslie Hope). I'll admit, the script is ordinary adolescent nonsense, filled with running gags like The Heroes versus the local dumb coppers and the Heroes playing pranks on some fellow garbage colleagues. But who cares, really? The jokes make you laugh while Sheen and Estevez form a terrific on-screen duo. Not to forget David Keith who provides you with some extra chuckles as the anti-social black guy, suffering from Vietnam flashbacks.  "},{"Title":"What a Waste!","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the dumbest movies in the history of cinema. Wait, I take that back-- this movie can't be included in any category related to cinema; it belongs in categories like waste, turds, or similar categories. Ironically, it's even _about_ two garbagemen. The movie is Men At Work, a lightweight crime comedy starring the Estevez (Sheen) brothers from 1990. Setting aside the asinine and implausible plot line, bad acting, bad dialogue, poorly executed stunts and slapstick, continuity errors, and high rate of no-name actors never to be seen again, all in all it was a pretty bad movie anyway (at its core, I mean). It was the kind of movie that might be good for one thing you can watch it about 200 times, learn every line, and in a campy kind of way repeat them back and forth in public with your *wasted* friends, thus securing your status as the biggest dorks in your tenth grade class.To make matters worse, I actually submitted an IMDb trivia entry (along with this bad review) to the movie's IMDb web page, if only because I spotted a silly little punk music joke that apparently nobody else spotted yet(about the Butthole Surfer statue). I'm so conflicted about why I should even *waste* my time submitting what looks like a supportive trivia note, when what I really want to do is blow up Emilio's acting career (no, wait, he's already done that himself. Thanks, dude!) I'm so glad I *wasted* only time on this, not real money. For that matter, can I maybe have at least one tenth of their budget? Anyone other than this director (Emilio) could have made two or three much better movies with just what they spent blowing up cars, carefully placing bikini-clad bimbos in the background, and beating up useless extras (henchmen) in haz-mat suits. I'd mention Emilio's writing credit, but it would be a stretch to call this screenplay writing -- it's more like crayon-scrawled cartoon ideas. And Charlie Sheen, if you're reading this, I assume M.A.W. must have been made during the part of your career in which you were a coked-up, hooker-loving Hollywood brat who had not grown up yet. (Oops! Sorry, I guess that part of your life isn't over yet. Get well soon, you half a man. Such a promising talent, so *wasted*&#133; oh look, there's that word again.) "}]