[{"Title":"The late, great David Allen's magnum opus","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The murderous puppets from part one (plus a new, fire-jetting doll named Torch) resurrect the long-dead corpse of their original puppet master, Andre Toulon.  For some reason, Toulon is now an evil, spiteful b**tard who entices the little creatures to murder people and extract their brain tissue in order to create a serum which will reanimate his wife.  Meanwhile, a group of government parapsychologists (is there really such a profession?) are conducting research at the eerie hotel (using a Commodore Amiga!) where both the puppet master and his creations dwell.  As you would expect, they are not happy with the unwelcome visitors and decide to slaughter them all. The Full Moon company has outdone themselves yet again with this eye-opening feature, complete with awesome puppetry and mind-blowing special effects. The story seemed a little flat at times but it was told well enough to peak your interest for the duration of the film.  The same eerie soundtrack from part one is reused here. "},{"Title":"A strange and eerie entry in the series","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people consider this to be best out of the series but, I'm gonna haft to disagree with that but it's by far not the worst and you PM fans know what I'm talking about. There's just something really strange about this film, I think it's because towards the end of the film it gets really really far out and creepy.After mutilating there selfish and evil Puppets Master, The puppets Blade, Pinhead, Jester, Tunneler and Leech Woman are back to resurrect there sweet and kind Puppet Master Andre Toulon but he's no longer sweet and kind, he's a psychopathic, evil, and greedy zombie that wants to kill the investigators of the Bodega Bay Hotel and in Andre's insane mind, he thinks one of the investigator is his wife incarnated.The film introduces us to a new puppet by the name of Torch, who is a robot puppet that shoots flames out of his right arm, I still think Blade is the best though. "},{"Title":"Somewhat better than the first...","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Granted, this is only a B-movie, it still delivers an atmosphere of dark, moody suspense.  Nothing like Suspiria did, but none the less, Puppet Master II far exceeds the first by several turns.   The puppets are more believeable in this one.  They don't appear to be as bland as in the first; they have more movement and actions.  Toulon as the Invisible man, however, is one of the main low points of the movie.  The acting is marginally better than the first...The actors aren't as...bored looking as in the first.  The life-size puppets were a very eerie, and gave the film a new twist.While still under Paramount, Full Moon was able to present a decent Horror movie, with a much bigger budge than any of their $50,000 wonders they are putting out now.  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Full Moon hit Puppet Master gold","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The puppets return, this time they hunt down some locals and paranormal researchers to assist their master in his evil plan.Charles Band's story and David Pabian's screenplay is almost a remake of the first film. Effects wizard David Allen in the directing chair exceeds the 1st certainly in terms of effects and atmosphere.While this installment reduces Andre Toulon / Eriquee Chaneé to a walking nod to the Invisible Man and other Universal classic characters, in contrast to how he is presented in the later adventures, it is by far the creepiest of the bunch. Steve Welles performance is wonderfully over the top and steals every scene.Veteran Nita Talbot is on fine form and the remaining cast are a mixed blessing, Charlie Spradling and Elizabeth Maclellan give solid performances while here at least Collin Bernsen and Jeff Celentano are as mechanical as Tunneler's innards.Despite it's editing and story flaws Allen gives us a darker faster paced and eerier film than it's predecessor. The flashbacks are welcome and the paranormal investigation angle, while not totally original, gives the proceeds some weight and intrigue. Notably Blade running and jumping from a bed to slice his victim is probably one of best low budget horror moments to date. There are many stand out moments in part 2, Leech Woman's demise, Torches encounter with a toy whipping boy and the unworldly human puppets reminiscent of the aliens in Carpenter's (1988)They Live to name a few.As with all the films in the Puppet Master series they always leave you with one burning question, in two's case Why didn't Julianne Mazziotti/Nita Talbot's Camille get her own sequel with your favorite little puppets? "},{"Title":"A great sequel","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't guessed by the title this is the second chapter of the classic Puppet Master series. I enjoyed this film more then the first film and I loved the first film. In this movie the new puppet Torch steals the show. A flame throwing puppet what's not to like? This film also features the classic scene where Blade chases Charlie Spradling out of her room into the hallway. If you're a fan of Fullmoon Pictures then this is a must see. If you're worried about the acting don't be, the acting was good. Not the best ever but pretty good. The ending of this movie was Excellent. It brings about the question, is the Puppet MASTER really the one pulling the strings? "},{"Title":"Possibly an Improvement Over the First","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The puppets return, this time they hunt some paranormal researchers to take their brain fluid for the living-dead puppet master, Andre Toulon (Steve Welles).This film has some good things going for it first, more exposition on the background of the puppets. And second, a faster pace than the original film. Love it or hate it, the first film is a tad bit slow a times and really stretches material to fill its 90 minutes.Here we run into some continuity issues, which is pretty standard for the film. The so-called owner of the house... was he really in Bucharest, or was he actually at home during the course of the first film? I am uncertain. And then, where did he comes from? And why does he confuse a main character for his wife? There are more than few questions.However, the film looks slicker, and the villain is far more interesting this time around. And, thanks to the Blu-Ray release, you can watch in high definition and listen to Charlie Band commentary. "},{"Title":"Blade is Back...","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever watched Child's Play? You know the movie that has the walking talking toy doll that runs around killing people. Well this movie is something very similar, only it features puppets instead of a doll. The credits draw you in, a cemetery and a puppet digging a grave really makes you wonder what'll happen next, then a pair of skeleton arms stretch up and roll the black screen and more credits.Puppet Master II draws you in from the first scene to the last. Who doesn't love seeing Blade, the puppet with the blade and hook instead of hands, slashing at unsuspecting peoples throats? What about Pinhead, the big puppet with huge hands and a tiny head, and his ways in strangling peoples necks? Hey, lets not forget Leech Woman who spits out leeches that suck out the blood of her victims and Jester, who hasn't a mean little bone in his wooden body.Okay, so four parapsychologists go to the Bodega Bay Inn, where the events of the first film happened, to look up on claims by Alex Whitaker from the first film. Leading them is Carolyn Bramwell (Elizabeth Maclellan), a down right nice girl. Her brother Patrick (Gregory Webb) is killed the first night at the hotel, thanks to Tunneler and might I mention he was drunk. Then Camille (Nita Talbot) goes missing, luckily she had a son named Matthew (George 'Buck' Flower).It's not long before the corpse from before, dressed in black and covered in bandages, appears and calls himself Eriquee Chaneé (Steve Welles). Events get stranger, Wanda (Charlie Spradling ) and Michael Kenney (Collin Bernsen) are murdered. Carolyn goes to confront Eriquee, whom she finds out is really Andre Toulon. He thinks she is the reincarnation of his late wife Elsa, and tries to put his and her soul into mannequins. Luckily, Blade intervenes and Andre is kill again for a second time.I recommend watching the first three, forget about the rest. "},{"Title":"still holding a Torch for the franchise","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tunneler, Jester, Blade, Pinhead & Leech Woman are back to kill some more paranormal investigator types, this time once again under the thrall of the original Puppet Master, Toulon, after the puppets resurrect him, however zombie Toulon is a bit of a nut-case. However, he also made Torch, one of the more interesting puppets, in this outing. So it's all good.I found myself enjoying this film despite of major continuity eras. In some respects it may seem like a bit of a rehash of the previous film, but it moves at a quicker pace and features some pretty cool kills. All in all, it's on par with the first film.Eye Candy Men get Charlie Spradling topless. The ladies get to ogle Collin Bernsen's posterior "},{"Title":"Great sequel to the original Puppet Master","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the Puppet Master series. I found out about this great franchise during the summer of 2012. After watching and loving the first film, I decided to watch number 2. And I was very pleased. Puppet Master 2 keeps the feel of the first film and did well in many categories. Average acting, good gore, nice kills, plenty of puppet screen time, a good storyline, and an awesome ending. What's not to love about that? Now, if you're just a horror film watcher and not a fan of Puppet Master, good ol' Charles Band or Full Moon films, I don't really recommend this film. Otherwise, grab some popcorn, some friends who are fans of Puppet Master, a comfy seat and enjoy! Puppet Master Forever! "},{"Title":"A Good Sequel and a Worthy Classic!","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master II is a good sequel to its predecessor. We are introduced to more of the mythology and a better look at the toys, including a few new ones. The story is good, the acting isn't great and the special effects are good...well for its time.This is definitely a fun film to watch, especially with friends and a keg of beer, or not depending on your taste.Like other great cult horror film classics you are introduced to a lot of corny moments, but that is what makes this film so amazing. The corniness is supposed to be there and it works.As for the VHS transition to DVD not looking good, I think the quality of it makes the cult of it even more enhanced. I like the VHS look, even if it is on DVD. It seems interesting and brings back a lot of memories from my childhood as I as taking my first steps into the horror genre. Definitely worth watching! "}{"Title":"Puppet Master II Blu-ray breathes new life into the classic horror B-movie","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Full Moon Entertainment films are a big part of my horror upbringing. I would say they were my first exposure to direct-to-video movies. I remember going to the local video store and grabbing up every Subspecies, Trancers, Robot Jox, and Dollman release I could get my hands on. The evil puppets dig up their creator, Toulon, and bring him back to life. They need the mad puppeteer to concoct more of his formula to keep them alive. Thanks to a new group of paranormal investigators visiting the Bodega Bay Inn, the diabolical little creatures have a fresh supply of humans to use for the ingredients. Complications arise when Toulon becomes mesmerized by the leader of the group who resembles his late wife, Elsa.Puppet Master II is a classic creature feature that will give you a fear of dolls and puppets if you don't already have one. "},{"Title":"Solid sequel","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The murderous puppets exhume the rotting corpse of their long dead master Andre Toulon (a lively and colorful performance by Steve Welles) and bring him back to life so he can continue to produce the special serum they all need to continue living. A team of paranormal researchers fall pray to the tiny terrors. Director David Allen, working from a compact script by David Pabian, relates the enjoyable story at a steady pace, creates and maintains a pleasingly spooky ooga-booga Gothic atmosphere, delivers a satisfying smattering of grisly gore, stages the killings with a sufficient amount of pizazz and competence, and really pulls out all the freaky stops for the gloriously off the wall gruesome conclusion. This film further benefits from sound acting from a sturdy cast ravishing redhead Elizabeth McLellan as the sweet and sensitive Carolyn Bramwell, Collin Bernsen as the likable Michael Kenney, brunette knockout Charlie Spradling as the sassy and lascivious Wanda, Jeff Weston as easygoing technician Lance, and Gregory Webb as Carolyn's sarcastic brother Patrick. Popping up in neat secondary roles are Nita Talbot as flaky psychic Camille, the ubiquitous George Buck Flower as grumpy farmer Matthew, and Sage Allen as Matthew's dumpy and excitable wife Martha. The stop motion animation puppets are pretty funky and effective. Thomas F. Denove's glossy cinematography makes nifty occasional use of fancy dissolves and cool wipes. Richard Band's shivery score hits the shuddery spot. The very end is a real hoot. As a tasty extra plus, the deliciously buxom Ms. Spradling bares her beautifully bountiful breasts. A worthy second installment in the series. "},{"Title":"A impressive sequel","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master was a classic B-Movie about some Puppets that can move without string and go around killing people in the Inn. The sequel to Puppet Master is even more fun since we get a little bit more of the Puppets and Andre Toulon since they bring him to life again.Set a while after the first film a group of paranormal investigators go to the inn trying to figure out what happened to cause Alex to go mad, the other psychics to be killed and the owner to have her brain removed. Soon a psychic comes to join them and gets a strange sense with being in the inn soon Pinhead and Jester come and take her away.The group soon meet Eriquee Chaneé a strange man wearing bandages over his face, he is actually Andre Toulon using a new name so they don't suspect anything. Soon the psychic's son arrives and then helps Carolyn out. Andre Toulon needs brain fluid to make more liquid to re-animate the Puppets again but he has plans of his own has Carolyn is his wife Elsa reincarnated.So Andre gets his Puppets to keep collecting brain fluid from the investigators to complete the fluid and use it to be with Elsa again but the Puppets don't take to that.A very good sequel that has a new Puppet Torch, a mechanical Puppet that has a flamethrower attached to his arm. Puppet Master II is a sequel that is great to watch on a night. "},{"Title":"A retread that manages to retain some of that Puppet Master charm","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet master II does not stray far from the setting and basic plot line of the original. It manages to get away with it- the grand hotel at Bodega Bay is after all a fantastic setting, so it is a joy to return there, and though it may initially feel like a complete retread (paranormal investigators returning to the hotel rather than psychics etc etc) it does have a few interesting plot developments to draw the audience in.Toulon is brought back from the dead, with his own maniacal plan that involves human sacrifices- he is no longer the sweet, paternal toymaker we met in the first film, but a monstrosity wrapped in bandages with his own sinister desires. We get an interesting insight into the origin of the living puppets, and there are also some scenes that will definitely make you smile- for once in a film the annoying kid actually gets it! So overall it is, for the most part, an enjoyable retread of old territory. But it is territory that is still enjoyable to revisit, right down to the musical score. It still manages to retain its hammy charm, and is guaranteed to make you crack a smile at least a couple of times. I'm hoping though that the future chapters in this series stray a little further away from the formula that seems to be forming right now. It is still fun and endearing right now, but I can imagine it growing very stale.I do have to mention the Video Zone extras found on the DVDs as well as the original VHS tapes I believe. They're essentially behind the scenes shorts that nicely compliment the movies, giving you some insight into the film-making process. However unlike the promotional work we find for today's bigger blockbusters you do get a sense of genuine enthusiasm from the cast and crew- Charlie Spralding is a lot of fun to watch especially. It just allows the audience to feel a part of things. "},{"Title":"Everyone's favorite tiny terrors are back...with a new flame-powered friend!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the Puppet Master series. Hell, I was eight years old when I first saw it back in '91, and I've been a Full Moon fan since. I like this sequel, mainly because it introduces one of my favorite characters, the flame-wielding Torch. Its effects, if not low-budget, are decent. Its story is beginning to wear a little thin, because I'm sick to death of a bunch of paranormal investigators checking out the same crap the previous annoying victims did. However, we do see their undead master join the fun. I got really p****d off when they killed off my other favorite character, Tunneler. Hell, he was the coolest one in the movie. So, all in all, its a good sequel. But, if you're a die-hard Puppet fan, I'd definitely recommend Puppet Master III. Here we get a prequel, not a remake (yes that's basically what this movie is). "},{"Title":"Better than the first & the best of the series!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The PUPPET MASTER series continues with this highly enjoyable second instalment to the franchise. This time it's a group of Paranormal investigators staying at the Bodega Bay Inn, investigating the first films massacre that fall prey to the puppets. PUPPET MASTER II is a film just loaded with many interesting idea's, themes & plot twists. I loved the plot twist at the end as well, in that we find out Toulon was merely using his puppets, he never cared for them, only that they carry out his evil plans of killing off all of the lead heroine's friends to extract the brain matter needed to create the re-animation fluid, that he promises to give them, but is only saving it for himself & the lead heroine, whom he is dead certain is the reincarnation of his late wife (though she strongly disagrees & tries to escape the madman) Toulon needs the serum to enter their new bodies Creepy tall mannequins. This is quiet a turn around for that smiling elderly Toulon we seen in the first. Toulon (ths time played by STEVE WELLS) makes his appearance on camera about midway, calling himself Erik Chaney, while dressed as the Invisible Man (in fact FULLMOON would have another character of theirs to dress like the Invisible Man in Invisible The Chronicles Of Benjaman Knight, a few short years later) & Wells does a fairly good job of bringing the character to life (no pun intended). FULL MOON also introduces a new puppet in TORCH, (who's name should give you a good idea of what his speciality brand of killing is!) a really good & scary looking puppet, that sadly would only make one other appearance in this series (PUPPET MASTER 5) it's such a shame, since he's my favourite of all the puppets, but at least he gets plenty of screen time here. The film also goes deeper into Toulon''s past & finally answers the questions that went unanswered in the first, such as how Toulon discovered the formula that re-animated lifeless objects. It all happened in 1912 Cario Egypt (told via flashback) during a touring of a failed puppet show of his called FAUST. With the formula given to both him & his wife Ilsa, by an ancient sorcerer named AFZEL. The characters are better here & far more interesting than the bland psychic characters of the first (& not as obsessed with sex) the direction by the late David Allen is really good, he builds suspense & tension beautifully & thanks to what was obviously a bigger budget, there are more & better stop motion animation puppet effects! the puppets fit the plot much better here, than they did in the first. We see them more & they have more to do here. Plus, the film moves much faster & hardly has any, if any, slow spots in it. The story is very interesting & very easy to get hooked into. The film also delivers on the requisite nudity & gore that fans have come to expect in the series & the notion of the puppets extracting human brains from the heads of their victims was a nice ghoulish touch (The puppet oddly have a demonic snarling sound to them as well?) we also learn the history of the motel, in that it was built by an elderly woman mystic & that the land contained great power. Information given to her by an Egyptian. Although interesting, this theme was never brought up in any of the subsequent sequels or prequels.On the downside the film fails to answer some questions such as this The film claims Toulon died in 1941 & yet in the first film, it's 1939 when he shot himself, so which was right? Plus I had a hard time buying into the idea of the puppets needing Toulon to help them make more of the serum to keep them going. I say this because they waste what little serum they had, re-animating a glass bird statue! We also hear Toulon using a chant like in the original before he killed himself, but the film never tells us what it's for? also Toulon assumes the lead heroine is the re-incarnation of Ilsa his late wife & the film seems to be toying with the idea that she just might be, but were never told weather she is or isn't (it is notable that the lead heroine says to the hero, if she didn't get up by six a.m. she felt the day was wasted, something Toulon's wife also claimed & the fact she looks like Ilsa, Toulon's wife) & why didn't the group call the cops after the heroines brother is murdered? they just stash his corpse in some freezer in the motel?! I also recommend you see (the truly bad) PUPPET MASTER LEGACY for a complete chronological order of how & when each film should be watched, since this as we learn from that film, this one does not take place until well into the series & not after the first film. Look for the MR. PUNCH (DOLLS) doll sitting on top of a shelf in Toulon's room & watch when Jester goes to give the character of Camille's corpse the serum to resurrect her at the end of the movie, you can clearly see a hand holding him up, if you look closely. All in all, PUPPET MASTER II, is faster, scarier, weirder & more energetic film than it's predecessor. Like all good sequels, it expands on the mythology already established in the first & runs with it even further. Highly recommended! Followed by a prequel PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE**** stars "},{"Title":"Torch was great!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this sequel better than the original. My reasons being was i thought the puppets were more entertaining in this one and you get to see them for longer. I loved the new Torch puppet, i consider him to be the most dangerous and scary out of all the puppets(he was even more scarier than Blade). He has a stump on his right arm that throws flames. In one funny scene he is tormented by a little boy and the little brat says something like 'Is that all you can do?, do something' and you can guess what Torch does to him. The actors did fine, the acting wasnt great but this is low-budget guys. If your'e a fan of this movie i recommend you get the DVD. I got this movie for only 5.99 and you get to see the  behind the scene's footage, which was interesting and fun to see. The picture quality was excellent, colors are very strong and vibrant. Overall a fun B-movie, 6/10. "},{"Title":"A great B-Movie!","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alright, so the original was a fairly smart film, but this is just a fun B-movie. SOme good gore, cool kills, and that feel of an 80's flick are all present. Plus the new puppet, Torch, is awesome, along with all the original puppets doing what they do best...kill. In this film, Andre Toulon is brought back by the puppets to create more carnage. The storyline is not strong, the acting is not excellent, but it all works and the movie turns out to be pretty darn fun. Also some cool kills, and better gore than the first. The special effects are also excellent by David Allen's great effects crew, as David Allen also takes the director's chair on this film. If you like the original, you will also love this one, that is my logic. "},{"Title":"It is usually common that sequels are not as good as the original...this is an exception to that rule.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say that I enjoyed this second installment to the series better than I enjoyed the original PUPPET MASTER. I like the killings better, the story better, and especially the new Torch puppet. The film is a horror fest from beginning to end. You will really enjoy this film.The actors and actresses are all pretty much unknown except for a few which some people may recognize. I also think that the special effects are much better in this film. This one is much more gory and graphic than the original. PUPPET MASTER II brought the PUPPET MASTER legacy back to life and kept it alive until it was destroyed by the godawful PUPPET MASTER III TOULAN'S REVENGE. Now, that movie was gay! On the other hand, this one is not. This is one of the better horror films that I have ever seen. PUPPET MASTER II 5/5. "},{"Title":"This killer puppet movie pulls no strings! It's entertaining enough to sit through, but it's also kinda feel like I'm watching a rethread film.","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This direct to video movie is by no means, a puppet masterpiece. It's mindless fun from the mind from Charles Robert Band, the Founder of Full Moon Features, a company known for its direct-to-video B-List horror & sci-fi movies. Coming off, their first success, 1989's Puppetmaster, Full Moon quickly capitalize on a sequel to that film. It's just sad, that Puppet Master II His Unholy Creations doesn't bring anything really new to the concept, and felt like a remake of the first film. Instead, of a film about a group of psychics coming to a hotel to investigate a recent murder; this movie has a group of parapsychologists, coming back to the abandoned hotel to investigate, the recent mysterious murders, a year prior. Without giving away too much of the movie, I have to say, it was somewhat disappointing to see that none of the previous human surviving characters from the first movie, return for this film. Megan Gallagher (Robin Frates) & Alex Whitaker (Paul Le Mat) are only given, toss away mention lines and never really explore, beyond that, but I kinda also glad, they didn't. I felt that the first movie was trying too hard to be a 1980's Shining, rip-off with its psychics and the film didn't need any more of that mess. This film feels a bit more focus on the anthropomorphic puppets being the killers than super naturals. However, I really don't get why the new batch of characters lead by final girl, Carolyn Bramwell (Elizabeth Maclellan) had to be ghost-hunters. They rarely seem like they were good at their job. They were more focus on, having making jokes and doing stupid stuff, than trying to solve the case. They get more irrational as the movie goes on, when members of their crew, started disappearing. Instead of; I don't know, seeking the police's help with the crime, they would rather partake in having sex with each other. Who does this!? This movie is so clichés. The age-old movie formula of people wandering off alone and getting killed one by one, stupid scenes of nudity, and toilet humor makes them, some of the worst caricatures of people, ever. Ever, when the evidences start to pile up, that the puppets are killing their members, they still think, it's has to be ghosts. I have to say, these are some of the dumbest ghost hunters, I have, ever witness. None of them, were really that, likable. The puppets in the other hand, were. They were the best thing, about this film. It's a bad sign, when the villains are more fascinating than your heroes. Each of them having an interesting way of killing people. Blade looks like a small version of the Fisherman from 1997's I Know What You Did Last Summer with a hook. Pinhead is a Conehead lookalike muscle man mixed with Addams Family Uncle Fester who punch and strangles people. Tunneler has a drill on his head that drills into people. Ms. Leech who is a Leech-puking doll that sadly was quickly killed off, in the film, due to producers finding the character way too disturbing and disgusting. In my opinion, she was one of the best puppets, out-there. Why couldn't they just killed, Jester instead. He's pretty much, useless for most of the series. Anyways, she was replace, by a new puppet, call Torch. By far, one of the coolest puppets to ever come into the series. The action scenes with them are quite enjoyable, but I never bought the struggle between man Vs puppets. I just can't see, how people in these film, can't overpower them. Anyways, their stop motion movement was always fantastic and creepy. It also helps that, the director of this film, is Dave Allen. Considered among the finest stop motion model animators of all time. One thing, I didn't like, about this film is how the puppets are now control, by a new owner called Eriquee Chanee (Steve Welles), whom in no surprised to anybody, turn out to be the reanimation body of Andre Toulon; looking for a new body to take over. First off, it's a bit jarring to see that body of Toulon was able to reanimation, due to the fact, that the character somewhat blew his brains out in the first movie. Isn't brain tissue, the secret ingredient that makes that reanimation formula to work in these films? Also, Toulon's death doesn't match up, with the first movie's timeline, in which he killed himself on 1939, not 1941. Anyways, like the first movie, what was Toulon's plan on betrayal his puppets. It seem very odd to do. Yes, a recent comic book adaption somewhat gives a motive, but it's never truly answer on film. Like the first movie, this film got a cult-following, to the point, that puppets were turn the good guys in most of the subsequent films, fighting various enemies including Nazis, Demonic Spirits and inter-dimensional aliens. Overall The movie is watchable, however, the somewhat downer ending to this film is a bit hard to watch. In my opinion, the subsequent films, such as 1991's Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge are truly, the ones worth-watching, but if you find yourself, watching this film. At least, you might find it, somewhat entertaining. "}{"Title":"You filthy swine! You brought me animal brains!!!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is an improvement over the first movie, I find the characters to be moderately more likable and the plot to be much more coherent and it just flows better. It takes what was established in the original movie and builds on it, and I find it an all-round more entertaining and scarier picture. Man I love the score! That is such a beautiful piece of music by Richard Band that never fails to get my inner cogs turning! I find that it greatly enriches the movie's tone and gives it an added depth, as does the tremendously effective setting. To me the desolate inn by the sea is itself very much a character in the first two films of the series at least. From its gaudiness, to the marble floors and the angles on all of the empty dark corridors, it's like your really traditional haunted house. In my own unflattering way I'm trying to say that for the time it was made, this movie was scary! Never scarred me for life or anything, but there's some very freaky stuff in it, once it starts with the creepy stuff it doesn't let up. You don't have to wait for the last act for everything to really pay off, there's effort done to keep folks entertained and unnerved. There's a lot more focus on the puppets this time around, there way more out in the open right from the beginning. I love the fantastic style of the opening scene with them all engaging in a little necromancy, the macabre image of the zombie arms reaching out of the grave is such a classic image it's like it's taken straight from the cover of an old E.C. horror comic! Also the violence is more graphic and chilling, with the diminutive terrors ambushing people in the dark and in their sleep, as a kid I almost wet my pants when the Driller gets that Patrick guy! And the scene where the puppets assault the hillbillies is a blast! The hefty woman might just be crazy enough to take them on if only they didn't have a freshly-constructed little walking furnace friend to help them out who promptly torches the bitch in the first of two impressively done full body burns! A puppet of iron, Torch is a great addition, I like the design of the Kaiser helmet head and bullet teeth. He's always so mad and ready to scorch at the slightest provocation! It's probably mean, but I love when he charbroils that kid who somehow manages to make himself so completely unsympathetic in his few minutes of screen time that you frankly can't wait! By far my favourite thing about this flick and what I personally feel holds it all together is the performance of Steve Welles as the reanimated Andrei Toulon who, while the spiteful and demented version of the character is a world apart from the kindly old man in other entries, is one that I enjoy tons more. He's way more interesting this way, he's an insane Toulon! Maybe half a century of being dead will do that to a guy.. I think the Puppet Master should be as frightening as the puppets themselves. I love all the scenes where it's just him and puppets. They can't talk back, but he does a great job of working with them and conveying all the back and fourths of it. I like the moment where he looks around his eerie chamber and settles on the old Faust poster and remembers the past. It captures the bizarre hell that this 'man' has wrought upon himself and is trapped in forever. He's so spooky just to look at. He's like a mummy, but also the Invisible Man, and he's looks like a zombie underneath his wrappings to boot - and he uses the fake name Chainey! I still find it downright mortifying when he puts his spirit into the horrifying dummy man! Jesus, those frozen blue eyes and that waxy skin, and when he makes that horrible noise still sends a chill down my spine to this day! I enjoy the plot of how he believes the woman to be the reincarnation of his long-dead wife and how at the end it turns out that he hasn't been quite entirely honest with his 'beloved' creations and betrays them. He's certainly making the alchemy that keeps them alive, but it won't be for them. To hell with the puppets, he wants his Ilsa again! And of course when they realise this the puppets rightly turn on their master in another scene of violent madness that sees him set on fire and sent plummeting to his third and hopefully final death! You look back on these kinds of horror movies and yeah they're 'cheesy' and 80s and all of that, but also with the ones that I like at least, they're still fun and they work, and I think this is because back then it was just about trying to make the best movie that you could with what you had, and this will always be a little classic to me, this and the first one are two of my favourite horror movies of all time. Thank you, you've been a wonderful audience! "},{"Title":"Well,,,","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn't think the first was that good however I thought it was decentThis sequel was start of really good, As the Puppets brought back the Master of the Dead.I liked this movie just a bit a better then first movie, I liked the fact that show a lot more of the Puppets.The movie didn't take to long to get started, i found most of really entertaining but however after second half, some parts did drag on a little and found those part a little boring,The ending was just really odd and a bit Creepy,I give this movie 6 out of 10 __________________ "},{"Title":"They're back. No strings attached.","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An inevitable simple rehash, which is probably a little more expansive and wicked in its visions. Not as fun as the original, but nonetheless a respectable b-grade sequel by Full Moon productions. Which I believe, would be followed up by the best entry of the series Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge, as after that film I didn't particularly care for the rest. The second film of the franchise keeps pretty much the same structure of the original, as a group of government paranormal researchers head to the ocean facing cliff top hotel to look into Alex Whitaker's stories (the survivor of the original now in a mental hospital) and soon become targets of the puppets and the resurrected Andre Toulon (dressed in bandages) from the dead in the quest to collect enough brain fluid for his reanimation serum to keep them alive. But when Toulon encounters Carolyn, he's quickly reminded of his dead wife Elsa and the plans seem to change.Director / visual effects wizard David Allen does a resourceful job with his low-budget, instilling a clean-cut Gothic atmosphere with an underlining eeriness and donning sensational puppet creations (a newly added one too -- Torch) and stop motion effects. This gimmick is where the film's personality arrives from, outside a dementedly compulsive performance by Steve Welles (under some bandages and heavy make-up) as the cracking Toulon. Welles is the life of the party (getting plenty of screen time --- where a little more is explained about his character), as the rest of the cast (Elizabeth Maclellan, Collin Bernsen, Gregory Webb, Jeff Celentano and a perky Charlie Spradling) are immensely one-note. Also showing up in minor, but fruitful parts are Nita Talbot, Sage Allen and George 'Buck' Flower. When it came to the puppets doing Toulon's dirty work, while ominously nasty it just lacked the imagination found in the original's death set-pieces, but the meaty, if dark narrative seemed a little more fuller in its angle of dementia, betrayal and revenge. The pacing can have its stuffy moments too (being rather slow to get going), but the location for the developing macabre fits and Richard Band's brooding score is reused with that striking playful carnival arrangement. "},{"Title":"GREAT SEQUEL!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Puppet Master series is great, and this is a very satisfying sequel. The puppets are back and this time Toulon has made a new puppet TORCH who uses a flame to torch his victims. The story is Toulon's puppets help collect brain tissue from human victims for Toulon to create his formula to animate the inanimate. The victims this time include a group of researchers from a US department, responsible for investigating the paranormal. Not everyone will like this series but if you are a fan of the series or you enjoy cheesy movies you have to watch this series. "},{"Title":"Satisfying Sequel","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Puppet Master II was honestly a guilty pleasure for your brother Kipper. Yes, i enjoyed this sequel spawned from the lower depths of the Full Moon Studios conscious.  The directing reigns for this classic is passed from Full Moon creator Charles Band to visual effects master David Allen.  He does a decent job creating an environment of suspense and undeniable humor(however, i'm not sure if this is intentional) for the film.  The basic puppets are back in this one Blade, Tunnler, Pinhead, and Mrs. Leach; also we are given a new puppet with name of Torch.  Torch basically resembles a little Nazi with a flame thrower attached to his left hand.  We are blessed to witness his god-forsaken powers as he torches an obese woman in the confines of her cabin.  However, in typical Kipper fashion, i must not forget the appearance of our favorite actress Charlie Spradling.  As usual, Charlie gives her all in this performance, reaching to the lower depths of her being to attack the numerous layers that consist of her character(oh yeah, she also walks around her room with no shirt on!).  But before i bore you with my ridiculous banter, i must make clear that this is a decent sequel that is well worth watching.  I had a good time watching the film and I would totally recommend it to fans of campy horror pictures.  "},{"Title":"Low rent nonsense","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The second in Charles Band's incredibly long-running PUPPET MASTER series, following on from the distinctly average horror B-movie thrills of the original. PUPPET MASTER II features less of a story than the first; the story sees the evil toymaker Toulon brought back from the grave by his creepy puppets to hassle and harass a group of paranormal researchers from a US university.What this all boils down to is another series of gory murders perpetrated by the inimitable living puppets from the first film. Characters are drilled, slashed, and burned alive, and it's all handled with low rent aplomb by director David Allen. It's all complete nonsense of course, but fans of this sort of stuff will lap it up.PUPPET MASTER II does at least TRY to offer material of interest. There are some fun flashback scenes thrown into the mix, and given that the actor playing Toulon didn't come back for the sequel, the villain is dressed up as Claude Rains in THE INVISIBLE MAN and looks good. Inevitably the characters are all one-dimensional and the dialogue is poor enough that this would have been better as a silent film, but the plethora of low budget effects work is actually pretty decent, particularly the inventive climax with those ultra-creepy life-size dolls. "},{"Title":"Average Entry In The Popular Full Moon Franchise","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andre Toulon is resurrected by his sinister band of puppets (Pinhead, Jester, Blade, etc) and resumes his diabolical experiments in the hopes of attaining eternal life for himself and his intended bride. The special effects are low end but surprisingly polished and the murderous antics of Toulons puppets are rather fun to watch including the latest addition to the group; Torch who is a toothy little flamethrower. The Full Moon direct to video feature was quickly followed by Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge which cast the mad puppeteer and his creations in a more heroic light reflecting their growing popularity.To date the Puppet Master dolls have starred in eleven films. Not bad for a cultish series. "},{"Title":"There's a big boring patch in the middle","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PUPPET MASTER II🌕🌕🌕🌘🌑 3.1It was cool, but there's this spot in the film where, besides a few attacks, nothing happens. The characters aren't interesting enough to help, and the story sorta gaps there. For me this dragged out and made the conclusion uninteresting. The fx were still good and the acting was alright, though. My only other problem was that the camera work sometimes makes the puppet effects look unrealistic (example an attack scene were the puppet sorta just stands there for a long time.) this doesn't happen all the time but when it does it's sorta annoying. I dunno. Il watch it again and see if I can get over the boring patch. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 2","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While the creepy atmosphere still remains from the previous film there was an extreme drop off from the first Puppet Master. This sequel just didn't live up to what it could have possibly been. Nearly all the characters besides the main lead, Elizabeth Maclellan who was decent, all fell terribly flat and were uninteresting. The puppets didn't seem involved either in the movie as much as they should be. The new puppet Torch is a weak addition in my opinion too, he's basically unfair to deal with. The storyline was accurately tied into its predecessors and successors and Blade had a couple good scenes but that is pretty much it had going for it. Charles Band dropped the ball on his second sequel and I would advise not to watch this movie as a casual horror fan. Stick to the first and third movie those being the hands down best of the franchise. "},{"Title":"They're Back!","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This sequel to the original puppet master is very well made - Ok so the acting is pretty atrocious but other than that it's a fun way to spend 90 minutes in the company of the killer marianettes, this time they resurrect their master - Toulon so they can live forever. Just at that momment a bunch of terrible actors with worse hairstyles arrive at the notorious Hotel to investigate paranormal goings on.They of course get fried,drilled and stabbed by the little monsters in search of brain fluid.Great toungue in cheek sequelmy vote 8/10 "}{"Title":"Great Sequel","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was Great. It was WAY better than parts 4,5,and 7. I Liked the fact that Andre Toulon was in the WHOLE Movie, compared to the 5 minutes from Part 1. Another Good Thing about the movie was Torch. Torch is my Second to Favorite Puppet. The Best Part Of the Whole Movie was when Torch and Blade Enter The Farmers house and......Well I Don't Think I Should say. The Worse thing about the Whole Movie (and Others from the Puppet Master Series) is The Availibility Of It. They are Extremely Hard to Find. So if you are Trying to Find a Copy, Happy Hunting!!! "},{"Title":"My personal favorite of the series!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Puppet Masters are usually looked at, as the exceptions of Full Moon Pictures. Their fun little B-horror flicks that work up good special effects and a fun time. This one is probably the most atmospheric and moody for me. And the nudity is great! The sequel to a good B-horror movie, followed by good B-movies, at least until the awful 6 and 7.  "},{"Title":"Unholy blood...","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some paranormal research students decide to force their way in to Bodega Bay Inn to see what secrets it contains and of course fall foul of the terrifying little puppets who want to bring back Toulon from the grave. Andre Toulon features as a young man performing puppet shows in Cairo, Egypt and as a bandaged older one when resurrected from the dead. This film features some explanation of Toulon's initial ownership of the animation life secret and is a fitting sequel to the original film. Producer Charles Band's children Alex (now a rock star) and Taryn (now a fashion designer) feature in silent roles as children at a puppet show, though they seem to have been made up to look Egyptian. The real Pupper Master (as in the man who created the puppets) Dave Allen directs this film and does so well but perhaps struggles to take control of his amazing creations in a way aside from animating them. Gorier than the first film, we still have Richard Band's fantastical score to help the flow. the Puppet Master theme is undoubtedly one of the greatest pieces of film music ever, adding a sense of real hysteria to those most striking and fun puppets we kinda love. "},{"Title":"Puppetmaster II","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of paranormal researchers visit the late Andre Toulon's palatial hotel on top of the cliff overlooking Bodega Bay, coming in contact with the deceased German creator's killer dolls, unfortunate for them. Stop motion effects maestro David Allen got his chance to sit in the director's chair for PUPPETMASTER II, the decision making sense considering it's more or less an f/x movie. Nita Talbot(haha, nice homage to THE WOLF MAN) is Camille, a mystic hired to possibly spot what science can not..mostly she spouts psycho-babble and mumbo jumbo, but she comes in useful when it's time for dolls to execute folks. Elizabeth Maclellan is Carolyn Bramwell, head of the research team, her brother Patrick(Gregory Webb)along with students Lance(Jeff Celentano) and Wanda(Charlie Spradling) also part of this group hoping to discover some sort of paranormal activity. What they do not expect is a resurrected Toulon(Steve Welles), under the disguise of Eriquee Chaneé, wearing bandages to hide his hideous visage due to the deterioration of his corpse(a hat and black cape paying obvious homage to THE INVISIBLE MAN), claiming he owns the property for which they are conducting research. Toulon allows this because Carolyn reminds him of his wife, Elsa. Michael(Collin Bernsen), an author of westerns, is Camille's son and when he is told she has disappeared, he comes to the hotel resort to seek her out, falling in love with Carolyn in the process. Meanwhile, the puppets, including a new one called Torch(a blow torch on it's arm sets victims on fire), decide to take up where they left off from the previous movie, killing people. Their brains are of interest to Toulon for he needs the human material for a serum which keeps the puppets active and alive(including himself), but eventually the creations are offended that the dolls' creator would choose to have his Elsa(Carolyn)in a human-sized marionette form(there's also a male marionette version for himself)than to keep them restored and living. Dave Allen's creations are the real highlight of the Puppetmaster series and I think that's why there have been so many movies since 1989. The drill-head doll shows up momentarily to burrow a hole in a victim's forehead. Hook also gets in on the fun, slicing and stabbing, but most of his damage is done off screen. George Buck Flower and Sage Allen have supporting parts as a couple putting up electrical barb wire around their cabin which doesn't do any good. "},{"Title":"Ok follow-up nice way to start a franchise","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Full Moon did an alright job for this one.  The puppets resurrect Toulon in hopes of having someone to push them around again.  Why don't they just become freelance puppets?  Surely there must be easier ways to get a job for somebody.THIS IS A REALLY SIMPLE MOVIE.  HERE'S A QUICK SUMMARYSome scientists show-up to do some...scientific stuff in the infamous hotel.  Then a guy dressed like Claude Reigns (Toulon) shows up. Apparently thinks our heroine is his lost lover reincarnated.  so he makes the puppets hack out brains so he can become immortal with her in these cool big puppets he built for her.If I don't sound to excited by this movie.  I'm not.  I didn't like this entry for the following.  The characters are too whiny and stupid to really care for them (a problem plaguing films for years now).  The script is worse than the first, I didn't know that was possible, this one actually has fewer twists.  Toulon is now evil and that is just plain stupid. Toulon was always the face of kindness and friendship to the puppets.Now enough griping.  I do have to say the film is actually shot pretty well.  A few good camera tricks raise it over the first.  The acting is a lot better than the cardboard cutouts from the previous film.  Special effects seem a little better this time around.All in all this film is only fair.  It's tollerable but far from the best.  For fans of the series (and we are the only ones who watch these movies anyway) only. "},{"Title":"Excellent, fun filled installment of the Puppet Master series","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those who enjoyed the original Puppet Master, the first sequel offers thrills and spills on an ever so slightly larger scale.When a group of paranormal investigators arrive at the deserted hotel from the first movie, they find themselves pursued by the blood-thirsty puppets and their back-from-the-dead creator, Andre Toulon (who looks very much like the original Claude Rains Invisible Man). The film introduces a charming new character to the puppet cast, Torch, a vicious looking 12 Nazi doll who's gimmick is a nifty flame-thrower device instead of a hand.The film is simply good fun. It's not a work-of-art, it's never going to win an Oscar, but after watching a series of nihilstic, transgressive horror titles, I found this to be a welcome change of pace. The Puppet Master series are comic-book style horror tales with their heart in the right place. They're popcorn movies that provide laughs and entertainment, if not any genuine scares.I was left wanting more by the end of the film. Thankfully, Charles Band has ensured that Full Moon have a catalogue of demonic doll movies to satisfy any killer puppet fan.Finally, the music from Richard Band (Charles Band's brother) is superb as always. Although it's largely a repeat of his original music from Puppet Master (and it sounds so similar to his Re-Animator score), it always puts a smile on my face. "},{"Title":" Michael, your mother's there","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Elizabeth McLellan is awesome as Carolyn in this gruesome horror farce. The supporting cast is magnificent. The costumes are stylish. One of the good movies in the genre, Puppet Master 2 will control the viewer with demonic strings. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The first sequel to the original is also a fine horror film.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Made in 1991 this is the first sequel to the original and highly enjoyable Puppet Master. We open in a cemetery where the killer puppets from the first film dig their creator Andre Toulon (this time played by Steve Welles) up. They open his coffin up and bring him back to life using the green serum he invented. Megan Gallagher from the first film is now dead, her brains were sucked out apparently. The Bodega Bay hotel is now abandoned and owned by the government. They send a team from the office of paranormal claims to investigate Paul Whittaker's (who is now in an asylum for the insane) crazy stories and claims. Carolyn Bramwell (Elizabeth Maclellan), her brother Patrick (Gregory Webb), Wanda (Charlie Spradling) and Lance (Jeff Weston). A psychic also joins the team, Camille (Nita Talbot). Soon after arriving Camille disappears suddenly and Patrick is killed by one of the puppets, Tunneler. For some reason they don't call the police they call Camille's son Micheal (Collin Bernsen). And no, I couldn't figure out why. Anyway, while discussing the puppet that killed Patrick, a strange man enters the room. It's Toulon. He is dressed in all black, a long cape over his shoulder and back, a black fedora, and blacked out goggles, his head is completely bandaged up very much like the invisible man. No part of his body is visible under his clothing. He claims his name is Eriquee Chanee and that he owns the hotel. It seems that the puppets are running out of the serum that give them strength and life. They have brought Toulon back to life so he can create more serum for them. He creates a new puppet too, called Torch. He needs fresh human brain matter to make the serum, local farmers and the paranormal investigators provide the necessary ingredients. However, Toulon is convinced that Carolyn is the reincarnation of his murdered wife Elsa, and betrays his puppets so he and Carolyn/Elsa can live forever in freaky full sized human puppets. Pin Head, Blade (as cool as ever), Torch and Jester aren't impressed and decide to extract a gruesome revenge. This time directed by Dave Allen I thought this was another great horror movie, with above average production values. Again the puppets are great and I felt sort of sorry for the ones that were killed, much more sorry than any of the human characters in the film. The puppet effects are again, as in the first quite impressive considering the budget and reputation of the makers. I've sat through a lot worse, that's for sure. Special make up effects are also good, with Toulon taking his bandages off at the end to reveal a rotting zombie, who ends up slashing his own throat in the films nastiest scene. The makers also had the good sense to include the required nudity and sex. The entertaining script by David Pabian again tries to create atmosphere, and an actual story around the puppets. This time he tries to give a little more of Toulon's background, and how he came to know how to create the serum. It succeeds up to a point, I really like the imagery of the bandaged Toulon sneaking around, and freaking everyone out. His loving speech's to his killer puppets are nice, and they create some sympathy for both Toulon and the puppets. For most of the film it seems they just want to live in the hotel together and be left alone, until Toulon goes nuts over Carolyn anyway. The images of those two freaky human-ish puppets at the end is also striking. Speaking about the end I really liked it, quite cool. Music appears to be basically the same from the first, but that was good enough so it's not a problem. The acting is OK at best, poor at worst. Another unexpectedly good horror, and fine film in general. Certainly worth watching if your a horror fan. "},{"Title":"This sequel is nearly as bad as the original, succeeded in putting me off my dinner","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh, Full Moon, what is with you? How do you manage to produce films of such low integrity at such a rapid rate? The puppets are cool in this film, but the human actors are completely lifeless.The plot is basically the exact same as the first Puppet Master film - a bunch of people go to the mansion, and the puppets kill them in gory ways. Though... C'mon. They're puppets! I think if this bunch of sorry people wanted to live, they could kick or throw the puppets off them pre-slaughter - but I guess their acting ability is so bad they're better off. These actors are morons!!! Seriously. Two examples of this would be the old woman character, when attacked by the puppets, lying down and practically ASKING them to kill her - not even screaming or attempting to escape. Another would be the part where the psychologist is meant to be typing something on the computer. She looks like she's a stoner on a typewriter.The plot is totally stupid. The humans are ALL dumb. The guy who plays Andre Toulon - he can act, but his character just gets too boring and stupid at the films climax. I'm glad the puppets kicked his ass.Ahh, the puppets. Cool as usual. Pinhead there beating people up, Blade's there slashing away, Jester's there twisting his head and there's a new guy, Torch, who burns his victims - including a little boy (moron Full Moon guy Charles Band's son) who is playing with an action figure. That takes care of the cremation I guess.This movie SUCKS, however, like the first one, and I was unable to finish my dinner whilst watching it. It turned me off one of my favourite meals. DAMN YOU, FULL MOON! The next film in the series is cool, however Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge in 1991. The cast can act this time - an amazing feat of Full Moon movie-making! "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The puppets from part one bring their master back to life so he can obtain brain tissue to bring life to the non-living. Short, campy sequel never takes itself too seriously, but isn't very entertaining or scary either. It features ok effects and poor performances. rated R; Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "}{"Title":"The Master returns, the Puppets kill again.","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master II is just about on par with the first film from 1989. The same puppets (Blade, Pin Head, Tunneler, Leech Woman & Jester) return on the same location (the Bodega Bay Mansion) - in fact, they never left there - and manage to resurrect the corpse of their beloved master André Toulon. A group of paranormal investigators takes up residence in the mansion to investigate the past events of the first film and the nightmare begins all over again, this time with Toulon having an evil scheme up his sleeve, commanding the puppets to do his bidding, even creating a new doll, named Torch (armed with a highly effective mini-flamethrower). It's a bit of a childish horror film - for adults - just like the first one was. Not without it's certain (early Full Moon) charm, of course, but less memorable than Stuart Gordon's Dolls (still the finest killer puppets movie from the '80s and also a Charles Band production). Puppet Master II is directed by Dave Allen, the special effects artist also responsible for the stop-motion bringing the dolls to life. It's just a fun flick and an okay time-waster; not much more to it. "},{"Title":"A Step Up from the Previous Movie","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master II (1991) ** 1/2 (out of 4) This better than average sequel finds the puppets from the first movie back in action. At the start of the film they're digging up their master Andre Toulon (Steven Welles) and bringing him back to life. At the same time a group of paranormal investigators arrive at the house and it's good for Toulon because he needs their brain tissue in order to keep living. PUPPET MASTER II is certainly a notch above the previous film as director Dave Allen really tries to keep the action going and he also creates some pretty nice moments with the killers. I think one of the best things going in the film are the killers, those from the original return but we also get another puppet who can blow fire from one of its arms. The killers are all quite effective here and I think the screenplay put all of them to much better use. Blade, the Klaus Kisnki look alike, is clearly the most effective as all of his little touches, like the tipping of his hat, really come off well and makes for an entertaining villain. Pinhead and Jester are back as well and make for some good characters. The human characters this time out are also a lot better than what we got in the previous movie. The main female has her brother killed early in the picture and her determination to find out why he was killed makes for some light entertainment, although her troubled past really brings the film down a little towards the end and especially when she gets into a silly love story with another character. The violence this time out isn't all that graphic but we get a couple fun kills including Blade doing his throat-slashing, Pinhead drilling some holes in heads and the new guy gets to set a few people on fire. The aftermath of one of his victims, which I won't spoil, is certainly worth the price of admission. The atmosphere is also quite good here as the entire film, thanks in large part to the low budget, feels like one of the Gothic horror pictures you'd see from Italy back in the 1960s. The atmosphere is quite thick from start to finish and this certainly helps the film move at a nice pace. The best thing going for the film is the actual look of Toulon. Those familiar with James Whale's 1933 THE INVISIBLE MAN will be familiar with the look but it's quite effective here and especially the first time we see him. The performances range from really bad to decent but you didn't really expect Oscar-worthy material did you? PUPPET MASTER II really surprised me because it's actually a well-made picture that people should enjoy even if they're not fans of the series. "}]