[{"Title":"Painfully obvious Exorcist-spoof","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Leslie Nielsen was always at his best when he could hook up with the Airplane/Naked Gun-team, which consisted of gifted writers like Pat Proft, Jim Abrahams and the Zucker brothers. Repossessed is written and directed by the guy who made Meatballs 4. That should probably give you a fair idea of what this movie is like, though it does feature less Corey Feldman water-skiing than expected. Somewhat surprisingly there are some jokes in here that work (the bible vending machine ruled), but overall this just really feels like everyone's trying way, way too hard. Especially the visual gags have that bothersome laugh, damn it! feel to them, they're so close to Naked Gun but just not quite. Same goes for the obligatory breakings of the fourth wall, not bad but not really focused enough to generate big laughs. Nielsen's talents are rather wasted here, though I must say he is about the only element that made me keep watching. It's also a very nice touch that Linda Blair agreed to do this movie, even though I have absolutely no idea why she did. Not because of the solid screenplay, I'm pretty sure of that. This is in all ways a sub-par spoof, but I reckon it's still watchable for avid Nielsen fans. "},{"Title":"Holy moly, rock and rolly","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Leslie Neilsen is always his best with spoofs.  This is silly but funny too. I especially liked that Linda Blair played the possessed woman.  This movie has so many sight gags you almost need to see  it twice to catch them all.  "},{"Title":"A Luke-warm but fun jab at a classic.","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For many horror fans, nothing is more sacred than William Friedkin's The Exorcist. For better or for worse, though, someone else thought differently, and in 1990, a spoof-flick was made in it's honor.Perhaps being delivered 17 years too late, Repossessed earns its credibility in the casting of Linda Blair (of The Exorcist and its sequel) and the reliable Leslie Nielsen. Unfortunately, the humor -- which is not surprisingly derivative of Airplane! and The Naked Gun -- falls flat with many dated jokes peppered amongst cornball sight-gags and tired slapstick humor. Granted, if that's your sort of thing, you'll have a good time, especially if you're familiar with the source material. Ned Beatty (who also had a role in The Exorcist II) has perhaps the most entertaining part as a straight-up send-up of televangelist Jim Bakker. Just one of the many jokes within, though, that you won't understand if you don't remember it.As a movie that doesn't require too much mental investment, it's a pretty painless experience (minus the grating pop/theme song) if you can forgive its flaws and lack of gigantic laughs. At the very least, it's a must-see for the horror fan with a sense of humor and begs to be a cult classic. Who knows, it could be yours? "},{"Title":"Unfunny Spoof of The Exorcist","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Repossessed (1990) * 1/2 (out of 4) Seventeen years after having the Devil removed from her soul, adult Nancy Aglet (Linda Blair) finds herself possessed yet again so she brings back Father Mayii (Leslie Nelson) but this time a fake preacher (Ned Beatty) wants to put it on live television to make some money. A spoof of THE EXORCIST with Linda Blair returning and Nelson coming off THE NAKED GUN should have meant a sure-fire hit but sadly this is a rather boring, unfunny and at times painfully bad movie that probably had more cash in its eye than anything else. There's so much that could have been done with the material but this is a perfect example of why certain films work and why others don't. Stuff like AIRPLANE, HOT SHOTS and THE NAKED GUN work because of the talented screenwriters who make the jokes work. Writer-director Bob Logan simply doesn't get the material to work for a number of reasons but the biggest is that the jokes are all rather lame and just seem forced. One such example of Blair fixing her kids pea soup. Another has a priest saying something about head and it of course being taken the wrong way. The stuff with the preacher and his wife is so forced and annoying that it just never gets any laughs. Even worse is how the story structure is because for the most part we see Nelson teaching in front of a class and then we see the other story dealing with Blair. We go back and forth between the two and usually we get Nelson making a few comments but those two are unfunny. Nelson seems bored in his part and Beatty simply overplays his. Blair doesn't give a very good performance but I'm not going to blame her since the material just wasn't right and she appears to really be forcing herself to try and get laughs. REPOSSESSED should have worked and probably could have worked in better hands but as it is the movie is just cheap and weak. "},{"Title":"A good idea that came out too late","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like Spaceballs, Repossessed was released too long after the film it is spoofing. 17 years is a long time, especially for us in the UK, where The Exorcist has only recently (1999) been released on video for the first time since pre-video censorship (c. 1984). Aside from that, too many jokes miss their targets, and too many subjects are lampooned. Some sequences are genuinely funny, such as Ernest & Fanny's TV Show (a brilliant spoof of hypocritical TV evangelists). Most, however, are not - the hospital scene is just not funny. Nielsen, Blair and Beatty give it their best, whilst Anthony Starke spends the whole film looking like he's just trodden in something unsavoury. Watch it if you will, B for effort, C- for results. "},{"Title":"This Hit and Miss Spoof of The Exorcist has its moments but not enough.","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nancy Aglet (Linda Blair) is a lovely woman, who lives the decent middle-class life in the suburbs with his husband Braydon (Thom Sharp) and their two children (Benj Thall and Dove Dellos). But a long time ago, Nancy was possessed by the devil and she was exorcised by a kind priest Father Jebedaiah Mayii (Leslie Nielsen). Now after all these years, when Nancy lived the good life... then suddenly she's repossessed again after 17 years ago, when she's watching TV with her family. Now the possessed Nancy wants Father Mayii to battle with him again and to see, if Father Mayii still got what it takes to remove the demon out of her. Since Father Mayii is too old to fight this demon again, he's getting help from a young inexperience priest Father Luke Brophy (Anthony Starke). But when Father Brophy tells the Church there's a possessed woman, the Church thinks it would be best if it's televised with the association of a sleazy televangelist (Ned Beatty) and his wife (Lana Schwab) hoping to get millions from the ratings and of course... donations to the Chruch and stealing money from the donations by the televangelist by making himself richer. But the situation goes way out of control on live TV and the possessed demon is hoping to get people possessed by other demons for those who watched the TV special. Now Father Mayii and Father Brophy are forced to fight with this demon, before it's gets away by controlling the world.Written and Directed by Bob Logan (Meatballs 4, Up Your Alley) made an not so successful spoof to the classic horror movies of all time The Exorcist with Blair making fun of her own Oscar-Nominated role. The problem with the film, while it is watchable. While the directing and the script by the director isn't always successful. There's some terrible acting at times and some unsuccessful gags are supposed to hit the mark. Which Logan is certainly not the right writer or director to make this kind of spoof. But Logan does tries hard for it and he goes some points for it. But it's Blair, Nielsen and Starke makes its somewhat enjoyable if forgettable movie fun to watch and they give their 110 %. Blair still certainly looks great with that demonic possession look and it looks almost as good but different than the original Make-Up look that it was design by Oscar-WinnerDick Smith. Repossessed is certainly a curiosity movie, nothing more with good comedic performances by the leads, some good visual gags and amusing cameos. If you want to see Blair having a blast with this role, it is worth a look at least once. (** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Exorcise All Laughter?","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one major disappointing and occasionally even downright insufferable horror-parody. Ironically enough, the funniest aspects about Repossessed are the trivia details behind it. Apparently the initial screening tests didn't fail just once, but twice! At first the script contained almost exclusively jokes and typical situations referring to the 1973 horror landmark The Exorcist but, being released no less than 17 years overdue, a large part of the target audience was too young to already have seen that film and hence didn't comprehend the humor. Subsequently, entire parts of the script got replaced with more general and contemporary 80's comedy (for example an extended sequence set inside a fitness center with guru Jake Steinfeld) in order to appeal more to younger viewers, but it still failed because &#133; well, the movie simply isn't funny! Writer/director Bob Logan's only remotely praiseworthy accomplishment was that he (or at least his producers) managed to trap Linda Blair into playing a mocking version of the one role that made her world famous. But even that you have to put into perspective, as Blair was probably so tired of getting typecast that she considered a comical part her last resort to get rid of her 'that-Exorcist-girl' reputation. Leslie Nielsen, with his almost naturally comical charisma, narrates the events of Repossessed in front of a class of college students. The films opens with a flashback of Nancy's first exorcism in 1973, but then jumps forward 17 years in time, when she's a married woman with two annoying brat-children. Via the TV-set, the devil takes possession of her body and yet again she spurts gooey green stuff all over her beloved ones. Father Mayii is reluctant to perform another exorcism because of his heart condition, so Nancy relies on the inexperienced young priest Father Brophy and a couple of power-hungry Televangelists that don't even believe in demonic possession. There aren't any truly laugh-out-loud moments in Repossessed at all. If you're lucky, you might briefly chuckle once or twice but the majority of jokes are just plain embarrassing. There are numerous lame literal jokes and uninspired puns that'll make you roll your eyes in disbelief. For example, one character says The word on the street says that your career is history&#133; and at the same moment the camera actually shows a piece of street with the words your career is history painted on it. Lame! The finale is pitiable and seems to go on forever, especially when the entire cast starts imitating the greatest rock stars of the eighties. Remember the intro of Scary Movie 2 (which simultaneously is the only worthwhile sequence in the whole film) where James Woods does a wacky 10 minutes re-enactment of The Exorcist? Well, it might be crude and vulgar, but that scene is much funnier and more effective as this dud. "},{"Title":"Repossessed or PMS?","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a huge fan of Leslie Nielson's movies and this is among my favorites of his. This movie is absolutely hilarious. It is typical Leslie Nielson humor for those of you who know his type of humor he uses in his movies. This movie makes fun of The Exorcist. It is about a woman who as a child was possessed by the devil and a priest named Father Mayi did the exorcism and then retired due to a heart condition. This woman becomes repossessed by the devil and begs a newcomer priest to help her. This movie has stupid humor but is nonetheless clever and funny. Leslie Nielson is very funny in this film and the rest of the supporting cast are also really good and funny as well. "},{"Title":"One Devil of a Spoof!","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so this isn't the best of spoof comedies.  But I did enjoy it!  It seems that Leslie Nielsen was born to make a fool of himself in movies like this.  And Linda Blair can poke fun at the role that put her into the spotlight.  There are better comedies, but this one is still good for a few laughs. "},{"Title":"What an excellent night for an Exorcism...spoof!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoofmaster Leslie Neilsen appears in this outrageous, unofficial comedic sequel to 'The Exorcist' as Father Mayii, the exorcist pro who comes out of retirement when summoned by an idealistic priest, Father Brophy (Starke), to help out geeky suburban middle-age mom, Nancy Aglet (Blaire) who has recently been re-re-re-repossessed! But, two tacky popular televangelists, Ernest and Fanny Ray, hosting a local religious wacko program, figure they can cash in on Nancy's dilemma and want to broadcast the exorcism. If you love spoofs, give this one a shot. This is going to be one entertaining exorcism! "}{"Title":"From mediocre and lame to god+awful crap","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a teenager, I became a Leslie Nielsen fan after having seen Naked Gun and Airplane! I saw everything I could find with his name listed, except this movie. It was there in my video rental shop, alright, but friends told me it was the worst god-awful crap they'd seen. And with respect to Mr Spoof-Master and my feelings for him, I never saw it.Until now.Why not, I thought, when it is for free on Youtube? And initially, I was pleasantly surprised. The movie did look good with some production values (professional actors, good photo and locations). The humor was plain silly and was not able to capture the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker attitude it imitated, in which everything seems to be deadpan serious until it turns on its head, but Leslie Nielsen did a good job nevertheless. Not good, but not really bad either.When Linda Blair became re-possessed and visited a hospital and there after a church for professional help, it was already a lame movie. And from there on it was a downward spiral with lousy, uninspired jokes galore. Really, what is funny with the notion that a possessed woman is used in a television ballyhoo? At this point, Reposessed have almost nothing in common with the movie it try to parody; in The Exorcist (1973) the possession is a horrible, shameful event the family must hide from public. "},{"Title":"Nielson spoof with Blair's return a laughable moment, but loses steam.","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Leslie Nielsen stars in another spoof, this time parodying The Exorcist. Linda Blair returns and spoofs her own character, as Nancy Aglet, and is again possessed by the demon. As a result, Nielsen's character, Father Jebedaiah Mayii, is called upon to help vanquish the demon - all the while the exorcism is being broadcast on live TV by a sensationalist show.As with any Nielson spoofs, there are lots of gags from start to finish, along with some slapstick humor and endless parodies of various movies, from The Wizard of Oz to Rambo III. It was nice seeing the return of Linda Blair and she does a good job in recreating her role as the possessed girl, inserting tastefully done humor when necessary. However, the plot did lose steam by the time the movie focused on the TV show broadcasting the exorcism, which I thought made the film become more like a game-show than a comedy spoof. Therefore, it's not the best of Nielson's spoofs, but still laughable nonetheless.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"It took me 25 years to pluck up the courage to watch Repossessed again.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My original viewing of Repossessed, back in 1990 (yes, I was one of those who stupidly paid to see this garbage at the cinema), was an experience far more disturbing than my first viewing of The Exorcist, the film it sets out to spoof (only 17 years too late) Leslie Nielsen's desperately unfunny antics and Linda Blair besmirching her own legacy prove far more difficult to endure than anything in William Friedkin's 1973 horror classic.Written and directed by Bob 'Meatballs 4' Logan, Repossessed is a succession of quick-fire gags that repeatedly fail to hit the target. Dated topical jokes and crap sight gags abound, Ned Beatty's career hits an all-time-low with a role as a TV evangelist, and wrestler Jesse Ventura proves even more cringe-worthy than he was in Abraxas, Guardian of the Universe (also 1990&#x97;what a great year that was for terrible Jesse Ventura movies!).It really is hard to believe how anyone ever considered any of this funny the film makes the Scary Movie series seem like comedy gold by comparison, which is no mean feat. The finale, where Nielsen defeats the devil through the power of rock and roll, miming badly to a god-awful song while imitating several famous musicians, must go down as one of the single-most embarrassing attempts at humour I have ever witnessed. "},{"Title":"Devilish Fun","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a fan of the parody subgenre and of course the horror genre, mixing both of them together really can make a beautiful combination. I'm probably going to be in the minority on this but I personally think this is another under the radar gem. This film believe it or not was one of the first parody films I've seen and it was also the first film with Lesile Nelson I've seen before the Naked Gun films.This to me is one of those parodies done right because it really feels like it's doing it's own thing which is what a good working parody should do. And yeah sure it's not on the same level as the Naked Gun films (first and second to be precise) or any other A level parody film out there but it's not trying to be, it's just trying to be plain fun.This film is an obvious jab to The Exercist and I think it's a very solid hit that leaves a mark. Not much I can really say about this film, I really like some of the physical sight gags which really made me chuckle like one really suttle one was seeing a bible vending machine which I don't think is too far off with the vending machines we have now where some sell random jewelry and romance novels. But of course there was that rocky like montage sequence, where we see Mayii train and gear up for the exorcism which I thought was funny and cool since I'm a fan of the Rocky films and I even like the lunch box that Mayii brings, I'll give you a hint it's another Stalone action film. That's one of the best things about the film it kinda homages Stalone's films a lot, the writer must've been a Stalone fan.Even some of the verbal gags are funny like the jabs on PMS, you got to admit whenever the female populace goes though it, they do act like their possessed. Or my favorite line Freeze puke face! The characters are really solid and a lot of fun. I really like subordinate villain Ernest Weller played by Ned Beatty whom is pretty much just a sleaze con artist that is cheating viewers out of their money with his church program and of course the devil possession situation is just another opportunity for money and ratings. It's obviously a parody on some of the TV church scams that were going on .But of course the main villain the Devil is the spotlight villain, played well by Linda Blair which is ironic since she was in The Exercist. What really makes this version stand out for me is the scheme The Devil has which is to influence and create more followers by using the power of media. That's another thing the film does is it parodies on the issue of media manipulation.And the protagonists are also great. Anthony Stark as Father Luke is funny because he's good natured and always means to help but is always insecure, he's got some good lines.But the highlight of course of the whole film is Lesile Nielsen whom plays Father Mayii. I like his last name which is obviously two words run together. Not much to say for his character, Lesile as usual plays it straight as a good natured priest whom has became retired and reluctant due to the post trauma he's suffered from the last exorcism he's done. Which of course all the more wants you to win, hoping he'll find the courage and strength again. But other than that his character is hilarious he's got some great lines even some sight gags as well. Like seeing him watch a telethon of Weller's crooked Chirch program and he is expressing constant distaste and wearing a bunch of random masks to numb the pain of the program; though Mayii could've just turned to another channel but I guess nothing else was on and he didn't have cable.The exorcism which to me is the real highlight of this film. It was just hilarious just seeing Luke and Mayii just do their jobs while the Devil was just giving them more and more grief. Let alone seeing a cameo by Jesse Ventura and Gene do a wrestling cometary on the exorcism which really added to the humor more because I was a bit of a fan of the WWF at the time (the 80's and early 90's when WWF was actually still good).What all three of them go though in the exorcism is just really random and crazy almost like one big skit show. I won't give away too much two of my favorite moments were seeing the Devil just turn both Mayii into just random things and Luke is going along with it. Or even the Devil with a Blue Dress number which I thought was a lot of fun since I like that song.The only bad things about the film for me are that I do thing the middle of the film is just a bit on the slow side, but of course things pick back up around the third and final half so I can't complain too much. And of course some of the visual jokes as well as a few sight gags are kinda lame but same could be said for a lot of other comedies out there and there are more than enough hits to keep you satisfied.If your a fan of the parody subgenere as well as Lesile Neilson then I recommend giving this film a try, it's devilish fun.Rating 3 stars "},{"Title":"No you may not....","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nielsen continues his foray into the spoof genre with this parody of the Exorcist and evangelist TV.Linda Blair parodies he role as Regan in the classic horror and plays Nancy (great Joke) in this. Remember when parodies and spoofs stopped being funny for a while? This was definitely one of them.The marketers of this must of known they were sitting on a dog of a movie, because the original one sheet is a total rip off of The Naked Gun, and I bet they hoped that people would be fooled into seeing it.How wrong they were.Jokes are used and recycled over and over, Blair, as pretty as she is, is really just trying to gain some sort of comeback by flogging her defining role over hot coals, and Nielsen does his schtick very lazily, even resorting to pulling faces at the camera at one point.The sight gags are really poor, as is the soundtrack, and the support is pretty bland also.I didn't laugh once during the film, nor did any of the sight gags catch my attention.Its a poor, poor effort. "},{"Title":"Blair Spoofs Exorcist With Low Brow Humor","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With Repossessed, The Exorcist saga comes full circle. Linda Blair returns as a suburban housewife repossessed by the devil in the form of special effects leaving a television screen. Leslie Nielsen lends an aura of credibility to this spoof as the priest eventually summoned to once again do battle with the possessed Blair. Blair is actually much better in this film than she was in Exorcist II The Heretic. A spoof of televangelists Jim and Tammy Faye Baker is hilarious. Ned Beatty adds little to his characterization of Baker, but the actress playing Tammy Faye, Lana Schwab, is absolutely hilarious, especially with the dog Foo Foo. The film is full of sight gags galore, some were hilarious and some were groaners. Among the better gags were the could you pull your dress down? gag, the tire gag, and the sprinkler gag. The young kids with smart ass remarks has become a cliché in these films already. The ending is not very satisfying either. Several cameo appearances throughout the film keep things hopping, including Murray Langston, Robert Fuller, Jake Steinfeld, Army Archerd, exercise guru Jack Lalanne, Wally George, Jesse Ventura, Gene Okerlund, Ian Abercrombie, and the dynamic Julie Strain. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"If this review is ingested, do not induce vomiting.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There has to be a vomit joke somewhere.  I just saw this movie last night, and I found it to be alternately hilarious and awful.  Mostly awful, but here's my take on what went wrong and what miraculously turned out right.First off, big round of applause to Linda Blair for making such an idiot of herself and not seeming to mind.  She is the highlight of the movie, and it definitely wouldn't work without her.  I have seen several reviews of this film that slam her for being unfunny.  I am willing to bet that it isn't her fault.  This is an infantile movie, and it takes immature people to make those.  Bob Logan, who wrote the film, probably thought that the idea of Linda Blair was enough.  She doesn't tell jokes, she IS the joke.  She doesn't have to do anything amusing, because you automatically contrast then (The Exorcist) and now (this movie)--that's the joke.  Effortless, isn't it?  It is aggravating to see people mourn Linda Blair as a one-trick pony who turns out mindless small variations on her one talent.  I prefer to think of her as one of two ways.  First--a kind person who realized she was the only thing that would redeem this film (if you want to consider it redeemed).  As I said earlier, she holds the movie together.  The other point-of-view is that she is a fairly amusing person who doesn't mind mocking herself.  She does it wonderfully, if that is the case.Parts of this movie are quite funny; at least, they are to me.  One of my favorites is toward the end, during the exorcism.  It is one of those moments where you contrast Regan and Nancy (the new victim).  In the original, Regan had a phenomenally disgusting moment in which she screamed the famous words Lick me while assaulting her mother.  That was a horrifying moment, but Repossessed gives us relief in a ridiculous spoof.  While Leslie Nielsen does his thing, we hear Linda Blair screeching (is that really her, by the by?) Lick me, Lick me and I automatically went on alert.  I really didn't want to see that moment again, frankly.  Fortunately, we are treated to a shot of Linda Blair as an ice cream cone.  Lick me, get it?  She then snarls, Is this cool or what?  It's a relief, pure and simple.  That's how I consider this film.  A breath of fresh, stupid air after the original film knocked the wind out of you.Bad moments--the overly gay bodybuilder and the idiotic and pointless nudity jokes.  There's no need for any of that. "},{"Title":"Not an entirely bad movie","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, I'm nuts, I like this movie with its silly plot, lame jokes and bad rip-offs, but then isn't that the case. Whenever a bad movie like this one or Mafia! has enough scenes to cater to a small faction, it becomes a cult film. I love this movie as a horror comedy, but it could be better enjoyed by more people seeing it on video than by the jokers at Comedy Central who edited out all the naughty scenes. Heck, those chowder-heads canceled MST3K for crying out loud ! It is weird seeing Linda Blair playing her old role again after all these years or Robert Fuller, the doctor from Emergency! once more, but Leslie Neilsen is loving it as he plays Father Mayii, the clerical Frank Drebin. Anthony Starke plays his role almost deadpan throughout, but Ned Beatty is hilarious as he gets most of the best scenes. The PMS jokes are way overused and the Benny Hill inflatable breasts joke makes a cameo in my favorite scene on an uncredited actress named Sara Matthews. Several of the other roles are forgettable except perhaps for Nancy's clueless husband or Jake Steinfeld the exercise instructor who plays his role as if this was a straight part in the original Exorcist. There are some jokes the film could have done or weren't daring enough to use such as the bra gag in any of Blair's possessed scenes, but was it really necessary to have Gene Okerlund and Jesse Ventura,the future Wisconsin governor, critique the exorcism ? Maybe so,but their comments were a little distracting and the shape-shifting between Mayii and Blair quite a bit tagged on. Still, this movie does have some big laughs, but obviously not enough or this would have been shown theatrically. I do consider this movie as deserving at least eight stars in my book, but for the DVD version, I'm voting five points on it for something the VHS version has the DVD doesn't Close-Captioning. "},{"Title":"as funny as Ebola","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Leslie Nielsen's career since he appeared in Airplane! has been pretty much a reprise of the same types of zany movies again and again and again. But the quality of these films varies so drastically, it's obvious he will whore out his talent for a buck. For every Naked Gun movie there's crap like Repossessed or Mr. Magoo. I sure wish he were more selective in what he did--does he really need the money THAT badly?! The movie is a comedy(?) about The Exorcist, though I think I found The Exorcist to be a lot funnier. Describing how bad and why it is so bad is difficult--just trust me that there's absolutely no humor to find anywhere--particularly when they break into a song and dance number. Why? Who knows--my guess is that they just ran out of jokes and decided to wing it by breaking into song. Avoid this movie at all costs!! And don't say you were not warned! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly not bad and often very funny WARNING!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Surprisingly not bad and often very funny yes there is TONS of hits misses but it's about even i would say it's a laugh fest in the finale so be prepared!!!!! to be laughing HARD!!!. The problem with this movie it was a bit too corny and cheesy at times and a lot of the jokes were unfunny and the middle half is kinda dull with hardly any laughs what so ever until it starts to get tolling in the finale. as for gore and violence nothing but green pea soup vomit that goes all over everybody other then that not a thing. there are lots of things to laugh at in this movie Leslie Nielsen will have you on the floor and lots of other cool jokes. The Acting isn't that good but everyone seems to be having a good time. Linda Blair is very pretty and seems to be having tons of fun here she is hilarious as well and did her job very well. Leslie Nielsen is HILARIOUS here as he always is and had me on the floor. Ned Beatty is amusing here in his limited screen time. Anthony Starke is great here as the other priest and plays it straight nice job!!!!. Overall well worth a rental on a rainy night **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Someone raves it as 'an excellent spoof film', I beg to differ","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Repossessed (1990) Linda Blair, Leslie Nielsen, Ned Beatty, Anthony Starke, Lana Schwab, Thom J. Sharp, D Bob Logan. Uneven spoof of THE EXORCIST in the tradition of AIRPLANE!, with Blair as a housewife re-experiencing a possession by the Devil who goes on a TV program hosted by evangelists, and Nielsen the exorcist. Funny there and there, but pretty weak. Running Time 89 minutes and rated PG-13 for crude humor, some nudity, and language. * ½  "},{"Title":"Klutzy Exorcist spoof budget is low, but spirits are high...","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Low-budget, low-balled, overwhelmingly juvenile, though surprisingly tolerable Airplane!-like spoof of The Exorcist, which was overdue in 1990 and--in light of the televangelist jokes--seems even more passé today. Exorcist star Linda Blair returns as a housewife named Nancy (in the previous film she was Regan, haha) whose body is taken over by a raucous, prankish Prince of Darkness; Leslie Nielsen is the befuddled priest. Writer-director Bob Logan seems to have earned the trust of his players, who go out on a limb trying to make this thing fly, but too many of the gags bomb out and the film's continuity is sloppy. It is nice however to see the normally put-upon Blair having a good time, dancing to Devil With the Blue Dress On, and hamming it up in high spirits. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Devil with the blue dress on","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I always have love parodies. Airplane!, The Naked Gun (And its sequels), Pandemonium and Scary Movie are my favorites. Make good parodies is very difficult. Bob Logan's Repossessed is a great example of a good parody. Much people don't give it a chance, but i really think that this is a great comedy, of course with some flaws but and outstanding Linda Blair, and a funny Leslie Nielsen, Repossessed becomes to be one of my favorite comedies and parodies.Repossessed is the funny satire to the original and terrible but excellent The Exorcist (1973), which have too Linda Blair in the same character. But, is necessary that you understand what i try to say first with the plot of the original parodied film. William Peter Blatty's The Exorcist is about a little girl who is possessed by the devil, and how a poor mother and the faith of a young priest its debated in his own believes. The film was one of the most shocking dramatic horror and at the same time spiritual since then. But much of the cast and crew suffer a lot, and Linda Blair, with only 12 years, was one of the most affected. Linda Blair was the famous possessed girl. As i seen in an A& E biography, Linda don't have a calm adolescence. Since then was like a curse for her. Repossessed was like a real salvation, a real exorcism for that course, for that demon who pursuit her since the original film. She want laugh of that suffer, she want laugh of the devil, so she do Repossessed.Bob Logan's Repossessed is perfect. Makes laugh with ironical situations, besides of awesome performances (I love the performance of Anthony Starke). I think that Repossesed is not so simple as much of us think. Of course is silly, but far of that has a lot messages The media and how have control of the audience (Like Network for example), how maybe the believes and religion are not so different, and how we can laugh of the devil and the suffering in this way. Repossessed is silly, of course. But this foolishness had a great meaning.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"A forgettable hit and miss comedy","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Father Mayii exorcised a possessed child named Nancy 17 year's ago- but now she is repossessed while watching the TV. So Father Brophy tries to get Father Mayii out of retirement to help him perform Nancy's exorcism and also it's going to be played on live TV to boost ratings for some has-beens.This a reasonably okay spoof on 'The Exorcist' that has it fair share of hits and misses, led by Leslie Nielsen as the head priest and the one who is telling the story about the repossession to a class of students. The film itself isn't great as a whole, as you got a couple good scenes and one-liners that standout from the rest- but you got a couple scenes and lines that are incredibly in bad taste or just lame.One thing I noticed that some gag's were borrowed in the opening sequence of the awfully bad Scary Movie 2, with the 'The Exorcist' part being the only amusing thing about that movie.The story itself is weak and really of no importance, as it's the gags that are the main attraction, with one gag or joke after another- though some of the gags start getting really tiresome and repetitive halfway through the film. So because of the one-idea film, it drags towards the end, making it feel longer than its 80mins-running time.The performances are nothing special, Leslie Nielsen has most of the funny parts as the retired Father Jebedaiah Mayii who makes a comeback to face his old demons (in many amusing ways) and also Ned Betty as Ernest Weller has his comical moments as the TV host. Linda Blair reprises her role that made her big- but this time mocking her performance in 'The Exorcist', as the possessed women named Nancy Aglet, while she was quite funny at first especially with the hilarious scenes involving her family- but after a while it got kind of stale and Anthony Starke plays the young unexperienced Father Luke Brophy, who is basically wooden and is pretty light of the laughs.This is worth a look if you want to see a stupid mockery of a classic film- but still it's quite forgettable and if you want a good comedy in the same vein with Leslie Nielsen watch the Naked Gun films instead.2/5 "},{"Title":"The Devil made her do it...again!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My opinion of Repossessed is extremely biased.  I appear VERY briefly within the first few minutes of this movie.  Linda Blair's young kids are channel-surfing and come across a TV episode of Brideshead Revisited.  I play the soldier coming home from war.  Anyone familiar with the British series will remember the scene.  Here I return searching for my dear, sweet, loving bride and find her (well, her HEAD, anyway, planted on a table) back home waiting patiently.  Hence, Brides-HEAD Revisited.  I know.  It's one of many groan-inducing bits you'll find here, popping up everywhere like body-snatching pods.I  remember the whole filming process fondly.  This scene ran nearly three minutes when we shot it but when the movie was released, they used only about five seconds of it.  I mean, hey, once you get to the punch line, where do you go?  Rim shot &#150; move on!An innocuous Airplane-like spoof of The Exorcist horror classic, a very game Linda Blair went back to her evil ways here as a suburban housewife suddenly repossessed by you know who.  The gags come on so fast and furious, there's really no time to look back, which is probably a good thing.Linda (an extremely kind and gracious lady offstage, by the way), is a good sport here getting slimed and roughed-up throughout the proceedings.  She really gets into it and pulls a lot more of this nonsense off than you might think.  She is the best thing in the show.  Leslie Nielsen and Anthony Starke, spoofing the Max Von Sydow and Jason Miller priestly roles respectively, add  to the insanity, which lampoons everybody from Groucho Marx to Michael Jackson, and blasts everybody from Joe Cocker to Ted Kennedy.Director Bob Logan (a fun, laid-back, sports cap-wearing presence &#150; like you might expect in a film of this caliber) also helmed Meatballs 4 and Up Your Alley.  Check him out.As for me, I can watch Repossessed over and over again.  Why?  I still get a  residual check!  Rim shot &#150; move on! "},{"Title":"Had some funny moments, but did we really need this spoof?","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nothing against this movie, but it is one of those spoof movies that relies to much on one movie rather than having a story and such of its own while using aspects of a movie. This one basically does The Exorcist and while it has its funny moments this particular movie was spoofed better in short scenes in the little known horror spoof Hysterical and the later movie Scary Movie 2. It was also spoofed good on a Saturday Night Live skit with Richard Pryor in the role of the young priest. This movie has your basic sight gags such as the one depicting handicap parking and the groan inducers like the inclusion of Jesse Ventura and that other wrestling announcer during the final scene and a very bad singing number. It is rather humorous that they got Linda Blair to be in it, sort of like how they got Richard Crenna to be in Hot Shots II, and Leslie Nielson is the highlight. However, he is not in this movie all that much, and the scenes he is not in are weak at times. Still the movie has enough jokes to be entertaining enough for its very short running time of eighty minutes. "},{"Title":"The Power of Christ Compels You, The Power of.......Nevermind.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Trying to take advantage of William Peter Blatty's The Exorcist III (which was released about the same time as this film), Repossessed ended up being a total dud not only with the critics but also with the viewing public (both aforementioned pictures did little box office business). The movie is a parody of the original The Exorcist with Linda Blair basically rehashing her role, this time being possessed by Satan as a 30-something housewife. Of course it is up to an old priest (Leslie Nielsen) and a young one with faith issues (Anthony Starke) to try and save Blair one more time. Along for the ride are television evangelists Ned Beatty and Lana Schwab (Jim and Tammy Fay Baker clones) who believe that they can save Blair by exorcising her in front of a national television audience (just caring about money and never believing she is really possessed in the first place). The devil in Blair is not the easiest entity to defeat though. Another Leslie Nielsen under-achiever as he takes the spotlight away from Blair and Beatty (who both actually starred together in The Exorcist II The Heretic back in 1977) with tired and down-right silly results. As movies go this one is near the bottom, as parodies go it is not much higher on that list either. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Lamer than a lame duck with a limp","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those horrible attempts at mimicking the Zucker brothers' style of fast-paced spoofery, and it's just about the worst example you'll see outside of Greydon Clark's WACKO. Leslie Nielsen, so funny in the Police Squad series (and the first Naked Gun outing), comes across as an embarrassing elderly uncle doing his pathetic party pieces whilst drunk, and the scene where he's watching TV with a deep sea diver's helmet on his head sums up exactly how I felt whilst watching this stinkbomb. It was so dire I was actually glued to the television. Transfixed by its sheer awfulness. Linda Blair looks cute as always, but her willingness to spoof her most famous role in a piece of unadulterated crap like this simply smacks of desperation. If you're after a really good horror spoof, check out Stephen King and George Romero's CREEPSHOW. "},{"Title":"as bad as it gets","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some reasons why this is one of the worst films ever made1. Leslie Nielson is a great comic actor when deadpanning in absurd situations. For some reason, the makers of this monstrosity thought that he would be even funnier if he mugged and did double takes every 30 seconds. WRONG! Maybe a funny foreign accent would help? WRONG AGAIN! 2. The film was marketed as if it were in some way linked to the Police Squad/Naked Gun series; the poster even showed Nielson in a Drebin pose, wielding a crucifix and rosary beads. 3. The script was obviously the last thing anyone thought about big joke number one; woman works out on apparatus; her breasts expand; her breasts explode! big joke number two Linda Blair cooks dinner for her family and guess what? It's pea soup! 4.The production values are rock bottom; everything looks cheap or re-used.This is a really horrible piece of trash, one of the very few movies I felt ashamed of returning to my local rental store; AVOID!! "},{"Title":"Not the greatest but still fun","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although I have to concede with the critics that this film is a bit pointless and stupid, it also contains enough good gags to make it  worthwhile.It's true that some of the lines seem to be trying for a cheap and easy laugh, and that the climax was clearly written by someone who wanted to get the film over with, Repossessed is still pleasing to watch and worth a rental if you find it at your local video store (although it wont be easy, this film seems that have fallen into the movie limbo that contains other good but not great comedies like The Wrong Guys and Shock Treatment).I think that this films only real problem is that it has such a limited audience. You have to be the sort of person who likes both The Exorcist and Leslie Nielson to really get this one, and those are two areas that don't intersect much. Despite the painfully lame moments that occur sporadically the movie holds up well and deserves a higher rating. My view six out of ten. "}{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I logged into IMDB expecting to find this film in the 250 chart. That's the 250 worst movies chart. Juvenile humour, and even worse than that, telegraphed juvenile humour. The gags are pitifully weak and forced. You can imagine the script writer putting an <insert gag> tag in the script and adding the jokes later, coz that's how it plays. The gags should flow naturally, but lines are delivered purely so that a gag can be bolted on after it, and worst of all, you know when the gags are coming, even down to the point when the main character is introduced as Father Mayii you know that a Father Mayii, Yes you may line can only be minutes away. Some of the Naked Gun, Airplane, Police Squad humour can work well, but not here. It's a personal thing, but I don't like big neon lights saying Laugh Here, I'd rather have to work it out for myself. "},{"Title":"Repossessed doesn't provide much to make it an excellent spoof movie.","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Repossessed (1990, Dir. Bob Logan) It's been some time since Father Jebedaiah Mayii (Nielsen) exorcised the devil from little Nancy Aglet (Blair), but now Nancy has grown up and has a family, the demon returns and repossesses Nancy. With Father Mayii unwilling to help, Father Luke Brophy (Starke) tries his best to help Nancy, even when TV's Ernest Weller (Beatty) plans to air the exorcism live on TV.Repossessed is one of the few spoof movies which actually focuses' on just one movie. Whilst there are a few jokes which only those who've seen the Exorcist would understand, Repossessed doesn't provide much to make it an excellent spoof movie.I hate Rock 'n' Roll! - Nancy Aglet (Linda Blair) "},{"Title":"Ugghhh","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good spoofs are rare to come by, but when more than enough are released some are doubtlessly going to hit the mark, this film does not. After watching the first five minutes you realise that at best this is going to be an average movie, but after hitting mediocre the film manages to keep sinking lower and get more annoying. None of the characters actually stick in your mind and if you wake up the next morning after watching this film and can actually remember more than 1 joke from it, unlucky. Overall I gave this film a two because no film can ever reach a 1, or come to think of it ten(especially this film).  "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It cannot be a good thing when a spoof film is scarier than the film it is intending to lampoon.  I watched this movie, sadly, and I think I may go to hell for it.  Let's put it this way; it is the worst movie being shown on Comedy Central.  That is saying a LOT. Without actually watching the movie, it may impossible to fully comprehend how bad this film is.  I would normally give examples of a film's lack of quality, for posterity's sake, but my brain is doing my best to try and forget the drivel it just witnessed.  So I guess I'll have to fall back on an analogy.  I enjoyed Mafia! and Wrongfully Accused.  Those films put this one to shame.  If that doesn't give you an idea of how dreadfully unfunny Repossessed is, either you haven't seen Mafia! and Wrongfully Accused, or you are retarded.  Either way, stay away from this film. To sum up... bad film.  Don't watch. "},{"Title":"Some big laughs in this film!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hate to admit this, but I found this film very enjoyable.  Had some misfired jokes, but some of them were big laughs!  Go to your video store and rent this when you need to waste some time. "},{"Title":"Just not funny","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Written and directed by Bob Logan, this comedy-spoof of The Exorcist is an extremely lame attempt at Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker (Top Secret, Flying High) hilarity. The plot is awful and manages to raise about two laughs. I will confess I have not seen The Exorcist, though I don't see how this would have helped.Leslie Nielsen played Father Mayii, while Linda Blair took the opportunity to send her self up as the possessed person in question. Also starred the talented Ned Beatty, who has been infinitely better than this.Re-possessed is utter garbage, and I refuse to write anything more, for fear people may get the impression that I gave the film serious thought.Sunday, September 1, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Linda Blair is certainly an example of how cruel Hollywood can be. Out of the blue as a young kid, she landed a part in one of the most shocking films of its time that really redefined the modern horror film. In 1973, hardly anyone had ever heard of exorcism and then it was on the cover of Newsweek. Maybe there have been more bloody and graphic horror films, but none that so grabbed people at the time. People fainting and getting sick in the theater was a common occurrence. The cruel fact is that this film was both a blessing and a curse for Linda Blair. Amazingly other then Airport 1975 and the TV films Born Innocent and Sarah T...Portrait Of A Teenage Alcoholic, Blair was never really offered another decent part in a film that would become someone who had been nominated for an Oscar in their first major role (for you trivia lovers she lost to another child actress Tatum O'Neil). Blair is a fine actress who can bring style and class to even the most mundane role. Wasn't it great when she was a hit on stage with Grease a few years back? Seventeen years later, she made this film with Leslie Nielsen spoofing The Exorcist (by the way Exorcist III was released the same year). Making this film must have been like therapy for Linda, she was able to spoof her most famous role that was a blessing and a curse for her. Besides, she must have had a ball working with Leslie Nielsen. This is one of those films that you really have to watch closely to catch all the gags. Nothing is sacred, everything from the Pope to Oliver North. They also spoof so many scenes from The Exorcist from the pea soup vomiting to her....well doing that thing with the cross. I also liked the way this film pokes fun at TV evangelists like the one Ned Beatty plays. I even noticed that Robert Fuller, Doctor Kelly Brackett from Emergency, has a part in this. Linda gets some really funny lines and have fun spoofing herself. She must be a great lady and a really good sport. Looking at the legacy of comedy, Leslie Nielsen has left us, it is hard to believe that for the first thirty years of his career he was exclusively a dramatic actor! Hard to believe isn't it?  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, I loved it!","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A great spoof of a classic movie, with a lot of 'one liners' from other movies. You may have to watch close to catch some of them. This movie also makes light of televangalists and the catholic church, but is in no way what I would call 'disrespectful' or sacrilegious. The fact Linda Blair reprises her role in this spoof makes it all the better. Its very 'campy' and some would say 'stupid'...but my family loved it, that includes my husband, who is a minister. It has the classic humor and campiness of other Leslie Nielsen's movies, complete with the props and literal actions of some of the lines. If you like other movies Nielsen has done, this is a 'must see'!  "},{"Title":"It both blew and sucked!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's unbelievable that Leslie Nielsen could star in classic spoof films such as Airplane! and the Naked Gun series, yet still turn out stinkers like Wrongfully Accused, 2001 A Space Travesty, and this mess. Dead, Canadian, or both? Both if you're talking of Mr. Nielsen's career. Obviously, I mistook the talents of Messrs. Zucker and Abrahams for some sort of acting/comedic talent of Mr. Nielsen.Nor should Mr. Nielsen suffer my displeasure alone. Bob Logan wrote and directed this movie. What else could you expect from the maker of Meatballs 4 and Up Your Alley. I don't mind infantile, silly humor, but this movie doesn't even try. Each gag is pathetically staged and obvious. We get none of the incongruity and ingenious twists of the early spoof films. I agree with one of the earlier commentators who stated that Linda Blair's presence in both movies is the gag. Throw in some lame, but easily cut for television, nudity; several sight gags; and Boom!, instant crap. Include Ned Beatty's over the top, but a little too genuine (I thought he believed in his role a little too much, a no-no in spoof) role as a televangelist and his Tammy Faye-like wife, and you get this long, drawn-out, never will end, etc. unfunny movie.Avoid this movie like a truck stop bathroom (only go if you are going to mess your pants otherwise). "},{"Title":"Cheesy yet funny...","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen lot's of comedy films and I must say that Repossessed is one of my favs. Once I saw it on Comedy Central, I had to buy it on video cassette. Although the film has a cheesy plot-line and script, I think it was good for some laughs, not too many though. Linda Blair and Leslie Nielsen are both really funny in this film, but some jokes could have been left out. All and all I think it's more of a movie you would have wanted to wait for in rental stores as opposed to paying to see it in theaters. So if you have some free time and feel like laughing, rent Repossessed you will for sure laugh or smile at least several times. "}{"Title":"Scary Movie 2's first 5 minutes had more laughs than this entire movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All I can say is that it's one of the worst Leslie Nielsen movies and that's saying a lot. This movie had me yearning for Wrongfully Accused which was also a piece of crap but at least had a laugh or 2. They should get every copy there is of this movie and flush them down the toilet. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know how Leslie Nielsen's latest works haven't quite lived up to Airplane! and The Naked Gun? Well, imagine a movie worse than Dracula Dead and Loving It, worse than Spy Hard, even worse than Mr. Magoo...and you get Repossessed. I laughed in Mr. Magoo, but Repossessed - I didn't know a movie could be THIS bad. EVERY joke falls flat. Take my advice - if you've seen Airplane! 10000000000000 times already, but never saw Repossessed, rent Airplane! for the 10000000000001st time. "},{"Title":"MAYII, I'LL BE BACK","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The words that keep revolving around in my head whenever I come to think about this film. The voice used for the devil has to be possibly one of the most amusing voices ever heard on TV. As a dedicated fan of Leslie Nielson, I make a point of watching many of his films on TV that say the word 'spoof' by them. Simply because 'spoof' and 'Leslie Nielson' are words that seem to subconsiously rhyme. Never failing to put that all important amusing comment in every time his face hits the camera, and with the trademark 'don't take your eye off the background of you miss the funny bits', Repossessed fits the bill perfectly. Linda Blair also adds the finishing touches to the film, especially with the voice that has me in stitches. The downside to this film however, is the I think intentional total annoying, tiresome banter put out by Lana Schwab and Ned Beatty (aka Fanny and Ray Weller). Despite the irritance of these two, an altogether brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Boring to tears","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Don't waste your precious time on this. If you have nothing to do, take a nap, wash your car, talk to the walls. But don't rent this movie!!It won't make you laugh..it can't make you smile... It's lousy from beginning to end. Mr Nielsen should know when to stop. If you can't resist, you'll find yourself throwing up like Linda Blair. "},{"Title":"FUNNY","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is funny, though semi-creepy. I enjoyed the movie but I wish there were less projectile vomiting. It was very entertaining, but I only watched it because it was on Comedy Central. "},{"Title":"It tries too hard","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Linda Blair was having trouble dealing with the typecast of Regan McNeil or as we all know her The Exorcist Girl. I don't blame her. So, she does the only thing she can think of and parodies her character. Thinking that she could get people to laugh at her character and let it go. Not a bad idea... until she picked up this script and thought it could succeed.Repossessed tries way too hard to make people laugh. It took the typical jokes that everyone knows about The Exorcist and ruined it. I can't even begin to know why they would want to destroy such a classic. I'm sorry, but this was a very stupid movie.3/10 "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film commits many blunder, not the least of which is casting Leslie Nielsen in a comedic role. The Naked Gun flicks worked because he was the straight man in a wacky world. This film, however, just plugs along with tired gags and puns which were never funny to begin with. Don't waste your time when this is shown on comedy central. Instead, rent a Zucker/Zucker/Abrahams comedy like Airplane or Top Secret!. Trust me. "},{"Title":"Repossessed is a funny film.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Linda Blair, Leslie Nielsen, Ned Beatty, and Anthony Starke star in this funny spoof of The Exorcist (which also starred Linda Blair). Linda Blair is Nancy Aglet who has been possessed by the devil. Leslie Nielsen is Father Mayii who has driven the devil out of Nancy before and is called upon once again to fight the devil. Ned Beatty is Ernest Weller, the evangelist who is trying to exploit the devil by making a television show out of her. If you like spoof movies then you should definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"Dated but entertaining. If you are looking for cheese...","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a Horror spoof filled with cheesy jokes and the usual sarcastic criticism against society or current (at the time) events from American society.A telethon based on an exorcism? Bodybuilding and fitness videos? You get the idea. Repossessed was a very popular movie in the early and mid 90's but it seems that people forgot about it. Even before watching it, fans of the horror masterpiece The Exorcist can take a guess on what events are going to be spoofed. Yes, you are correct the puke , the cursing, spinning head, moving bed, the sexual insinuations, and of course the ritual. The writers of this movie got their facts straight from The Exorcist and adding more spoofs (not necessary Horror) was a good idea. Back in the time, spoof movies were directed to a huge audience and that's why most of them are rated PG-13. It wasn't until the new millennium with the Wayans brothers Scary Movie that Horror spoofs took a new direction and landed a R-rating. But back in the early 90's humor was more naive and cheesy. If you enjoyed and worship The Exorcist like me, you will mostly like Repossessed although it isn't a brilliant spoof by any means. Although the movie is very dated, it manages to entertain. My favorite scene includes Leslie Nielsen (the GREAT Leslie) training for the exorcism. This man is a genius. Also Linda Blair is good on her role. It makes me sad that she had a brilliant future but she didn't pick the right projects.TAKE MY WORD Watch The Exorcist parody from Scary Movie 2 (2001); it's ten times better and and it spoofs the movie in a more perverse way. Repossessed gets a 6/10 in my opinion mainly because it tried toO hard. How lame was comedy at the early 90's?! "},{"Title":"a really funny spoof film if you liked the Exorcist!","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i just bought this movie on dvd, and it was hilarious! its funny to see how linda blair came from serious in the Exorcist, and making fun of herself in Repossessed! leslie nielson is funny as usual as Father Maii. a part that made me crack up was Where do you think you're going? I'm going to Disneyland! i definatley recommend it for spoof lovers! "}{"Title":"Excellent Spoof Film!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off, I tip my hat as usual to Leslie Nielsen. If there anything this man can't spoof?Repossessed (1990) stars Linda Blair, Ned Betty and Leslie Nielsen. The whole movie is a spoof of the exorcist. It has some nice cameos including Mean Gene Okerlund and Jesse The Body Ventura from the WWF. Yes!  That is the governor of Minnesota!3 out of 4 stars! I can't wait for a DVD release! "},{"Title":"Mostly funny, always entertaining","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Who doesn't love a good spoof of some of their favorite films? The world really just needs a good laugh sometimes. However, these kind of films are not easy to pull off. Some, like Mel Brooks, really know what it takes to make it work. Ever since the first 'Scary Movie' though, we've been bombarded by bad spoof after bad spoof. Well, long before any of them came this film. A straight up parody of the 1973 world changing Horror classic, 'Repossessed' is a fun and often funny romp.Pros Great cast, fun performances. Bouncy score and some decent tunes for the soundtrack. Some clever ideas, like televising the exorcism. Some pretty good special effects. A lot of really funny sight gags and jokes. Plus, a few brilliant parodies of iconic scenes from 'The Exorcist.' Fast paced.Cons Some gags fall flat. Has not aged well. The finale is fun, but perhaps too silly for it's own good.Final thoughts Not a big hit when it was released, but has gained a small following over the years. There are better parody movies, but there are far worse ones as well. It's cool to see Linda Blair poke fun at the role that made her famous. She needed to make peace with it and boy does she sink her teeth into this. Too bad they didn't do a sequel to parody 'The Heretic.' Just imagine the possibilities with that one.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"funny leslie nielsen vehicle","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" if your a leslie nielsen fan and enjoyed airplane and the naked gun, then you will enjoy repossessed, a spoof version of the exorcist, and while it isn't the best in the genre, and leslie nielsen does have funnier movies out there, repossessed is an enjoyable enough comedy that delivers some great laughs as leslie nielsen's priest does battle with the devil. the comedy is very broad and low brow but trust me when your in the mood for it, this is a winner, all in all another funny comedy in the lelsie nielsen cannon, sure its not naked gun or airplane hilereous, it is much funnier than mr.magoo and santa who, leslie nieslen is great in this, watch it "},{"Title":"repo woman","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, so we all know that Leslie Nielsen stars in the silliest parodies. It seemed inevitable that he would eventually star in an Exorcist spoof. What makes Repossessed especially eye-opening is that it's got Linda Blair spoofing her own famous role. So, as they just want to be as goofy as possible, much of the humor revolves around projectile vomiting (you'd better have a strong stomach for this one). Aside from that, they poke fun at what were then current events, namely with Ned Beatty as a Jim Bakker-resembling clergyman; there's also Oliver North having a memory problem, Sean Penn having a short temper, and a little something about Morton Downey. Oh, and of course they admit that they're in a movie at one point.Yes, it's basically low humor, but they're not afraid to do whatever they want. You gotta love this one. And the next time that someone asks May I?, you know what to say. "},{"Title":"Great movie could have been a lot better","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie because I love horror-comedies like Dracula, Dead and Loving It and Young Frankenstein. I loved this movie so much that I had to buy it when I found it in a discount bin at Blockbuster. I think I wore out the freeze frame on my VCR when in the exercise machine the girl's breasts start getting bigger ala the Benny Hill balloon bra. The actress is credited as Charlotte Helmkamp,but now I hear it is actually Jennifer Runyon. I also have to assume that this was a stunt that someone wanted to do with Linda Blair when her character became possessed demon's voice I need some more room in here........aaaaaah,that's better.,but she wouldn't go for it,so they stuck it in the aerobics studio.Leslie Neilsen stars in this his umpteenth parody and is joined by several faces,  both recognized and not.Some of the jokes are hilarious, some fizzle out and they miss the chance to do others.I recommend this movie to anyone who loves parodies,but I would warn them not to get their hopes up. "},{"Title":"a funny movie","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Repossessed is funny, and some scenes are very funny, but there are a lot of silly gags instead of funny ones. But the funny gags out shine the silly ones. I give this movie **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A quick warning...","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you haven't seen the Exorcist yet, watch it first.  I saw this first, and it made the Exorcist totally boring and predictable.  If you see the two in the reverse order, though, I think you can really enjoy them both.  "},{"Title":"Funniest moment of the film, which always goes unnoticed","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film has MANY funny moments (the parody of the pea soup vomit is as funny as it is over-the-top, as the green yuck shoots out at garden-hose velocity). Though not a Zucker brothers production, it IS done in their style, even featuring Leslie Nielsen as the parody Exorcist. But in my opinion, the FUNNIEST moment occurs in the first five minutes. As the credits will readily show, Linda Blair is playing a middle-aged housewife, who is called by name as her neighbor enters, Hi Nancy! This hilarious moment appears to have amused ONLY ME. No one seems to remember that the 12-yr-old in the Exorcist was named Reagan. Often EVEN after I tell someone those facts, I'm still met with a blank, deer-in-the-headlights stare. I then have to resort to beating them over the head with it; open left hand - Nancy, open right hand - Reagan. Nancy Reagan. Duh! "},{"Title":"Linda Blair's best!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw REPOSSESSED on Comedy Central one night and while many may disagree with me on this one, I think that it is Linda Blair's best work. Both Linda Blair and Leslie Nielson are at their comedic best. The premise could have used a little work, but the movie seems to serve one purpose and one purpose only to spoof THE EXCORCIST. I like that idea since I didn't like THE EXCORCIST that much and the movie spoofs it very well yet there needs to be more to the movie. It would have worked better if the movie spoofed several movies and not just a few. Though as I said before, it is a very funny movie with the two leads giving their best performances. The music and special effects are also top-rate along with the writing. I hope that there is a REPOSSESSED 2 sometime soon. "},{"Title":"THE NAKED GUN was better","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved THE NAKED GUN films but waited till REPOSSESSED turned up on television before seeing it . A lot of people were conned in the 1990s by companies tricking people into thinking they`d be watching something similar to THE NAKED GUN by casting Leslie Nielson and releasing the video cover as something similar in style to THE NAKED GUN releases . DRACULA DEAD AND LOVING IT and REPOSSESSED both did this but don`t be fooled because very few if any of the production team who worked on the classic comedy trilogy worked on this movie or the awful DEAD AND LOVING IT REPOSSESSED is a very hit and miss film with little in the way of memorable gags . The jokes that do work best are the groan inducing ones similar to what you`d find in THE NAKED GUN , jokes like  Young lady pull your dress down  and  Are you getting off ?  . Mind you I will give this film credit for being funnier than SCARY MOVIE 2 but neither movie is as funny as THE EXORCIST   "}]