[{"Title":"Just because it's no Chinatown, doesn't make this film bad","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"58 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Two Jakes and The Godfather 3 were released in the second half of 1990 and both films proved that sometimes it's best not to tamper with classics. This is not necessarily because sometimes a sequel can't compliment a classic, but because no matter what you do, there's no way to avoid comparing the new versions to the old. And the final chapter of the Godfather trilogy is vastly inferior to the first two. And Two Jakes is vastly inferior to Chinatown. But since Chinatown and the first two Godfathers are among the best films every made, that's a pretty pointless comparison. Just as The Godfather 3 stands on its own as a very sturdy and interesting piece of filmmaking, Two Jakes also works on its own merits. It's confusing, overlong (a full ten minutes more than the original), and never fully gels, but it's also passionate, intelligent filmmaking. Go figure.In his autobiography, producer Robert Evans refers to Robert Towne's script for Two Jakes as basically only half-finished. It was half-finished when they started shooting, half-finished when they made it half-way through the shoot, and it pretty much feels half-finished in the final product.  This is a movie where characters wander in and out and a full two-thirds of the storylines go essentially unresolved. The grand climax of the film (and trust me, I'm not spoiling anything) is an evidentiary hearing, for heavens sakes! And I couldn't really explain the plot if I wanted to, but here's the quick summary It's fifteen years after Chinatown and Jake Gittes Jack Nicholson) has become older, fatter, and a good deal more bitter. He's now an Investigator respected throughout LA, but he's still haunted by his experiences with the Mulwrays, especially the late Evelyn. The film begins with a jealous husband, Jake Berman (Harvey Keitel), storming into a hotel room and killing his wife's lover, with Jake listening in the next room. Of course, you know the crime probably wasn't entirely about love or lust and that money probably had something to do with it. Money, history, and oil, actually. And it spins in circles from there. It's easy to notice that the film slacks off at around the half-way point. It's then that you realize just how tight Robert Towne's Chinatown script was. Even at a shred over two hours, every word counts, every gesture, every twist. Two Jakes is flabby in comparison. The dialogue is pleasantly hardboiled and the actors enjoy delivering it, but the resolutions of the various mysteries mostly fall flat. You either see them coming, or don't understand when they arrive. It's to Towne and director Jack Nicholson's credit that the film ends on a number of satisfying grace notes.Nicholson's direction is almost never the source of the film's flaws. And this is legitimately high praise in a film as twisting and convoluted as this. Of course, he again makes you appreciate the brilliant economy of Roman Polanski's direction of Chinatown, a film with an immeasurable amount of class. Nicholson produces several wonderful moments including a beautiful pull shot from the ocean to a teatime conversation with Kahn (who Chinatown fans will avidly remember). Nicholson and director of photography Vilmos Zsigmond capture a Los Angeles of burnt out dreams, on the brink of overdevelopment and overexpansion. The film has noir stylings but it respectfully looks different from Chinatown.Nicholson's performance is more a study of what has happened to the actor since Chinatown, rather than what has happened to the character. Because Jack was less of an icon when Chinatown was made, the original Jake Gittes is one of his least iconic performances. By the time he won his Oscar the next year for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's nest Nicholson had already become JACK (in all caps) and he hasn't looked back. In Two Jakes, Jake Gittes has become JACK. There's no getting around it. However, there's also no getting around the fact that Nicholson is a great actor and even if his performances are frequently variations on a theme, it's a pretty super theme.Two Jakes is peppered with supporting performances of varying degrees of depth. Harvey Keitel has never been better as the second of the two Jakes. His character is emotionally complicated and perhaps the only person in the film (besides Gittes) who gets to go through a character arc.  He plays it wonderfully. The femmes fatale in the film, as played by Madeline Stowe and Meg Tilly are less and more complicated than they seem. Ruben Blade, Richard Farnsworth, and Eli Wallach provide capable support when they're given anything to do.The fact is that like the Godfather 3, if you came upon Two Jakes with a completely open mind, you'd find it a complicated thriller, vastly more substantial than most films of the genre. The fact that it's got its flaws that it'll never compare to Chinatown are the basis for a 7/10 rating. "},{"Title":"a worthwhile sequel that came too late","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jack Nicholson is certainly one of the greatest actors of this or any generation. Chinatown is perhaps his greatest film and he certainly should have won an Oscar for it. Sam Spade and Phillip Marlowe certainly have nothing on his Jake Gittes! The only problem with this sequel is that it came out many years too late. I read that Robert Evans originally wanted to make it in the 1980s but legal problems held it up. The Two Jakes was pretty much ignored at the box office and got some awfully bad reviews. I could not understand why because I thoroughly enjoyed it. So many films that come out are geared towards kids and make you feel like a kid again when you see them. Thats okay, but this film made me feel like an adult seeing it. The film is as good as Chinatown in so many ways. I love the props and the ambiance of the 1940s that they use. Jack did a great job directing this film and he deserves a lot more credit. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film that had the misfortune of being a sequel to a classic film.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Most reviews  pull The Two Jakes to pieces, except for a very well-considered one by Roger Ebert (find it at the Chicago Sun-Times).Of course, it's not the classic Chinatown is, but it's a damned good movie. It's about the past, how it pervades our lives for the rest of our days, and how we assimilate it into our futures.Many have complained that the film is convoluted, that when the key revelation comes (I ain't givin' that away) you miss the impact of it. I strongly disagree with this. I for one had actually figured out the revelation before it happened - this didn't bother me because I wanted so much for it to be what I had thought it was going to be. And when it comes, it's so subtle you could almost be forgiven for missing it. It's lovely, so comforting in a very ironic way.All I'll say is, pay attention to the scene where Jake (Nicholson) goes to see Kahn (the unmistakable James Hong). Something about the flowers...Anyway, I'm drifting. The Two Jakes is subtle, well-crafted, and  when all is revealed, so very simple. The 'convoluted' events in the plot serve to illustrate what a single, simple desire can cause.Just watch it. Bear in mind the events and characters from Chinatown, but only so that you have a backstory for these characters and not a standard to which they should be compared.It never goes away... "},{"Title":"It's not the classic Chinatown is, but it's a very good movie.","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Most reviews pull The Two Jakes to pieces, except for a very well-considered one by Roger Ebert (find it at the Chicago Sun-Times).Of course, it's not the classic Chinatown is, but it's a damned good movie. It's about the past, how it pervades our lives for the rest of our days, and how we assimilate it into our futures.Many have complained that the film is convoluted, that when the key revelation comes (I ain't givin' that away) you miss the impact of it. I strongly disagree with this. I for one had actually figured out the revelation before it happened - this didn't bother me because I wanted so much for it to be what I had thought it was going to be. And when it comes, it's so subtle you could almost be forgiven for missing it. It's lovely, so comforting in a very ironic way.All I'll say is, pay attention to the scene where Jake (Nicholson) goes to see Kahn (the unmistakable James Hong). Something about the flowers...Anyway, I'm drifting. The Two Jakes is subtle, well-crafted, and when all is revealed, so very simple. The 'convoluted' events in the plot serve to illustrate what a single, simple desire can cause.Just watch it. Bear in mind the events and characters from Chinatown, but only so that you have a back story for these characters and not a standard to which they should be compared. "},{"Title":"One Word Describes It Best Convoluted","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Being a sequel to Chinatown, I had high expectations of this film. I even gave it two looks - one on VHS and then one a few years later on DVD - because I wanted so much to like it....but it stunk each time. What a waste of money.The only thing going for it is the beautiful film-work and the great 1940s atmosphere, as Chinatown had some 16 years earlier when that film came out. (Kind of long wait for a sequel, anyway, don't you think?)If ever a movie could be called convoluted, it's this one. It made Chinatown as simple as Bambi. Even the mainline critics all agreed this was incoherent in its storytelling. It's less confusing, but not much, if you know the characters from Chinatown since there are references to Kathryn Mulray. However, it's just too frustrating to watch and try to follow what's going on.I know lots of people who loved Chinatown but not one who likes this film. "},{"Title":"Has real potential, but in the end, it's just too convoluted and long-winded","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This sounded pretty good... Nicholson is mostly fun to watch, and I enjoyed Chinatown immensely(Towne returning to write this sequel was a treat, as well). I enjoyed it for a while, but not too far past the half-way point, I realized that it had run out of steam... the film kept rolling, but it no longer kept the viewers' attention. Jack Nicholson is no director, and it shows... while he is a skilled actor, he should stay in front of the camera instead of trying his hand behind it. The cinematography is close, but doesn't quite make it to being good... we have shots that linger, and wasted opportunities aplenty. Polanski's loose, involving camera is sorely missed here. The pacing is also off... the film ends up seeming heavy as a result. The writing is quite good. The acting varies, but is mostly on the positive end. The tone isn't entirely sure what it wants to be, but does create some great noir moments. Jake's monologues are occasionally spot-on. The mystery varied some... parts of it, I had figured out before the lead, whereas others only became clear to me just as they were revealed. This is a hit and miss scenario... and unfortunately, it misses more than it hits. This is worth watching as a continuation of Chinatown for those that want more of the plot, and can compromise with the drop in style and finesse of the film-making values. I recommend this to big fans of Jack Nicholson and those interested in seeing what occurred after the events of Chinatown. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Adequate Sequel to Chinatown","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Two Jakes is the sequel to Chinatown, a film that really did not need another chapter.  However, with that said this is an above average film that works most of the time.  Jack Nicholson returns and is sucked into another web of deception and corruption.  He is hired by Harvey Keitel to follow his two-timing wife (a very sexy Madeleine Stowe).  Just like before, the more Nicholson learns about his case, the stranger and more complicated it becomes.  Everything will lead to fireworks which involves a housing development and oil-drilling in the Los Angeles area.  Like Chinatown, The Two Jakes is multi-layered and somewhat confusing at times.  It will likely take multiple viewings to get the full effect of this film if you are unable to get it on the first try.  Robert Towne's screenplay is smart, but Nicholson's direction lacks the creativity and overall brilliance of Roman Polanski's.  Meg Tilly is adequate in the film.  Ruben Blades and Richard Farnsworth both do good work, but overall nothing in this film can match what was accomplished 16 years earlier with its predecessor.  3.5 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Under-appreciated Sequel","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Knowing this Chinatown sequel's detested reputation, I was too interested in seeing a movie directed by Jack Nicholson to turn away. I was surprised to find that it is very under-appreciated. Nicholson is quite an inventive, if a little show-offy, director. His confident helming of the very late sequel to a highly revered contemporary classic is full of interesting shots and his performance realistically portrays an older, wiser Jake Gittes who has been seasoned with philosophies on the pain and importance of the past.It is not simply on account of Nicholson. Robert Towne's own continuation of his predecessor is quite creative. Harvey Keitel plays the second Jake, who has hired the initial Jake to catch his wife cheating on him red-handed. In the course of the sting, Keitel up and shoots the adulterous lover, who turns out to be his real estate partner. Nicholson is now under intense scrutiny for his unwitting part in the crime and has to figure out if it was justifiable homicide or straight murder. The case proceeds to elude to California's booming oil industry as well as his own past after he stumbles upon a wire recording during the investigation that mentions the daughter of Faye Dunaway's ill-fated character in the last film.The Two Jakes, to me, can stand on its own with Chinatown. Polanski directed the first film much much differently than Nicholson addresses this follow-up. I don't believe in the case of Chinatown a sequel needs to be a comparable continuation. Making a second installment sixteen years later allows a lot of license for it to be its own beast. Some such sequels done that way are disasters. The Two Jakes stays afloat. And Madeleine Stowe remains the most insatiably attractive woman of any superlative comment that I've made within the past month, at least. And I've made a lot.The film's theatrical trailer is actually incredible. It's narrated by Gittes, telling us how the war was good for Los Angeles in so many different ways that contribute to his business, as extremely dry bits of humor throughout the film punctuate it here and there and provocative, often voyeuristic shots from the movie are included. "},{"Title":"Haunted By The Past","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In The Two Jakes (just as in Chinatown), private investigator Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) finds himself in a tight spot after having been misled by one of his clients. The deception in Chinatown related to a client's identity whereas in this case, it's hidden motives that lead to big problems for Jake. The subsequent investigations in both movies soon mushroom into something far larger than originally anticipated and eventually uncover serious corruption involving California's valuable resources.The similarities between the two plots are not untypical of what's normally seen where a successful movie is followed by a sequel, but in order to establish its own value convincingly, a sequel needs to provide something different or better than the original. In this case, something different is attempted as, due to the passage of time since the original film, Jake has evolved significantly as a character and his preoccupation with past events fills him with sadness and regret as well as a profound sense of loss.The events in The Two Jakes take place in Los Angeles in 1948. Eleven years have elapsed since Evelyn Mulwray was shot in Chinatown and Jake is now considerably more prosperous. His business has expanded and been relocated to an impressive new building and despite the often sleazy nature of his work, he's gained a certain degree of respectability as well as some extra weight.A property developer, who's convinced that his wife is having an affair, approaches Jake with what appears to be a routine job to gather evidence against her. Jake supplies the recording equipment and cameras to record what transpires when he and his client, Jake Berman (Harvey Keitel) go to the motel where Mrs Berman (Meg Tilly) is expected to be with her lover.On the night when their plan is put into action, Berman breaks into the motel room and on finding his wife with another man, simply shoots him dead. Jake is shocked to discover that the dead man is Berman's business partner and his wife, Lillian Bodine (Madeleine Stowe) thinks that what transpired was a planned murder. Furthermore, Lillian's attorney Chuck Newty (Frederic Forrest) tells Jake that it appears that he was an accessory to murder and that unless he can prove that Berman planned to kill his partner, he will see to it that Jake is sued and financially ruined in the process.Mysteriously, the recording made at the motel included a couple of mentions of Katherine Mulwray's name and Jake decides to find out their significance as well as pursuing his investigation into what lay behind the killing of Mark Bodine (John Hackett). He discovers that Berman and Bodine were involved in selling houses in a subdivision of the San Fernando Valley and that, in the event of Bodine's death, Berman and his wife would inherit the whole business. As it seemed possible that there may be oil deposits on the land, the business could, in fact, be more valuable than first realised and in that case, whoever held the mineral rights could potentially become very rich. Jake pursues the various strands of his investigation with limited success until he eventually finds the answers to all his questions from someone who, like him, is haunted by the past.An important prerequisite for fully understanding and enjoying The Two Jakes is an ability to recall the complicated plot of Chinatown and the names of its various characters. As this sequel was released 16 years after the original film, it's obvious that a high proportion of cinema-goers at that time would not have been able to appreciate it sufficiently to enjoy it themselves or to recommend it to their friends and consequently it's also not surprising that it wasn't a box office success.In a very empathetic performance which is both measured and subtle, Jack Nicholson conveys just how jaded, world weary and cynical Jake has become since his experiences in Chinatown and also how deeply he's haunted by the past. The remainder of the cast also contribute strong performances with Keitel, Stowe and Tilly being particularly good.The Two Jakes falls short of the brilliance of its classic predecessor but there's still much to commend it. Its story of adultery, greed, blackmail and murder is intriguing throughout and extremely well written. The inclusion of Peggy Lee's song Don't Smoke In Bed, some eye-catching art deco surroundings and Vilmos Zsigmond's stunning cinematography also contribute immensely to the wonderful atmosphere of the piece which seems to evoke late-1940s L.A. so convincingly. The only caveat, however, is to make sure to see Chinatown before watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Tells a Good story about the Valley","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I currently live in the place that the plot of this movie centers around. The post war San Fernando Valley(yes, that Valley where the Valley Girl phenomenon originated) that exploded with development after WWII. Before the war the valley was largely orange and walnut groves and before the big boom, the government built many Defense plants here to build and develop most of it's planes. To accommodate the many employees of these plants, housing developers moved in and there were many power grabs of which these 2 movies revolve around. After the infusion of the water that was brought in via the Mullholland Dam Project (part of the plot of Chinatown) the population of the Valley grew in leaps and bounds! What was a pleasant drive in the country as Los Angeleans referred to the SFV as, before the late 40's, became the largest housing boom the country has ever seen before or since! Currently there are at least 3 million people living here(many undocumented immigrants live here uncounted). Anyone who owned land became wealthy including the late Bob Hope who owned vast amounts of Valley acreage! Many of the farmers from back then ( like Van Owen and Van nuys) sold thier land and became very rich. I think that the John Huston character from Chinatown was based on one of the Van characters. They even named major avenues in the Valley after Van Nuys and Van Owen. I think that the actual filming of the movie was shot north of the San Fernando Valley because it is all developed now. I am too young to remember the era of this movie but i can appreciate since I live in LA and can see many of the buildings seen in the Hollywood and downtown scenes that still stand and look just like they did then! I loved this movie for the many ways it captured the era. One scene where Jake is driving you can hear on the radio the serial The Whistler, which is still played among others on the Oldtime Radio Hour, on a local AM station 1070.  True, this town isn't as old or historical as a Boston or New York or Philadelphia, but it has had it's moments and it's moods are reflected well in this movie. If you don't at first understand the plot, maybe it isn't as complex as it may seem. It's about a part of our country that exploded with growth and opportunities perhaps like none other and of course there will be visionary people trying to capitalize on that and make a fortune.  "}{"Title":"Incoherent & disappointing","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Two Jakes is probably the most perfect example of why no one should ever make a sequel to a masterpiece 16 years later (Godfather III, anyone?). It's very easy to say that it suffers unfairly in comparison to the masterpiece that was Chinatown, & that one should take it on its own terms. Fair enough, but to anyone who hasn't seen Chinatown, the plot of The Two Jakes is completely & utterly incomprehensible, as opposed to extremely confusing to those who have. The film can only be understood as an addition to the story that began in Chinatown, & as such, can't avoid savage comparisons when placed alongside such a vastly superior film.It picks up the story of Jake Gittes ten years or so after the events of Chinatown. He finds himself embroiled in another seemingly straightforward infidelity case gone wrong, which leads to corruption & treachery in the highest corridors of power, this time over oil, rather than water. The twist, such as it is, involves Katherine Mulwray, the incestuous offspring of Evelyn Mulwray & her father, the vile Noah Cross, the heroine & villain from Chinatown.Sounds good, but this interesting idea is buried within a labyrinthine mess of a plot that jumps all over the place, with real estate scams, terminal diseases, petty hoodlums, earthquakes, gay bars, & most irritating of all, Jake's over-demanding fiancé.What buries the film is the fact that it doesn't ever really know what sort of film it actually wants to be. Chinatown was a twisted detective story that got darker & darker every minute, & left the viewer in a world where evil triumphed, nothing was certain, & no one could be trusted. The Two Jakes, however, is constantly veering between Jake's depressing musings over the past, screwball sex comedy with Madeleine Stowe's loopy widow, vague hints at conspiracy theories over who really runs Los Angeles, & a general air of cuteness around the character of Jake Gittes. Rather than being regarded by his peers as the disruptive & sleazy bedroom peeper that he is, he tends to be popular among just about everyone, cop & criminal alike. You can just hear them saying, Oh, that Jake, he's such a character, tsk, tsk...There's no terrifying villain to even approach the demon that John Huston created with Noah Cross - no real villain at all, come to think of it. Harvey Keitel's Jake Berman is the architect behind the whole scam, but ends up as some sort of hero/victim who was acting with good intentions all along (despite shooting a man in cold blood), Mickey Nice (Ruben Blades) is more like a cartoon character waving weapons around & never using them, & Earl Rawley (Richard Farnsworth) is never exactly made out to be doing anything REALLY immoral or illegal, despite being the man who seems to be in charge of absolutely everything (i.e. the successor to Noah Cross).The great twist regarding the identity of Katherine Mulwray is the final nail in the coffin. Given Jake's obsession over the past, & over her in particular, it's not convincing at all that he wouldn't have recognised her immediately, even though he meets her 'alter-ego' several times before finally realising her true identity in one of the most poorly executed revelation scenes I've ever seen. You're left thinking, Um, so who's she really meant to be? Oh, that's right, Katherine Mulwray - but wouldn't he have known anyway, er, are you sure she's Katherine Mulwray, he didn't actually say, maybe she's someone else...For the psychotic Chinatown fan (& yes, I do count myself as one), there's plenty of cameos & references - Joe Mantell as Jake's offsider Walsh, Perry Lopez as a handicapped Lou Escobar, James Hong as Kahn, Evelyn Mulwray's butler, the snotty clerk in the hall of records makes an appearance, the same orange groves are used as a location (complete with the exact same 'No Trespassing' sign - it just happens to be lying around), old photos & newsclippings are used ad nauseam, despite the fact that they're stills from Chinatown that couldn't possibly have been taken as photos, & even Faye Dunaway pops up, in a brief voice-over.Plenty of things to remind the fans what it's a sequel to, & there are some wonderfully haunting echoes of the past that constantly torments Jake Gittes, but ultimately, The Two Jakes is just a big, disappointing mess. Loads of talent, no direction.Chinatown's writer & creator, Robert Towne, had originally envisioned a trilogy of J.J. Gittes films chronicling the history of Los Angeles, one set in the 1930's about water, one in the 1940's about oil, & another in the 1950's about the freeway system (apparently to be called 'Cloverleaf', after a type of freeway exit configuration). He, along with Robert Evans & Jack Nicholson, set up a company in the 1980's called TEN (Towne, Evans, Nicholson) to continue the endeavour, & Towne was slated to direct The Two Jakes, but he walked away long before the production actually started. The one reason that's most often cited was his objection to the original casting of producer Robert Evans as Jake Berman. Roman Polanski wasn't available to direct for obvious reasons.So, much like Jake Gittes' own thoughts, The Two Jakes is largely a collection of what if?s. Had Towne still been on board, & had Polanski been available to direct, who knows what might have been? "},{"Title":"A near miss?","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This sequel to CHINATOWN has a lot going for it, but unfortunately its parts do not amount to a full on masterpiece. Jack Nicholson reprises his role of Jake Gittes, this time knee deep in a mystery involving land baron Harvey Keitel (the other Jake), daffy vamp Madeline Stowe and the very enigmatic Meg Tilly. Yes, it ties back to the earlier film and yes, the script by Robert Towne is extremely rich. That said, the film itself is not altogether satisfying because while it's chock full of excellent scenes, it's missing a major element that every good mystery needs a truly menacing adversary. While CHINATOWN concluded in the most catastrophic way, THE TWO JAKES essentially cops out at the end. Still, it's a well-mounted period piece with exceptional acting (particulary Tilly) from all. Nicholson is a savvy director with a keen sense of casting. He populates the supporting cast with Frederic Forrest, Eli Wallach, David Keith and, from the earlier film, James Hong, Perry Lopez and the dependable Joe Mantell as his right-hand man. "},{"Title":"It just can't let go of the past.","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really wanted this film to work better than it did. Jack Nicholson's Jake Gittes character from Chinatown deserved a better sequel than this, however. That said, Nicholson is still a treat to watch as the resourceful private eye, and he even shows some skill behind the camera. The cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond is as wonderful as ever. Problems come mostly from the fact that Robert Towne's script can't let go of too many elements from the original film, and we the audience are left with one of those could have been great films.The story picks up about a decade or so after the events in Chinatown. WWII is now over, and Jake Gittes has become a much more successful investigator, yet he still does the occasional adultery case. In the opening scenes of The Two Jakes, Gittes gets himself involved in one such case with deadly consequences. A man we are led to believe is a jealous husband (Keitel) hires Gittes to stake out a motel with him where his wife (Tilly) will be meeting her lover. The lover turns out to be Keitel's business partner, and Keitel shoots the man dead! This leaves Gittes as a possible accessory to murder! It's up to Gittes to clear his name and figure out if Keitel's fit of anger was just that, or if there are bigger things going on in the background. Well, of course there are! This is a Robert Towne script! Before we're done, we've got the housing industry, the oil industry, and a sex-crazed widow in the mix, as the story wildly jumps the tracks and eventually leads to an explosive conclusion.That plot I have just described actually would have been enough for a great new film about Jake Gittes. Trouble is, Towne makes the mistake of digging up elements from Chinatown that seem awfully contrived as they are woven into the current plot. We learn early on for example that Gittes is still haunted by the memory of Faye Dunaway's character from Chinatown. Too much time is wasted digging up memories of her, even at one point having Gittes find her old butler and rehash old memories with him. In the last fifteen minutes, we also learn that Keitel's wife is really Dunaway's daughter from Chinatown. Yes, the one she had in an incestuous relationship with her father. This is just too much of a contrivance to swallow. There is simply no need to bring the Mulwray family back and try to weave them into this story! There are other problems with the story. We are told that Gittes in engaged, but we never really get to know his fiancé, and she is all but forgotten until a scene where she ends the whole affair with him. Richard Farnsworth is introduced as an unscrupulous oil man who may be doing great damage to the countryside with his illegal drilling practices. Yet, once this is revealed to us, nothing ever comes of it! I think the film probably suffered from too many re-writes. Trouble with Towne is, he knows he's a gifted writer. So he likely feels he needs to make things needlessly complicated in order to put his name on a script.This film bombed badly in the theaters. this is probably due to the long production delays as much as anything. Too many people probably forgot how good Chinatown was to want to go see this film. It's too bad that The Two Jakes keeps trying to remind us.6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Nicholson and writer Robert Towne revisit old haunts...","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Long-delayed follow-up (of sorts) to 1974's Chinatown, which was directed by Roman Polanski and featured Jack Nicholson as 1930s private detective J.J. Gittes. The Two Jakes was written by returning screenwriter Robert Towne and directed by Nicholson himself, who also stars, but--despite a certain patchy swagger and style--it's a let-down for admirers of the previous film, and a yawner to latter-day Nicholson fans who might be expecting some combative, belligerent fireworks. Jack's gumshoe delves into an infidelity scandal which quickly leads to dirty doings in the oil business (it was water the first time). Confusing and deadly slow, with the irritating, gravel-voiced narration by Nicholson failing to supply the proper mood. There are a few arty camera set-ups and good players in the cast (including Meg Tilly, Harvey Keitel, Eli Wallach, and a nice 'bit' by Faye Dunaway), but it fails to intrigue even on a nostalgic level. * from **** "},{"Title":"a sequel to 1974's Chinatown,lacking the same spark and imagination","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this movie is the sequel to 1974's Chinatown.Jack Nicholson directed this film and stars again as Jake Gittes.Robert Towne wrote the script and the movie is based on characters created by him.it is hard not to compare this movie to its predecessor and comparisons are inevitable.so here goes.First off this movie plods along at a snail's pace.there doesn't seem to be a clear direction.Also,Gittes seems less likable this time around.the surrounding characters seem to lack any real imagination,as do the situations.put simply,there is no spark.and the femme fatalle angle,which worked so well in the original,doesn't work here.but then who could fill the shoes of the mega star charismatic actress Faye Dunnaway?no-one.so,the femme in this case is less fatalle.the script is also lacking in imagination,giving the director(Nicholson)less to work with.you will be bored nearly to tears here.a disappointing followup to Chinatown.,as a stand alone film,however-also disappointing.this movie is not quite awful,but not quite good either.not recommended. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing, Forgettable...","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not much of a sequel to CHINATOWN. Same writer--Robert Towne. But what's missing?--Well first of all, a plot! And a mystery! And some kind of revelation. It's a real mush-mash, looking like no one was really in charge of the movie. It's troubled production history--with personnel changes, etc. might have something to do with that. The movie--as a story or drama--just kind of stumbles along. With no real momentum or any recognizable tone or style.(Like the slapstick explosion early in the film--what was that?--an homage to Charlie Chaplin??)Of course, what's REALLY missing from this film--the TWO JAKES--is Roman Polanski.He knew what he was doing in CHINATOWN and told an intriguing and relevant story, with many memorable scenes that still stay with me years and years later. What stays with me from the TWO JAKES is just a sad feeling of disappointment. Nothing much else. A waste! "},{"Title":"He could talk the balls off a...","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've seen this one before, but hardly remembered a thing of it when watching it again last night - not a good sign, I suppose. This is the only one of three films that I saw that were directed by Jack Nicholson himself, and I really wonder how much help he got. Some cinematography is dazzlingly beautiful, but did he really - for instance - find that exact location (the one with the wooden poles) at the Californian coastline where Rawley and Gittes have their conversation by himself? Maybe that's not what directing is all about, and I'm a bit of a laymen in that respect, but isn't directing also about keeping an eye on the development of the story and coaching your actors? The story is not uninteresting, but it's a somewhat uninspired carbon-copy of its predecessor with rather mediocre acting, and, I guessed straight away that the 'mystery lady' was indeed Miss Mulwray... And that soundtrack could have been toned a bit, couldn't it?Then, there are some really odd scenes, seemingly thrown in for the 'good measure' of simply trying something different, like the sex scene with Stowe and the 'suck my gun' scene with Keith. They cóuld have worked, but they felt (way) out of tune here.I can't say that 'The two Jakes' is a bad film, it is much too easy on the eyes and the story and acting are entertaining enough, but - unsurprisingly - it has almost none of the magic of its predecessor 'Chinatown'. The cinematography is pretty much impeccable, the story was worked out pretty well and the overall atmosphere was more than doable, but that's about it. By the way, did anyone notice Jack rambling on an on (he could talk the balls off a...) while that one tune set in, that same tune that the Coen brothers used in the film noir parody 'The big Lebowski'? Another fun bit was when Jake broke into a house when an old-time commercial was on. I hope it was an original, but I really don't know.Well entertaining, for sure, but also quite bleak compared to the original. 6 to 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"much-neglected masterpiece","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" anyone who rightly believes Chinatown to be a peak of 70s cinema, should give this more than a chance. just read the quotes and you will see the quality of the screenplay, without even context. yes, there's no Faye dunaway, but meg Tilly does a very cool turn as the femme fatale. shes a keeper. otherwise a great ensemble cast, with jack of course well in the lead, but again the supporting cast are given character realisation and lines far more meaningful than usual. who could forget forget it, Jake, its Chinatown? Then wait for the last lines in this film.this film is a maligned classic, and anyone who ever had a regret will find tears welling up at the end,if not before. "},{"Title":"You can't forget the past any more then you can change it","Date":"1 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ****SPOILERS*** With the original director of the hit movie Chinatown Roman Polanski on the lamb in far off Europe as a fugitive from justice it came down to actor Jack Nicholson to pick up the ball and direct it's sequel The Two Jakes with him playing one of them private eye Jake Gittes. It's Jake who's involved with the other Jake L.A real-estate developer Julius Jake Berman, Harvey Keitel, who feels that his old lady Kitty, Meg Tilly, is cheating on him. As it later turns out Kitty is in fact cheating on Jake with his real-estate partner Mark Bodine,John Hackett, who's gunned down by what seems like , were never really sure, Jake Berman himself. That's when Mark is found with his pants down as well as wig off at the Bird of Paradise hotel in downtown L.A.The film then gets to what exactly Jake, that's Berman, really had going at his housing development that was frequently rocked with tremors and earthquakes making it almost impossible for anyone to live there. It takes a while but were soon to find out that there's a major oil field, 22 by 46 miles, underneath the housing development that a number of people including top L.A hood Michael Mickey Nice Weisskopf, Ruben Blades, and millionaire financier Earl Raway, Richard Farnsworth, are itching to get their hands on.***SPOILERS*** What's the biggest surprise in the film is Jake's, that Jake Berman, wife Kitty who as it turns out is not whom he as well as Jake, that Jake Gittes, and us in the audience think that she is. This is soon discovered, Kitty's real identity by Jake, that Gittes, himself after an exhausting search for the truth in Mark Bodine's murder that Jake, that's Jake Berman, is accused of. It turns out that Kitty did indeed knew Jake, that Gittes, some ten years ago in the movie Chinatown that messed up his mind ever since. At the end of the film Jake, that's Berman again, is no longer worried what's to happen to him in that he cleared or tied up all the loose ends in both his and Kitty's life. With nothing to do and nowhere for him to go Jake, That's Jake Berman, just lights up a cigarette and blows himself to smatterings in his gas, natural gas, filled condominium. At the time he had no fear of death in that he was dying, from radiation poisoning, already. "},{"Title":"Stands on it's own!","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sure it's not Chinatown, but the atmosphere, sets, costumes and iconic actors carried this film and left me longing for the third part of the trilogy. Quick while Nicholson is still breathing! Some had the opinion that it was too long, but the longer I could stay in that world, the better. Even Meg Tilly, sounding as if she had the worst sinus infection on record, brought an excellent performance to the table. It's too bad that it was a sequel and a sequel to what has become a late twentieth century classic film. I've found that it's the same with going to see any film - you have to keep your expectations under control. Many of the reviewers were expecting to see a second classic in this sequel, but I don't think they realize how rare it is, in spite of the effort and talent associated with the making of a film, for it to all come together into something like Chinatown. So, here's to the films that aren't so great, because they make the great films well..great. "}{"Title":"Follow the money","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Two Jakes is the sequel to the famous mystery film Chinatown. It is true that The Two Jakes isn't a classic of the caliber of its prequel, but then few films are. None the less, it is an excellent film in its own right.Rather than the 1930s setting of Chinatown, this film moves to the 1940s with a similar splendor. Jack Nicholson aptly reprises his role as Jake Gittes and the supporting cast is solid as well. The important point about The Two Jakes is that it succeeds in developing a thoughtful and convoluted mystery in the same spirit as its prequel. Also important is that it successfully integrates material from Chinatown into its story. Jack Nicholson's monologues to accompany the story were hit or miss. Some of them were clever, others seemed quite trite. Overall I found The Two Jakes to be a satisfactory sequel to Chinatown, which is saying a lot. "},{"Title":"Oil and water don't mix","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I can't imagine anyone who isn't familiar with Chinatown being able to follow the plot of its long-delayed sequel, The Two Jakes. So many of the elements that insured the success, if not mythical status of its predecessor are here, including talent before and behind the camera. And yet The Two Jakes is self-conscious; the plot labyrinthine to the point of irritation rather than intrigue, the period detail exaggerated to the point of parody.Chinatown eschewed any number of stereotypes of film noir to almost singlehandedly usher in a new era of private eye films. It did not require voice-over narration to keep the audience on the right track or smooth over deficiencies in the plot, or illuminate character. In The Two Jakes, J.J. Gittes's running commentary is at the same time vital and intrusive. Despite its complex plot, Chinatown unfolded in a linear fashion. There were no flashbacks, and the audience was never ahead of investigator Gittes.The plot of The Two Jakes is not only complex, it's almost incomprehensible. The audience is not in lockstep with Gittes, it's just as bewildered as he is; except about the identity of a character which is made known to us eons before it is to him. The dialogue is a pale imitation of that of its predecessor; in fact, the best lines in the film are lifted directly from Chinatown. Several characters from Chinatown, most notably Lou Escobar, (Perry Lopez) are still around to give Jake a hard time. If Jake has mellowed a bit, so has Lou. Loach, the cop who fired the fatal shot at the end of Chinatown, has apparently died in the interim. His son is played here by David Keith, and the second of his two scenes concludes with an unfortunate, scatological joke of the kind the Chinatown script so assiduously and deftly avoided. A couple of cameos from other original cast members provide a chuckle or two.You know you're in trouble when even three earthquake temblors can't shake things into place. There is good work from a large cast that includes Harvey Keitel (as the other Jake), Richard Farnsworth and Ruben Blades. Eli Wallach and Frederic Forrest are wasted. The Two Jakes remains at best a curiosity that might seem better had it not tried to equal, let alone surpass, its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Smart and subtle","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's just not Chinatown is all I can really say about, The Two Jakes. Again written by Robert Towne, the screenplay for the Two Jakes, like Chinatown is compelling enough, but Jack Nicholson's directorial debut lacks the creativity of Roman Polanski's. While Polanski strayed away from the typical film noir clichés this doesn't, which isn't necessarily a bad thing but again, it's just very different to Chinatown.Nicholson's performance however, is again great and if anything this movie is a great character study of what has become of Jake Gittes over the years. This film is smart, and subtle. It's good too, not Chinatown good but good none the less and for some reason, it still left me wanting more. Cloverleaf - anyone? "},{"Title":"Not quite Chinatown","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" No less than 16 years after Polanski's masterpiece came this movie, this time directed by it's main star and Hollywood hero, Jack Nicholson himself. And although Nicholson's got some great supporting actors to work with and the setting is just right, you feel like something's missing that makes 'The Two Jakes' no less than a fun movie experience, though nothing quite more.Again, PI Jake Gittes finds himself on what seems to be a simple case, until things get completely out of hand. This time, a client of his wants to catch his adultering wife, but before Gittes knows it has shot the guy she slept with. Things complicate when that guy turns out to be his business partner...Slowly the truth unfolds unfolds, not unlike Chinatown actually, but this time it's not as exciting as the original, and the movie is way too long for it's own good.All in all not a bad attempt with Nicholson in his so far last role as director. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood triumph of film-making in the style of Polanski","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jack Nicholson's direction in the style of Roman Polanski is a triumph of film-making.  For those of you who do not understand the power struggles that have existed in the Los Angeles area for nearly 100 years, it may seem like a stretch.  But the character portrayals, the locations, and the situations are so true to form that it would scare most mortals away from living here if they really understood how accurate these character composites are.  The struggle for land, water, money, and power have existed and continue to exist in the Southern California region.  Do not ignore this movie !   Read about the San Francisquito Dam disaster in the 1920's and the land-power struggles north of Los Angeles and north of the San Fernando Valley and this movie will have more meaning (and humor) than you can imagine.  If you live here, it's also a very good laugh. "},{"Title":"A movie I never tire of watching either partially or in the whole","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A good story in the melancholy mood of its predecessor.  With a cast of Nicholson and Keitel it would be impossible to say anything other than that the acting was great.  The writing was also good for the most part although I think that the sex scene between Nicholson and Stowe was gratuitious as well as the scene in the police station where Nicholson makes Keith suck his gun.The references to Chinatown were tastefully done and I believe the tragic final scene of Chinatown was brought to the fore in the right place but that whole scene was a bit overboard.  Not that I mind a grown man getting the pee scared out of him, it just wasn't necessary at the point it happened.What I really liked at the end when the credits are being listed was the rendition of Jo Stafford's My Haunted Heart.  It solidified the melancholy mood of a very melancholy movie.  'Tis a pity that most movie goers probably missed this mood enhancer.Meg Tilly gave an Oscar level performance.Dave Holt "},{"Title":"Potentially a great script, but only a pretty good movie.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Chinatown was a great movie, and I think the screenwriter was trying to do the same type of thing again, but the editing or direction wasn't good enough to carry it off.  In Chinatown, you don't know what's really going on for the first two-thirds of the movie (and neither does Jack Nicholson's character), but you figure out the real story just in time to be blown away emotionally by the ending.  Here, the movie turned out confusing enough that I didn't figure out what was going on until a couple of hours after I left the theater, which means that the ending didn't have a chance to affect me viscerally.  And from some of the reviews I've seen, many people figured out even less than me. "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson In Top-Form!","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Film Legend Jack Nicholson Is In Top-Form As An Actor & Director in 'The Two Jakes', a sequel to the 1974 Masterpiece Chinatown. Nicholson Directs This Mystery Film, Splendidly & Delivers A Yet Another Remarkable Performance.'The Two Jakes' Synopsis Private Eye Jake Gittes shall convict the client Jake Berman's wife of adultery. But instead of making her a scene like planned, Berman shoots her lover in affect - or was it murder? Gittes is surprised when he learns that the dead was Berman's companion, who now inherits his share of the company. 'The Two Jakes' gets better with each passing scene. The Final 40-45 Minutes, in particular, are fantastic. Robert Towne's Screenplay is mysterious & interesting, offering terrific shock-value. Nicholson's Direction is Splendid. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are palatable. Performance-Wise Nicholson is an Emperor when it comes to Acting & he proves that FACT right Once Again with his Remarkable Performance in here. As Jake J. J. Gittes, Nicholson once again nails it! Harvey Keitel is truly outstanding. Madeleine Stowe is competent. Meg Tilly is excellent. Eli Wallach is superb. Rubén Blades does a fair job. Richard Farnsworth stands out, as always. On the whole, 'The Two Jakes' is masterfully executed. "},{"Title":" If anything can be easily destroyed, you can be sure, a man's reputation is among the first  ","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The classic hard boiled detective of the fifties is among the most popular characters ever created. Guys like, Sam Spade, Mike Hammer and now J.J. Gitties have become immortalized on the big screen. Ever since audiences watched 'Chinatown' there has been a steady stream of fan mail asking for a sequel. This movie connects the original and is called  The Two Jakes.  In this follow up story which dealt with water rights and was filled with a twisted and scandalous family, is back with an even more confusing signature of who wants, what and where. Jack Nicholson not only directs, but also stars as J.J. 'Jake' Gittes, the introspective, but sophisticated Private Eye. Harvey Keitel plays Julius 'Jake' Berman, the rich and futuristic housing developer who has several schemes with which to grow wealthier, but to secure his wife's future. Eli Wallach, plays Cotton Weinberger, the high price attorney. Rubén Blades plays Michael 'Mickey Nice' Weisskopf, who is out to solve problems despite whom it may hurt.Perry Lopez, returns as Captain Lou Escobar with David Keith as an ambitious Dectective out to nail Gittes. Richard Farnsworth, Earl Rawley, Tracey Walter and James Hong add to the list of great stars in the movie. Though the story is as deep as a fifties novel, if one pays close attention, the out-come is inevitable. Seen is this retrospective and the modern problems arrayed in the future, this dramatic movie should lay the foundation for the third in the series. All in all, the movie should be listed as second in a trio of Classic movies for Nicholson. Recommended for anyone who loved the oldies movies with the hard bitten Private eye, spinning a tale. **** "},{"Title":"The Return Of J.J. Gittes","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Fortunately for the movie going public, Jack Nicholson got to do another version of one of his most popular roles as private detective J.J. Gittes in The Two Jakes. It's not as good as Chinatown, few films are, but Nicholson is right back in stride as the laconic Philip Marlowe like private eye from the Raymond Chandler era of fictional detectives.In fact repeating their roles from Chinatown besides Nicholson are James Hong, Joe Mantell, and Perry Lopez. And the plot is a continuation in many ways of Chinatown and the case that we knew would haunt Nicholson the rest of his days.It's now post World War II in Los Angeles and Nicholson has been retained by real estate mogul Harvey Keitel whose first name is also Jake in a divorce matter. He's hoping to catch wife Meg Tilly en flagrato with his partner whom he's been thinking has been two timing him with his wife. Nicholson keeping up with the times as a good gumshoe has now the latest recording device and he's got the trysting place bugged with he and Keitel in the next room.But when at one point Keitel produces a revolver and bursts into the two of them and shoots the partner it looks at first like a case of Keitel acting on the unwritten law. But appearances are quite deceiving, as deceiving as they were in Chinatown. And a lot of people want that recording of the event Nicholson most of all because it has a mention of the child of Faye Dunaway from back in the case he Nicholson was involved with in Chinatown.The rest of the film is Nicholson stalling everybody while he tries to find out just what all this is about. Along the way he meets criminal attorney for Keitel, Eli Wallach, a Mickey Cohen like mobster in Ruben Blades, and the widow of Keitel's partner, Madeline Stowe who is ready and willing to make Nicholson an offer he will find it hard to refuse.Nicholson directed himself in this version, taking over for Roman Polanski whom as we know was in exile from the USA back then. He knew his character well and smoothly continued the saga of J.J. Gittes. The atmosphere of the Forties Los Angeles is well done. It's mentioned that a third Gittes film was planned. Hopefully those plans are not scrapped and we'll get to see Nicholson once again in one of my favorite roles of his. "}{"Title":"Not so much noir as bête noire","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It comes as no surprise to learn that this follow-up to Chinatown was ravaged by all manner of funding and directorial crises. It appears to be a film that is limping, carried to it's conclusion on the shoulders of one or two people. Nicholson is one of these St Christophers of the big screen but he needs more help than this. The film's story is extremely difficult to follow, an unmodulated trickle of obfuscated cause and effect and voice-over. Because Nicholson is directing there's none of the objectivity that gives a rocking tension between episodes and characters - we feel further isolated from the story, entirely dependent on a single perspective. The acting is reasonable but doesn't really make much of an impact Keitel as the other Jake and Meg Tilly as his wife are the choicest. This film's greatest triumph is in demonstrating just what a good film Chinatown really is. 3/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most underated movies in Cinema history","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the most underated movies in cinema history. Easily one of the worlds top 20 films. Though Chinatown its predecessor is an outstanding classic, the Two Jakes is its equal. As in Chinatown the Two Jakes explores the nature of the times as well as telling a well written complicated mystery plot. But as well as this The Two Jakes explores the characters in great depth. The greatest example being how the past can and does come back to haunt you, as it does for Jack Nicholson's and Meg Tilly's characters.  "},{"Title":"The Raymond Chandler Effect","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Because Los Angeles (say it with a hard g and you'll get the exact way most Anglos said it before 1950) is where desert meets ocean, there lingers over the place a constant aura of the primordial.  It can be by turns a tropical paradise or a dusty wasteland.  Raymond Chandler captured the feeling as no other writer before or after.It is his heritage at work in both Chinatown (1974) and The Two Jakes (1990). Not only the place as shown but the style of writing is a derivative composite. With that kind of material as an inchoate element in every scene and every nuance, the literate viewer is on familiar ground, always ready to settle comfortably into the plot and characters no matter how lacking they are in their own right.Those of us old enough to remember when L.A. traffic lights had little Stop and Go flags on them and pedestrians were always given the right of way will recognize this movie as Chandler redux.  Jack Nicholson is possibly the best actor around -- now that Robert Mitchum is no longer here -- to play the Philip Marlowe role. And the old plot is still good hard-bitten detective with heart of gold overbalancing many flaws gets some rough treatment and goes through several femmes fatales on his way to solving the crime.It is precisely the lack of novelty at this point, together with an odd filter on the lens and some vaguely wrong visual settings, that deter me from giving high marks on this one.  That and the melodramatic conclusion which, as in Chinatown, relies on an odd turn of events exposing the secret.  True Chandler fans would look more for a purely logical and organic climax, with a whiff of Lucky Strikes rather than oil fumes in the air.   "},{"Title":"Exciting Opening, Then Two Hours of  Give Me That Recording","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The opening twenty minutes are fine, but the movie slowly, ever so slowly starts rolling downhill from there. At about the one hour mark, I was having a tough time paying attention. The problem is perhaps that you don't really care all that much about the characters. A few of the contrived cool scenes, like the hand grenade or the blow up or the down on your knees scenes are momentarily interesting, but they're really kind of in your face pointless.It is my belief that when you have all actors acting well in a movie it is to the director's credit. In this case, everybody is acting mediocre, including Nicholson, which points towards the sad fact that Nicholson, a great actor, is only a mediocre director. When you have Harvey Keitel, Jack Nicholson and Meg Tilly in a movie and you can't get a great performance from any of them, it is time to go back to film school.The really sad thing is that if we didn't have terrible district attorneys and judges in California who are more interested in being famous than following the legal system, a truly great director, Roman Polanski would have probably given us a great movie. Instead we have a movie that is repetitious, meandering and dull.The costumes and set design are quite good and occasionally striking. However that should be the icing on the cake of a good story. In this case, we're just getting the icing on the pop-tart.You might let Robert Town know that I am available to direct the third part of the trilogy. I am confident it would be better than the second, although not nearly as good as the first. "},{"Title":"You know something, Jake, you might think you know what's going on around here but... you don't.","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK, this isn't Chinatown, but it still stars Jack Nicholson, and he is still the most interesting private eye I know.The characters supporting him were also interesting. Harvey Keitel (Bugsy, From Dusk Till Dawn, Bad Lieutenant), Meg Tilly (Agnes of God, Psycho II), Madeleine Stowe (The General's Daughter, Twelve Monkeys), Eli Wallach (Baby Doll), David Keith (An Officer and a Gentleman), and Rubén Blades (Once Upon a Time in Mexico).Just like the first film, the obvious is not the story. As Jake keeps digging, he finds what is really going on.Good period piece with some fine acting and a super selection of songs to accompany the action. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first  but pretty good none the less...","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This 1990 sequel to the critically acclaimed hit Chinatown has lost some of it's edge and precision over the years but it hasn't lost the heart or the powerful sense of intrigue and mystery that the first film had. But what The Two Jakes delivers is nothing short of smart and cool under the vibrant direction of star Jack Nicholson and the help of the impressive supporting cast that includes Ruben Blades, Harvey Keitel Richard Farnsworth, David Keith and Madeleine Stowe. But what really catches you about this movie is not the intriguing new story laid out for you It's the haunted past of the first film that keeps popping up once ever so often to drive this film and point out he fact that time doesn't heal old wounds.The Two Jakes has a highly original story blended with the dark and bleak reality of the events that occurred at the middle and end of Chinatown, while not as potent or as well acted as the '74 classic but it has it's moments where it soars above the original and there are moments where it doesn't even come close to succeeding the original. But this film does give you a good dose of mystery and intrigue even if it is at sometimes a little one sided.Jack Nicholson is great as ever as J.J. Gitties but being older has kind of taken the edge and some of the strength out of the character and made him less of a commanding power on the screen. But never the less Nicholson pulls it off amazingly. Harvey Keitel is fantastic as the other Jake, he brings the betrayal and corruption to the film and is perfectly suited for the role. Madeline Stowe really is a factor for why this film is not as great as it could have been, she is over acting so much in the film that her narcissistic character almost becomes a nuisances. Ruben Blades is slick as the mobster best friend to Harvey Keitel but he also is kind of over and under acting in some of the scenes he's in but nevertheless pulls it off without a hitch. All in all the cast is good here and makes this film a worthy sequel.The Two Jakes is not as,like I said earlier, near perfect or as gritty and dark as the Chinatown of old, but what it does have is a great and undeniable sense of what is right and what is wrong and how far too go when it comes to digging up the truth. Even when sometimes the truth is best to stay buried. The Two Jakes is not a case you need to jump on right now but it is one you need to look into when the time is right. "},{"Title":"it's not Chinatown, Jake, but it is nearly classic throwback to detective fiction","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" To compare Chinatown and the Two Jakes, which would probably take more sufficiently a whole entire other article, one I wouldn't print here, it might be noteworthy on the surface to also make a co-comparison in terms of iconic films. The Godfather 2 and Chinatown both came out in 1974, and then both saw their respective next (and as we sit here likely final) installments come out in 1990. Both were hyped to one degree ore another, and neither one lived up to the majority of the expectations that were already steadfast in everybody's minds (and, to be fair, criticisms on both sides aren't entirely invalid). But probably even more-so for Two Jakes than Godfather 3, Jack Nicholson and Robert Towne did have a solid story to tell in continuing along the saga of Jake Gittes, whom Towne envisioned not simply in the context of his homage mold (Chandler/Hammett), but in a larger context than the novelistic noirs of old. This was the second part of a supposed trilogy, all based, according to Towne, on natural goods (first part water, second part earth, third, the part unproduced, would have been air and focused on pollution in the 50s).It's easy to say that the Two Jakes is nowhere near the status of Chinatown, but then again it's also hard to say that Jack Nicholson is really as great a director than Roman Polanski. He probably isn't, this in spite of the fact that this could arguably be the best of the three films he helmed (the others underrated Drive, He Said, and Going' South). The best service that he does to the material is to make something that is by itself enthralling as a movie unto itself, while tipping the hat to all of the various supporting characters that previously appeared (from Escobar to the snotty hall-of-records nerd) in Chinatown. Only when Nicholson starts to get obvious, like with the flashes back to brief bits from the original film, does it get a little much. What helps too to distinguish it is a slight change in pace with the structure of the story. Not so much in certain mechanics of the detective procedural, as Towne knows he can't mess with that too much.The chief difference, which probably split and continues to split many fans, is the use of voice-over. Polanski dropped it from his film, having the audience find things out as Gittes did. But for Nicholson, the narration is something else entirely. It's used a lot more like in proper detective fiction, not so much as to guide along the plot but to ruminate, almost like some sage of a weathered snoop, and even if it's used maybe once more than needed (which bit I can't quite point out) it's very effective in adding a mood to the piece, a tone that complements the convention of we may be through with the past, but the past is not through with us. In this case, Gittes, as continued to be played by Nicholson with that awesome balance of cool thinking and wit, gets into a case with another Jake (Keitel, what's not to say about him), and infidelity in the mix. But there's a lot more in store, including an audio recording of a crime, and some details in it that stir up everybody's attention. Meanwhile, a woman named Kitty, Jake Berman's wife, has something she's hiding from Gittes and... you get the idea.If The Two Jakes isn't always great art- and it's not to say there aren't some thrilling moments of pure cinema, like the opening shot or those scenes driving out in the fields of California (and speaking of nostalgia, orange groves), and the Green Parot club, not to mention a couple of other notable exceptions- it's excellent craftsmanship, where it's like a yarn from the late 40s with a couple of extra spikes of plot contrivance and luscious dames that give our Shamus a bit of a loop at times. It works on that level entirely, of still being playful throwback and serious crime drama, and while it doesn't break that many rules there are for those who want to give it a shot. As far as long-awaited sequels go, for me, it could've been a lot worse. "},{"Title":"A trilogy might had been a bad idea from the start","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The fact that 16 years has passed between the fantastic Chinatown and it's sequel means that you shouldn't expect any consistency in terms of quality, and you won't find it either.Towne delivers another old-school mystery script with questionable ethics, hidden agendas, deceitful women, and everything else you would expect, but this time he fails. The main twist of the story is pretty obvious from about 30 minutes in, but the plot itself becomes so convoluted with unnecessary characters that it's quite difficult to keep track of everyone's motives. Nicholson is pretty creative as a director, but he falls into the trap of trying too hard. There are simply too many ideas, and interesting shots thrown together, so the movie doesn't have a distinct style of it's own. I hate this phrase, but yes, sometimes less is more. Nicholson as an actor, well, isn't Jake Gittes, but himself. I know that Jake is older, he has been through a lot, he had to change, but somehow I can't feel that this is still the same character. Though a while back I was practically in love with Madeleine Stowe, not just her character is really out of place here with her silliness, but she was awful too, especially compared to Dunaway in Chinatown.The only positive here is the setting after irrigation in the prequel, we get to learn a little about oil drilling in California, but this aspect is also weaker then it was in Chinatown, which is sad, because that pitch was supposed to be the core of planned trilogy. "},{"Title":"lazy, ponderous, uninspiring and ultimately disappointing.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" a long proposed sequel to CHINATOWN was always promising yet this lacklustre, below par effort hardly passes muster even as an inferior TV movie. cinematically and artistically, polanski's original stands out as a superlative classic yet it's hard to believe that it's original star and scriptwriter could not have bothered doing the same here. nicholson's bloated slob physique is an eye sore to begin with and he merely seems to be going through the motions with bland direction from a muddled screenplay. writer robert towne either lost the plot with countless rewrites or studio interference as the story never really holds the attention and the movie in no way captivates with any real involvement whatsoever. apart from some lavish production detail, a couple of entertaining cameos from tom waits and frederic forrest and a sterling performance by harvey keitel; it SUCKS! "},{"Title":"Under rated classic","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very good film with complicated story but delivers in terms of script and performance.Good attention to detail as well in it's portrayal of late 40's L.A. atmosphere. Certainly not as good as Chinatown but this movie holds it'sown ground.Could have used a slightly better screenplay. A classic for it's mystery/private eye genre for sure.....  "}{"Title":"A Classic Waiting For Recognition","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"       Jack Nicholson in directing this picture has taken some of the drive and pace away from the tempo created by the landmark Chinatown of 1974.But it's precisely this moodiness and subtlety that make this film an enduring classic . Intitially disregarded , and occasionally outrightly panned when so-called critics set out to compare to it's predecessor , time will undoubtably ferment this movie like a fine wine and bring it the praise it richly deserves . Many of the original cast members do appear in this long delayed sequel , but the haunting spectre of the ghosts of the past ,notably Faye Dunaway's ethereal Evelyn Mulwray and her daughter Katherine, linger in the shadows of the lavishly nostalgic settings of post-war Los Angeles . The dialogue is quick witted and underplayed and Nicholson's  Jake Gittes voice-over sequences are poignant and clever . The Two Jakes does have a slightly different  feel  to it than Chinatown , and the plot is seemingly lacking at first glance , but as you undo the various webs being weaved throughout the film , you realize that a whole era has been capsulated here and comes across to the careful viewer to deliver a sense of place unlike any other movie of it's time . In a way , this film will , I believe , go the way of another favourite of mine , Blade Runner , and achieve a stature of greatness for its sheer vision and artistry . mjc "},{"Title":"The Two Jakes Movie Review","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Unquestionably inferior to its predecessor and shockingly mediocre, the Jack Nicholson directed The Two Jakes is the sequel to Roman Polanski's near-perfect film noir, Chinatown. With several familiar characters and a storyline that eventually ties into some of the twisted events of the first film, The Two Jakes still manages to be horribly bland and excruciatingly boring. Originally a third chapter to the Gittes story was intended, but The Two Jakes was so overwhelmingly disappointing that the franchise was stopped dead in its tracks.It's fifteen years since the events of Chinatown and Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) is still haunted by his encounter with Evelyn Mulwray (Faye Dunaway). Jake Berman (Harvey Keitel) hires Gittes to protect him after he shoots his wife's lover during a recording of evidence being conducted by Gittes in the adjacent room. More suspicious, perhaps wiser, and definitely fatter, Gittes struggles to get to the heart of the murder, which leads him headlong into a torrid affair with Lillian Bodine (Madeleine Stowe), the wife of the murdered man. During his investigation, the bitterer private eye runs into a plot to obtain mineral rights from property that might be rich in oil and a trail of deceit that could reunite him with Katherine Mulwray, Evelyn's daughter.Also written by Robert Towne, The Two Jakes has lost just about every aspect that made Chinatown sensational. It ultimately no longer resembles film noir. A courtroom drama blended with a complex murder mystery, this halfhearted follow-up leaves much to be desired in almost every department. Jake's office has grown bigger, and he now owns the entire building. But the adulterous scum, two-timers, double-dealers and lowlifes still frequent his profession, and show no signs of slowing down as he immediately picks up another equally dirty case. This time however, Gittes appears to fearlessly interfere with evidence and police matters, beyond the extent that he did in Chinatown. He is a much less likable character, and all of his smarmy, smart-mouthed, smooth-talking sarcasm has been replaced with sour vindictiveness.The story is just as intricate as Chinatown, but the characters are so quickly and poorly developed that we don't care about them and quickly discontinue bothering with figuring out who's who and what's what. This murder mystery is so drawn out and lengthy that we actually don't attempt to solve the crimes before Gittes does. Striking deals with criminals and fist-fighting cops, Gittes has become an antihero we can't easily root for, Stowe is a frenzied, nearly psychotic widow, and Keitel is shrouded by mystery all the way through. As un-involving as the story is, its complexity only serves to annoy the viewer, who halfway through the film has given up trying to sort out the overabundance of characters and events that don't make much sense and don't amount to anything significant.The Two Jakes adopts a monotone narration by Nicholson, which was thankfully absent from Chinatown. Lou Escobar (Perry Lopez) returns, as does Kahn the butler (James Hong), but it couldn't feel less like the fulfilling and disturbing noir Polanski flawlessly crafted 16 years earlier. With flashbacks and unnecessary reused lines of dialogue, including I wouldn't extort my worst enemy - that's where I draw the line, this snail-paced, convoluted excuse for both storytelling and film-making is a pathetic way for the revered Jake Gittes to fade away.- Mike Massie "},{"Title":"Forget it, Jake it's not quite Chinatown (but still OK)","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Personally, I don't know why they had to make a sequel to Chinatown. They just can't quite repeat the feeling of sleaze and murkiness that so pervaded the original. That said, The Two Jakes isn't terrible. Portraying Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson, who also directed) getting acquainted with detective Julius Jake Berman (Harvey Keitel) while investigating some slimy dealings with an oil company in 1948 LA, the movie is sort of confusing, especially the end.Seemingly, a Jack Nicholson movie shouldn't just be a way to pass time, but this one seems like it is. Still, the links to Jake's past created an interesting feeling. Maybe Nicholson just works best in front of the camera and not behind it. OK, but certainly no masterpiece. Also starring Meg Tilly, Madeleine Stowe, Eli Wallach, Ruben Blades, Frederic Forrest, David Keith, Richard Farnsworth and Tracey Walter. "},{"Title":"Average Storyline, Wrong Casting and Too Long...","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...of course i don't mean Jack Nicholson, he brings his A game to just about everything he does. This one was rather dull IMO. It just didn't have any pop. The story throughout just didn't have any wow moments like Chinatown did.Now for the miscasting. Harvey Keitel's tough guy persona just didn't work in this one. Richard Farnsworth was odd as a choice for the demon oil man and to round it out, If Meg Tilly wasn't miscast, then the casting agent was either sick that day, deaf or dead on blind. She's never been one to hit the Hollywood signs for popularity or bring in the crowds so for her to be in this was just a last minute choice or a bad choice.A little about this being too long. For something to carry on for 2 hrs and 37 minutes and slowly dribble out bits and pieces with bad casting and and average screenplay(watch for a few brief, has nothing to do with scenes with the PI's supposed wife. Didn't belong in the movie), I was just waiting for the end to say I actually finished it.I recommend anyone who's seen Chinatown to finish it off and watch this but if you haven't and aren't planning on seeing it, you aren't missing anything by skipping this one .BTW...is it me or could anyone else see Nicholson having a recurring character as a PI in some movies nowadays? He hasn't had a hit in a while, he could do more of these as his character in this. I could see it working. "},{"Title":"LA Oil, grease and slime, ca. 1950","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What I really liked about this movie was the atmosphere. It takes place in L.A. around 1950, and the cars, clothing, settings and such were right on. This was still in the postwar design transition from deco to modern styles, and we get to see lots of good scenes of the way things must have looked when L.A. was in an oil boom.Speaking of booms, the plot involves a new drilling technology called directional drilling that even many oil drillers didn't know about then. It allowed someone to place a drilling tower here, and extract oil from there. For example, you put your drilling tower on a cheap plot of land known to have no oil, and then extract the oil from some proven pumper.Sometimes this can be dangerous. In one scene there is a housing development going in -- imagine L.A. housing developments around this time -- vast. Someone in a new house sits down on the crapper and goes to light a cigarette and oil boom causes housing boom so to speak... kinda like the rural-urban legend of grampa lighting his pipe and igniting the methane in the outhouse, except in this case it's petroleum gas, and those houses are all connected by sewer! Must be seen to be appreciated.I confess I haven't seen Chinatown, but can say that this is a fun movie. Has a good plot, and lots to look at, too. "},{"Title":"Forget it Jake, it's not Chinatown.","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this town, I'm the leper with the most fingers. - Jake Gittes Jack Nicholson directs and stars in The Two Jakes, a sequel to Roman Polanski's Chinatown. The film once again sees Nicholson playing private investigator Jake Gittes, and sports another interesting, labyrinthine screenplay by Robert Towne, but as neo-noir relies heavily on mood, ambiance and decor, and as Nicholson is a poor visualist and director, the film is ultimately a failure. Nicholson's weak camera work and production design can't match Polanski's panache and the film at times feels like a television movie or cheap pastiche.Towne's script, however, is fairly interesting. Where Chinatown revolved around greed, incest and filthy low-lives hiding behind pretty facades, The Two Jakes does the opposite, the object of Gittes' investigation revealing himself to be a impassioned and idealistic man beneath the slime others cynically project upon him.Like most neo-noirs, the film is entirely in quotes. There are no characters, only characters who mimic or reference certain character types (the tough guy, the femme fatale, the rich villain etc). Likewise, there are no scenes, just copies of scenes, no decor, just a kind of self conscious imitation of what noir decor should be like. The result is a lazy, unimaginative aesthetic, and cartoonish, imitative acting by most involved.7.5/10 &#x96; Those familiar with old B-movie noirs will find nothing new here. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"forget it, Jake...it's not Chinatown","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jack Nicholson deserves a lion's share of the credit for bringing the belated sequel to Roman Polanski's 'Chinatown' to the big screen, putting heroic effort into a project that never had much hope of matching the original. Comparison is of course always the cheapest form of criticism, but it's hard not to notice the holes in a cast substituting Harvey Keitel and Meg Tilly (an unconvincing femme fatale) for John Huston and Faye Dunaway, and Nicholson himself proves to be an only adequate director (under duress, to be sure).Robert Towne's incredibly convoluted plot, involving oil swindles and real estate grabs in post-war Los Angeles, is only a shadow of his earlier, Oscar winning effort, with all the hard-boiled gumshoe narration added strictly for mood when it should have been used for clarification (viewers will sympathize with Jake Gittes when he's told, you may think you know what's going on around here, but you don't.) Cameo roles (like oil magnate Richard Farnsworth) should have been major characters; some of the major characters (nymphomaniac widow Madeleine Stowe) should have been walk-ons; and the essential film noir villain (the other Jake, played by Keitel) ends up as a tragic hero.The timing of the production was likewise all wrong, arriving after a decade of dumbed-down FX spectacles had made any notion of ambivalence all but extinct in a Hollywood drama. Perhaps the kindest thing to be said about the film is that it reinforces the classic status of the original. "},{"Title":"Two Jakes - the plot that never was","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Two Jakes allegedly had a plot. Unfortunately neither I, nor my wife could find it. Every ten minutes one of us would ask the other, 'Do you have ANY idea whats going on here?' The other would answer, 'no'. I called my friend in Cleveland who is a newspaper writer and asked him what he thought of the movie THE TWO JAKES. He replied with some emphasis, Man, I had absolutely no idea what that movie was about. I was lost from the start.' Nicholson looked like he was just going through the motions and he looked fat. Not a small fraction the charisma he commanded in CUCKOO'S NEST. All I know is that it was a retro setting who dunnit and a sequel to CHINATOWN. By all means rent it ... if you enjoy wasting time.  "},{"Title":"Unnecessary sequel , but it's not that bad","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's hard not to compare Two Jake's  to Chinatown  and the results are rather bad for TJ. Two Jakes is vastly inferior to Chinatown. Even the best elements from this sequel (the dialogue and acting) are less impressive than in Polanski's classic. Why this movie was made after 16 years ? Chinatown didn't really needed a sequel .The movie is set fifteen years after the events shown in Chinatown . Jake Gittes is still haunted by the past , while there is new mystery on the horizon. Unsuspringly the new mystery will be someway connected with the old case&#x85; I strongly suggest you should watch Chinatown before this one.The biggest plus of the movie is the acting of Jack Nicholson and Harvey Keitel . Both gave great performances mainly because the script gives them a lot to play with. On the other side the acting of Meg Tilly and Madeline Stowe is rather bad . Tilly lacks charisma , while Stowe is terribly over-acting . The other actors provide capable support .The screenplay as other reviewers mentioned is the biggest problem of the movie . The dialogues are definitely good and I have enjoyed more or less subtle references to Chinatown . It was nice to see all of the various supporting characters that previously appeared in Polanski's movie. Unfortunately , Towne's screenplay feels like a retread of Chinatown. Water is replaced with oil , there is another rich old guy and so on&#x85; The story uses too many elements from previous movie that seem awfully contrived as they are woven into the current plot . There is one big twist that isn't a twist at all , because it's so obvious (Do I know you ?). Compare that to the twist in Chinatown . Now that was a BIG TWIST &#x85; There are also some awfully laughable moments (footsteps , explosion) and good moments (twist with the chair , joke on the golf court). Some characters appear , but have no effect on the whole story (fiancé , oil man ).The movie obviously tries to tell something about the past, how it pervades our lives for the rest of our days, and how we assimilate it into our futures. It feels honest , even if not quite convincing. I also liked the use of voice-over. It certainly helps to create a mood to the film.Jack Nicholson's direction is bland and unimaginative , but in his defense there is one good scene filled with tension (Suck it) . Two Jakes also shows the viewer a convincing re-creation of 1948 Los Angeles. The music by Van Dyke Parks is completely forgettable and lame compared to Goldsmith score from Chinatown. Director of photography Vilmos Zsigmond capture a Los Angeles of burnt out dreams, on the brink of over-development and over-expansion.There were going to do a third movie - Cloverleaf , but it never got made after the failure of this one. This was the second part of a supposed trilogy, all based, according to Towne, on natural goods (Chinatown - water, Two Jakes- earth, Cloverleaf-air pollution).With a better screenplay , director and music Two Jakes could have been a really solid movie. It feels like a rather poorly made-for-TV version of Chinatown . I give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent, flabby and confusing Chinatown sequel.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is interesting that most of the IMDb reviews of this total box-office failure are positive; although please note there are so few of them. Not many people want to take on the ins-and-outs of this film, indeed this is one of those productions where I bet the majority of the TV audience has turned off after about half an hour.Clearly the script wasn't finished when production started and, from the evidence here, it still wasn't finished when the film wrapped. Building to a climax that is so drab that you wonder if they are not taking the Mickey!What is this film actually about? Well private eye Jake Gittes (ex Chinatown) is fatter and more cynical and is involved in some kind of story about land, unfaithful wives and his unhappy lot. Maybe if you watch it several times and have a cheat sheet on LA history things become clearer, but I only watched it the once. In reality once too many.Chinatown was a classic because it was directed by a genius (Roman Polanski) from a genius of a script. While we have enough talent here for two movies it doesn't work because I don't want to follow a plump second rate Pi on his rounds - even if it does involve intrigue, sex and smoke-and-mirrors power games.Sorry, it doesn't work at any level. "}{"Title":"Even better than Chinatown","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After Chintatown Nicholson fans probably were waiting for this film, like the other shoe dropping.Nicholson's character is more well-worn in The Two Jakes than the youngish Gittes of 1974, and he brings to the role a greater smoothness than Chinatown's Gittes.I rated this a 10 because I see Nicholson getting better with age and developing characters that generate empathy in the audience.And Harvey Keitel was no slouch, either.  "}]