[{"Title":"This Frankenstein revisited picture, is a B+++ movie!!!","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The film is enjoyable and is good fun.The main character loses his arm in an accident, and gets a replacement from a dubious source leading to all sorts of macabre events, and the play includes having a mad scientist/doctor.What I like about this picture is that even though the story spirals into absurdity and is preposterous, all the lead actors take themselves and the story very seriously making the movie even more hilarious. Everyone gives full throttle performances which keeps the viewer nicely entertained!I wonder if we have or will get a body Parts II?! Worthy of a solid7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't stick your arm out the window...","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I read about the story Guys gets a killers body-parts, and now someone wants them back. Then I studied the cast the main character was played by Jeff Fahey (who I knew from The Lawnmower Man and Silverado), and then I saw Brad Dourif (from the Child's Play-movies amongst other spooky flicks, like Alien 4 and Nightwatch ). I thought that it would be watchable only because they were in it, but it actually had a quite interesting story, which raised a couple of questions, such as the mysterious nature of body-part-transplanting, and how bad it could go!I think there was some spectacular stunts in this movie, and many original ideas (especially when Fahey gets in a driving vehicle!), and it never really stops being exciting! - The final scenes are pretty gross, but generally I thought that the movie was okay! My rating is 7/10 "},{"Title":"Unusual horror film nicely blends with thriller and science fiction","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Criminal psychologist Bill Chrushank (Jeff Fahey) survived from an horrible car accident but he loses his arm. But when a gifted mysterious Dr. Agatha Webb (Lindsay Duncan) manages to find a donor to have a new arm for Bill. When his wife Karen (Kim Delaney) agrees with the doctor for the operation. When the operation is a success and then its takes weeks for Bill's new arm to be working. In fact, he finds his new arm to be much better than his old one. But then, it's starts doing things that he doesn't want to do and being having vivid nightmares. He finds out that his arm belongs to Charley Fletcher (John Walsh). A violent serial killer, who got executed on the operation table. When Bill got his new arm from. But Bill finds out that he's not the only one, who got spear parts from the infamous murderer. Then after meeting two people (Brad Dourif and Peter Murnik), who got spear body parts from Charley. But when Bill wants his arm off, the Dr. Webb refused to do it. Bill has a feeling or two that Dr. Webb is not what she seems to be and he feels, there's something out there is coming for him.Directed by Eric Red (Bad Moon, Cohen and Tate, Undertow) made an intriguing horror film with some effective moments of suspense and thrills. This was an box office disappointment, when it was released in the summer of 1991. The critics were not kind to this movie as well. Sure, the premise isn't original anymore. But director Red tries to make something different here by adding some neat ideals to the already often filmed premise of the picture. The underrated Fahey gives an strong performance. Dourif gives an memorable small role as the artist, who finds sudden success with his paintings. Red does his best work so far as a filmmaker here. Red wasn't made a movie or wrote a script in years but it seems, he trying to make a comeback with his latest work 100 Feet. That film will be released sometime in 2008. Like most of Red's works, Body Parts has become a cult classic. It's certainly one of the most underrated horror movies of the 1990's. Effective music score by Loek Dikker. Insipred from the novel Choice Cuts by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac (Which they wrote the classic book together Diabolique). Co-scripted by the director and Norman Snider (Dead Ringers, Rated X). Screen-story by Patricia Herskovic (Producer of cult classics like Deadly Blessing, Mother's Boys and Toy Soldiers) and Joyce Taylor. Don't miss it. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Gruesome, low-budget film that works","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now I must admit I really didn't think I was going to like this one! This terrible judgement was down to its corny title, obviously low budget, and that awful actor Jeff Fahey! I have never seen a movie with this actor that I have truly been impressed with, due to his wooden acting and bland expression. Sadly this movie was no different, but it was saved by some very neat performances.The story is simply a re-hash of a tried and tested idea - some guy (in this case a criminal psychologist) loses a limb, and a replacement is sewn on - subsequently it comes to light that the limb is of a dead psychopath. The question is, who does the arm now really belong to? There are some nice treats given to those who pay attention to the script (I have the blood of a murderer running through my body is a chilling line, even by the dismal Fahey!). There are some good performances too, most notably from the two female leads. Kim Delaney plays the wife very well, and her panic at the apparently unexplainable situation feels very real. Lindsay Duncan turns in a fine performance as the doctor who's surgical efforts bring more than GBH to the picture! Loek Dikker (!) has composed an interestingly dissonant score, that unfortunately goes a little too over the top in places, but is good nonetheless. The gore is plentiful, and well done. I cannot often stomach realistic surgical drama, and I did have to turn away on numerous gruesome occasions!This film will not disappoint a punter who feels like 90 minutes of brain-easy escapism. An enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"You must own this Horror to make others watch it at gunpoint.","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is what happens when the two best movie genres in the world meet each other and have passionate sex. It's SCI-FI mixed in with sick old fashioned HORROR. It's the most beautiful mix ever and it was done in this ERIC RED masterpiece. All the best aspects for a good horror/sci-fi were perfectly aligned for this one. An outstanding lead actor, JEFF FAHEY (The Lawnmower Man), a great movie maker, ERIC RED, and a good book, CHOICE CUTS from BOILEAU-NARCEJAC. It's starts off good, then it gets better, but it doesn't stop there. It becomes eerie, then sick, then crazy, and all of a sudden you end up watching a violent twisted ending. Once you get passed the yeah right idea of the body grafting, you're in and hooked. You cannot expect CGI, or witty modern dialogue, due to the fact that it was made in 1991 just before the big change between good old-fashioned bloody gore and the new commercial stuff you see today. You will, at the very least, be moved by the fact that you saw it and can make a constructive criticism yourself without outside judgment. It was missed by the popular audience but will always be remembered by HORROR fanatics everywhere. It's a definite keeper. "},{"Title":"A good horrifying idea gone somewhat awry~~","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As bad and ridiculous as this movie was, i found the premise compelling and the questions it posed. Jeff Fahey started to look more and more demonic as the movie went on, and his hair changed too. I wouldn't recommend the film, but i think it was horrifying in a Frankensteinian way and fun in the way Blue Velvet was fun, in that dark, film noir kind of way,but Parts was without the aesthetics. I had to laugh because certain scenes reminded me of Robinson Crusoe on Mars, and then in other parts i actually wondered what was going on, like maybe there was a cohesive, tightly woven plot. I think i was mistaken on that. Too bad, the movie sort of had some kind of appeal. Anyone agree? I kind of thought the painter who received the other arm was a classic nut case in a way that was so over the top as to be humorous.I actually felt that his family relationships were kind of honest and touching, even though they saw their dad unraveling. Perhaps one of the highlights of the film. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Body Parts wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. It turned out to be pretty entertaining and had a few moments that made me jump out of my seat. I believe the director, Eric Red, will one day be a more popular film-maker. He does a good job and creates some genuine tension. "},{"Title":"Good, But Marred By Outlandish Finale","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An outlandish conclusion mars this otherwise decent little early '90s thriller. Jeff Fahey, he of Lawnmower Man fame, stars as Bill Chrushank, a shrink who tragically loses his arm in a brutal car wreck. But through the miracle of science, and with the consent of his wife, Chrushank is given a second chance at an able-bodied life via a groundbreaking transplant. All seems well until the limb, formerly belonging to a murderous death row inmate, seems to take on a life of its own. Is the killer living more than vicariously through Chrushank, or is it all in his head?One of the biggest complaints the big-name critics had with this one was that the story is all too familiar (i.e. Hands of Orlac). Yet a borrowed story is no reason to automatically dismiss a picture. Look at how many cop pictures and romantic comedies steal elements from their predecessors. So yes, this basic tale has been told before, but director Eric Red (I've never heard of him, either) makes it all work pretty good. Until, that is, the aforementioned climax rears its ugly head. It's then that Chrushank discovers the sinister origins of his surgery. I won't give it away, but let's just say there are plenty of four-letter words to describe it lame, poor, nuts, crap. This film just could have been so great with a great finale. "},{"Title":"Part-ially Hilarious!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"   I saw this movie in college and forgot almost everything about it except for the car chase scene with the handcuffs, so when I saw it again recently, I was pretty much waiting to see if it was as cool as I had remembered. It was, and there were other scenes that induced a chuckle in this cheesy entry.   Jeff Fahey, who looks like a poor man's Ray Liotta with better skin and not as much acting ability, plays a nurturing criminal psychologist who spends his days dealing with crazy criminals who say f*ck a lot. After studying a dangerously wobbling wheel on the car in front of him during his commute to work in the morning, he is actually surprised when it snaps off and he gets creamed by an 18 wheeler. Maybe I was in a weird mood, but the sight of him flying through the windshield was unintentionally hilarious. After he gets the killer's arm sewn onto his stump, he begins to act strangely. He starts to cut himself and curse while shaving with the killer's hand. He cracks his kid in the side of the head while wrestling in the family room. He tries to choke out his wife while she's asleep. I found all of this to be really, really funny for some reason. I just couldn't take Fahey's performance seriously. What can I say? It just made me think of the Simpson's episode where Homer gets the hair transplant from Snake the convict.    The gore effects where decent, and the sound effects, unusually enough , were very well done, especially the flesh ripping sounds that come into play later in the movie. I dare you to keep a straight face when the killer comes back in a neck brace and tries to get his arm back. He is silent except for his mugging face and gurgling sounds as he takes back what's his.     Yeah this movie is bad, but if that is a good thing to you like it is to me, it's worth seeing. Plus, if you are an unfortunate Blockbuster slave who can't get movies anywhere else, I believe that this is one of the few horror movies they carry that was made before Scream and doesn't revolve around Freddy Prinze Jr. or star any Arquette family members. Whatever happened to the talented Mr. Fahey anyway?! "},{"Title":"Eric Red is without a doubt the master of suspense, and this is his best.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Right from the opening scene, if you let it, this movie will give you goose-bumps. Not that the first scene consisting of two people talking is particularly scary, it is just shot in such a brilliant subtly eerie way (as are all the scenes) that you can't help but be somewhat creeped out. The plot--involving a man receiving a new arm after losing his in a terrible auto accident and discovering that it belonged to a serial killer that happens to want it back--sounds ludicrous, yet somehow Red lets the story unfold seamlessly and realistically and you find yourself believing every detail. This movie is about as intensely spooky as you can get, and every last moment of terror is executed perfectly. Red never lets you relax, because the minute you think things are settling down, something completely unexpected and wonderfully of-beat will leap out of no where are scare you silly. And finally, Body Parts succeeds in the extraordinary-visuals category not by throwing a bunch of flashy special effects in your face, but by remarkably original scenes fantastically constructed from ordinary things that become almost mesmerizing.      This is the best horror film I have seen to date (August 20, 2000) and I have seen many. Just remember not to take it all too seriously, because this movie relies on emotions and characters to convey it realistically, not situations or plotting which are more fantastical than real-life based. But if, like myself, you let yourself become completely absorbed in the story, characters, and suspense, you are in for a true treat.  "}{"Title":"Bloody hands and the dark side of genius...A scalpel sharp forgotten horror gem of the early 90's","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Effectively uses it's gruesome premise... Jeff Fahey is a great actor, calling him awful is just plain ignorant. Awful actors don't get to be in 118 different features. He is not one of my absolute favourites, but I have always appreciated his laid back, yet edgy style of acting. Brad Dourif! Dourif by name, somewhat dour-looking by nature! Brad is one of my all time favourite horror actors. It is always great to see him, even in small parts in movies like this. I found it really cool to see him and Jeff Fahey acting together, as they are two actors I really like, and they usually play intense, occasionally mad dudes. Brad plays it with his usual manic flair, and Jeff mostly plays it straight, but I love it cause' I know that Jeff could outdo Brad in terms of insanity if he wanted to. People moan that the film copies golden oldies like The Hand and The Hands Of Orloc...So? Know a lot of films about evil body parts, do you? Because I could count them on one hand(!) There's not enough body-part themed horror movies out there... I love the music theme that plays at the beginning, a few times in between, and right at the end. It starts out kind of silly, and then becomes booming and ominous. To me the music represents the film's grotesque sense of fun, and it's shock value. The film has a very good, slow build up of tension. In my opinion it is not until approximately 44 minutes and 38 seconds in that something actually happens. This film is certainly gory, but not very. It doesn't have too many bloody moments, but the one that I find really gross is at the beginning when Bill has had his operation. The way that his arm looks, all freshly stitched, raw and pink...ew!!! I thought it was an okay, average horror movie for quite a while, but my interest had a boost when it came to the scene where Bill discovers that someone has been grafted new legs.(I know that that one is still an impossibility) The film's main antagonist is the dastardly Doctor Agatha Webb. It is made very clear early on that Dr.Webb has her own dark agenda. It is indeed confirmed later on that Webb is indeed a real psycho bitch who will not give up no matter what and cares not a damn that people have to die for her experiment to reach it's insane conclusion. The two kids in the movie are not very interesting or effective, as they were both such bad little actor's! I remember the boy from Are You Afraid Of The Dark? There is a sequence in a bar that's pretty cool. The three transplantees are philosophizing. Brad and Jeff are sitting there with the other guy in the middle, which struck me as funny, as everyone knows who the other two are and no one knows who he is. Sorry other guy, you were good, too! I actually thought he was kinda cute, despite those ears! There is also an awesome fighty bit where Bill, responding to the pestering and insult of a drunk,(Ouch! That one would get anyone ticked off!)proceeds to take on all newcomers with his super-strong evil arm!!! When it comes to the big finale at the end, I don't agree that it's crap, but it does seem to run out of steam a bit. They could have done it better. It turns out that the evil mantis doctor of death Dr Webb's master plan has been, in layman's terms, to amputate the arms, legs, and head(?)of a serial killer?!, transplant them to lucky recipients, while still keeping the original torso alive, to later restore, whether the current owners like it or not, the parts back to the original body. Furthermore, she has an enforcer for this, in the killer, who she has kept alive as a head on an unidentified body. All this is for the purpose of proving some great medical advancement in body part manipulation procedures, or some-such. The seen is very impressive because you see all the reclaimed parts strung up in a chamber around the still breathing disembodied torso, awaiting reattachment. I saw what I thought was a very similar and for me far more effective scene in another surgery based horror movie that came out 15 years after this one, and that movie was Autopsy. I bet a lot of people hated or were very unsatisfied with the ending, and I could see why, but I personally loved the ending. I thought it was a different and perfect way to end the picture. It ends like this the nightmare is over and Bill and his wife are relaxing in a peaceful outdoor scene. He is writing in his journal,(Something that is kind of interwoven that I thought added a lot)reflecting on his experience, and how the arm is now finally truly his. Anyway, they're just sitting there and...nothing happens. No big, last minute fright,(A very nice change)and the credits begin rolling, while lingering on the two, to the film's theme tune. And it's bizarre, and funny, and creepy as hell, and to me it really brings it home that the film was never meant to be taken too seriously. A cool, weird little movie, one that makes you wish you never lose a limb and become ensnared in the evil machinations of a mad doctor! Right on the limb! "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie wasn't bad. Not spectacular, but not bad. I thought it was pretty scary. Not so much because of the story, but more of how it was presented by Jeff Fahey. It really helps you to get into the movie if the actor is into it. And he definitely was. There are some people that don't have the acting skills to tell the story as it should be. Jeff didn't have that problem and I thought he did well. The story was pretty intense at some moments. It wasn't really far fetched. It kinda makes you wonder how it would be if we could transplant whole body parts. I think that how religious you are would affect how you view it very much. I liked the story because it was based on a good and unexplored idea as of today because we don't have the technology to try it. But it's fun to wonder how the world would react and change if we could do it. You should see it, if you haven't already, at least to know your own thoughts on it. Instead of simply taking mine, you should go find your own. Happy viewing!!! "},{"Title":"Gruesome and fun","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jeff Fahey had his day, and this was it. A sort of RE-ANIMATOR minus the quality. Fahey is no Jeffrey Combs, after all. Vaguely resembles BRAINDEAD, a little-seen comedy horror flick about a brain-damaged scientist starring Bill Pullman and Bill Paxton. Maybe some of the same people worked on both flicks. Who can forget the car chase in this? Years later, THE CELL and HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL would rip off the creepy lab sequence in the next-to-last scene. Worth a watch on a slow Saturday night. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Man (Jeff Fahey) involved in a freak car accident loses an arm. A doctor (Lindsay Duncan) has figured out a way to transplant whole body parts and the surgery is almost a total success. Only problem, the arm is that of a convicted serial killer and it seems it is controlling his behavior. To add problem onto problem, the convict is out on the streets taking all the body parts people received from him and Fahey looks like he is next victim.Fast paced, exciting, scary, and handsome looking horror flick is entertaining as long as you don't pay close scrutiny to the premise and script. Good gore effects and a great demented performance by Lindsay Duncan are additional bonuses.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"gory and a bit predictable, but pretty good","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A prison psychiatrist and psychology professor is in a bad car accident in which he loses his right arm. His wife is given the opportunity to let Dr. Webb graft a new arm on him. While he is being sedated, he appears to see a decapitation. There are a number of injuries, dismemberments, and shootings in the movie, and they're all pretty gory, though the movie is not wall-to-wall gore.Somehow he doesn't notice, nor does his wife, that he has a tattoo on his new arm until a patient points it out to him. This makes him want to learn where the arm came from, along with the fact that he is having nightmares, and some violent impulses.In the novel this was very loosely based on, the main character is not a person who's gotten a graft. He's a person who's been appointed to keep an eye on people who've gotten grafts, to see that they are doing well (or not). There are seven people in all who have received them (there aren't as many in the film). They all know almost from the start who their parts came from originally. The new parts look better than their old ones, while in the film the arm looks like it was taken from an old corpse, even though it wasn't. They don't have violent impulses, but are exposed to new temptations. For example, the man who gets a new stomach, among other things, eats voraciously since he coincidentally had indigestion before his car accident. The first signs of danger are weird obsessive ideas that some of them get, and also when one of them kills himself.The movie is so different than the novel that it has to be enjoyed on its own terms, and it can be. The novel The Hands of Orlac is similar in some respects, and the movie Mad Love similarly murders the novel, though it can be enjoyed on its own terms too.I've read the novel this was based on, so I'll mention "},{"Title":"Remember The Hand?","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Losing a body part can cause a psychological effect on a person, somehow it can be more extreme than this. In the movie Body Parts, a man loses his right arm when a tanker truck rear ends him, ejecting him through the windshield. The Results has good news and bad news The Good News; he gets a new right arm. The Bad News; it belongs to an death row inmate who was executed. Worse News; he wants it back, along with his left arm and legs! Hold it! if he's supposed to be dead, how did he come back to life? The individual would donated the parts has got a lot of explaining to do. I liked the part where Bill Chrushank(Jeff Fahey) told her off. Then she later gets killed by the killer. Then there's the scene where he cuffs Bill and tries to drive his arm off. No success. Having his arm scared him and his family, after the killer is unsuccessful of getting his arm back, the curse has lifted. Life is back to normal for Bill and his family. Unlike The Hand, Body Parts is more intense. So if anyone loses a limb, check the donor before surgery starts, and beware of seedy doctors. 2 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Falling apart (replay)","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I didn't put this Kim's movie of my watch-list and after watching it, my decision was wise as it's so bad or more accurately not the movie i expected  I thought that with Kim's talent and stardom, she would have been the central character and that the Frankenstein husband would go at her ! But this is not that  Kim plays only the supportive wife in the background and all the movie resolves around the husband  as he meets with other transplanted and there is violence, blood, and indeed gore, i wasn't not at all motivated to see how this stupid story would evolve. So the only interest was to see this young natural Kim. She was cute with her shorts hair and playing also a young mother. It's a pity she couldn't find better and much then&#x85; "},{"Title":"Body Parts","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hands of Orlac once again gets a treatment, this time by writer/director Eric Red, starring Jeff Fahey (back when he still had his matinée idol looks) as a professor of psychology and often visits criminals in prison to study what makes them commit evil. When he suffers a horrible traffic accident thanks to a car losing its tire, it takes his right arm. A breakthrough arm surgery through a grafting procedure sees that Fahey will not be without the missing limb...it comes with a price. The arm, he soon discovers, was taken from a serial killer eventually executed. Two other men also received body parts from the killer in surgeries by Dr. Agatha Webb (Lindsay Duncan), a painter named Remo Lacey (Brad Dourif) and a young man named Mark Draper (Peter Murnik) who had both legs applied after spending time in a wheelchair without them. Eventually, though, someone is coming to collect.I found some of the plot rather fascinating, as Fahey's Bill Crushank truly dedicates himself to understanding where evil comes from, and how the arm attached to him is ruining his life. The arm is violent, smacking his son and nearly choking his wife while he was sleeping in bed. He can see the murders in his dreams committed by the killer, and Bill increasingly has that gnawing feeling the murder's influence is taking hold of him. Reaching out to the others (Mark's legs cause him to nearly wreck into ongoing traffic), he finds that both men are suitably pleased with their new body parts (Remo's painting reflects what the killer sees; he claims the images just come from the air and that he's making far more money since he got his new arm than before when he was creating work for the walls of hotel rooms).The film left me a bit unsatisfied because I think Red has something here that eventually goes off the rails at the end when someone returns to take back the grafted body parts given away. It is really quite bloody and graphically violent (legs gone, a victim going out a window, losing his grip once one of his arms is pulled right from the torso it belongs), but the reasoning is rather loony. A head actually being transplanted and kept from dying, body parts hooked to life support, being pumped with a blood supply and machines, and limbs being confiscated from their rightful owner, with Webb's eventual approval (taking a turn towards mad science) leaves Body Parts deteriorating into camp. It left me rather awestruck after following Bill through the travails of this arm causing him much grief that the film decides to turn loose a serial killer towards the end seemingly for shock value. Kim Delaney is the wife of Fahey, just unable to tolerate her husband's danger to her and the children. I had forgotten just how beautiful Kim was or that she was in this movie. The car crash that caused Fahey to need the arm is horrific, the crime scene with the missing legs is gruesome, and Dourif's character is totally enthusiastic about what the arm has done for his life (for the better), not discouraged by Fahey's misery and forewarning about what the body parts might have wrong with them. Dourif's performance is lively and energetic, I'll give him that. I have seen him better, though. I guess his performance fits the character he's provided a lease on life anew, Bill's concerns pale in comparison to the profit afforded to him. Webb's attitude towards Bill regarding his desire to have the arm removed, not concealing her staggering apathy and disregard for his well being and hope to get rid of it so he can get his life back provides the film quite a cold and remoresless sociopath. Webb's devotion to her work, even if it is harmful to the recipients of the parts she grafts to patients presents her as quite the villain, deserved of her eventual fate. "},{"Title":"Criminally Overlooked (and Criminally Insane)","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For fans of Body Shock/Horror movies, this is a terribly underrated and overlooked horror suspense that hails from the time when David Cronenberg and Clive Barker were at their original best as filmmakers. It was a brave new era of horror as many of the greats stood alongside their students and movies got a little more gutsy. In comparison this fascinating and greatly entertaining movie is so very well executed in every way (wink-wink Charley Fletcher)! Maybe, then, it is because 'Body Parts' was directed by newcomer Eric Red, who should have been well-known for having previously written 'The Hitcher', 'Near Dark' and 'Blue Steel', that it didn't get due notice. It isn't even regarded as a cult classic like 'Near Dark', which he wrote for Kathryn Bigelow.Red clearly did his homework though, because this is as beautifully shot and choreographed as any classic by the likes of Bigelow, William Friedkin and Clive Barker. I do see such similarities, personally, and for an early '90s horror movie, it has aged fantastically.Everything is right about this movie, and yet they don't make them like this anymore. Maybe that's because not so many filmmakers successfully followed in Red's footsteps on this one? The cast, led by Jeff Fahey and including favourites Brad Dourif (Childs Play), Kim Delaney (CSI Miami) and Zakes Mokae (Serpent & The Rainbow) act their asses off and each bring something unique to this story which pokes at psychologist Carl Jung's beliefs in the possibility that consciousness may not just be relegated to the human brain but may also reside in the blood.Suspension of disbelief is actually not such a big deal because it's so enjoyable to watch and since it's all done very convincingly, 'Body Parts' sets out to be a psychological serial killer thriller with a much more macabre-and also slightly paranormal-twist and it succeeds.Notably, as this is also from a time of practicality before CGI became a thing, the prosthetic special effects makeup are so sick at times that you can feel every bone crunching, flesh ripping moment.Brilliant! "},{"Title":"Quite mediocre but still watchable","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After losing his arm in a car accident, a psychologist finds that his replacement came from a serial killer and is aiming to continue its owner's violent tendencies which forces him to extreme measures to protect his loved ones and stop the blood-soaked rampage.This turned out to be quite an enjoyable effort. One of the better parts to this is the amount of care given to the storyline showing his dealing with the new arm, from the exercise and family life to the different lifestyle choices slowly creeping into his personality. That last bit is where this really makes the most of itself by not only featuring creepy hallucinations of the killers' memories and the growing paranoia about that history which gives this one some of its best moments as the genuinely freaky visuals are based on some really frightening images of his previous kills. There's a fine sense of creepiness added to the growing mystery of the strange behavior he and his fellow recipients are experiencing, along with the film's other big plus in the frenetic action put around that behavior to readily enhance the paranoia. Once the identity and historical significance of the donor is revealed, the incidental behaviors rapidly shift to far more dangerous actions around them quickly escalate into rather exciting action scenes from the brawl in the artist' loft that leads into a rather exciting car crash that mixes a clever notion of handcuffing the two together while having to dodge traffic inside the linked cars. Finally, the shootout confrontation in the finale makes for a rather grand lasting impression with a lot of bloody violence and frenetic actions, which is enough to overcome the few flaws in here. The biggest issues here is the absolutely banal quality of having to spout off the dubious ethics and morality in justifying the reason for the choice of donor for the surgery and how to con the others into going along with the rationale, which isn't all that well-thought-out. That also extends to the other patients who unnecessarily warm up to the benefits of the procedure without really taking into account the side effects and disturbing behavior he brings up even after several visits this never changes their minds and they have no reaction to it. This all tends to make the first half here go on far too long before anything of any real horror shows through. That makes for a difficult time of this getting going and what really holds this back the most.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence. "}{"Title":"Eric Red delivers","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Criminal examiner Bill Chrushank (Fahey) has a terrible car accident that leaves him alive but his right arm has been severed. Experimental scientist Dr. Webb (Duncan) convinces Bill's wife Karen (Delaney) to let her perform an operation that would give her someone else's right arm. The operation is a success and after therapy Bill is like new. Bill begins to have disturbing dreams and visions of murder and one day he knocks his son across the room with his arm. Bill knows he didn't mean to and it was like the arm did it without Bill's consent. Bill wants to know whose arm is on his body so a buddy at the police department runs his prints and Bill discovers the arm came from a recently executed death row inmate named Charlie Fletcher (John Walsh) who had murdered over 20 people. With further investigation, Bill learns all of Charlie's body parts were transplanted by Dr. Webb who refuses to do anything about it. Bill tracks down the others who received part of Charlie and they are all suffering from similar problems. The person that got Charlie's head and mind is now slowly going around and taking his original body parts back so no one is safe. Eric Red directs this horror film with an eye on the psychological terror lead character Bill is going through. When Bill sits in a bar contemplating if evil is in the mind flesh or heart we are transfixed as an audience. What Red does very well is mix the emotional side of what is happening to his characters and the extreme violence and gore that is present with Fletcher recollecting his body parts. What could have been extremely silly and over the top isn't due to the nice balance within the story and how it was handled. Jeff Fahey as Bill Chrushank turns in a fine lead performance and the supporting cast is strong as well. Body Parts certainly delivers in the gore and blood department but it is mixed into an involving story that stays believable despite some wild leaps in the story. A haunting and well-fitting musical score by Loek Dikker contributes to a very solid and entertaining horror film which has a lot to offer. "},{"Title":"Awesome mad scientist movie","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jeff Lahey gets a transplanted arm from a serial killer...Then, he begins, (of course) to have problems with his new arm...I can't see how this is getting such a low rating. It was completely entertaining from beginning to end. I watched it 3 times...It's not really a horror movie so to speak, although there are some slightly disturbing scenes, just a fun movie to watch. If you want a high-brow movie this is not it.Jeff Lahey's acting is not all that great (as usual, except he was great in Lawnmower man). All of the rest of the acting was good, a few exciting scenes, a little bit of a mystery gets unveiled as you go. Just all around a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Armed and dangerous.","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The somewhat ludicrous idea of a transplant patient being controlled by their new limb dates back as far as F.W. Murnau's 1924 expressionist classic The Hands of Orlac, in which a pianist who loses his hands in an accident is given transplants from the body of a recently executed murderer with disastrous results.In Body Parts, Eric Red's 1991 take on this macabre tale, several people receive replacement limbs from convicted killer Charley Fletcher, but it is prison psychologist Bill Chrushank (Jeff Fahey) who first begins to suspect that there is something not quite right when his new right arm exhibits uncharacteristic behaviour, hitting his son and throttling his wife (Kim Delaney) while she sleeps.Bill is understandably shocked when he eventually discovers the identity of his arm's original owner, and demands that his surgeon Dr. Agatha Webb (Lindsay Duncan) remove the troublesome appendage, but she refuses, unwilling to undo her groundbreaking work. Meanwhile, Fletcher, whose head has been attached to a new body by the clearly deranged Webb, is running around savagely tearing his transplanted extremities from their new owners.The concept might be extremely well worn, providing the basis for more than a handful of horrors over the years, but Eric Red manages to bring new life to the 'evil transplanted limb' idea by acknowledging its sheer silliness and simply running with it. It takes a while to get into the swing of things, but once Fletcher starts to reclaim his lost body parts, the fun really begins, with Red serving up some great gore and outlandish plot developments.The film's most preposterous moment comes as Bill is sitting in a police car Fletcher drives alongside, slaps handcuffs on Bill's wrist and tries to pull his arm off by quickly accelerating away. Fortunately, Detective Sawchuck (Zakes Mokae) is in the driving seat and miraculously keeps up with Fletcher's vehicle as it careens headlong through oncoming traffic while Bill desperately tries to remove the cuffs. It's an extremely dumb sequence, but well executed and hugely entertaining.In a glorious Grand Guignol-style finale, Bill confronts the mad doctor and Fletcher in a laboratory where the convict's reclaimed severed limbs and bloody torso are now suspended in a tank of liquid. In a marvellously splattery and absurdly grotesque finish, a desperate battle breaks out, during which Bill wrests a shotgun from Fletcher and proceeds to blow the crap out of anything that twitches, finally destroying the killer's connection with his arm in the process.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Murderers blood in my blood......","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When Bill Chrashank loses his arm in a car accident, he has the arm of an executed murderer grafted on in its place. The only problem, as he soon discovers, is that the arm is possessed by a force he cannot control.....This used to be a firm favourite of mine when I was a teen, here in the UK, it was a straight to video release, and not many people saw it, so it vanished almost without a trace.Seeing it almost twenty years later, it's aged pretty badly, and although it's a schlocky, hokey horror, it does take the main character too seriously, as supporting characters are a lot more entertaining, and make it the B-movie it should be.It's not Fahey's fault, he's a great actor, and can do nuts no problem, but he just spends the majority of the movie maundering around, cutting himself shaving, or shouting at his kids.The final third makes up for the dull first two, by going bonkers, and upping the gore factor, which, for 1991, is pretty graphic.So it's one of those movies that isn't as good as you'd like to remember, but still watchable fluff. "},{"Title":"Action with a bit of horror thrown in.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you think of the title, it's hard not to think about a gross-out gory horrorfilm. However, those who are expecting this will be disappointed. Because Body parts is more like an action movie with a little bit of horror thrown in. It's bloody at times, yes. It's certainly violent. But there's more fistfights, gunfights and car chases then actual horror.Of course, knowing Brad Dourif plays a part in this movie, you know there's going to be bloodshed. If you like action as much as horror, you could do worse than this movie. "},{"Title":"Serial Killer Limbs on Sale! Everything must go!","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is more or less a 90's film version of the famous and often retold tale The Hands of Orloc. Normally that would worry me, as I'm generally speaking not a big fan of the 90's when it comes to horror and I don't really like seeing classic horror stories ruined by this decade, but for some reason I had a fairly good feeling about this one. Perhaps because co-writer/director Eric Red proved already that he knows a thing or two about creating suspense and atmosphere with his previous achievements The Hitcher and Near Dark. Or maybe because the only truly great version of the tale was Mad Love starring Peter Lorre and that movie is already over 70 years of age. Body Parts is a reasonably good thriller with a handful of memorable suspense-laden moments and gooey Grand Guignol effects; particularly near the end. The film starts at out somewhat as a serious toned medical drama, but gradually escalates into an outrageous mad scientist horror flick. When family man and criminology shrink Bill Crushank gets involved in a dramatic car accident, his wife Karen has very little time to decide whether or not Dr. Agatha Webb is allowed to try her groundbreaking method of transplanting a donor arm on Bill. The operation is a success and Bill can slowly pick up his career and family life again, until suddenly the donor arm begins to develop a sinister behavior on its own. Bill discovers he got the arm from an executed serial killer and fears that he inherited his murderous tendencies with it. Nobody believes Bill, not even the other patients who received donor parts from the same serial killer, at least not under some murders occur. The first half hour is talkative; the middle section is mainly tense and mysterious (with as a highlight a unique and adrenalin-rushing car chase) and the climax is grotesque and gory with a few very delirious twists. Eric Red's direction is surefooted enough and, although Jeff Fahey definitely isn't bad in the lead role, the show is obviously stolen by an overacting Brad Dourif. 90's B-movie queen Kim Delaney is underused as Fahey's devoted wife. Masterful score by Loek Dikker. "},{"Title":"Interesting sci-fi, unfortunately grouped in horror genre","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film some 10 years ago in a movie theatre in Zimbabwe. It left an impact on me as I am a fan of sci-fi more than of horror films.Much has been written about mindless sci-fi such as the Star War films where sounds are heard in outer space where in reality you can't hear anything. Yet sci-fi lovers seem to have missed out on this neat theory of body parts having a mind (NOT, mind you, a brain) of their own--all belonging to the original individual. It appears to be nothing more than nonsense to us in accepted conventional science but I found it more appealing than some of the works of Lucas and Spielberg.I think the film needs reassessment as a sci-fi film--not merely as a horror film. I am convinced this film is more appealing in subject matter than Fantastic Voyage or The Flatliners, purely as a science fiction movie. Take it or leave it--the subject challenges today's scientific thought however stupid it appears to us today. And as cinema, I have seen worse stuff from well-known Hollywood directors. I would like to read the book Choice cuts before figuring out if the film was better than the work of the author. The film has made me curious about the novel--that in itself speaks much for the film's director, Eric Red.    "},{"Title":"Watching this unravel was fun, even if logic was thrown out the window. Fahey is terrific!","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this quite a few years ago when I was younger, and I remembered being fairly unimpressed with it. How do I feel about it now?? I kinda dug it actually, it's got some balls. They really don't make them like this anymore. Not only does it have a car crash scene that makes some of the scenes in a Final Destination movie look weak in comparison. Watching Jeff Fahey go all unruly with everybody is always a treat to watch. I also really dug the family values in this one. Fahey's family really acted like a natural family, and I really felt for Fahey's descent into craziness. There are some things that I questioned, though. I didn't buy how Bill's (Fahey) kids were all nice to Bill, despite the fact that he knocks his son around, and yells a lot. You would think the kids would learn not to go around him. I also felt the finale was overblown. It was entertaining, don't get me wrong, but it was a bit too chaotic for my liking. It also has some pointless characters as well; Zakes Mokae as the detective being one of them. Jeff Fahey is a criminally underrated actor. He has always been one of my favorites, and why this man is stuck in DTV hell right now is beyond me. Stop being stupid Hollywood and recognize this man's talents! His unpredictable show is a main reason why this film is so entertaining. Kim Delaney lends able support as the caring wife, I dug her a lot. She's not too hard to look at either. Brad Douriff plays a likable role for once. That was rather funFinal Thoughts It has its faults, but I simply cannot deny the entertainment it provides. Go in with low expectations and have a blast with this puppy. If you like gore, Fahey going nuts like nobody else can, I would check this one out. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This was a really good gruesome thriller.","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was a really good gruesome thriller.Story is self was not all that great, A Guy loses his arm and He get's Killer Arm, which he can not control's at times.I like the fact movie flowed really well, there were not boring at all, there were some very gruesome deaths scenes, near the end of the movie, which I did not expect all at all.I really enjoyed the whole movie, I liked how the story ended.The acting from everyone in cast, well some of cast were really good, there could have been better.I don't know if was the acting or not, his wife really annoyed me at times.Overall I give this movie 7 out of 10 really Good movie. "},{"Title":"Body parts behaving badly ........","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although much of Body Parts spirals way out of control sacrificing any smidge of believability, the film is never dull, and has definite entertainment value. The presence of Brad Dourif is another plus, as he is always a most interesting character actor. The movie features a couple spectacular car wrecks, an unbelievable chase scene featuring handcuffs, and some unexpected plot twists. All I can say is that this definitely did not go in the direction I expected. If you go in anticipating something original for a change, and are willing to have a complete believability blackout, then you will not be disappointed. - MERK "}{"Title":"An insult to Boileau & Narcejac !","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One of the worse movies I have ever seen. Even more so because it was adapted from a Boileau-Narcejac novel. For years and years, every time a new Boileau-Narcejac suspense novel was released, among the list of already-published books, the title « ...Et mon tout est un homme » was always accompanied by two mentions  « Grand Prix de l'Humour Noir - 1965 », and below, in smaller characters  « En cours d'adaptation cinématographique » (which means  in the process of being adapted for the screen). So year after year, I was expecting the movie to finally emerge from the book. When it finally did, in 1991, I watched it. Poor me.In a way, «Body Parts» is a tour de force. Sure, Boileau-Narcejac wrote plenty of suspense dramas, very anxiogene ones at that, some of which also became masterpieces of suspense on the big screen  such as Henri-Georges Clouzot's « Diabolique » and Alfred Hitchcock's « Vertigo ». Except that « ...Et mon tout est un homme » is NOT a suspense drama  it is a FARCE ! A macabre farce ! Which is why it was awarded le Grand Prix de l'Humour Noir ! (Grand Prize for Dark Humour) The movie «Body Parts» is a tour de force in its own kind because, from a crazy plot whose eccentric twists are justified only by the fact that it is satire, they came out with a dead-serious, B-Series horror flick that is really a festival of involuntary humor ! "},{"Title":"Chopped All to Pieces.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jeff Fahey is involved in a terrible car accident and loses one of his arms. A medical procedure attaches the arm of a recently executed murderer to Fahey and all seems well at first, but we all know better than that. Naturally Fahey learns the terrible truth about his new limb and realizes that the deceased monster may indeed be resurrected by having all his parts re-connected (other individuals received the other arm and legs). Sick sci-fi/horror flick that goes for shock value and ends up being a disgusting mess that has no real suspense and definitely no heart. The ending is really ridiculous, but by that point I had already come to the realization that the whole product was not worth anything to the cinema. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Sets back transplant surgery fifty years","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Suspension of disbelief is pushed to stratospheric levels in this turkey. When psychologist Bill Chrushank (Jeff Fahey) loses his right arm in a car accident, the arm of an executed death row inmate is grafted on in its place. The arm works, but mild-mannered, loving family man Bill discovers that the arm is possessed by a force he cannot control. Mark (Peter Murnik) has the murderer's legs, and Remo (Brad Dourif) has the murderer's other arm. Their limbs are also possessed by the spirit of the murderer, whose head has been transplanted onto a different body. Now, with the help of the surgeon who wrought this monstrosity, he wants his body parts back so he can reconstitute himself. This piece of drivel has a (you should excuse the expression) distinguished pedigree. 'Les Mains d'Orlac,' a novel by French author Maurice Renard, was made into a 1924 silent film adaptation, 'Orlac Hande', starring Werner Kraus and Colin Clive (yes, Dr. Frankenstein). In 'Mad Love' (1935), brilliant but twisted surgeon Dr. Gogol (Peter Lorre in his U.S. film debut) is obsessed with Yvonne Orlac, a beautiful actress and the wife of renowned pianist Stephen Orlac. Although Dr. Gogol's intense devotion frightens Yvonne, she pleads for his help when her husband's hands are mutilated in a gruesome train wreck. Dr. Gogol emergently grafts the hands of a recently executed murderer onto the ends of the pianist's arms. The operation is a success but Stephen Orlac has a bad feeling about his new hands and his suspicions are confirmed in a series of unsettling incidents. In the 1940 Boris Karloff vehicle Before I Hang, a crusading doctor is transfused with the blood of a murderer, and he is transformed into a Jekyll-and-Hyde character who can't control his murderous outbursts. Then there was 'The Hands of Orlac' (1960) with Mel Ferrer and a low-budget 1962 version entitled 'Hands of a Stranger' featuring Sally Kellerman in an early screen appearance. 'Body Parts' is based on yet another French novel, 'Choice Cuts' ('Et Mon Tout Est Un Homme') (1965) by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac, which apparently won an award (go figure).Jeff Fahey, in the lead role, has never been a particularly satisfying or charismatic screen presence. Only Brad Dourif has some good lines and delivers them with great gusto. However, when his arm is ripped off and his corpse is thrown out a window only to land on a police cruiser, it is so obviously a dummy that it's amusing. Kim Delaney, at the peak of her beauty at age 29, is great to look at, but her acting skills aren't called upon much in this flick. 'Body Parts' also gets the Dubious Achievement Award for Gender Equality in Film in that the mad doctor in this flick is a woman. And although this film is set in New York City, don't expect to see any recognizable New York landmarks except in long shot, because once again the film was actually shot in that great all-purpose American city, Toronto, Ontario. "},{"Title":"The worst third act in the history of schlock cinema.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where does evil lay? This is the question posed by psychologist Jeff Fahey after he receives a limb transplant from a convict that they have vivisected to replace his own missing arm. The arm starts to have a mind of it's own. He meets two other limb recipients from the same guy (one got the other arms and the other got both legs). Then somebody whacks the other two guys, severing the donated limbs. At this point, I'm thinking, hey neat movie, somebody we have never seen before will show up and tell Fahey that he's going to kill him and take the arm (I'm figuring the limb collection to basically just be metaphoric). When Fahey asks who they heck this guy is, he rips open his shirt, showing the telltale scars of a heart transplant. Where does evil lay? Evil lays in the heart. I'm on top of the world, mentally congratulating the writer for being so darned clever. Boy, was I sorely mistaken. Some guy showed-up alright, in a neck brace. It seems the doctor that did the amputations couldn't resist sewing the convict donors head on another body. This doofus is running around collecting limbs I guess because he wants to have them sewn on his new body. The scene where this chump is carrying three of the severed limbs out of a burning car is ludicrous. I couldn't stop laughing. The bar fight scene looks like it belongs in one of the Bionic Showdown movies as the limbs seem to impart some sort of super-fighting techniques to their new owners. This movie would only be fit for fodder for MST3K. "},{"Title":"Was it really that bad?","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't quite understand why everyone hates this movie so much. I thought it was a little silly, but not nearly poor enough to receive a rating of three or four.Body Parts had potential, especially as a thriller/splatter film, but perhaps it needed a better director. I know this is going to sound stupid, but I think maybe James Cameron (director of Terminator and Aliens) would have been a good choice.Jeff Fahey's career sure went nowhere, didn't it? I recommend this film to all other bad movie lovers, Jeff Fahey fans, and horror fan completists. Otherwise, I suppose you're best off avoiding it. I'm one of the few people who didn't walk away from this movie making retching noises. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  It was quite scary at times, but only because I watched it late at night in a big house by myself.  The plot was awful. Unrealistic beyond even science fiction imaginations.  The gore was the only redeeming value. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Stupid.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love bad movies and even I found this one stupid. A talented screenwriter and director could have done so much with this premise, but instead we are treated to nonsense. What the heck was with that barfight? Did Hal Needham stop by for the day to direct that? I half expected Dom DeLuise to come running out and start bonking people.  "},{"Title":"Silly horror film","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Happy family man (Jeff Fahey) is in a horrible car wreck and loses an arm. It is replaced with a donor's arm. He soon finds out his arm belonged to a vicious executed murderer--and has a mind of its own!I saw this film in a theatre back in 1991. I had no interest in seeing it originally (I personally can't stand Fahey) but some critics gave this rave reviews (!!!). After seeing it I couldn't imagine WHAT they saw in this crap. It hasn't improved 14 years later.OK--this has been done before most notably as Mad Love back in 1935. But that film wasn't even remotely serious. This one expects us to believe various body parts can be grafted onto other people AND retain the personality of their owners!!!! It's a stupid premise and we're supposed to take it seriously! That's the main problem with this--it's too ridiculous to take seriously. Also the explanation at the end made little sense. I'm still not sure what was going on--or why.Acting doesn't help. Fahey is good but he's TOO good for such a dumb movie. Kim Delaney is great as his wife--but given little to do. Lindsay Duncan is HORRIBLE as the evil doctor--in a way she's so bad she's kind of fun to watch. Only Brad Dourif is any good. He (wisely) doesn't take his part too seriously and adds a funny spin to his lines.Also this is pretty boring. It moves at a snails pace (even at just 88 minutes) and there's no blood and guts till the last half hour. Unfortunately the special effects are unintentionally hysterical--get a good look at the obvious dummy when Dourif is thrown out a window!Silly, dull and REALLY idiotic. This has been mostly forgotten--let's hope it stays that way. I give it a 1. "}]