[{"Title":"Flawed masterpiece","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Every so often a film comes along that is misunderstood by critics and ignored by the public, but is subsequently rediscovered and reappraised. I sincerely hope that For the Boys will join those ranks. It is an uncommonly sincere, insightful and touching film, and the only things to be held against it amount to quibbles. True, the old age make up is dreadful, and the last five minutes seriously weaken the impact of the film, but the sum total is moving and perceptive.Bette Midler, giving the performance of her career to date, was robbed of the Oscar in my opinion. It is a brave and sincere effort on her part, and such a pity that it was not met with greater recognition. James Caan plays the shallow, slightly dim Eddie Sparks almost too well. There are times when he truly frightened me. The performances on the whole are restrained; when the occasion for histrionics comes, both stars rise to it.Thoroughly recommended. I sincerely hope this film finds its audience one day. "},{"Title":"(7/10) Midler shines in epic tearjerker","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For The Boys is the story of two people - the irrepressible Dixie Leonard (Bette Midler) and the instantly dislikable but ever popular Eddie Sparks (James Caan).  Set against the backdrop of wars in which the United States has been involved, the film moves from station to station as the pair entertain the boys while they bicker and fight amongst themselves.The film starts with an aged Midler telling a studio assistant (Arye Gross) her tale, starting in the forties with World War II, moving through the was in Korea and climaxing in Vietnam.  Along the way, she gets to sing a few classic tunes, including Stuff Like That There and P.S. I Love You, as part of the stage act of comedian Eddie Sparks.Bette Midler delivers a fine performance as the embittered Dixie Leonard who has seen it all in fifty odd years in the business.  She layers her performance with emotion after emotion and has the gift of bringing out that quality in her fellow actors.  The highlight of this film is her understated performance of In My Life at the small Vietnamese camp - truly a moment when the world stops turning and we are graced with a glimpse of heaven. James Caan, playing a quintessential son of a bitch, is less comfortable in his role but has some fine moments opposite his dynamic co-star.The purpose of this film is not to document the wars which form such an integral backdrop to the plot. It succeeds primarily as a story of people - their suffering and their joy is real and it affects the audience in no uncertain terms.  You will either love or hate this movie. Either way, take the time to decide - its worth the screening even if only for the divine Miss M. "},{"Title":"Did we see the same movie?","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this movie was a 10+! The flashback format is interesting and watching the characters' lives and attitudes progress through the present-day Dixie's reminiscences. This is why it is puzzling to me that another person's comment contained the following criticism in regards to Bette's character Dixie She is perhaps nave and oblivious to what war is about and maybe even thinks it's just one big party and nobody really dies or suffers. By the end when she goes to Vietnam she is a vulgar, disgusting, embittered slob who harbors some anger that the GIs no longer swoon over her as they did a quarter of a century or so earlier. The GI's are of a different generation and she can't relate to them or why they have the attitude they do. She is perhaps also angry with herself for not being able to be enthused about performing for the fighting men of this war the way she was years ago. How does she end up like this?Huh??? Dixie was an angry, embittered woman because Eddie Sparks sold out on her uncle! Her volatile reaction to his betrayal begins the systematic annihilation of her career. She didn't want to go on tour with him and only did so because he talked her into it, For the Boys!If anything, it is Eddie Sparks who is oblivious to the changes of the times during the Vietnam war and is unable to make the leap from the USO tours of the previous wars to this strange and confusing part of our history and it is Dixie who takes control of the out-of-hand situation in her inimitable style by getting the rowdy soldiers back in line and then not only sings them the quintessential song of the era, but caps her low-key performance with the peace sign! My god, SHE was the one who was truly in tune with the confusion these soldiers were experiencing!So, I have to ask...did we see the same movie? "},{"Title":"POIGNANT AND ENTERTAINING","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A wonderful epic on war, modern American history, entertainment, and music. There is hardly a subject it doesn't touch on, from the 1950s Blacklist, to the antiwar movement in the 1960s, to the exploitation of talent, and to betrayal of friendship in politics and in marriage. All the performances are superb Midler is extraordinary--her singing, acting, dancing and characterization are peerless; James Caan in one of the finest roles in his post-Godfather career, conveys the talented smarmy-but-sentimental Eddie Sparks; George Segal in a finely nuanced role as Caan's writer, and Arye Gross, who sets the entire backdrop for the story, all are excellent. On top of a plot-line that never sags, we are treated to a musical feast Many old standards and obscure songs with orchestrations and vocal arrangements that are all first-rate, and the performances are flawless. The dramatization and attention to detail in the various historical periods is accurate and fascinating. Some may find the film too sentimental or simplistic but it is a film, not an historical study, and sentimentality is different from sentiment. And finally, a movie that not only offers great music, great comedy, a story on an epic scale with characters that are realistic and has you crying in three or four magnificently poignant scenes is truly rare. "},{"Title":"Best of Bette","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is my second favorite Bette Midler movie, the first of course being Isn't She Great. I really like this movie. The plotline deals with two USO singers (Bette Midler, James Caan)who entertain the troops during WW2. They are so popular that years later they are called back to do a reunion, in which they are being honored, to perform for a new generation. This is not a film for the whole family. It's a war movie, but it's not all killing, it has very sensitive subject matters in it... such as the death of Dixie Leanord's (Bette Midler) husband and son. If you wanted to be entertained 2 hours and 20 minutes this is the film to see. This is on my top 10 favorite movies list, and if you see it, it might be on yours too. A well earned 10/10! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a very emotional movie with a great cast. I'm not a James Caan fan, but he was perfect for this. Slippery as an eel though the McCarthy era up until the end. In response to the comments by other reviewers regarding the politics including sexism I have to say that I found these things the best part of the movie even if they were not very deeply explored. False, facile patriotism exposed and 2 older people who actually learned something from their lives - that's pretty good. I am a big Bette Midler fan so that didn't hurt. She sang a lot of good songs. I especially loved, For All We Know. I liked the contrasting points of view between a woman who lost her husband and son and the man who really really did not seem to have any principals. The Mc Carthy era was depicted as a scoundrel time to use Lillian Hellman's phrase. George Segals speech at the Christmas Party after he was fired could have been stronger, but it was good. "},{"Title":"Great music, nice story","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a musical masterpiece that movie is. Just listen to the variety of songs and styles provided by Bette Midler and the rest of the cast. But the story has it's downside. Too many subjects, too many levels, and the make up department didn't do their best job when giving Midler and Caan the age look. It's too plastic. But Ms. Midler still is a great singer / actress under the bad make up, so I can still recomend this movie. Bring tissues! "},{"Title":"Bette Is Truly Divine","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For The Boys is a film that's about two performers and their almost 50 year association of one kind or another through some tumultuous times in America. The filmed earned Bette Midler a nomination for Best Actress in what might be her best screen role. At least it's the favorite of mine.Dixie Leonard where Midler gets to show all her talents is a young club singer who gets a break to accompany famous entertainer Eddie Sparks as played by James Caan on a USO tour in World War II. Midler's husband is an army photographer who's killed in action, but she still has his son who is played at various times in his life by Brandon Call and Christopher Rydell, director Mark Rydell's son. George Segal who is Caan's gag writer also is Midler's uncle and he acts as cupid in this show business marriage. All of Midler and Caan's lives are played out against the background of America in World War II, the Korean War, the McCarthy Era and Vietnam.Caan's character of Eddie Sparks is said to be based on Bob Hope and God only knows what Hope must have thought of this film at the time it was out. By that point his stature as an American icon was secure. Hope was known to have liaisons with a few female performers, most discreetly however. The best known that kind of bubbled to the surface was with Marilyn Maxwell who Midler's character might have been based on. The character of Eddie Sparks however had three daughters and America's most well known father of girls was Eddie Cantor in most of this era. And Cantor's most well known extra-marital affair involved Joan Davis.By the way actress Shannon Wilcox has a brief but really telling part as Caan's ice princess of a wife. Her few scenes tell you exactly why Caan's out roaming.Caan got a lot of criticism for his part and I'm mystified as to why. Eddie Sparks is a complex part and Caan mastered all the subtleties even though he's not my idea of a song and dance man. He's the kind of man who will stop at nothing to climb the ladder of success, but he's also not a totally bad man. Knowing full well that George Segal's pungent political comments in front of gossip columnist Rosemary Murphy, another ice princess, will get him in trouble, he tries in one scene to tell him to just cool it. In that other classic, The Way We Were, Caan is adhering to Robert Redford's philosophy where in ten years time right wing producers will be hiring left wing writers and the blacklist will be forgotten, it's just something to be ridden out if one keeps a cool head. I don't think Caan was totally wrong there, he didn't want to lose his friend and a good writer.What finally breaks Midler and Caan apart is the death of her son, like his father in combat in Vietnam. Caan and the boy bonded genuinely and the young man, probably more to honor his father chose a military career, graduating from the Citadel. Caan has a flip attitude towards education which is something the kid picks up on. But people who have a flip attitude towards education, albeit with a military bent, don't last at the Citadel.Midler sees Caan as a warmonger who built his career on the publicity surrounding the entertainment of troops like Bob Hope. Caan argues quite rightly that he doesn't make policy, he doesn't send kids to war, he's a song and dance man. A good mixture of songs from the various eras make up the score for For The Boys. One song, Bill-A-Dick by Hoagy Carmichael and Paul Francis Webster was an unpublished number at the time it was written and makes its debut here. It's sung by Midler along with Melissa Manchester and Pattie Darcy as an Andrews Sisters like trio. Remember Midler did revive the Andrews Sisters's Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy.The film is an absolute gem, Midler is divine and don't listen to the criticisms that were given to James Caan. "},{"Title":"Bette's powerhouse performance sustains a somewhat lackluster film","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bette Midler proves that she can single-handedly make a film worth watching in FOR THE BOYS, an overlong but rewarding comedy-drama with music which chronicles the relationship between singer Dixie Leonard and comic Eddie Sparks (James Caan), a character clearly patterned after Bob Hope, which begins during a WWII USO tour and concludes in the present where the glamorously aging couple are being reunited for a television special. Bette received her second Best Actress Oscar nomination for her commanding performance here, She lights up the screen whether Dixie is upstaging Eddie in front of thousands of troops during WWII, cursing out sponsors during her and Eddie's television show, or tearing Eddie a new one when she thinks he is trying to steal her son away from her. As expected, she makes the most of her musical moments in the film with Stuff Like that There and Come Rain or Come Shine as standouts. Caan works hard in the role of Eddie Sparks, managing to make a pretty despicable character rather likable for the majority of the story. The only big mistake here was director Mark Rydell's casting of his real-life son, Christopher in the pivotal role of Dixie's adult son. Rydell's lifeless performance is a major detriment to an important part of the film, but for the most part, FOR THE BOYS is grand entertainment, thanks to the Divine Miss M. "},{"Title":"boy oh boy","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In full brassy form, Bette Midler plays Dixie Leonard, who does USO performances in WWII, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. Throughout pleasant times and hard times (and even through tragedies), she and co-star Eddie Sparks (James Caan) always have to find a way to make sure that the show goes on.I don't know whether I would call this a masterpiece, but it's some good nostalgia. Midler shows off her talents the same as she did in The Rose. And moreover, For the Boys also looks at the sorts of things going on during those wars, including Cold War-era red-baiting. Worth seeing. "}{"Title":"2nd Best of Bette's Movies","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bette was magnificent in The Rose, in my opinion the best movie she's made. In a totally different personna she plays Dixie equally wonderfully. For The Boys is, for a reason I cannot discern, one of my all time favorite movies.  I love the movie and Bette is as always, the best.  If you adore Bette, and if you've never For The Boys, rent it or buy it and you'll see what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Midler sings, Caan flounces, all For the Boys","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For the Boys is a movie that isn't sure what it wants to be. We have the clichéd showbiz biopic told in typical flashback following two people who don't seem to really like each other over fifty years set to the backdrops of World War II through Vietnam. We also have a look at the Red Scare, followed by the partners inevitable break up and reunion. In between, you have Bette Midler belting out some wonderful songs and James Caan standing there looking generally annoyed.This movie essentially sinks under the lack of chemistry between Caan and Midler, and their lack of believability as a comic duo. They play a variety act where only Midler seems to have any talent, despite the fact that Caan is supposed to be the big name of the group. When Midler isn't singing, she and Caan fight, yell and bicker. It isn't particularly fun or memorable. The movie gradually becomes very anti-war as well, depicting American soldiers in Vietnam as coarse and vulgar.Fans of Midler will like this movie just to hear her sing, and the movie lifts during those parts, only to sink again once things turn back to the drama. "},{"Title":"Patriotic Performers Suffer Too","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I cannot judge it but Bette Midler has appeared in about six movies where her performances were all excellent. These include THE ROSE, THE FIRST WIVES CLUB, RUTHLESS PEOPLE, BEACHES, and this film. It can safely be said that she is more than just a great singer and entertainer, but (when given the right material) she is one hell of an actress in comedy or drama. Although she got nominated for an Oscar for THE ROSE, and she has many fans for her performance in BEACHES, I suspect her performance in FOR THE BOYS may be her best dramatic role.She plays Dixie Leonard, a New York based singer, whose husband is in the armed forces in World War I. She lives with her son Danny in the city. Her uncle, Art Silver (George Segal), gets a notable entertainer Eddie Sparks (James Caan) to hire her for his UFO show. Dixie is a success, but from the beginning she and Sparks have one conflict or another between them. Eddie is pretty ambitious and determined to succeed, and so is Dixie, but Eddie can be more ruthless to do so - even to cutting his losses at the expense of other people. Yet Eddie can show a better side (although one that suggests opportunism again and again). During the first UFO tour he arranges Dixie to see her husband again after nearly two years. But he makes sure that the scene is photographed and filmed for propaganda and career reasons. After the death of Dixie's husband, Eddie becomes close to Dixie's son Danny. However, he teaches Danny to have contempt for school, and he puts patriotic ideas into the boy's head - leading to Danny going into the military. Danny (Christopher Rydell) is a Captain at the time of the Vietnam War. He too is killed during a war (in front of his mother, on a well televised U.F.O tour).The film actually is told in flashback by Dixie, as she is being asked to appear at a special televised ceremony where she and Eddie are being awarded medals by the U.S. Government. She is a lonely, bitter woman, and she loathes the very thought of the program. Eddie is going to get a medal too. Will she go to confront Eddie after all these years? Will Eddie finally admit how he felt about the loss of Danny.The film is quite well done, capturing the spirit of the UFO shows in wartime London (1944), wartime Korea (1952); and wartime Vietnam (1967) although one song is slightly anachronistic. It also gives us glances at the high water mark of radio programing in the late 1940s (before television began to impact upon it). Finally there is a look at the effect of the McCarthy period, as it effects Segal and Midler. The three principals give first rate performances, Middler best in the scene when her son dies, and Caan earlier, when he witnesses the death of a boy soldier in Korea (his first witnessing of such a tragedy in a war). Caan literally looks like he has suffered shell shock as a result. As for Segal, watch his bitter Santa Claus scene, where he gives out Christmas gifts while swallowing a tremendous amount of bile and anger. "},{"Title":"Best Film of the Year","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For the Boys is a fantastic film.  This is for sure one of my favorite all time movies.  Bette Midler gives a great performance.  The film makes you laugh and cry.  It should of been nominated for best picture.  Although Midler did win Best Actress at the Golden Globe Awards for her performance in this movie.  A MUST SEE!  "},{"Title":"Political clichés sink a promising film","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After FOR THE BOYS flopped at the box office, Bette Midler angrily told the press she would never make another musical.But the trouble was she DIDN'T make a musical. She threw a few numbers into a heavy-handed message picture that strikes political poses which are obvious and overly-familiar.It starts out so well, a real old-time star vehicle, perfectly showcasing Midler's musical and comedic gifts, but less than an hour in, it transforms into something much less interesting.Musical numbers disappear, replaced by pious liberal sermonettes, teaching us that blacklisting, patriotism, sexism, and the Viet Nam war are all Very Bad.FOR THE BOYS illustrates the damage done to a story when the writers refuse to be fair to a major character. Here, James Caan is painted in such broad strokes as a two-dimensional villain (sexist! adulterous! untalented! corrupt!), the whole film becomes a cartoon.By the time you see them in the worst old age make-up in Hollywood history (it looks like someone stuck pie dough on Midler and Caan's faces), what little credibility remains is swept away for good.But the first 45 minutes reminds you how great Midler can be in the right vehicle. Will someone please cast her in another musical? A REAL one this time. "},{"Title":"For All","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's very easy to criticise a film like for the boys, after all it is sentimental and there is singing, a sure fire vote killer. Despite this I liked it, in fact I more than liked it. Why because it has a heart it may be sentimental sometimes but it works, the singing works, and there isn't that much of it.The reason this film really works is Bette Midler that age old phrase a tour de force is the only thing that you can say, the woman is fantastic. Sassy, vulnerable, moving. She brings to the part a great depth and an impressive range of emotions, most of which are underplayed, making them all the more powerful for it. Well deserving of her Oscar nomination and a little robbed not being chosen as the winner. James Cann is also very good and the production values are high well written and all in all much better than you might think.Yes there are some dodgy bits like the old age make up, though the makeup in the sixties was better, the ending is weak and it was a pity to go out with a whimper considering the rest of the film had such balls. These though are not enough to spoil the film. "},{"Title":"Bett and James have really put together magic","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie is based during two wars and the relationship between two USO singer. Midler and Caan do a wonderful job at entertaining and showing the colors of the characters. Although it can be very sappy at times, it still is a movie I think even men can enjoy. The soundtrack is quite a experience as well. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you enjoy Bette Midler movies, this one is a must.  Her singing is great as well as her acting.The makeup crew could have done a better job on the aging process (no way will these people look this way at that assumed age!), but that aside, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"A must seen movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just can support the words of my forespeaker Jamie Moffat.There is a moment in the movie, when you have a smile in your face, if you want it or not. Ans it last to the end credits.This film is a masterpiece, its full of emotions that you have to shear.Watch it, otherwise you miss a great movie masterpiece.SincerlyOlaf Buckmann "},{"Title":"More relationship and less politics would have helped","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Bette Midler and James Caan play two bickering performers who experience a flood of melodrama throughout the course of three wars and a bout of TV blacklisting.  This film, directed by Mark Rydell, The Rose, actually had a great deal of promise, but the film is too wedded to its structure of depicting the wars and other dilemmas in a politically correct manner to spend time with the characters.  Midler and Caan play interesting characters with a interesting relationship.  The film would have been much, much better had it concentrated on them and not on the exceedingly heavy-handed politics. "}{"Title":"Overlong show biz drama is showcase for Bette Midler...","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" FOR THE BOYS manages to be entertaining although there are a lot of things wrong with it--notably, the make-up job for Midler's aging process and some vulgarity in the lines she utters that seem like anachronisms given the time period begins with the '40s-era and women in show biz weren't quite that vulgar in front of U.S. troops.JAMES CAAN does a snappy job of playing her self-absorbed, sexist song-and-dance husband who treats the various wars like a chance to strut his stuff before appreciative audiences, while Midler's character comes to understand the seriousness of war and what it does to America's finest young men, especially when her own son is killed during their act in Korea.Midler is especially good in the early sequences where she gets to do pretty much the sort of brassy routines she started out doing in show business. Here she plays a U.S.O. singer who joins a World War II tour run by Caan. It's not exactly a case of love at first sight--in fact, it's a clash of two strong egos that remains pretty tumultuous throughout the film.Patterned obviously after the careers of show biz troupers like Bob Hope and the sort of shows he put on for servicemen throughout the various wars, it's entertaining despite its length and owes most of its ability to hold interest due to Midler's self-confident central performance. She's a real trouper and steals just about every scene she's in. GEORGE SEGAL does a nice job as a writer mistreated by Caan who gets his revenge at an unusual Christmas party playing Santa.Midler is at her best when singing a few songs in her own inimitable style but the film drags whenever it deals with the more serious aspects of the story. CHRISTOPHER RYDELL (the director Mark Rydell's son) is terribly miscast as Midler's son and furthermore, looks nothing like the two youngsters that play him as a young boy. He's inept in a key scene where he talks about the horrors of war.It's an ambitious saga of show biz and war, but something about it seems awfully clichéd and artificial no matter how artfully director Mark Rydell has directed certain scenes.Summing up A must for Midler fans and James Caan is good too as the aging scoundrel. "},{"Title":"Indicative of 90's Period Pieces","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Schmaltzy. Good schmaltz, but schmaltz nonetheless.A very thin veiled look at the USO coupling of two diametrically different performers who struggle to work with one another thru war and the bitterness that entwines their lives through the decades.I think both roles were mis-casted. Caan, while giving his best, still seemed...angry. That chip on his shoulder is more off putting than endearing, even during the predictable change of heart. And Bette, which also has a strong performance, seemed to play the young sex kitten as an older person, but as an older person attempt to play the sex kitten. What you end up with is a very uneven movie. You really want it be effective, but it just falls a tiny bit short of it.Would I recommend on a slow night...yeah, it's interesting to watch. Since you get a sense some of these moments are taken straight from relationships as volatile as Ricky and Lucy, or Burns and Allen. "},{"Title":"If you like the music and are nostalgic about the era it is worth it, don't pay attention to the politics","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I stumbled just two weeks ago with the soundtrack of this movie without knowing there was a movie for it. I absolutely loved the songs and the band tunes and decided to watch the movie. I think this movie looks better with the age as its obvious flaws (makeup of the old protagonists for example) probably offended moviegoers in 1991. Today the movie is doubly nostalgic as I also found charming the portrayal of the initial scene that was very 80's in style. The hate story in the backstage/perfect chemistry in the stage was perfectly performed and the music (and the now outdated jokes) are terrific. Because there is no pressure to ask the film to be perfect in every possible way now that is 2013, you'll enjoy the movie if you like the music and the 'magic' of show business in a now bygone era that is portrayed very well in the dramatic scenes of the film in my opinion. "},{"Title":"lifts you up to heaven, then drops you flat","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the oddest movie ever. It takes you soaring to unimaginable heights, then, abruptly, sends you into a tail spin worthy of several four letter words. Bette Midler gives a performance that is right up there with The Rose, perhaps even surpassing it, and anything else she has ever done. She proves, throughout the movie, that she is an enormous talent worthy of an even higher acclaim than that of some of our classic legendary actors / actresses of the forties and fifties. And that says a lot coming from someone that doesn't much care for her off stage.I like James Caan as an actor ... however, he was totally miscast in For The Boys. I believe this movie would have done better with George Segal playing the role of Eddie Sparks ... and that mistake cost the movie big-time! I enjoyed Caan in Funny Lady, but in this role he was a total flop! Caan just doesn't have the charisma needed in the movie to charm Bette Midler from a state of seething to almost acceptability ... not like Segal has. Segal has the ability to conjure up those puppy dog eyes ... Caan doesn't.I will say that the make-up artist that worked on Bette was nothing short of genius. Most makeup artists fall short when it comes to making a young star look like a old has been! This makeup artist was right up there with whomever did the makeup for Albert Finney in that wonderful musical Scrooge! Which happens to be a real Christmas favorite of mine that is totally ignored by those that choose the movies to be televised each Christmas ... shame, shame! All in all ... I gave this movie a 5 star rating, not because of the miscasting problem ... but because I don't like being dropped out of an airplane without a parachute ... and that is exactly how I felt at this movie's highest points! However, if you are a fan of Bette's wonderful talents ... this one is To Live For! "},{"Title":"Bette Midler is pure brilliance!!!","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's amazing and touching film, where there are much nice music and songs. Terrific Bette Midler and surprising James Caan made up on a screen beautiful and harmonious duo, their characters Dixie Leonard and Eddie Sparks were raising spirit for soldiers at war and they have very patriotic work. That's very right and patriotic film showing respect to army and boys who were at war. Remarkable director Mark Rydell, who I love for his masterpieces The Rose and On Golden Pond made this very vital and sincere movie that also entertainingly and funny to watch. Bette Midler is pure brilliance!!! When she sang for soldiers I was in tears. She is really genius and incredible actress. "},{"Title":"Score","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This was a fantastic movie and the score which I have on CD is one of the best. The chemistry between Midler and Caan is electric. Bette is in her element and the songs are classic. Jimmy Caan was fabulous as Eddie. Caan can hold his own with actresses Midler in this movie and with Kathy Bates in Misery. I wish the movie would have more airplay on cable especially given the fact that the US troops are in military op currently. Regardless of whether we should be fighting or whether we should not be, the movie has lots of heart and it's for the boys (and girls)who serve. Has anyone seen the movie on cable lately? I am quite surprised that this movie has not scored higher in the ratings. This is a movie I would pay to watch in theatres today! We could use the good wishes for our troops these days. "},{"Title":"For the Boys is For Men and Women everywhere...if you are a Midler fan (and I am) this is a must see.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I lost count of the times I watched this movie in the span of three weeks. Where I was when this movie was released I wondered? I knew about the film, what was I thinking? What was I doing? Oh forgot, gave birth to my daughter, no excuse.I was born in 1951 and romanticized the 40's for most of my 20's. What did I like about this movie you ask? Let me count the ways. The realism portrayed in the RSO tours. It spans World War II, Korea and Vietnam with uncanny sensitivity. Of special note is a scene when Midler and Caan are at the side of a dying solder.George Segal is as I always find him, UNBELIEVABLY talented and entertaining. His co-writer, Loretta is wonderful with her hip slinging quips. Best line in the movie is hers What will it take for you to give me a kiss? A pause she replies Chloroform. This is the type of humor of the 40's rarely found in films, other than Neil Simon plays. In fact this film is full of quips. I find myself looking for incidences on a daily basis enabling me to draw from the millions of one liners in this screen script.The music or better yet the selection of music is perfect! And then of course, there is Bette. The film is made in 1991, Bette was born in 1945. Do the math, she looks fabulous, to me she is at her best. Not just in the looks department it's the command and ease she displays in her role.James Caan how difficult was it for him to play someone so close in character to himself? I'm sure difficult, because his performance grabs you. You really care about the Solid Gold, World Class, Son of a Bitch (Bette's words not mine. See what I mean?).There is nothing I did not like about this movie. Not true, the main characters did not speak for 25 years. It was tragic but understandable and real. All the more reason for me to love the story and it's characters.It's excellent and I recommend it to all Midler fans everywhere. Bette I've been away for too long but never to stray again. Can't wait to purchase the DVD and CD of this movie. Also looking forward to her latest release of Peggy Lee songs. A perfect match of talents, kudos to you Ms. Midler. "},{"Title":"I thought it was a wonderful movie","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I feel about the movie the same way I feel about all of the wars the US has been in since WWII. I think WWII was the last good war. No war is good, people dying is horrific, but at least our Boys died for a noble purpose. Every war since then has gotten increasingly more questionable in terms of why we were there and what we were trying to achieve. I think Bette Midler's attitude reflected that. She became increasingly disillusioned as she went off to entertain in each war. The loss of American (and the other countries) soldiers lives became more questionable. The benefits we got out of so many young men and women dying became less clear. The songs that were written about the wars are a really good reflection on how the war was perceived. As the mother of a marine officer I empathize with her loss. But I think they way she played the part really reflects all of the things that I've said above. "},{"Title":"Long, overreaching nostalgic drama is only sporadically enjoyable...","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Both brash and plastic, Mark Rydell's For The Boys isn't ever convincing, but with so much talent on-hand it is seldom dull. Playing the star-duo of a musical-comedy act which spans the decades, James Caan and Bette Midler have no chemistry together. Their bickering is contrived and mechanical, and their routines on stage don't soar with hilarity (everything about this union is heavily grounded, and the actors look unhappy throughout). Bette Midler is good when she's flying solo, and not being forced to be wacky. She has a lovely moment singing In My Life to a group of soldiers, but the scene is undermined by gunfire (a cue for director Rydell to make a ham-handed statement about the senselessness of war). Lackluster, overeager, and unsubtle, the picture has too much star-power to be lousy, is instead glossy, well-produced swill. ** from **** "},{"Title":"plays better in 2005","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" FOR THE BOYS might just be a Better Midler film today, in a period of another middle east war and albeit a more tragic and unpopular one with a far more critical and on going media focus than the first 1991 war.....This exceptionally well made musical drama, made for about $70 million in 1991 and really a protest musical parable, did not reach the intended at the time and the first Iraq war was over before this film had a chance to make an impact. Seen in 2006, now is actually the right time for this film. We are also quite a while from other Bette Midler films of the 80s and as a result FTB has a stronger solo spotlight. Having appreciated this film in that light, I believe it is possibly one of the last great semi musicals of the 20th century and is helped immeasurably by a very pungent script. At times it is not unlike NEW YORK NEW YORK both in look and romantic combat. Cann and Midler work so well against and with each other, underlined by George Segal in a role that is actually substantial for him. Apparently this is loosely based on the life of Martha Raye, who complained bitterly upon release that this fact was not recognized. FOR THE BOYS is a major musical film but tapers off tune wise in the last 40 minutes while the starling and harrowing (but slightly illogical) Vietnam War scenes are played out. Midler is front and center star at all times and the production values show the huge budget well spent on screen. If reissued today might get a better reception given the Iraq war to play against and therefore have more impact. It's a good film, serious and with excellent music and comedy in the first hour especially. "}{"Title":"Nothing To Write Home About","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Seemingly suggested by a combination of Bob Hope's legendary USO tours and the toxic relationship that sometimes develops between comedy team partners (with the likes of Martin and Lewis a case in point), FOR THE BOYS gives us the story of Dixie Leonard (Midler), a rough and tough singer with a naughty sense of humor, and Eddie Sparks (James Caan), a secretly sexist comic. When the two meet on a World War II USO tour, it's loathing at first sight--but their audiences adore the combination. Trouble is, you can't imagine why. Both Midler and Caan are expert performers, but they have remarkably little on-screen chemistry, and although they score points individually they never quite seem to be working in tandem. To make matters worse, while the dialogue is often witty, the plot is leaden, and it promptly goes off into a host of predictable directions as it drags its characters from World War II to Vietnam in order to make a series of well-intended but extremely obvious and over-worked comments about changing times and the wastefulness of war.The supporting cast is strong, but like the leads they seem to be pulling in different directions throughout the film, and when all is said and done this rather lengthy film feels quite a bit longer than it actually is. Midler's songs are the only real highlight, and the thing is indeed watchable... but only just. The DVD package isn't anything to write home about either, consisting of a handful of trailers and television spots. For hardcore Midler fans only.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Transformation of the Dixie Leonard charater is interesting.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An interesting film that seemed to try and do one too many things.  It wants to entertain, educate, provide nostalgia, laughs and do character studies.  The most interesting character easily is Bette Midlers Dixie Leonard.  During her first performance `For The Boys' she is a vibrant comical singing and dancing entertainer who throws her heart and soul into her show.  She is perhaps naïve and oblivious to what war is about and maybe even thinks it's just one big party and nobody really dies or suffers.  By the end when she goes to Vietnam she is a vulgar, disgusting, embittered slob who harbors some anger that the GIs no longer swoon over her as they did a quarter of a century or so earlier.  The GI's are of a different generation and she can't relate to them or why they have the attitude they do. She is perhaps also angry with herself for not being able to be enthused about performing for the fighting men of this war the way she was years ago.   How does she end up like this?  Well that's what this picture is partly about.  It's not a bad movie and didn't deserve the blasting the critics gave it. "},{"Title":"But what does it add up to?","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It has long been acknowledged by many that effective movies have more in common with short stories than they do with novels.  In fact, on the whole film adaptations of short stories have been more successful than adaptations of novels (yes, with numerous exceptions).  Novels can incorporate subplots, less-than-fully-realized characters, and even outright digressions without the main theme being adversely affected.  Do this with a movie (e.g., For the Boys) and the result loses both unity and focus.Here is a picture attempting to make statements about a variety of issues and relationships without managing to develop them in any meaningful way - let alone relate them to one another.  The motives and attitudes of the major characters raise more questions than they answer.  When all is said and done, is this picture (the whole picture) actually ABOUT anything?James Caan, who has proven himself to be a versatile performer, nevertheless seems miscast here.  He appears uncomfortable, both on- and off-stage, with none of the sharpness and ready-with-a-one-liner-for-anything presence people tend to associate with a stand-up comic.  Bette Midler, a good choice for her role, gives a convincing if unmemorable performance. "},{"Title":"Great Bette, so-so movie","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've had mixed feelings about Bette's movies and often doubted her as an actress.  Her performance in this movie was phenomenal and all the buzz about her is on the mark.  The movie itself is okay- entertaining with lots of emotional moments, but doesn't really come together.  But, again, Bette is wonderful and her character shines brightly.  Catch it on TV or rent it one rainy day, especially if you like Bette ) "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I wouldn't have bothered to watch this movie except (A) I read several positive viewer reviews on IMDb or Amazon, (B) I developed an appreciation for Bette Midler during the five episodes when her TV show was good and (C) I caught 15 minutes of For the Boys on broadcast TV and enjoyed what I saw.Having seen the whole movie now I gave it a 6. This is not the first movie to mix uplifting with depressing, funny with serious, in an attempt to mirror real life. But the movie doesn't pull it off well. When Bette's character saw her son die in Vietnam I found it melodramatic and contrived rather than moving. An astute viewer would know the kid was going to die anyway, as Bette's character telegraphed it in a prior scene.The ending was incredible in the sense that it defied credibility and put a happy ending on a movie that had been working toward the opposite outcome for two hours. The Eddie Sparks character was underdeveloped in the sense that we never saw why he was such a popular entertainer. Although the audience was supposed to find that Eddie's good qualities balanced his boorishness and infidelity, James Caan didn't pull it off. Still, I enjoyed the first 40 minutes of the movie. The scene when Bette performs for the first time on the USO tour is terrific. And George Segal is good as Uncle Art. You might want to stop the tape after Bette leaves the stage at the bomber base, though. "},{"Title":"Almost a nice try at poeticising wars.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Surprised that I took the time to watch this gross simplification of international events of the past 60 years, I saw a grating deja-vu performance from Bette Midler combine admittedly well with a characteristically capable James Caan to create a movie which seems desperate to make a point or two but falls a fair distance short.Though charming for moments of its attempt to be close to epic, it trivialises wars it tries to either document or romanticise. The end effect is a lack of empathy with our protagonists and a slight disappointment with the schmalzty approach to severe and devastating events. "},{"Title":"repulsive!","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've enjoyed many of Bette's films, including Big Business and The First Wives Club, but this movie is downright repulsive and distasteful! I'm glad they tried to expose the blacklisting of the 1950's for the heartbreaking nonsense that it was, and I sort of appreciated the basic anti-war theme. But the film itself is horrendous and the ending made me want to vomit! There is absolutely no warmth in these cardboard characters played by Midler and Caan. You can't help but hate them both! Every dumb and embarrassing stereotype is used to excess. Poorly written---it bounces between sitcom stupidity and soap opera histrionics--and definitely doesn't leave you with a warm and fuzzy feeling when it's finally over. If you watch this movie, you're wasting nearly two hours of your life! What more can I say.....it's awful. If Caan's character was supposed to be Bob Hope....well, he was definitely miscast in the role. This film ranks in stupidity with Funny Lady, which also starred Caan. "},{"Title":"Head for the Trenches","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a terrible movie that uses every trite sentimental piece of flotsom and jetsom that the irresponsible producers (Bette was one) could throw in.Here is the stout hearted troop entertaining other stout hearted troops from which hubby emerges to be sung to by his sexy smart mouthed hoofer/singer/wife on stage. His last hurrah. Cut to widow in black weeds. Here, worst of all, is the god-awful wrung out slow motion machine gun death of a perfect top-of-his-West-Point-class son, trying to reach Mom who, incidentally, probably drew the enemy fire in the first place with her belted out songs and thudding around the stage. It must be said in the son's favor, however, that he managed to get his hair stylishly cut (just a whisper of mousse)and deliver a moving anti-war speech to his slack jawed mom before biting the dust (dust he wouldn't have bit if he had the sense to come in out of the flack). By the way, didn't anyone casting this turkey realize that the son's bone structure and genetic characteristics would not have completely altered over the years from childhood? I think the adult son actor is hunky, but he must have been a Walk In for the other kid.It is deeply offensive to portray any young man dying the way this movie does. It is vicious and unnecessary, given the countless thousands of non-chic snipped young men who died in Vietnam. And, let's just say it, it is an insult to West Point. I mean, really, if they can't even teach their point man to keep his damn head down under fire, we might as well turn the place into a day care center.However, all that said, I would definitely recommend you see this movie. Bette in a rubber ducky suit is worth the price. Why is it that special effects people can give us incredible illusions like Star Wars, and can't make one middle aged Jewish woman believable as a dottering old crone? Just as well, it's hilarious to watch her waddle. When I saw Old Bette in that purple Balenciaga ballgown, I reflexively looked for the tie down rope.I can't bear to share my thoughts about the tear jerking (from laughter) final scene in this flick. Let's just say that For the Boys should be in a boxed set with the remake of Lost Horizon. "}]