[{"Title":"First-rate comedy with some serious themes running just beneath the surface.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   City Slickers entertained me enormously when I was a teenager because it has some good, solid laughs. Nowadays, as I approach my thirtieth birthday with frightening momentum, it still entertains me but it touches me too. That's probably what makes it such a great film the skillful intertwining of humour, emotion and action. New Yorker Mitch (Billy Crystal) has reached crisis point in his mundane life. Bored by his job in the lower reaches of radio broadcasting and frustrated by the alarming rate at which years seem to be passing him by, he senses that his life has been a failure. His two friends, Phil (Daniel Stern) and Ed (Bruno Kirby) buy him a two week vacation for his birthday. No ordinary vacation, mind... a fortnight driving cattle across the Wild West, just like in the good old days. And it is while on this extraordinary  vacation that the three buddies learn how to make the most of their mixed-up lives. The performances are uniformly excellent, especially Crystal who is in sharper form than ever before (or since, come to think of it) and Jack Palance as the leathery trail boss whose simple philosophies are surprisingly insightful. The scripting is outstanding, giving all the stars a chance to do some good character development, while providing terrific laugh-out-loud moments too. The film works on other levels too the music is stirring, the photography spectacular and the editting very sharp (especially in a superb scene in which Crystal tries on an assortment of ill-fitting cowboy hats, only to opt in the end for his trusty old baseball cap). City Slickers is great entertainment, and one of the truly timeless comedy masterpieces from its decade. "},{"Title":"Kind of sneaks up on you.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I thought it was a piece of wasted Hollywood fluff. Then I watched it again for some reason and liked it a little more. The third time I watched this film I became hooked. City Slickers is wonderful fun. Billy Crystal is perfect in the mid-life crisis role and Jack Palance has been waiting for this part his whole career. Ron Underwood did a great job with this one. It seemed cliched at first, then I realized it is a great original piece of comedy film-making. "},{"Title":"Great comic western","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Crystal puts on a fine show in the comic western 'City Slickers'. This is a consistently funny and thouroughly enjoyable comedy which stars Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby as the 3 middle aged friends who take a vacation in the west and get into all sorts of carry on with cattle and Curly the cowboy. Crystal is a fine comedian and he certainly shows it here. Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby do well too and there is an excellent show from Jack Palance as Curly. There was also a sequel made called 'City Slickers 2 The Legend of Curly's Gold'. This was just as good and I also recommend it if you like this. But see 'City Slickers' a classic comedy western. "},{"Title":"Stand By Me meets Groundhog Day","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Excellent. Funny, romantic, coming-of-middle-aged, must see.I had some difficulty trying to categorize this movie. It is extremely funny most of the time, but has an underlying emotional element throughout the film which can send you to a reminiscent mood at times. The beauty of this film is that it explores an uncommon theme among movie makers - the bond between male friends which is just as strong as the female version, but not discussed as often.Billy Crystal plays a typical bloke in that uneasy period between being one of the lads and being old  i.e. coming up to his 40th birthday. We are drawn in to the lives of all the three main characters with the ups and downs of having lived it all, settled down, and remembered what our youth was like. To get an escape by going away with your old friends once a year to relive your youth - sorry ladies, but all us guys do it now and then - provides an excellent theme for this movie made better by the fact that most viewers will relate themselves to at least one character in the cast, from the lively funster who always has the bright ideas to the quiet lad who secretly looks forward to finding out what his mates have lined up for him this year. The fairer sex are not in any way left out of this character identification with characters from the middle-aged housewife through the feisty-but-dull teenager and back to to good ol' Old Dear - all smiles, reliable no matter what life throws at you.Without giving too much of the story away, it's difficult to say any more, other than I voted this movie 8 out of 10 and if you do decide to watch it, feel free to complain to me if you don't enjoy it - I don't expect any complaints for this recommendation -) "},{"Title":"Crystal isn't to everybody's tastes, but this inspiring film is his finest","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SPOILERS Every generation's men have one thing in common. Whatever the age range is, every man who has ever reached a certain age on this planet has gone through a mid-life crisis. Whether they have it when younger, or around the early forties, we all go through a period when we question what we've done with our lives and feel trapped. In 1991's often daft, and regularly inspiring, City Slickers our three heroes all learn to appreciate life as they drive a herd of cattle to Colorado.Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal) feels old. Waking on his birthday, he finds himself feeling trapped and miserable. His friends Ed and Phil (Bruno Kirby and Daniel Stern) also have problems in their lives. For Mitch's present, he and his two friends go on a cattle herding holiday to experience a childhood dream. When there, Mitch meets the stone faced Curly (Jack Palance) who helps him to find himself again.From the animated beginning standing out as a tribute to the Pink Panther series, City Slickers has more magical moments than you can count on your hands. Whether a hilarious line that you want to write down to remember, or a visually stunning scene to the film's excellent main score, you think of City Slickers and it's possible to think of a moment to treasure.The acting as well is top notch. Yes, it's true that Billy Crystal is one of these actors / comedians that you love or hate, but along with When Harry Met Sally, this is one of his finest hours. Ultimately though, it's not Crystal that should be remembered. Bruno Kirby as Ed Furillo is a revelation, demonstrating a skill for humour and sentimentality at the same time. Again though, Kirby, despite giving such a good performance, is overshadowed by the stunning performance by worthy Oscar winner Jack Palance. Winning the award for best supporting actor (38 years after his nomination for Shane), Palance is impossible to criticise as the mysterious Curly.Key to the success of City Slickers is that simple fact that it truly is an inspiring film. It's possible to create a long list of films which can be described as 'inspirational', but there's just something extra about this film which really hits the spot. Scenes where the three friends ride their horses to the amazing score, they just hit the spot and you find yourself wishing, even if just for a second, that you could be there. It's magical.Some people don't like Billy Crystal as an actor. That's fair enough, that's their choice. Crystal is one of those who you do enjoy watching, or you want to hit him. In City Slickers though, he pulls out one of his finest performances. Helped by the flaw free Jack Palance and the brilliant Bruno Kirby, Crystal leads the way in this often funny, often inspiring and always enjoyable film. If you ever needed a film to smile and feel alive to, this is it. "},{"Title":"One my favorite comedies of all time!!!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There really aren't enough good things I can say about this film.  The story is absolutely fantastic, the acting is great, the cast is superb and the comedy is hilarious!  The films' story is very entertaining and keeps you interested from the first second to the last.  This is basically a film about finding out what is important in your life and what means the most to you...and also having a few good laughs along the way.  Not only that, but there are actually quite a few touching scenes in this film as well.  Also, just as a side note, I love the opening credits to this film.  It isn't often that I can say that about a film.The director, Ron Underwood, really out-did himself with this film.  I've seen 4 of his 6 theatrical films so far and absolutely LOVED 3 of them (Tremors, City Slickers, and Mighty Joe Young, the fourth one, Speechless, I have only seen once and I hardly remember it)!  I can't wait to see his next work.All the cast members involved in this film were excellent in their respective roles.  The main characters are played so well and have such great dialogue that you really feel like you know the characters.  This is, without a doubt, one of my top 3 favorite films starring Billy Crystal (the others being Monsters Inc. and When Harry Met Sally).  Billy Crystal is absolutely hilarious in this film, I laughed incredibly hard the first time I saw the film (and still do).  Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby play the perfect buddies to Billy Crystal in the film and really have great chemistry between the three of them.  Jack Palance is another great touch in the film.  The entire supporting cast was excellent as well, I won't get into each one though, because there are too many to list.  This film also yields a very young, up and coming, Jake Gyllenhaal of October Sky, Donnie Darko, Bubble Boy, The Good Girl and Moonlight Mile.  Jake does a great job as Danny Robbins.One other thing I think I should mention is the music in this film.  All the music is perfect!  You can tell that the music was chosen very carefully for particular scenes and it works so well.  I really enjoyed all the music in this film.This is another one of those movies that I highly recommend to everyone!  There are so many good things about this film, I strongly recommend you see it.  I hope you aren't disappointed.  Thanks for reading and happy viewing.-Chris "},{"Title":"Comedy,Adventure,friendship and the wild west all combine to make one pretty good movie!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers-was when I first saw the previews many years ago, nothing I thought I'd be interested in.  Then I saw it. I was very much mistaken, I got into this right away with enthusiasm-this isn't just a good movie, I'd call it very good or even great. I didn't expect the depth and the beauty of the storyline that I got. One of the best movies Billie Crystal has ever made.City Slickers had moments of comedy that were actually funny. Really really funny. In addition, the emotional element that went along with the comedy just made it a that much more satisfying movie going experience. This is a movie that stands out by combining fantastic humor with a touching and relatable story about three friends and the search to find who they really are as people. And that this all takes place in such stunning surroundings just completes the movie experience. The dialogue was real and relateable and what was done so well, was how all encompassing the movie was-comedy,western,drama-everything was combined here and the results flowed perfectly smooth and were great. This script was superb.Identity is an issue that all people struggle with at any age-the way these people spoke to each other were probebly very close in nature to conversations going on right now. The cinemotography was magnificent and the characters were believable to the point where you either feel like you know them or you'd like to. I think that's enough reasons to dig the movie! In short-City Slickers is a surprisingly excellent movie that garners a 9 out of 10 for me and can be enjoyed by all. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Well-Meaning Comedy.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers is one of those curiosities that is just good pure entertainment that works in spite of itself. Billy Crystal is going through a mid-life crisis. It is time to get away. So he goes on a trail ride with friends Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby. What follows is a funny film that is full of outlandish delight. Oscar-winner Jack Palance dominates in a very short role as the man hired to look after Crystal, his friends and a group of interesting characters. Charming little film. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"you'll love it","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is for anyone who needs relief from a crisis, middle-aged or otherwise.Three buddies head down the trails to relieve their midlife crises. They wind up sharing the adventures of a lifetime. I have enjoyed this movie each and every time I have seen it. The comedy is pleasant, and you will not exhale during the river rescue scene. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Big Little Movie","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one that I think every guy should see at least once. I could really relate to the character of Mitch's questioning his job, and wondering what he should be doing with his life. I thought the movie frankly starts out with a rather serious mood, relaxed by the characters joking about their situations, but I liked that a lot. It makes you think about how heavy the responsibility of providing for a family really can be. The humor is totally great in this film as well. Crystal especially had me laughing all the time. And as others have said, it kind of surprises you how the story gets pretty emotional down the stretch. Almost cried, but not quite. I just watched it for the first time last weekend, gave it a 10, and look forward to watching it many times in the future. "}{"Title":"great comedy","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Crystal does a great job in this, and I'm really not a big fan either,, I'm more of a Jack Palance fan, by the way he was great as the trail boss.. I don't know what I would do if I had the money and two weeks off, cattle drive,, maybe not so much , but the movie provides an interesting premise for us guys in their late 30's early 40's . 3 men with jobs in the city , work their butt's off for a year and save up their vacation time to go on a cattle drive,, and in two weeks,, try to find themselves as men,, as each one of them has something different that he wants to accomplish. but the main thing is that they all have fun doing it,, along the way the meet Curly ,, Jack Palance as the trail boss,, I don't know why he wasn't in the whole movie,, but that's another subject all together,, my favorite character however without a doubt was little Norman the cow,, excellent funny movie,, love the river chase scene, this is one of those movies that I can watch once or twice every year and not get tired of it . "},{"Title":"Sweet funny movie","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal) is frustrated with his job selling ad time on the radio. Phil Berquist (Daniel Stern) is in a hateful marriage and found cheating with the checkout girl. Ed Furillo (Bruno Kirby) is settling down with an underwear model. The three friends decide to go on a getaway driving cattle. There they meet the beautiful Bonnie Rayburn (Helen Slater) who just was recently dumped, father & son dentists, Barry & Ira ice cream makers, and the harden trail boss Curly (Jack Palance).What makes this work is the chemistry between the three good comedic talents, and Jack Palance playing up his rough cowboy act. It has a sweet heart and Billy Crystal making jokes when he was still funny. It has some really funny insightful mid-life-crisis guy talk. And Jack Palance delivers some funny memorable punchlines. "},{"Title":"A fun comic western by the man who knows fun comic westerns all too well","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Few other comedic filmmakers understand the west on a comedic, farcical level than Ron Underwood. Just a year before directing City Slickers, Underwood directed one of my favorite contemporary comedy/horror films, Tremors, about a small, rather unpopulated town in Nevada being literally swallowed by mutant, underground worms. The film was not just fun to watch, but fun to imagine that deep underground there are large, unearthly worms that have remained undetected by elaborate seismographs and are now resurfacing to swallow anything that could cause a detectable vibration underground. Needless to say, after watching it when I was eight, I took extra-quiet steps.And here's City Slickers, a comedy that uses the wild west as a background for numerous visual gags, snappy wordplay, and a trio of great performances. The three guys are Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal), a radio advertiser who is experiencing his midlife crisis after turning thirty-nine, Phil Berquist (Daniel Stern), who is stuck in a sexless marriage in the midst of managing a grocery store, and Ed Furillo (Bruno Kirby), a womanizer uncomfortable with the notion that there is a time to settle down. On his birthday, Mitch is given a present from his two buds which is a vacation down on a southern cattle drive. Reluctantly, he accepts, and before they know it, they are defending the cattle drive in true western fashion.Billy Crystal is an ideal character for Mitch. He has the right balance of comedic wit and dramatic potency to make a character like this work well on the basis of being a sadsack but also a compelling lead. Stern and Kirby work well in the supporting characters, mainly because they themselves have good comedic timing and work well off of Crystal's lead.City Slickers works better than another western farce by the name of Three Amigos, which was stunningly mediocre in its inclusion of three hilarious comedians - Steve Martin, Chevy Chase, and Martin Short - and successfully finding nothing interesting to do with them. The film drifted from one stale setup to another, falling flat on its face, before stumbling over to the next contrived setup and doing the same. Too many instances in the film were dry and the laugh to actor ration was surprisingly very low.City Slickers works because writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel know how to effectively utilize their talent and give each character sustainable depth and energy to run for the near-two hour runtime the film holds. In that time, the film is often funny, kind of poignant, a little overlong, but heartfelt all the more. It's some kind of minor miracle this was well-received by a general public.Starring Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, and Bruno Kirby. Directed by Ron Underwood. "},{"Title":"three men in mid-life crisis go on a cattle drive","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A wonderful, wonderful film, and if you're my age, you'll cry.From 1991, City Slickers stars Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby, Jack Palance, Patricia Wettig, and Helen Slater. Three men (city folk) whose lives range from unhappy to disastrous go on a two week holiday in the wild west driving cattle from New Mexico to Colorado. There, on the open range, away from their responsibilities, they can perhaps sort out what they want and who they are.Crystal is Mitch, a happily married man with children who hates his job and is depressed most of the time. When he gets a 30th birthday gift from his pals to do the cattle drive, his wife (Wettig) insists that he go rather than visit her family. If he hesitates, it's because his friend Ed's last idea, of running with the bulls in Pamplona, was a horror.Phil (Stern) is humiliated at Mitch's 30th birthday party when a woman who works for him comes in and announces she's missed her period, thus causing his wife to dump him on the spot - though they've been miserable for years.Ed has a lingerie model girlfriend who wants a family, but he's having trouble making a commitment.So all three go.There, they meet some real cowboys, and the oldest one, Curly (Palance), is one tough cookie. But Mitch is able to spend some time with him, and Curly tells him that only one thing matters. Just one. But you have to figure out what that one thing is. When Mitch has a crisis, he finally finds out what it is for him.I really loved this film. It was absolutely hilarious, with some of Billy Crystal's fabulous delivery, and yet very touching at the same time. A perfect combination, something that's not always easy to achieve. Very well acted and directed, the film moves along beautifully.Highly recommended. Full of wit, with some excitement, and poignant moments. "},{"Title":"No Movie in History Contains More Elements of Outstanding Movie!","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers is my all-time favorite movie because it contains more of and all necessary elements for a great movie. Action, drama, comedy, good triumphs over evil, humility, irony, satire, relationships between men-men, men-women, generations, human-animal, human-nature, you name it, and to boot it provides awesome natural scenery. Please tell me any other movie in history - yes in all mankind universal history, that covers more? And I'm not even a huge Billy Crystal fan, although I like him and most of his work. Daniel Stern, no one comparable! And the rest of the cast and and crew, producer and director all top performance. What can we say about Jack Palance, initials JP = JUST PERFECT! "},{"Title":"Harmless bit of fun","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I crap bigger than you!A decent Mid life crisis comedy, which is surprisingly deeper than you would expect. Which has many laugh out loud moments.New Yorker Mitch played by Billy Crystal, is at impasse in his life. Unhappy with his job and going through a mid life crises. Him and his two best friends also experiencing their own crises. Decide to take a holiday experience herding cattle across the old west. Billy Crystal who is great in the role bringing great wit and not as depressing as the obvious comparative actor, Woody Allen. Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby also providing adequate support. But Jack Palance steels the show with every scene he is in. Possessing a knowing smile that he is messing with the tourists, and teaching them some simple truths along the way. The film though does not shed new light on the mid life crisis movie, as the film is mostly predictable in how it was going to play out. The film overall is a harmless bit of fun, providing me with plenty of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, we should all 'have a cow' ..","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a guy who just turned 30, got himself married and gave up many crazy projects in order to convince the woman of his life that he's ready to raise a family, I'm probably sure I would end up like Mitch Robbins when I'll turn 39, or like his best friend Phil, or who knows, maybe like Ed. Yes sir, maturity, responsibility, practicality turned City Slickers, a film I laughed at a lot when I was a kid, into a real eye-opening experience, the laughs are still intact, but the whole existential thing cut to my heart, as it never did, making some parts depressingly predictive. This is to the credit of City Slickers, a great comedy with an original premise; three white- collar New Yorkers decide to spend a two-week vacation, herding cattle from New Mexico to Colorado, like real cowboys. Billy Crystal is Mitch, Daniel Stern is Phil and the late Bruno Kirby is Ed, the film screams '90's comedy' through these three faces, but their friendship is not just believable, I wouldn't believe it if these guys were not friends in real life. They share their childhood, baseball and fathers' memories (sometimes, the three at once) with the kind of passion that can only be expressed between pals. City Slickers features real characters, with real problems, real dilemma, and real fears, in a sort of psychological build-up that makes the whole experience even more insightful.Naturally, the film offers the obligatory gallery of supporting characters with their share of goofiness and sympathy, there is a father and his son, both black and dentist as states the son, making an issue of it before anyone would do. There are David Paymer and Josh Mostel as Ira and Barry Shalowitz, owners of one of the biggest national ice companies, a la Ben & Jerry's, and a pretext to a hilarious line when they're asked why it's not their faces that are featured in the boxes would you eat it if it was us?. There's naturally the pretty blonde who might mislead the first-time viewers, but wisely enough, the script avoids any attempt of a romance (the kind that undermined even such classics as Red River, to which City Slickers is a clear homage). These guys have enough problems, Mitch is in a middle-age crisis, contemplating the emptiness of his life, Phil lost his job and wife, Ed lives with a 24-year old girl who wants a baby, whatever the solution is, it's not a woman&#x85; not yet anyway. City Slickers is a buddy movie and I guess that's what men would enjoy the most watching guys they can all relate to, having a good time once in their lives, having a break. By taking them to a totally exotic setting, the film illustrates the miraculous effect communion with nature has on men. A poet said once, it's only when you get at the top of a mountain that you start climbing, in City Slickers, it's when they'll get at the end of the road that the road of their lives will start. This is what it's all about, a new start, with new decisions, new choices. Each one has to figure what the one thing he cares the most is and stick with it. Like the best comedies, City Slickers speaks a powerful and inspirational message about our capacity to change our lives without changing much, just the mindset. And one character embodies this spirit; it's Curly, the veteran cow boy, the toughest man Mitch ever saw. Curly is the character the movie needed the most. Without him, it would have been a bunch of city slickers playing cowboys, but Jack Palance, with his rock-graved face and inimitable grin, is the remaining link to this missed era. The film doesn't just feature a bunch of tender-feet herding a cattle, it's also the celebration of the cowboy spirit, the Old West as a part of history, of pop-culture and cinematic heritage. It's one thing to have the guys yelling Yee- haaa like in Red River, or the trio humming the Bonanza theme. Jack Palance's face is the continuation of Hollywood's Golden Age. And when he said we're a dying breed, I wondered if he was speaking only about cowboys or also about his generation of actors. Palance elevates the film beyond the simple comedy label, and that his brief performance earned him the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor proves how unforgettable he was. That's what a supporting is about, helping the main character to change, to see life differently, without doing much.Directed by Ron Underwood, City Slickers belongs to the best breed of comedy. It is full of priceless exchanges, like a Leone-like duel about ice cream-flavor, or an unforgettable stamped caused by a coffee thermos, many tender subplots like the birth of a little calf that made me for one second considering turning into vegetarian, and the growing complicity between Curly and Mitch. It's funny and warm, and although it does sometimes overdo the male-bonding thing, it never gets over the top. I felt for Mitch when he was wondering what his job was about, for Phil when he finally vented his anger repressed for many years on the bullies, and Ed who seems to incarnate this guilty pleasure, we, committed men, fantasize on? And the icing on the cake is the 'Magnificent Seven'-like score of the film which never seems out-of-place.City Slickers is one of these few comedies that make you both laugh and think like Groundhog Day or Back to the Future, but it doesn't take a fantasy device for that, just an Old West trip. And it's an invitation for each of us to find out this 'one thing' that counts the most, and which 'cowboy trip' would help us to figure out. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie with Hilarious Jack Palance Performance","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This enjoyable comedy about a bunch of soft city guys who test their mettle on a cattle ranch has one major thing to recommend it Jack Palance, in an all too brief appearance as a scary cowboy named Curly. Palance is obviously having a ball, and so do we. I don't know if he deserved an Oscar for it, but oh well. At least we got to see him do one-arm pushups when he accepted his statue.Favorite exchange Billy Crystal Morning Curly. Kill anyone today? Jack Palance (chomping on a cigar with a look of satisfaction) Day's not over yet. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"In My Top-10 List of Best Comedies...","Date":"4 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's just something about City Slickers that I always seem to feel relaxed when watching it. From the slapstick comedy to the one-liners to the sometimes subtle stuff, this film is highly enjoyable. A great cast as well. Billy Crystal is great, but Jack Pollance steals the show. Daniel Stern is perfectly cast as it seems, and everyone else does a fine job. A nice story, with a great script, infused with good directing.Overall, there's some moments that seem misplaced, but as a whole, City Slickers is a film the vast-majority of men will connect with, be they young or old. "},{"Title":"Very funny, with some real-life lessons","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Crystal was never sharper and funnier than in City Slickers. His hilarious comments, and so many funny situations, make this a very funny and entertaining movie. Co-stars like Daniel Stern really make the movie. I question an Oscar for Jack Palance, since his role as Curly the wise, old Westerner, is a very typical type of character that was really not that unique. Nevertheless, Curly does add some important and fun aspects to this film. I really do not care for a lot of the racy and suggestive material toward the beginning of this film, involving Billy Crystal's friends trying to get him to leave his wife and such. At this point, I almost stopped watching the film, but luckily I decided to stick with it. The remainder of the film is nothing but fun. Some of my favorite scenes include Daniel Stern getting overly angry at one of the bullies and some hilarious comments made at the graveside. One reason I really liked this film was the good morals the film turned out, including Crystal's decision to do better at his job and be a better father and husband. This adds a very touching element to the film that ties it all together and makes City Slickers entirely worthwhile. The sex-related material toward the beginning and middle of the film makes it not necessarily appropriate or appealing for everyone. Watch with discretion, but know that the eventual lessons in the film are positive.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"A Comedy That Is Important","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After watching City Slickers, I found myself shocked that it only had a 6.7 rating. The movie is the whole package. It's funny, but it has moments that are very serious and important. If examining this movie, one could find many things, such as important views on death, life and why we're all here. But let's just examine the outer layer here. It is a movie that can make you laugh very hard, but think. Jack Palace's Oscar-Winning performance as Curly does not disappoint, and Billy Crystal is hilarious as always. The characters were likable and the script was near perfection. However, apart from everything good I have to say about this movie, it also felt incomplete. I just can't put my finger on what it needed, but something was missing. Otherwise,City Slickers is a great time and definitely one to see. "},{"Title":"Go and find your smile.","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers is directed by Ron Underwood and written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel. It stars Billy Crystal, Bruno Kirby, Daniel Stern, Patricia Wettig, Helen Slater and Jack Palance. Music is by Marc Shaiman and cinematography by Dean Semler.Mitch (Crystal), Phil (Stern) and Ed (Kirby), three everyday hard working guys going through a mid-life crisis. Choosing to go on a two week vacation to the Wild West where they will drive cattle from New Mexico to Colorado, the three men and an assortment of other vacationers meet Curly (Palance) who will teach them to become Cowboys. But the journey will not just see them learn the art of a cattle drive, it will be also be life affirming for a number of reasons.The theme of a voyage of self discovery is hardly new to cinema, but immense credit goes to Underwood and his team for creating a funny, fresh and heart warming entry into the collection. Planting this out of place group into a Western setting, beautifully realised by Semler's photography (actual New Mexico & Colorado locations), allows for much comedy and detailed character driven drama. The nods to classic Western films and TV shows is evident, but it's the about turn of watching normal tourist types attempt to emulate the likes of John Wayne et al that keeps the film from stagnating. The cliché's from some of those Westerns, the kind that these city folk would know only via the silver screen, come thick and fast, but with a great script to work from, the on form cast provide a true family winner of a picture.The complaints are small when judging the film as a whole, but only having one woman character in the group is a disappointment, for even though Slater is perky and crucial to the group dynamic, it still feels like there's a missed opportunity by the makers to broaden the narrative with at least another female in the mix. But with the central theme being that of male mid-life crisis, it's not hard to understand why the focus is fixed firmly on the principal male characters. Palance won the Best Supporting Actor Academy Award for his affecting turn as leather faced Curly, it's a sweetly underplayed turn that although too short as regards screen time, is none the less as memorable as some of the lines and scenes in the film are. City Slickers is slicker than most, especially for us men of a certain age! 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's Shane meets Breaking Away !","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't say enough about how this movie affected me. The cinematography is outstanding and the music brings me back to the sprawling westerns of the 50's. But it's the camaraderie of Mitch, Phil and Ed that really touched my heart. I have friends like that and we don't do things like this...but I wish we did!The way each of them grows - emotionally and spiritually throughout the film really gives it credibility. I think that the comedy is very realistic and the plot is believable, but it's the symbolism of the river scene that made me buy the DVD and watch it time after time. When Ed is told to forget trying to do what's impossible, that he's just a sporting goods salesman his reply is Not Today (meaning today I'm a Cowboy). We would all hope that we would jump in a raging river in a minute to save anything we love, and we are very fortunate to have friends like Ed and Phil who would risk their lives to save ours. But these guys aren't just pulling a friend out of a river...their desperately trying to pull their own lives together. Their not just trying to bring in the herd...their trying to bring meaning into their lives. Their not just trying to save a bunch of cattle...their trying to save each other.Thanks to the makers for such a memorable and touching experience. "},{"Title":"Typical Crystal","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic Crystal/Ganz/Mandel, which means relatively equal parts schtick, smarm, pathos, okay humor and awkwardness.  Crystal, Stern and Kirby sign up for dude ranch, meet Palance (the highlight of the show) and end up with s life experience.  You could do better or worse in movie viewing.  Then there's the big drop to City Slickers II, which misses Kirby, Slater and most of the other intangibles that were good about this deal. "},{"Title":"Classic fish out of water comedy. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you are in need of cheering up and getting away from your problems, CITY SLICKERS (1991) is the perfect therapy. I saw it at a time when my life was not going so well. I was exhausted most days and my career wasn't looking too optimistic.If there was ever a comedy waiting to made, it was this one, CITY SLICKERS plays on the old Western genre and brings it into play with some current contemporary situations and it is one of the most skillfully played comedies ever made.Mitch (Billy Crystal) is a man with a midlife crisis. He and his friends (Bruno Kirby and Daniel Stern) go on regular holidays to do more extreme things, but even they are not providing the satisfaction needed for a fulfilling life. Stern's wife is an overbearing, domineering harridan, whilst Kirby seems to be dating much younger women, hence Mitch's remark 'Ever notice that the older you get, the younger your girlfriends get - you're practically dating sperm'Mitch is getting ready to celebrate his 39th, but at the party, Stern's supermarket mistress turns up to announce that she is pregnant, much to the chagrin of Stern's wife. Mitch is encouraged my his wife (Patricia Wettig) to go on a cattle drive with his friends for a week to 'find his smile'On arrival, it is clear that the cattle drive is a real-life representation, not for fun. The trio encounter veteran cowboy Curly (the late Jack Palance in Oscar-winning mode) and a tale of bonding begins to occur.....Too much to give away beyond that for you to appreciate the class of this comedy, CITY SLICKERS belongs on anybody's viewing list who is going through a bad time in life, not just those in a midlife crisis. "},{"Title":"solid movie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers has a great cast for the exception of Bruno Kirby who I can care less about, but still City Slickers was a very enjoyable and solid entertainment, about city boys driving cattle across the Colorado/New Mexico border. Jack Palace as the old tough cowpoke was great, only John Wayne would have been better if he was still around at the time. Billy Crystal was excellent in this movie one of his best movies, I enjoyed City Slickers and you will also. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very good. It was funny and had a great cast of characters. Billy Crystal was the best though. He was sort of a man who was depressed because he was getting older. So his two best friends take him on a wild adventure to herd caddle. But when their trail guide dies and his two drunk assistants run off it's up to the insane trio to get the caddle to their rightful home. On the way the have some commical problems along the way and by the end of the movie they find true friend ship and discover the secret of life. It's a great movie so go watch it! "},{"Title":"Existentialist & Formulaic","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What is the one thing that cowboy sage Curly, raising his index finger, teaches our hero is the meaning of life?  The one thing you're devoted to, in so many words.  But does it matter what that one thing is?  Could it be God, money, a calf named Norman, terrorism, taking over the world, making bad movies?  The important thing is whatever you make it; intrinsic value is not an issue.  Well, I raise a finger to that, and it's not the index finger.The funniest scene by far is career day at the grade school.  Worth the rental for this scene alone, despite the vapid existentialism.The sequel is much better. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best comedies I have seen. At first it looks like just an ordinary comedy, but after a while you understand that there is a deeper meaning behind this movie, it is about mid-age crisis and about finding yourself. The movie begins in Pamplona with three guys who have made a custom of going to strange places and performing tasks that they think will prove that they are still young. But their world starts collapsing and they decide to try to make a new start by going to New Mexico and join an old fashion cattle-drive, and the rest of the film continue with that. The acting performances is all very good and convincing and I'm sure that they all had a good time shooting this picture. So this is a comedy I truly can recommend to all of you out there. "},{"Title":"more complicated than meets the eye","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10-rating.  Within what, at first, appears to be a simple comedy is a most important message delivered by Jack Palance (Curly). Happiness is not acquired through attainment but through aspiration ... or, as he put it, quote, Find out what that one thing is and everything else don't mean sh*t.  The movie might be about coming-of-middle-age but the message it delivers should be targeted at persons much younger ... that the secret to life (and happiness) comes from the heart, not from the wallet. "}{"Title":"The very best kind of comedy.  One with heart","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers is a fantastic movie. It is not just a comedy. It's not just a buddy film. Those have been made and remade. City Slickers has heart. Behind the smart cracks and slapstick comedic moments, this is a story of change. Entrenched in the film is the desire to be better; a better husband and father, a better friend and co-worker. The humor and fun of this film does not mask the tender moments of soul searching. Those moments make City Slickers better than most comedies.Mitch Robbins is a jingle writer in New York City who has become unhappy. He is unhappy with his job, unsatisfied with his family and questioning the purpose in his life. He is a walking mid-life crisis. Encouraged by his two best friends, and pushed out the door by his wife, he embarks on a two week long cattle drive at a vacation ranch. Under the watchful eye of the old trail boss 'Curly', the friends work out their issues while learning to rope cows, ride horses and other cowboy skills.I am not a Billy Crystal fan as a rule. His comic lines can seem forced at times, like he is trying to incorporate his stand-up routine into a film. But in City Slickers, Crystal is different. Crystal's character is disillusioned. He is withdrawn. Humor is his way of lightening the situation. It avoids the awkward moment. Curly calls him on it after Mitch makes a smart remark. Mitch responds that is just my way. That one statement encapsulates his character. He is having a hard time communicating with his friends, family and workers. Humor is his disconnect. It seems forced because he is trying to force humor into a serious situation.The setting of a cattle drive gives City Slickers the opportunity for some great periods of dialog. When you're herding cattle for hours on end, you have a lot of time to think and to talk. We experience the bond between Mitch and his two friends during these conversations. The discussion of their best day is one of the best scenes in the film. In that simply exchange, we see into each character's mind. We really understand what makes them click.Mitch's subsequent conversations with Curly are equally moving. The movie is half over before we truly get to understand Curly's character. He is a true cowboy. He is not part of the experience; doesn't try to be. He is doing what he loves to do. Curly represents what Mitch and so many men like him are looking for. Curly is content and at peace. His life makes sense, as Mitch puts it. Mitch appreciates that. As an audience, we do to. Most people go through their whole lives trying to make sense of it all.City Slickers is the kind of comedy I really appreciate. While there are some very funny moments, the film wants to do more than make the audience laugh. It wants to make us think. To think of that 'one thing' that makes life worth living. To think about all the meaningless cares that stop us from seeing the bigger picture. To think about how simple life can be when we focus on what's really important. To not take for granted the special people and moments in our life. City Slickers brings those people and moments into the forefront, amidst the chaotic backdrop of a cattle drive.So, despite the comic flair, City Slickers is a touching movie about what we value and what we should value. It reminds us that a good and fulfilling life is right in front of us. We only have to do a better job of appreciating what we have, not longing for what we don't. When it comes to living life, we are instructed to do it better, do everything better. In instilling that message, City Slickers does it better than most comedies and better than most movies in general. "},{"Title":"City Slickers","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies. The story is wonderful and the humor is outstanding. It has some incredible lines in the movie that I always come back to. It is a very meaningful story with many life touching events. Billy crystal is one of my favorites. Stern is excellent as well as all of the main cast. I have watched the movie at least 10 times and use it as a feel good movie. I highly recommend this movie. The second movie has entertainment value, but for my money it doesn't come close to the first one. I really loved the music also. This is a great family movie and is good for all ages. One of my favorite parts is when they talk about their best and worst day. It is both serious and funny. That's what I like best about the movie. It is Happy, Sad, Funny and touching. Happy viewing. "},{"Title":"Helped me find my smile","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Simply, when your down and feeling troubled and you need a helping hand.......A film that will bring a smile to a sad face and have you shouting out loud.... Yes! The theme is middle aged blokes dealing with their mid life crisis via a cattle drive, but the film has a wider appeal to anyone who ever looked for the hero inside.Great musical score, with a nod to the classic western movies and TV shows. Our unlikely hero Billy Crystal is probably at his best, certainly on a par with when Harry met Sally. He has a unique style of playing the clichés and acknowledging them for being just that. Though the show is almost stolen by Jack Palance as the initially uncompromising trail boss.Possibly my favourite film of all time. "},{"Title":"A very funny and intelligent film that keeps you laughing","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers is one of those films my dad talked me into watching a few months back. I expected the film to be another boring, dry comedy of the 90's featuring an out-of-place cast (minus Cyrstal). But as soon as I watched the first few scenes I felt something about this movie that made me feel good. Pretty much the story goes like this.Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal) is going through a mid-life crisis and is yearning to just get away from the family and work and go away with some friends. Mitch finally is able to find a get away out west on the plains, a cattle drive vacation. Mitch would help drive cattle from new Mexico to Colorado. Accompanying Mitch are his two friends, Phil and Ed (Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby) who are also down on there luck. Things don't go well at first, the cattle leader, Curly (Jack Palance) isn't well-liked by most of the other cattle drivers but Mitch establishes an unlikely relationship with him. As the group drives cattle, with probably the strangest group of people you could imagine, more issues and morals are presented such as friendship, respect, and family. The movie brings forth a lot of comedy, my personal favorite being th Shalowitz brothers who seem to now everything about ice cream and have competitions among themselves about what flavor goes best with each meal. Along with the comedy comes some fine acting by Cyrstal, Palance (Oscar Win), and Stern. The issues and morals presented are strong and easy to relate too. Palance finally won an Oscar for his role. He holds the base of the drama with Crystal helping at a few scenes.City Slickers utterly surprised me to be a well-written, well-acted, and above all else well-presented comedy/adventure/drama. It is easily one of the best comedies of the 90's and will remain in my book as a great film.City Slickers. Starring Billy Crystal, Jack Palance, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby, and Josh Mostel.4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Deeply Intelligent and Funny!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers is a character-driven story, told with extreme charisma and truly funny, yet deep characters. It tells the tale of a man going through a mid-life crisis and how he deals with himself.Billy Crystal is Mitch, the guy going through a depressing point in his life. Daniel Stern is his best buddy Phil, a worrywart who is owned by his wife. And Bruno Kirby is Ed, his other best friend who has a lust for younger women, and a lust for outrageous and crazy adventures. Such as the bull run in the beginning of the film, or his idea for a skydive.Mitch starts to suffer greatly with his newfound mid-life crisis. Phil is caught having an affair with a grocery store clerk by his wife. Ed is...well...Ed. So on Mitch's 39th birthday, Ed and Phil reveal that they have bought Mitch a spot on a cattle run, and they're coming along, too. They'll be driving cattle just like real cowboys.Mitch is unimpressed, but his wife insists he go to relieve stress. Mitch tries to get out of it by reminding her of his promise. I told you I was going to stay with your parents, he says. You hate my parents, she says.So off Mitch, Phil and Ed go, out to a cattle ranch where they meet Curly (Jack Palance), a homicidal cowboy who freaks Mitch out. Laughter ensues. And after that, more laughter.The cattle drive begins, and eventually things go hay-wire. Curly dies. The two other drunk leaders flee for their lives. Mitch, Phil and Ed are left with two fat ice cream inventors (a la Ben & Jerry), and an attractive woman who Mitch cannot get near because he is married. She says hello to him. I'm married, he replies.I watched some of City Slickers about four years ago and wasn't too impressed. Perhaps it was because the TV version cut everything out. This time around I absolutely adored it, it is truly one of the best comedies of the last ten (now fifteen) years.Billy Crystal is perfect as Mitch. I love his demeanor towards life, his grim outlook on things. Like the speech he gives to children in a kindergarten class. Priceless.The entire cast is excellent, and only the last ten minutes of the film fell apart a bit, in which you get a quite typical I'm over it, I'm a hero moment where Mitch comes to terms with himself and almost drowns saving a calf, which makes him look more like a suicidal idiot rather than someone coming to terms with himself.But the rest of the film is 100% excellent; funny is an understatement. The characters seem very real, something rare for a comedy these days. City Slickers is definitely one to see. If you still don't want to, I can only say one thing Helloooooo?!4.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I made a cow.....","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mitch is a middle aged big-city radio ads salesman, and he and his friends Ed and Phil are having mid-life crisis.They decide the best birthday gift is to go on a two week holiday to the wild west driving cattle from New Mexico to Colorado.There they meet a cowboy called Curly, who not only teaches them how to become real cowboys, but also one or two other things about life in the west.....City Slickers was one of those sleeper hits that came out of no where back in the days when a films pending release wasn't hyped up within an inch of it's life thanks to forums and the internet.All we had then was seeing a trailer at the actual cinema and seeing a poster somewhere on a bus stop.And it's clear to see why it was just so successful, everybody is just having fun, and it's just an easygoing film with rarely an element of danger for our three characters.It's just a film about people thinking that maybe life may be greener on the other side, and them just going on a big holiday to learn some life lessons and get over themselves.Crystal as usual is wonderful, but he's a marmite actor, you'll either love his cocky humour, or you'll just want to smack him in the face.Heaven knows why Palance walked home with an Oscar, he's good, but other than mumblecoring his way through his lines, he's just their as a friendly antagonist to Mitch.It's aged pretty badly, the yuppie element to the film is pretty cringeworthy now, and it's just too neatly wrapped up come the end.as if Daniel Stern would get with Supergirl...... "},{"Title":"Sweet and Funny, but there was definitely something Missing,","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers is a good movie with a well written storyline and an impressive comedic cast. It has many very funny parts and it is also quite sweet as we follow the friendship of these three men, their is great chemistry between all three and you could tell they were real life friends. It easily could have been an outstanding, unforgettable comedy, which many people think it is, and though I did laugh a lot, I find it pretty forgettable and none of the quotes will stick with me. I definitely don't think Jack Palance deserved the Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role, he did a great job and Curly is a very likable character, but it simply isn't a performance, nor is it a movie, strong enough for an award of this prestige. It's certainly not outstanding or unforgettable, but City Slickers is fun while it lasts and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a comedy to kill some time. A man unhappy with his life is talked in to going on a cattle drive with his two closest friends. Best Performance Billy Crystal Worst Performance Patricia Wettig "},{"Title":"We're gonna go two hundred miles with a big, moving stink.","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So is this the quintessential mid-life crisis film or what? Not to mention the life long buddies team-up at the heart of the story. I watched this one again after many years and I couldn't stop cracking up. My summary line from Billy Crystal's Mitch Robbins was just one of the many quips that left me rolling, in fact I had to pause the picture when Crystal started his second eulogy - 'What can one say about Skyrocket and Buttercup...'.The casting of the principals here couldn't have been better. The era offered any number of possible players like Bill Murray, Dan Ackroyd, Steve Martin, and on and on, but Crystal, Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby gelled in a very believable way as a trio of friends who had grown up together and been there for each other through thick and thin.And then there's Jack Palance. Introduced as the mysterious and potentially deranged trail boss Curly. Palance and Crystal play off each other in wonderful fashion leading to a strange new friendship just before Curly's unscheduled ride off into the sunset. If you've ever seen the movie, you'll forever be inspired by Curly's embrace of the 'one thing'. If you haven't seen the film yet, you owe it to yourself. "},{"Title":"A Wholesome Entertainer!","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'City Slickers' is A Wholesome Entertainer, that is indeed an American classic from 1991. A lovely comedy, that is also about friendship & maturity. The first-rate performances only add to the film's greatness.'City Slickers' Synopsis On the verge of turning 40, an unhappy Manhattan yuppie is roped into joining his two friends on a cattle drive in the southwest.'City Slickers' is a complete joyride. Its a funny film, treated lightly & quietly. Lowell Ganz & Babaloo Mandel's Screenplay focuses primarily on comedy, but also covers themes of friendship & maturity. Its wonderfully written! Ron Underwood's Direction is absolutely fantastic, churning out a worthy story with such perfection. Cinematography captures the wilderness, amazingly. Editing could've been sharper. Performance-Wise Billy Crystal is a delight, a true genius. He's exemplary! The Late/Great Jack Palance, in an Oscar-Winning Performance, is restrained. Daniel Stern is fabulous. The Late/Great Bruno Kirby is effective. Patricia Wettig is very sincere. Helen Slater is decent. David Paymer & Josh Mostel are crazy.On the whole, 'City Slickers' is so much fun! "},{"Title":"My Friend's Dad Wrote this movie...therefore it rules!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  C'mon...ya gotta love the NY humor in this flick.  Besides, like I said, my friend's dad wrote it.  =)  But just to make this a legit review, I will say that the rapport between the three friends, Mitch, Phil, and Ed, is classic and acted so naturally.  They remind me of my uncle and his friends, who are all in their 40s but have known each other since childhood, and still act the way they did when they were 8.  It's a beautiful thing.  "}{"Title":"It's A Wonderful Life Meets John Wayne","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this film first came out on the Summer of 1991, I was reluctant to go to the cinema to see it.  However, my elder brother insisted that it was meant to be a good film and so talked me into going to it. I watched the film for its full 114minutes and loved every minute of it.  It held my attention all the way through, and I was in stitches with laughter.  Bruno Kirby was great, Daniel Stern was hilarious and Billy Crystal was, well, Billy Crystal.  Helen Slater also contributed a lot to the film's appeal and I felt that she was not given a large a script as she should.  However, the film was brilliant and remains one of my favorite films of all time. "},{"Title":"Curley hates city folks.","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City slickers is a riot.Curly makes the whole film.He is so funny.I wish he didn't cashout so soon.The film is very refreshing and funny.Films today are so blah.They think they can curse their way to success.Billy Crystal is his usual self.A great movie. "},{"Title":"Very Funny and Touching","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" City Slickers (1991) *** 1/2 (out of 4)Wonderful buddy film/comedy about three men (Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby) facing mid-life crises who decide to go on a two week vacation, which just happens to be a cattle drive. Along the way the three try to work their problems out while at the same time getting to understand their boss (Oscar-winner Jack Palance). CITY SLICKERS is a wonderfully entertaining little gem that really has a terrific set-up, a terrific cast and in the end it's really just a really entertaining way to kill a couple hours. I think the movie works on many levels but its best is simply the cast. The three leads to a wonderful job together and they really come across as life-long friends. The three are such wonderful comic actors that they can handle all of this without any problems. Best of all is the terrific comedy that the three make together as their timing is perfect and they really bring you into their personal stories and make you care about them. The movie is mainly a comedy but there are moments of drama with the three and the actors pull these moments off as well. The supporting players in the cow drive are also very good and make good use of their time on the screen. Of course, one of the biggest draws comes from Palance who delivered his Oscar-winning performance here. You really can't blame the voters for giving him the award even if his screen time isn't anywhere near the longest. The actor is just so tough, charming and fun that you can't help but fall in love with his character. The chemistry between Palance and Crystal is priceless and alone makes the film worth seeing. The screenplay is quite smart in its own right as it's able to create such wonderful bits of dialogue, terrific stories and in the end it really does come together well. "},{"Title":"greatest lines ever...","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The speech between Curly & Mitch is simply the greatest ever. No director, no script man, no producer could have make it betterCurly You know what the secret of life is? This. (holds up one finger) Mitch Your finger? Curly One thing. Just one thing. You stick to that and the rest don't mean nothing. Mitch But, what is the one thing? Curly (smiles) That's what YOU have to find out.Obviously, I think that those men, as 40 year old, might have found that some time ago. Un faithfully, that's the last line I can recall on the movie for Curly, except for the scene where he smokes on the rocks. I wish this movie should be more rotated on TV channel's because it's funny, interesting, real and gives knowledge about life...Bonheuressement (I think), I've found that thing... "},{"Title":"Just 1 Thing","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Too often, this movie is thought of as just being Mr. Marvelous- Billy Crystal's film. While it it, the film actually holds up a good entertainment. It doesn't have enough Jack Palance but it has enough about life & a mixture of drama to make it a good film.Rather than just trying to put Crystal's comedy on film, this film follows the stories of 3 frustrated middle aged men & why they need to go out west for 2 weeks & be in a cattle drive. The themes are a little mature for the youngest kids, but for teens & above it works really well. The pacing & the films messages are good.This will never go down as a great film, but it is a solid good one that is about just 1 thing - living life. Once you figure out how to live yours, that is the message from this film. It has enough laughs to enjoy too.152 "},{"Title":"He's behind me isn't he?....","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now i know that not everybody is a Billy Crystal fan and thats fair enough because sometimes i find him completely humourless but not 'City Slickers' it has to be his best film by a long shot. From the opening scene where he's being chased by a huge bull in Spain to him learning how to ride a horse and lasso a cow on the cowboy ranch is hilarious. And then once the trip begins the film really starts. Although this might be primarily a typical Billy Crystal comedy there are also some really heart felt moments slotted in every now and again, such as Curleys tale about the red head and the bit with Norman the calf when they're trying to cross the river.Even if you're not a fan of Billy Crystals movies you should give this film a try because it seriously is funny and i guarantee you won't be disappointed. Oh and i leave you with one last sentiment Hello...don't sew up anything thats supposed to remain open okay? Now if you want to know what the hell that was all about watch this film and you'll find out. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Fun Male Bonding Vehicle","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It withstands the tests of time and relevance. Since this was first made, our society has not changed so much as to preclude the need for opportunities of male bonding in a non-challenging, noncompetitive way. This work, through virtue of being relevant and meaningful, has worked its way into the movie collections of the masses; a position I feel it greatly deserves.The character development was wonderful, the script and dialog are compelling and witty, and the execution of the characters is beautiful, if not non-stereotypical. I find that many screenwriters intentionally create stereotypical characters in order to assist the viewer in easily identifying with the characters in their story. The more generic you keep the characters, the more people they will generally identify with.At any rate, this uneven cast of characters is one of the beautiful idiosyncrasies of this highly enjoyable work.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"You'll find your smile upon watching this excellent comedy.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From it's animated opening credits to it's western score to it's on camera talent,City Slickers is a winner.It's another good example of what looks like an excellent idea on paper,the idea then being put in excellent hands and turning into an excellent movie.Worthy of note here is the on screen camaraderie of Billy Crystal,Daniel Stern,and Bruno Kirby.Everyone should have friendships in real life like the one depicted here between the three leads.The supporting cast is excellent, particularly Jack Palance,a participant in Crystal's all time favorite western,Shane.Let's not forget little Norman,the calf who steals the show.Though it is set in modern day,you will no doubt add this to your western collection alongside the classics of the genre.Top notch! "},{"Title":"A comedy of surprising depth.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie surprised me.  It made me laugh out loud a few times, but the reason I really like it is because of the parts where it gets more serious.  And that is REALLY surprising, because usually when comedies throw in serious parts they come off as being really cheesy and sappy--the kind of stuff that makes one gag.But here, it works.  Billy Crystal pretty much just hams it up, and Daniel Stern does some of his usual... uh... Daniel Stern-ing.  And Bruno Kirby, well... he's the master of playing characters who are kind of annoying but somehow retain their humanity and a certain level of likeability.  That said, they're all playing just about the same character as any character they've ever played.  Individually, that is.The relationship between these three men in the movie is palpable, believable.  And they have more depth than the usual comedy characters.  The best scene in the movie is when they're simply riding along, talking about their best and worst days ever.  This scene could be played for straight-up laughs, but it's not.  It is full of humor, but also human understanding.  These characters have histories.  They've had their ups and downs.  They're hesitant to be vulnerable about their worst days, but when they talk about their best days, their faces light up as if they mean it.  As a bonus, the dialogue here has some rather profound insight into our perceptions of what makes a day good or bad.My second favorite scene is toward the end, when Crystal has to save Norman the calf from being washed away in a raging river, and the three men shift into cowboy hero mode.  Again, scenes like this in comedies usually come off as silly, the kind of stuff that makes you say to yourself, Of course they do the right thing and save the day and become better people and learn who they are.  But this scene has real suspense and drama.  Why?  We care about the characters.  And good direction always helps.As for Jack Palance--I'm a little befuddled that the Academy gave him an award for playing Curly.  But that's alright.  He's fantastic in the role, and it's probably one of my favorite movie characters ever.  And the scene when Curly and Crystal's character deliver Norman the calf is very good, and even had me wondering, How exactly did they film this?8/10 stars.  A comedy classic. "},{"Title":"A Funny film, with terrific stuff.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     This was a nice flick to watch!! I was so happy to see a nice film with the real  quality of friendship in it. It has a great script and terrific plot twists, with  characters to fall over laughing about. The three leads set the tone of their  characters with numerous dicussions on sexual malidaption in an early scene.However they are terrific with each other, and the whole supporting cast stands  out well. (espescially Helen Slater) This film goes top ten on all accounts except  for the sexual discussions, too many of them. "}{"Title":"Those Cows Trusted Us!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  MIGHT CONTAIN SPOILERS         Mitch Robbins is turning 49 and he is not happy about getting old. For his birthday, his friends Phil Berquist and Ed Furillo have bought a cattle drive vacation, where they drive cattle from Colorado to New Mexico. Everything turns out fine, until a woman from the grocery store shows up and looks for Phil.And she may be pregnant. So Phil's wife threatened to leave him.Some birthday party, huh?         Mitch, Ed, and Phil arrive in Colorado. They meet Clay Stone, owner of the place. They also meet Ira and Barry Shalowitz, two unattractive ice cream salesmen, and Ben and Steve Jessup, dentists. They get ready by trying on an assortment of cowboy clothes. Mitch tries cowboy hats but they just don't look right on him, so he goes with his blue NY ball cap. I like that scene of them trying on clothes. I've always been fond of cowboy duds.        A young woman on the drive was being harrassed by two assistants. A shadowy cowboy figure comes to her rescue. He really turns the assistants into mincemeat. His name is Curly. He's a big strong man who doesn't take anything from anyone. He's also the trail boss. Mitch talks ill of him but soon regrets it.       They drive the cattle across the plains and then one morning, Mitch wants to make coffee with his portably coffee maker. The noise startles the cattle and they all run around. Two of them escape. So Curly takes Mitch with him to round them up. While out there, they see a female cattle about to give birth! So Curly holds her down while Mitch stays at the receiving end. The birth was asuccess and all Mitch lost was his watch. He names the calf Norman.       Curly and Mitch bond at a campfire that night. Curly tells Mitch about One Thing. The meaning of life, as it were. Curly tells Mitch to just follow that one thing and anything else don't mean a thing. The one thing is different for everyone. Mitch must find out what it is for him.      They returned to camp and the next morning, Curly dies suddenly. The bury him and try to move on. They meet up again with the assistants who harrassed the woman. Phil shows them the error of their ways.      Next day, the cattle ends up missing. The rest of the party just wants to ride ahead to New Mexico, but Mitch and his friends want to find the cattle and drive them to the ranch safely.There's a drastic rescue in a river and the cattle are brought to Clay Stone's ranch. Clay announces they're going to a meat factory. Because the meat under cellophane at the supermarket comes from somewhere. Mitch, Phil and Ed feel sad. After all, according to Mitch, the cows trusted them.       They return to New York. Mitch is no longer depressed because he now has something in life to follow. He takes Norman home with them and it's a happy ending.       This is an okay movie. Everyone is good in it. But I think City Slickers 2 was better. I don't know why, but it just is. But do see this one when you get the chance. It comes recommended by me! -- "},{"Title":"Hey Curly!  Wanna buy a pair of gloves?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies.  On his 39th birthday, Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal) realizes that he hates his life.  His job doesn't interest him, he thinks his kids don't admire him, and he's dreading an upcoming family vacation to Florida.  As a present, his friends Ed Furillo (Bruno Kirby) and Phil Berkowitz (Daniel Stern) decide to take him on a two-week cattle drive in New Mexico and Colorado.  Ed, meanwhile, is at odds with his wife over the prospect of having children, while Phil's marriage is in jeopardy after his wife learns that he committed adultery.  On the drive, however, Mitch learns from Curly (Jack Palance), an intimidating old cowboy who leads the trip, what the most important thing in life is, and that he'll find out what it is when the time is right.  City Slickers serves as a commentary on about three lifelong friends, whose midlife crises suddenly pale in contrast to cattle driving, baseball, and the days of Mitchy the Kid.  Some of the more memorable lines from the movie include Yes, that's right.  We're black AND we're dentists! and also Hey Curly, killed anyone today?  Day ain't over yet.  For the record, Billy Crystal says Hello-o seven times in the movie.  Some of his costars include Patricia Wettig, Helen Slater, Josh Mostel, and especially Norman.  Finally, in watching City Slickers, baseball fans everywhere will now have memorized who played 3rd base for Pittsburgh in 1960.  Don Hoak! "},{"Title":"Castle Rock has produced great movies. I definitely like their productions.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Billy Crystal (When Mary Met Sally, Forget Paris) is  Mitch Robbins a happily married guy whose mom calls him early in the morning every birthday.  Mitch's mom wakes up Mitch and his wife  Barbara Robbins Patricia Wettig (thirtysomething, L.A. Doctors) at the same time every year, on his birthday and says exactly the same thing.  He loves his wife and kids but the monotony of life and his job are both getting to him. His wife tells  him to go on this trip with his friends and find his smile.  Phil Berquist Daniel Stern (City Slickers II, Home Alone), and Bruno Kirby (When Harry Met Sally) Ed Furillo are Mitch's best friends.  They go on this trip with Mitch to drive a herd of cattle across a part of the western U.S.  There they meet this strange cowboy,  Curly Jack Palace (Shane)  and learn a lot from him. Jack Palace won an Oscar for this part.   Bonnie Rayburn Helen Slater (The Secret of my Success, Ruthless People) is the only woman on the cattle drive, and Phil falls for her after his life has turned into  chaos, because he had an affair with a grocery clerk.  The movie is fun, full of great lines. I find Billy Crystal very talented, family type a guy. Those who are not fond of Billy Crystal should try to watch his interview on the best show on television these days, Inside the Actors Studio, and get an inside view of him. I recommend this movie as well as City Slickers II. I have both tapes and enjoy watching them. I have had those tapes for years and still find them very enjoyable especially because the way the scripts are written. My favorite scenes The birth of the baby calf.  The scene was not even shot with the two actors, Billy Crystal and Jack Palace  together.  Mitch meeting his family back at the airport.  My Favorite Quote Mitch  Everything is a competition. Life is a competition.  Curly The secret of life is, ( he points and looks at his index finger) that one thing!   Mitch Secret of life is that one thing, you have to figure out what that this is. The movie was made by Castle Rock Entertainment that is Karl and Rob Reiner's company. Castle Rock has produced great movies. I definitely like their productions.  "},{"Title":"Good,  but gets almost unbearable once Palance leaves...","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Minor Spoilers ...City Slickers is a clever comedy about Mitch (Billy Crystal) and his loser friends (Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby) who take a trip to the 'Old West'.  At a recreation of a ranch they meet 'tourist' cowboy Curly (Jack Palance) who threatens them, and eventually teaches Mitch lessons about life.Palance does incredibly well in his role.  Tired of seeing him constantly playing bad guys in B action movies, City Slickers was not only a relief, but a great career movie for ol' Jack.  His Curly is funny, intimidating and dramatic, but he leaves the movie way too early.Crystal's 'mad about getting older' shtick is funny for most of the movie, but gets old after he complains for the hundredth time.  Stern is nerdy and boring, and his character in Home Alone is much more entertaining.  Kirby is just a big sleaze, and an annoying one at that.Once Palance's character dies (about halfway through the film) the movie goes downhill.  It not only gets anticlimactic, but all of the characters seem lose all interest in anything.  They don't explore the ways of the West as they did before Curly's death, they just stand around and whine.  And it doesn't even seem like they care about Curly's passing either!  Crystal sniffles for about five minutes and then promptly forgets about it.I really want to give it a higher rating, but the entire second half is just tiresome, 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pathetic attempts at comedy with a dash of cattle abuse thrown in.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yee-haw. Not.There are very, very few movies that I can't sit all the way through, and I think this is going to be one of them.I got exactly halfway through and it's so annoying that I just can't stand it. I think the most grating part is Jack Palance's voice. Good god, he sounds like he's doing the voice character for some cheesy cartoon villain. It is also the same stupid voice he always does. IT IS OLD, BUDDY! GET A NEW SCHTICK!Aside from the totally lame attempts at humor and everything else wrong with it, seeing running cattle yanked off their feet by their necks isn't my idea of entertainment.  At the beginning, seeing the bulls running, slipping and falling over on the cobblestones, and rolling their eyes back in terror wasn't very fun either...Anyway, the plot could not be less interesting, or the humor less funny. Add in a dose of cattle abuse and you've got...uh... a pile of crap.I doubt I'll watch the rest of it. "},{"Title":"Classic, just classic","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers is one of Billy Crystal's best comedies, if not possibly his best.  He plays a businessman who is going through mid-life crisis, as is his friends played by Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby.  So, they decide to go on a cattle drive to try and get things together in they're heads.  What shows is hilarious and interesting as well.  A consistently and uproariously funny comedy that will be funny for others to watch in future years.  The cow birth scene is most memorable scenes, but really memorable lines are scattered throughout.  A "},{"Title":"Crystal funny?","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have come to the painful conclusion that Billy Crystal is not funny. At least he is not funny when he tries to be funny. Actually I think he is a good actor, but he is just annoying when he is trying to be funny. I laughed at situations in this movie, but I did not laugh when Billy Crystal tried to crack jokes.This movie was about a bunch of guys going through mid-life crises. They try to go on adventures to make their life exciting. I like that idea. I liked the scenes of running with the bulls in Spain. That seems like a romantic thing to do. I also liked that they end up going on a cattle drive, but the story really didn't go anywhere exciting. They deal with problems that really didn't excite me or interest me. I was really feeling bored at the end of the movie. I don't have Adult deficit disorder, but I was showing signs of it at the end of this movie. I was getting antsy, and I really didn't feel like paying attention to the movie. The ending was too boring and predictable.The most amazing thing about this movie is that Jack Palance won a best Supporting Actor Oscar for his performance. How and Why? He was in the movie for about 5 minutes. How could he win? He played a cranky old cowboy that everyone is scared of, but I didn't feel it was convincing or worthy of an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Curly Was A Beacon For All Of Us.","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Crystal is a nice suburban guy -- loving husband and father -- but it's his birthday and it precipitates a mid-life crisis of the ontological type. What's it all about? A somewhat reckless friend, Bruno Kirby, convinces Crystal and the equally stodgy Daniel Stern that they all need to live in the unfolding moment. Running the bulls in Pamplona doesn't work so the three of them sign up for a summer's job at a working cattle ranch run by the sympathetic but earthy Jack Palance as Curly.The three aging boys are working with a bunch of other city slickers, including Helen Slater, who is there chiefly to prove that the guys are heterosexual. Everyone undergoes what people call learning experiences when they happen to someone else, and humiliations when it happens to themselves. There's grappling, insults, a stampede, and a death that results in a burial under a crude wooden cross in the middle of the scruffy desert. That's Curly's grave. But his spirit guides them the rest of the way as they move the cattle through the wilderness and grow up. It was done before in a more serious vein in John Wayne and the Cowboys. But this is a family movie and not to be taken so seriously. No matter how absurd or dangerous the situation, the script provides the city slickers with wisecracks and funny expressions.Palance is good. He almost always is. And Bruno Kirby and Billy Crystal are convincing, though not all of the jokes sparkle. There's a cute calf modeled on Bambi. Ugh. I rather lost interest with Curly's demise but it ought to entertain the kids and those who are undergoing mid-life crises. It must have been successful at the box office because a sequel soon appeared, hampered by the fact that Curly, the central figure, was already dead. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Crystal, Jack Palance, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby, Patricia Wettig and Noble Willingham star in this 1991 comedy. Mitch (Crystal) is a radio ad salesman who has just celebrated his birthday. He's very depressed and seems to be going through a mid-life crisis along with his pals, Phil (Stern) and Ed (Kirby). They decide to get away by taking a cattle drive that runs from New Mexico to Colorado where they meet tough cowboy, Curly (Palance) who scares Mitch at first, but they become friends. Soon after Curly passes, Mitch and his pals find themselves on a western adventure of bringing the herd across river to Colorado. Wettig plays Mitch's wife, Barbara and Willingham (The Last Boy Scout) plays Clay Stone, the man who runs the cattle drive. I've always liked this film and Billy & the cast are great. I recommend this good comedy. "},{"Title":"City Slickers 7/10","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Referenced to in the popular comic strip `Zits' as the funniest movie ever, City Slickers is an ever-popular movie that spurred (pun intended) a sequel. It has Billy Crystal as Mitch Robbins, depressed ad guy at a local radio station. He just turned 39 and seems a bit far away from his family. When his two main friends, Phil (Daniel Stern) and Ed (Bruno Kirby) arrive at his birthday party, things get worse. Phil's overbearing wife Arlene (Karla Tamburrelli) finds out he's been cheating on her with someone at his place of work. To cheer everyone up, they give Mitch his birthday present-two weeks in Arizona learning to become a cattle driver/cowboy.Well, these durn city slickers don't know codswallop &#145;bout no cattle drivin'. But they soon learn, and the go on an interstate journey to prove their worth, led by intimidating Curly (Jack Palance). Along the way they find meaning and such.Leave it to Billy Crystal (who put a bad taste in my mouth after Analyze This) to make a funny movie that does have some phony sentimentality, but can still be meaningful. For the most part, the laughs weren't constant and played somewhat like a hit-and-miss comedy where most of them hit. The laughs that I got were good laughs, not little chuckles and snorts. Around the middle, though, it seemed to be bogged down by the clichéd formula of buddy/friend movies, where they go their separate ways but some calamity befalls one of them and they get back together. I am sick of watching formulaic comedies. Don't get me wrong, City Slickers is a clever idea executed well, but the obvious `twist' made me upset.And, of course, I could guess the ending. It was a comedy, and all comedies have happy endings, no matter what. I even could guess what happened to Norman.I thought Crystal was in great form here, before My Giant came out. He really knew his groove back then, but, unfortunately, he's lost it now. I hope he can find it. Stern and Kirby were also very good, with grade A chemistry throughout. Palance, I don't think deserved his Best Supporting Actor Oscar, but he was good as the leather-clad tough-guy cowboy. The other people who are on the vacation, such as D-list actor Josh Mostel, son of Zero, also were good. But Mostel brings me to my next point.There were too many forgotten subplots, with underdeveloped characters. Mostel's character Barry Shalowitz and his brother Ira (David Paymer) are able to find out the perfect ice cream flavor after any meal. Why? To pad its already bloated runtime of 112 minutes. Although they are small, who ARE the people who run the ranch? Questions like that will pester you throughout the movie. It is quite funny, but many flaws are in it.My rating 7/10Rated PG-13 for language, raunchy humor, and scenes of peril. "}{"Title":"Good comic adventure","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Three harried New Yorkers (Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby) take a vacation to a cattle ranch and are guided by an aging cowboy (Jack Palance). Film is most notable for the performance of Palance whose film career had been in decline for many years. He made a comeback here and for this film, he won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. "},{"Title":"Perfect In Its Own Way","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    City Slickers was the rare kind of movie where everything came together flawlessly.  It was so thoroughly enjoyable and allowed its stars to shine so successfully, it still bothers me that they followed it up with such a lackluster sequel. But that's a rant for another review.   In looking at the movie one has to appreciate the unique premise and the choice casting, as well as the impressive visuals.  Director Ron Underwood really takes the time to give us some amazing shots of western country that's just as purty as heaven. Above all of this though, the real beauty of this movie lies in its fantastic dialogue.  It is having a script that gives us insight into the amusing, three-dimensional characters simply through their subtle comments, reactions to each other, and personal anecdotes that make it such a champ. This distinctive character development is the kind of stuff we do not see nearly enough in movies, especially comedies. Here, virtually all of the main characters are given a chance to shine comedically and dramatically.  With Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, and Bruno Kirby, we're given an awesome trio of friends.  You never have trouble believing that these characters have been best of friends forever (Remember Mitchie the Kid?). Watching them together, arguing, reminiscing, laughing, whatever, is definitely one of the elements that makes this movie so excellent, and City Slickers 2 so without.  Furthermore, Jack Palance, in his role as tough-as-nails trail boss Curly is great as the counterpoint to our group of city slickers.  He and Crystal both played off of each other so well, with the stark contrast between their characters serving as the basis for so many laughs.      City Slickers was a huge hit for many reasons, but mostly because it made us laugh and did so with characters that for the most part, we could actually believe.  These were characters we could relate to, there was virtually nothing about them that seemed only in the movies, as it is with so very many others these days. This movie in its own way leaves very little to be desired. Clever, original, and always funny, City Slickers is a real winner.  Go buy a copy on DVD, its worth it.  Just try and stay away from the sequel. "},{"Title":"Adeptly played and funny comedy, that gently pokes fun at both midlife crises and the Wild West","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I wasn't expecting to enjoy City Slickers as much as I did. I will say even before seeing the film I said to myself that it should be a good film at least. I mean it has a great cast, Billy Crystal, Bruno Kirby, Daniel Stern and Jack Palance, and it has a good director, Ron Underwood who directed the cult sci-fi classic Tremors. Plus I am all for comedy, as long it is sophisticated, funny and clever. I have seen films where it does promise to be all these things but fail.Just to assure you, City Slickers doesn't fall into that trap. I was expecting it to be good, I got great. I do agree that the sentimentality occasionally gets in the way, but essentially City Slickers is a funny and gentle comedy. It does poke fun at both midlife crises and the Wild West, but in a subtle way. The script is wonderfully engaging and does raise a number of laughs with some wickedly funny exchanges. One of my many favourites is the one between Mitch and Curly Morning Curly. Kill anyone today? Day's not over yet. I also loved the part when the men are talking about Curly and he is standing right behind them.Asides from the script, the film is beautifully filmed, with lovely scenery and cinematography, with some wonderful set pieces. And the music was lovely as well. Not only that, the film does have a very interesting story as well, it has a consistent structure with a nice ending to boot. Ron Underwood's direction is equally as adept as the performances. Billy Crystal, an actor who admittedly you love or hate is perfect as Mitch, his speech to the children in the kindergarten is another highlight. Bruno Kirby wonderfully balances humour and poignancy, and Daniel Stern plays with real goofiness and charm that was really appealing. Plus I loved Jack Palance in this film, he was a great actor, and he is clearly having a ball with this film.Overall, a wonderful comedy, helped by a great performances and adept direction and acting. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Escape the drudgery","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very funny film, especially early on, about three middle-aged yuppies who go on a true life cattle drive in a desperate attempt to find themselves.Billy Crystal gets better and better, and his comic timing is spot on. Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby and an irresistible Jack Palance as 'Curly' support him well.City Slickers weighs itself down a little during the end of the film and over-stays its welcome by about fifteen minutes. When director Bob Underwood tries to get serious, he only succeeds in getting clumsy. I always find these films try to make too much serious comment. Script writers Ganz and Mandell should stick to comedy. Still, a very entertaining and likable movie.Saturday, August 31, 1991 - Knox Distric Centre "},{"Title":"Wonderful family movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  City Slickers It is really a great movie. There is a good story line all the way through with a nice mix of comedy and life. I think Billy Crystal and Daniel Stern are great actors and they act very well in &#145;City Slickers'. If you enjoy it, I also recommend watching &#145;City SlickersII The legend of Curly's Gold' which is a nice follow-up.I would recommend renting it, and definitely watching it if it is on TV.  "},{"Title":"at first..","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i just wanted to see this movie because daniel stern was in it, i love that guy. but during the movie i found myself laughing and sharing in the whole midle age crisis idea even though i'm not even close to it. haha, i loved the movie. who cares about the reviews? this movie is great. critics suck anyway. "},{"Title":"Whats the fuss, ? really","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The fun in the movie is when Billy Crystal starts making jokes and not in the over 1 hour 50 minutes spent watching him do it.The movie is based on three men in their late 30s realizing that life has much to offer than what they are strapped with. What led to that and how they discover that is what writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel put together for us to watch. Both writers have been at it for a while with movies like Multiplicity (1996) and Robots (2005) under their belt.City Slickers did nab an Academy award though, Jack Palance went home Best Actor in a Supporting Role.The movie plot has 3 men who decided to go on a trip and be cowboys for 2 weeks which will involve hoarding a herd of cattle.In their journey they experienced death, birth and near death.Ron Underwood (Mighty Joe Young 1998) was the man behind the wheel in this one, a wheel I believe he held to loosely, the movie dragged for almost 2 hours, most of which were wasted watching the characters discussing pointlessly.Did I enjoy City Slickers? Yes, will I like to see it again? No! "},{"Title":"City Slickers","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The critics call it a blockbuster that cleaned up at the box office, and that it is a winning comedy, I can agree with this opinion, and I personally like it as a comedy boys-own adventure. Basically Mitch Robbins (Golden Globe nominated Billy Crystal) is the middle-aged radio adverts salesman, and with his best friends Phil Berquist (Home Alone's Daniel Stern) and Ed Furillo (When Harry Met Sally's Bruno Kirby) are all having a mid-life crisis. At Mitch's birthday party, they tell him about a two week trip they have arranged where they can become cowboys in the wild west herding cattle from New Mexico to Colorado, and his wife Barbara (Patricia Wettig) is actually letting him go, she doesn't want him coming with her to Florida to see her parents. There they meet other keen riders including Bonnie Rayburn (Helen Slater), and brothers Barry (Josh Mostel) and Ira (Mighty Joe Young's David Paymer) Shalowitz. There they are greeted by the one's who have experienced herding, Clay Stone (Good Morning, Vitenam's Noble Willingham) and Dr. Ben Jessup (Bill Henderson) with his son Steven (Phill Lewis). Then when opportunity kicks in, they meet the man who really knows what he's doing, Curly Washburn (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Jack Palance). As they travel the route with the herd in front of them, they are finding it hard work herding, but Mitch gets to Curly really well and he seems a nice guy under his ruff attitude. Soon enough though, Curly dies suddenly (kind of like Alan Arkin in Little Miss Sunshine, short Oscar winning role) and the gang have to take the cattle alone. Towards the end, it is only Mitch, Phil and Ed left from the whole gang, and they go through tough terrain, but they and the cattle do make it. It appears that the cattle are going to become meat, but there is a happy ending with all characters going back to their lives with some new found hope in the future, and Mitch brings home the calf he helped deliver, Norman. Also starring Tracey Walter as Cookie, Jeffrey Tambor as Lou, The Simpsons' Yeardley Smith as Nancy, Total Recall's Robert Costanzo as Sal and young Jake Gyllenhaal as Danny Robbins. There are some good giggly moments, and although the sentimentality (characters bonding and sharing their feelings) can slow the story, I kind of like it, and this is a very entertaining comedy adventure. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. It was number 86 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs. Very good! "},{"Title":"I am not slick enough to understand this","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have been born in a very small village and have always hated big cities. I do not understand the city mind and living. The greatness of Annie Hall was lost for me. It was a bit difficult for me to identify with 5 ft Woody Allen being 6-5 ft muscular country-boy. How about City Slickers? I have been riding on a horse as a young boy. That was a great feeling. No wonder, then, that I began to enjoy traditional westerns. So I decided to try this film. It was shown in Finnish TV. Of course I checked its ratings in IMDb and Amazon. These were full of glowing reviews. This film was supposed to be very funny. The film began with some rather poor jokes about family life and parties and half-witted men with personal crises. I did not like any of the main characters. Were these typical big city men? If I do not like the main people, a lot is lost for me. Maybe this film gets better when the trio leaves the city and stars to drive cows, I thought. Soon I noticed that I am not slick enough to enjoy their discussions about sex and women. It was great to see Jack Palance, but it was not enough. After seeing about half of it I gave up. I did not enjoy this film at all. Why watch, then? Perhaps I was too hasty, because the reviews tell that these mixed-up men might learn something about life. But if that is great comedy, the skill of making good comedies has been totally lost. Of course there is an alternative interpretation. My taste is about 40 years behind city slickers. That may be the reason I mainly watch films made 40 and even 80 years ago. &#x96; Thus my rating concerns about half of this film. Remember, I do like American films. I could easily list 10-20 five star films. "},{"Title":"not as funny as the sequel","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had seen the sequel when it first came out without ever seeing the original.  In my opinion, the sequel was far superior to this movie.  This movie has far too many serious parts and has a pretty corny ending for a comedy.  Don't get me wrong, it was still a good movie, but after loving the sequel, I was kinda disappointed in this one.     Jack Palance is fantastic in this movie and completely stole every scene that he was in.  He really is one of the most underappreciated actors that I can think of.  Bruno kirby simply doesnt belong.  Lovitz filled his role as the 3rd guy much better in the sequel and really stole the whole movie. Overall I would say this movie is somewhere between a 6 and a 7. "}{"Title":"This may have been Billy Crystal's best role ever.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Billy Crystal puts a spin on the western as suffering city guy Mitch Robbins, going on a cattle drive with his friends (Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby). Jack Palance, in an Oscar-winning role, is really funny as their cowboy guide (and I mean a real cowboy); he famously performed one-handed push-ups when he accepted his Oscar. Naturally, in the movie, there's a series of crazy happenings along the way.City Slickers is a really funny movie. There was a sequel, but you know how sequels are; stick to the original. As it was, this was Billy Crystal's last memorable movie until Analyze This. Also starring Patricia Wettig, Tracey Walter, Josh Mostel, David Paymer, Yeardley Smith (aka Lisa Simpson), and a very young Jake Gyllenhaal. "},{"Title":"Needed more of a slick out of mid-life crises...","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mid life crises bring out the worst in people and they certainly bring out some of the worst plots in story telling. Sure, the idiosyncrasies and character depth and development can make for compelling psychological analyses (of which Billy Crystal not only excels at analyzing, but probably churns out as his chief repertoire for comedy), but the plot lacks punch and drive. It has wit, it has pacing and comic relief but considering there are 4 Jewish or Italian actors of the finest comic calibre slicking out in a Western with names like Curly and with animal rights pretty much on the back hooves, the film shockingly fails to excite me. It's in a sense, too middle-agedly, if there's such a word- too slow moving. Sure, Daniel Stern's character and Bruno Kirby's character all suffer from the insecurities and hard knock disappointments of life and end up sharing great male bonding with Crystal in the wild west, but the general feel is that the filmmaker and scriptwriters could have done better. And how in the calico desert's eye Jack Palance could have won an Oscar for his role here is beyond me- he was just being...himself...Jack Palance for all the quirky advice and bonfire cowboy antics I saw! Perhaps the Academy was giving him one in a comedy as a mercy mock to make up for not giving him one in an earlier western. Nonetheless, I think if Part II 'The Legend of Curly's Gold' could have been combined and interwoven into this one it would have given it that edge, to bring it the much needed contrast in terms of really slicking out of their mid-life crises and into some real adventure. "},{"Title":"And the star of the movie is...","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeardly Smith!Time has not been kind to this movie. The first half descends into caricatures, rather than acting. And given the fine cast, one expects more. The low point is when Nancy barges into the party with her incredibly whiny voice, and you think who is this incredibly annoying person? And then when I discovered at the end credits that it was Yeardly Smith I realized it was truly great acting. Hey, its not easy being THIS annoying. I guess this is what the director wanted. Fortunately, the movie eventually gets better as the characters gain depth through a personal self-discovery on the range sort of thing. Nothing like a little peace and quiet away from the city, eh? I think this was what the movie Grand Canyon was trying to get at in its crude sort of way.My advice If you get the movie, stick with it! It can only get better. And keep an eye out for Nancy! "},{"Title":"These Guys Are Clueless","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like most people, I really enjoyed this the first time I saw it. It was a good, solid comedy with some melodramatic moments and action all mixed in effectively, I put in my notes back then. Jack Palance steals the show, I added. It's just a fun movie to watch.Well, some 5-7 years later, at a look on the DVD, this film lost a lot of its appeal to me. I guess I changed; I know the film didn't. It just appeared so blatantly secular in everything, it became ridiculous. Billy Crystal - and this is typical of all his comedies - and his buddies look at the world in an extreme worldly manner.In between the laughs in this movie are the guys (Crystal, Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby) expressing their viewpoints on life, marriage, happiness, relationships and the secret to life,as it's literally put in this film. Even though it's a comedy, and some of the viewpoints are said strictly for laughs, this is an angry film with these men always mad, always confused, bickering, swearing at each other, etc. That loudness mixed with the profanity just doesn't make this a funny movie any longer. The sequel is far better.In here, all you have is a warped look at life from people who don't have a clue about what it's all about....but think they do. "},{"Title":"Different From What I Expected","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Remember when this was released in the cinemas ? Remember what two scenes they played in the trailers ?  Apologise   No  Out with the throwing knife  AAAARRRRGGGGHHHH. I APOLOGISE ! and  We're going into the wilderness with a lunatic .He's behind me , isn't he ?  Which led me to believe we'd be watching a film comedy centered around a bunch of wannabe cowboys from the city being guided through the New Mexico wilderness by a psycho called Curly . Considering these two scenes were very prominent in the trailers and adverts and the fact Jack Palance won an Oscar for his part as Curly this unfortunately isn't really what the movie is about Three city slickers ( Hence the title ) are having a mid life crisis . Well two of them are - the other is suffering from getting caught committing adultery - so decide to take the opportunity of a once in a life time working holiday of a cattle drive . The first half hour is taken up by introducing the characters , a sort of chick flick for middle aged men , the second half hour sets up the story proper while the third half hour revolves around men doing what men have got to do and starts to descend into unneeded sentimentality with large eyed calves staring into the camera . What stops this from ruining the film the use of some smart dialogue . But CITY SLICKERS could have been so much better if it had a slightly more sadistic edge "},{"Title":"HELLLOOOOO!  What's not to like?","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CITY SLICKERS (1991) ***1/2 Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby, Jack Palance, Helen Slater, Patricia Wettig, Josh Mostel, David Paymer, Kyle Secor, Tracey Walter.  Very funny and appealing comedy about three buddies facing middle-age crises and decide to thrill-seek at a dude ranch for a cattle drive.  Crystal is great fun as the ring-leader as well as Oscar winner Palance  (Best Supporting Actor) as the leathery cowpoke.  Best line, Stern to his shrewish wife If hate were people, I'd be China! "},{"Title":"Way too sentimental but still good fun","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After coming off the worse as a result of yet another extreme holiday with his friends Phil and Ed, Mitch decides to just grow old gradually. However a revelation at his 39th birthday party leads his wife to allow him to go off with them again on a cattle drive experience holiday. The three friends take themselves and their problems onto the trail where they bond, learn things about themselves and each other as well as hold to ride horses. The only things that threaten their fun are bad weather, difficult cattle, abusive cowhands and a harsh cattleman called Curly.Billy Crystal's sense of humour is pretty much a winner if he is given the right film with good material to work with &#150; his career is cluttered with examples of times when he did and didn't get these things together. City Slickers (as shown by the sequel) is one of his better vehicles due to a good mixture of good performances, good plot, nice script and consistent laughs. The plot is very much aimed at the baby boomers who are now reaching the point in their life where they are starting to think about 'life and stuff' and it hits its mark pretty much spot on by having a core of middle-aged navel gazing. This is not a major criticism because it does it pretty well and does manage to make it work within the setting of the cattle drive. It works by mixing in enough humour and moments of action to stop it becoming mired in sentimentality or self-pity. At moments it does become horribly sentimental and very dewy eyed but that is the price you pay for this sort of film and it just about manages to keep the spirit one of fun.A big reason for this is the script, which is well written, mixing comedy with sentiment. The laughs are gentle and inoffensive &#150; no real belly laughs but good consistent smile and chuckle stuff. The cast is also on hand to deliver the promise shown by the script. Crystal shines of course and gets the majority of the laughs in a part that is more him than it is any character. Stern and Kirby are not as good because they are very much playing second billing to Crystal, but they do interact well and the trio have a good chemistry. Palance is OK in a nice little support role that plays well on his past roles &#150; a trick that paid off when it came Oscar time. He is enjoyable but anyone who thinks the Oscar was anything more than a fixer is being a touch naïve. Slater is looks and not much else, while the support cast features generally OK turns from Walter, Paymer, Secor, Mostel and a few others.Overall it isn't a great film because it sinks into sentimentality too readily; nor is it a great comedy because it doesn't have the real big laughs or constant joking that the best do but it is still a really enjoyable little film that has a sentimental comic tone to it that can suck all but the most cynical in. Like it or not, as lessons are learned and the theme music swells you find yourself raising a little smile &#150; even if you think you shouldn't.  "},{"Title":"goof","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" at the very beginning of the movie, when they are at the running of the bull, the guys are running like mad and a guy walks in front of them, kinda ducking out of the way of the camera!! the rest of the movie is good. it's been along time since I have seen this, but the guy ducking under the camera (even though you can see him) just ruined it for me. I think that if they couldn't see it, they must be BLIND!! I mean it is SO obvious!! I couldn't watch that movie and feel anything other than the amateur way they dealt with that It was a good story though and there were lots of laughs, and the calf (Norman) is just TOO CUTE!!I think that the picked the right guys for the parts and I just loved Jack Palance, I cannot imagine any other actor in this part "}]