[{"Title":"Don't let her turn you into one of them!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"142 out of 166 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Drop Dead Fred is a difficult film to review. I saw it for the first time when I was 13 years old or something, and I absolutely loved it because I was right in the middle of the age group at which the film is directed. I watched it again recently, and while the film's slapstick comedy did not hold quite the same massive appeal (although I was still hugely entertained) as it did when I was younger, I regretted to discover that I had grown out of a lot of the goofy antics that went on in the movie.However, I was reading through some of the reviews written on the IMDb by other users, and was amazed at how offended a couple of people were by this film, revealing in their reviews a total detachment from their own inner selves and a complete misunderstanding for the little people that we call kids. No, for example, I would NOT recommend a seven year old girl to psychiatric help for making a mess. This is arguably one of the most ludicrous ideas that I have ever read on the Internet Movie Database in my entire life, and believe me, I have read some jaw-droppingly moronic comments on this beloved site.If you read through the user comments for this movie, you can so clearly see the difference in the people who liked it and the ones who hate it that it almost makes you laugh out loud that these people can't see that they are exactly the kinds of people that the movie rebels against. Drop Dead Fred begs Elizabeth not to let her mother turn her into one of them because he doesn't want her to turn into the kind of person who is so uptight and frigid and barren that she would be incapable of enjoying exactly the kind of entertainment and fun that Drop Dead Fred is.This is a movie that was made for people who are still in touch with their inner child, people who realize that a little girl with a mother who has absolutely no understanding of the mind of a child has every right to escape into the world of an imaginary friend if it will help her escape the grayness and responsibility imposed on her by her mother, who demands absolute perfection and hasn't the first clue about how to raise a child. Very similar things can be said about various IMDb users, such as ones who refer to Fred as a product of a deranged mind or say anything about psychos or brutality or insanity.Drop Dead Fred is not a film about an insane little girl. Indeed, I like to think that the world is populated mostly with people who understand that the minds of young children operate slightly differently than their parents'and our own, and that they can be forgiven for getting into a little mischief. I am generally against grouping together people who did not like a certain film, but in this case it seems overly obvious that the people who wrote negative reviews of this fun comedy are simply the people who resent being pointed out as the kinds of people that they are.Drop Dead Fred is a movie that was made for fun, to be enjoyed, laughed at, and respected for reminding us that we need to lighten up occasionally and, while not necessarily flinging spaghetti in a nice restaurant, act like children every once in a while to prevent ourselves from being driven insane by the fast-paced society that we live in. And if you can't do that, if you hated Drop Dead Fred because you simply can't understand that concept, if, indeed, you think that Elizabeth is in dire need of psychiatric care, you may want to step back and look closely at your life and your views.YOU may be the one in need of therapy. "},{"Title":"Fred is REAL!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"65 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am amazed by the amount of people who have discussed this movie in the terms of being about mental illness.... it should become clear by the end of the movie that this is a fantasy, Fred is not an imaginary friend he is real he exists and his sole purpose in life is to help children in a dark place and bring them out of themselves.  Imaginary friends do not move on to another child, imaginary friends are the property of those who imagine them.  I wouldn't be at all surprised if I saw a review of Gremlins on here by the same people who said nasty little creatures who create distruction around them are not funny.  This is a funny movie, plain and simple.  Rick Mayall is outstanding as Fred and Phoebe Cates gives the perfect performance as the downtrodden daughter and wife.  Anyone who says bad things about this movie has obviously never seen a fantasy movie before and taken it for what it is.  I am surprised that they didn't call Demi Moore delusional in Ghost because she was refusing to let go of her boyfriend and imagined all the stuff that went on.  This is a fantasy folks, a pure unadulterated fantasy and it is a bloody funny one at that.  Watch it, it will make you laugh, it will make you smile, and it will make you chuckle.... what more can you ask and again Rick Mayall is brilliant.    "},{"Title":"If they make them sexier than Phoebe Cates I want their addresses!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Here's a little gem most everyone hated and totally misunderstood! Able to be loved by younger kids and laughed-at by the more balanced adults, DROP DEAD FRED is just fun. That's all it was ever meant to be! My children grew up with this film in our library and we have seen it probably 30 - 40 times over the years.For those with absolutely no humor or sense of childhood-wonder still, you would be doing yourself a big favor to miss this flick. Rik Mayall (who never cut it for me particularly) is Phoebe's imaginary childhood friend made flesh and come back to haunt her. True, he is tasteless, inspirationally trouble-making and a straight-up fruit-cake, but surely wouldn't that make for the ideal imaginary friend?  I laughed at the reviewer claimed her imaginary friend had way better taste and wouldn't be seen dead acting like Fred....pity her!  I had one too...a couple of back-ups even and they would have LOVED Fred! The entire point of the film is brought to bear at the very conclusion of the film when Phoebe realises she has finally grown up and Fred knows it is time to move-on.  Personally I found this extremely touching, but there again, I never grew up!Manic Mayall was born for this one role and he makes the most of it. The restaurant scene with Cates, who is just so cool, elegant and stylish throughout, is laugh-out-loud funny...again, IF you have a sense of humor. Prudes may well be offended by some of Mayall's antics, my four children weren't!  Slate the film all you wish, it remains a total ONE-OFF.....name another like it!Wonderful little bit of stupidity and like I said, if they make them cuter than Cates, I've missed the boat!   "},{"Title":"Great for kids and adults that like fantasy.","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that I loved as a kid. I never understood any of the adult parts of the movie of course at a young age. But the movie itself never left my memories and has stayed with me as I've grown up. Now I am going on 26 years old and watching it again. I haven't seen it since I was in elementary school. It brings back so many good memories and was one of my favorite movies as a kid. Now that I'm an adult I understand all the adult parts of the movie which now has a slightly different meaning. But it's still a good movie for kids and for any adult that likes fantasy. Especially adults like me that wish they could go back to being a kid. "},{"Title":"A future cult film?","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Isn't it funny how this film, whilst massively dismissed as rubbish by critics when it was first released, has attracted a very loyal following of people who hold it very dear to their hearts - isn't that basically the definition of a cult film? Why? The special effects are terrible, it's basically a breaking into the USA market vehicle for Rick Mayall, and Marsha Mason looks exactly the same in the 21 years ago flashbacks as she does in the current time-line.This film is special because it has that certain endearing uniqueness to it that makes it very personal. Those who love it have watched it many, many times. I've never seen anything like it before or since. It's a Hollywood-style comedy about a mid-20's dippy girl that is re-visited by her childhood imaginary friend when her life starts falling apart... or, it's an increasingly dark study of a girl descending into madness, only to choose reality over fantasy in the end.Phobe Cates is fantastic in this film. She reacts to Mayall's familiar but still funny Rick routine in the sweetest and cutest way. The comic timing of both is excellent. Check out her expression when she asks her mother to sit down after Mayall has just delivered his Cobwebs line... Adorable.A curiosity is after Fred's first encounter with Elizabeth's mother. After having his head squashed flat by a fridge door (Oh no my head, the Megabitch squashed my head! The Bitch! She squashed my head! The evil one reigns supreme!), the following references by Fred during the rest of the film refer to her as the Megabeast. Perhaps half way through filming the producers, thinking this would be a lovely summer kiddie film thought it was a tad too adult to appeal to a young audience and told the makers to tone it down a bit.. The opening scene, where Marsha Mason reads a bedtime story to her 4 year old daughter only to be told What a pile of S**t pretty much sets the scene. Hilarious! There are so many genuinely funny and heart-warming scenes in this film. When Fred makes a real mud pie with the 4 year old Elizabeth, the little girl seems to be genuinely enjoying herself (it's so fun!). You can't help but smile. And whilst the final goodbye between Elizabeth and Fred is pretty formulaic Hollywood, it still tugs at the old heart strings.Some people perhaps read too much into the film when they see it as a study of schizophrenia etc, but then again you can't help think that underneath the zany comedy, the writers are subtly giving the film a deeper edge. The scene that really hinges Elizabeth's descent into madness is when she finally despairs of her cheating husband's hopeless ways (I'm scared to be alone) by Fred, who beckons come with me with a very creepy invitation to succumb to insanity.To me, this film succeeds because it naughtily mixes Hollywood's cliché-ridden nicey-nice family comedies with the anarchic British alternative comedy of the 90's. You'll either get it or think it's crap. The choice is yours. To those that love it, perhaps it just sparks that missed childhood innocence that runs throughout, as well as our desire to be more rebellious and independent than we are now as adults. The ending is lovely too... Fred carries on helping kids in his own way.P.S. Carrie Fisher will always be remembered and associated with Star Wars, but she is a superb comedy actress. But didn't Elvis kill himself?, Yes, but before that he was really interesting!... Superb! "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Laughing!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is a side-splittingly hilarious film, with Rik Mayall as the fantastic lead role - Drop Dead Fred. After breaking up with her boyfriend and losing her job, Elizabeth returns to her mother's house. After discovering a taped up jack-in-the-box in the cupboard, Drop Dead Fred escapes from his prison, and bursts out into freedom ... only chaos can ensue now! Phoebe Cates, who plays Elizabeth, now has a whole new load of trouble on her hands. Fred is her childhood imaginary friend - and only she can see him! There are so many funny parts in this film, it's impossible to name them all, but Rik Mayall never fails to bring up the laughs in any scene, as he gives a highly energetic, enthusiastic performance. The ending is really touching and I can never forget how when I was younger I always got upset by it. It beautifully concludes the movie, and will make you feel warm inside. Watch it and try not to laugh. It's near impossible. "},{"Title":"how many annoying teachers and idiots have seen this?","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" OK, lets make it official, people have no sense of humor if this movie is about mental illness and full of bad jokes to you.I have never stopped loving this movie and am appalled that so many people are that uptight and dull in there ways that they cant collapse in laughter just by thinking about it.i have seen it, i own it on DVD and i will say that the only bad thing is it isn't long enough. whoever doesn't let out a chuckle when mister pooh the knitted monkey has his intestines(feathers)removed needs to lighten up and let the inner child back into there hearts.Did you non lovers of this film watch pride and prejudice and other none side splitting boring moves when you were growing up. learn to relax and let go.perfect if anything. "},{"Title":"All the people who denigrate this movie are dead inside.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am disgusted by the degree to which I see this movie denigrated among the user comments here on imdb.com. Instead of pointlessly hypothesizing about the dullness and pointlessness that most likely constitute your personal lives, I choose to take the high road, and merely state that Drop Dead Fred will make you laugh, cry, and question nearly everything about your life...if you listen to it. If you haven't seen it...go and watch it! If you have seen it, and you don't like it...watch it again, and pay attention this time! And lighten up!And if you have seen it, and love it like I do (and like all self-respecting human beings do), then go watch it again, and have some fun! "},{"Title":"A quirky, off-beat, fun movie!","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I would call this a dark comedy since it had a lot of the elements of the genre sad moments with odd humor attached to it, and the strange, fantasy character of Fred. At first I thought this is a very weird film!, and it is, but it grows on you and pretty soon you are having fun watching Fred's antics. I think this film definitely has the potential of having a large audience, so get out the word!  "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was dead, until I saw it","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First I must say that I prejudged this movie as an idiotic pile of c***.  How could anyone create such filth?(I got all this from the previews).  But I was stunned when I caught this film on television one day, because I liked it in all respects.  There have only been a couple of movies that I have judged so harshly without seeing them and was enthralled by them and Drop Dead Fred was one of them.  This movie was hilarious but it was more then just that.  A lot of people did not understand this movie because they were searching in the shallow waters and never dove deep into the meaning of it.  Fred may or may not be a figment of Phoebe Cates imagination, that is left for the viewer to decide.  He was obnoxious, he was mean and selfish, but was their any other way to portray him?  Cute and cuddly maybe?  Sweet and likeable?  Now that would have annoyed me.  Fred was a troublemaker, he was the wild, uncontrollable child in Phoebe Cates.  He represented the ounce of child left in her. This movie was made to show that adults abandon the child within to live a bore of a life.  This adult was portrayed in Cate's mother to contrast with her character.  People who deny their inner child can never live an entirely fulfilling life.  Rick Mayall did an incredible job as Drop Dead Fred.  Without him, the movie would not have survived.  But everyone else in the movie did a great job too.  This movie is very enjoyable-watch it with an open mind.    "}{"Title":"Those of us who can relate LOVE THIS MOVIE","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For those of us who had or have a mother like that portrayed so brilliantly by Marsha Mason, and felt insignificant and controlled, like Phoebe Cate's character, we understand this movie and it speaks loudly to us. I love this movie and used to watch it whenever I was feeling a bit down. It cheered me up every time. It's a carefree, fun ride that reminds us that all will not fall apart if everything isn't perfect. Do you remember FUN? Every actor in this movie owned their character perfectly. I particularly love the scene when Carrie Fisher pretends to throttle Drop Dead Fred. She gets it. She plays along. She believes in her friend that she loves.There are many very memorable funny lines in this movie. COBWEBS for one!This is THE PERFECT MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Snotface!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of THE best movies I have ever seen! Up until now I thought imaginary friends were just that, but since this movie I'm not so sure! Made me realise a grown up, does not have to be serious and do boring things ) I should introduce Fred to my Imaginary Friend, Cathy the Dump Girl ;)Fred's great! Rik Mayall really excelled himself! He's always great though, so much fire! Must be the hair! )I loved the freedom Lizzie gained through the movie, fought against those who would use and oppress her how she and regained her lost childhood, discovering that her inner child had always been within.Who's for plate smashing? Mud pie, anyone? ;) "},{"Title":"Everything you could want from a film- fun, funny, moving and Rik Mayall","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I thought Drop Dead Fred was a wonderfully magic film as it has a brilliant sense of humour, a beautiful friendship, love , a moving end and -of course- Rik Mayall's brilliant British humour. I first saw Drop Dead Fred when I was 15 and didn't really fancy it at first but there was nothing else on T.V, however, what I thought was going to be a purely childish movie turned out to be a wonderful light- hearted film for everyone and enjoyed every minute of it, and i'm not afraid to say I did have a few tears in my eyes at the end but it was beautifully acted and a perfect end to a perfect film. I only wish i had an imaginary friend like Fred when I was small. Both thumbs up for Rik Mayall's excellent portrait as Fred, I can't think of anyone more suitable for the role than him. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious film about IMAGINARY FRIENDS that are MADE UP.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film in no way is offensive to anyone including my friend with any mental illness. It was super-funny and shows how a young girl got revenge in funny ways on her cold, unloving, cruel mother who totally messed up her life. People who had a cruel childhood can relate to this movie and find a lighter side to their dark past. It was written about an imaginary friend who causes trouble and in no way whatsoever refers to mental illness. I give this movie 10 stars for the comedic story line. "},{"Title":"Fun Film For The Family!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great film if you want a laugh. I first seen it when it was first released and enjoyed it then, have recently watched it with my children and they loved it (think the certificate is a bit high, my children are under 15). If you get the chance to watch this film take it, and I dare you not to laugh. "},{"Title":"Who hasn't wanted a Fred?","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I was smaller, I had an imaginary friend who was probably the most wild thing that was ever in my life. He'd bounce around the pews at church and pick the alter boys noses, get stuck on ceiling fans, and generally make life a bit more difficult for my adolescent mind. But then we'd get home, and he'd always be there to play with me and be a good friend.Which is what Fred is all about. He is releasing the wild side inside of you that you didn't know you had.Most people, when they watch this movie, have a pretty open mind and enjoy it. But some seem to go into it far too seriously. Yes, it was probably Lizzie's imagination, yes Fred probably wasn't real, yes the humor was tasteless and annoying. But it's those people who didn't have an imaginary friend as a child, who can't understand what it's like to have a friend who'll annoy the crud out of you, but still be the one you want to spend time with everyday.I saw Drop Dead Fred when I was six years old, and now, at fourteen, i'm still watching it with friends who i've shown it too. If a fourteen year old and her friends can understand this movie from a psychological standpoint, why can't the critics? Fred is Fred. Most of us had him as a child in some form or another, and this movie PROVES that they can always come back if we need them, no matter how old we get.10/10 for my favorite movie of all time. ) "},{"Title":"A truly funny great 'little' film","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I stumbled onto this enchanting film on cable late one night. Very funny and lightly serious. Many people obviously didn't 'get it.' The main device is that the fantasy is REAL. If you aren't willing to give the film that, avoid it You'll think it's a stupid kid's movie. It's not. My wife and I loved it, and we're in our 40's.If you're not willing to temporarily 'suspend disbelief,' then you're cheating yourself. This is a great little film. Beyond the silliness, it has the subtle adult theme (And no, it is NOT mental illness; some people are so thick it's harder to believe in their existence than in this movie's premise). It's not War and Peace either, but just great fun with a bit of substance. 9 out of 10Here's a good test If you thought 'Hook' with Robin Williams was stupid and boring and just for kids, you probably won't understand this film either. But if, like me, you started to get angry when the ending of 'Hook' started to leave room to rationalize the whole thing as dream, and you cheered when what's-his-name got his marbles and that film embraced the reality of it's fantasy, then rush out and find 'Drop Dead Fred.' And if you didn't enjoy Fred, I can only quote the Wendy lady from Hook Why Peter, you've become a pirate! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm mystified at why some people consider this film mediocre. Yes, Fred is an annoying ass, but the story requires him to be this way.  I think those who get this film understand the complexities of the film's premise, retreat into fantasy isn't healthy but sometimes it's the only refuge a person has, Fred is as destructive as he is supportive but every annoying action requires the Phoebe Cates character to strengthen her own boundaries and sense of purpose.Okay, I don't want to sound like Doctor Joyce Brothers, just find it ironic that what some people don't like about this film is what distinguishes it from the usual Hollywood bull***t, Fred isn't cute and cuddly, that would have been false, imagine Robin Williams as Fred...that film would be a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Too much fun!!!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  All of this movie is a good excuse for a giggle...but watch for the restaurant segment.  I couldn't stop laughing the first time I saw the invisible Fred controlling Lizzie's movements.  This is one of those feel good movies.  Never gets old. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a CLASSIC film about the relationship children have with their imaginary friends...even if when they're grown up the friends come back. If you think about it, she WASN'T HAPPY! She was lonely! What do little kids do when they aren't happy or lonely? They make up friends that come to their rescue and make them happy again. Some times, even as adults, a person needs to make up their friends to feel loved and good again. Trust me, I know! I'm 17 years old and STILL have imaginary friends. This movie is great! I have been watching it since it first came out and it just gets better and better each time I watch it! Who ever doesn't like this movie either A) has no funny bone...or B) is...and I quote Fred, A Mega Beast! who should P*** off! "}{"Title":"Uplifting and Empowering","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You probably already know the synopsis.  Woman in her 20's, Elizabeth, who has always been dominated by her mother.  When she wa a little girl, Elizabeth used fantasy as a way to cope with her mother.  She invents an imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred.  Together they rebel against the mother.  Fast forward then to her 20's and Fred returns to help her figure out an unhealthy relationship with her boyfriend...and finally get some closure with her mother.  It cannot be said that Elizabeth's character is mentally ill.  The reviewer who said this is being as silly as Fred...unless of course he/she is a doctor and has counseled with Elizabeth )  This was a movie about a woman healing.  This was also a wholesome movie that the entire family can watch together.  Some of the humor may be over the heads of children, but there are no swear words or violence for the sake of violence.  Great fun--and funny! "},{"Title":"Calvin and Hobbes in Film Form","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Drop Dead Fred is essentially a film version of grown-up Calvin and Hobbes - except the real kid is the good one, and the imaginary friend is naughty.There are so many original, funny, creative scenes in the film that it is worth watching for those alone.Having said that, I did find the film a little boring until Fred's introduction. After that, however, there isn't a boring moment to be seen.Rik Mayall plays the part perfectly, Phoebe Cates is excellent and the costumes are superb too.I would whole-heartedly recommend this film to anybody who still holds on to a bit of the child in them. I'm still clinging to mine and I hope I never lose grip. "},{"Title":"It's a good movie","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This story of friendship is truly unique and I recommend all to watch it. Not only is it funny but it has sentimental moments also. It shows all of us that friends are very important things and they help you be who you are and it shows you that you have to be who you are also. "},{"Title":"over all it's very cool","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i think this is the best comedy i've ever watched and i've seen most of them.  it makes me wish i had an imaginary friend. and i dont know how to describe it, that's how good it is.  i would have to say that it is the feel good movie of the year.  i have to admit i dont like the ending totally but the rest is EXCELLENT! "},{"Title":"Deserves to be hailed as a classic","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Okay it's a little dated but it's still fun to watch. Rik Mayall is a bit of a national treasure over here in Blighty. His comic timing is masterful in The Young Ones and Bottom and Drop Dead Fred is just a feature--length excuse to showcase his talent (or sheer madness, whatever works best) It tells the story of Elisabeth trying to live out her childhood as happily as a child could. But her obnoxiously overbearing mother won't allow her to do what comes naturally to children - play - Her only solace is from her bad-influenced, wonderfully-manic imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred. After a few incidents involving a lot of mud. Elisabeth's mother confines Fred in a Jack-in-the-box. Years pass and an emotionally subdued Elisabeth returns home after a relationship fails, she unwittingly releases Fred and he forces her to look at how neglectful she has been on her inner child and how people have trampled over her as a result.Fred leads her to this weird illusion of her mind, where she confronts her mother and sets free the inner-child. The fear leaves her and she finally takes control of her life, with this new-found courage and acceptance of Adulthood Fred and Elisabeth finally say goodbye. She goes back to the world with new confidence and he begins another life with a new kid and lots of more mud! (you have to love the last scene it's SOOO SWEET) This rites-of-passage tale is a wacky and wonderful as they come...Come on, it's Rik Mayall with punk hair and a green suit - what's not to like?! "},{"Title":"Rik Mayall  is awesome in this crazy off the wall comedy","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When Elizabeth (Phoebe Cates) returns to her childhood home after her marriage breaks down, she re-creates her imaginary friend from her childhood; Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall) to help her cope with the loss.Fred should have never been allowed to enter the world of an adult, he simply breaks everything he comes in to contact with, including Elizabeth's chances of getting her life back on track, and Rik Mayall portrays this maniac in true mad-cap fashion.'Drop Dead Fred' is wickedly funny, but it does have very serious and accurate undertones beneath all the zany comedy, and is a great deal cleverer than most people give it credit for.7/10 "},{"Title":"watch, rewind, repeat","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie! I like to watch it with a different perspective each time. For instance, I'll decide before I watch it that Lizzie's completely stark raving mad, which gives an entirely different feel to the experience than if, say, I watch it with the opinion that imaginary friends are totally real, or then sometimes I watch it with the feeling that Fred is real, but not what Lizzie thinks he is (an angel? a spirit guide? a faerie? a ghost? a hideous monster about to reveal his true nature at any moment? WHAT?!!) It's easy to get distracted by how loud and obnoxious Fred is, and I was better than halfway through my first viewing before I realized just what a treasure this movie is. From the cynical little girl Lizzie in the flashbacks, to the surreal waiting room scene, to the undeniable chemistry between Fred and Lizzie, there is some incredible acting in this movie. I know, it's a tacky little farce, why read so much into it? Because it's there, that's why.  "},{"Title":"A thoroughly delightful and very funny movie","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Rik Mayall fan and I found him at his best in this picture. It is full of laughs and comic situations and I cannot understand the mentality of the many people who didn't appreciate it (including Halliwell and Maltin in their film guides).  "},{"Title":"It's Creative Genius at work","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Indeed a great movie for people of all ages.  It's comic wit and imaginative plot result in the viewer feeling satisfied and alive.  It's a movie dealing with Good (fred) against evil (adulthood, boring people, snobs).  I really thought this movie was well put together and cleverly casted.  Fred played by Rik Mayall was a marvelous decision and he ceased to be boring through out.  I give this  movie a 9/10 for creativity and ingenuity, especially since it was done on such a low budget.  "},{"Title":"Sweet Fantasy with a Beautiful Ending","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I originally saw this in my late teens. A few years ago, it started getting good play on cable, and I rediscovered this treasure.I won't rehash the plot (you can read that on the main page), but the premise has a real interesting idea. What surprised me most by the other comments were things about Elizabeth's emotional state? She's not nuts, and she's not delusional. Just because her mother mistakes Fred for a psychological problem doesn't mean she's right. That's the whole point. While we might have some questions in the beginning, by the end it's quite clear that Fred is real. This is a fantasy after all.Elizabeth is such a sweet child, it's just such a shame her father never gets a backbone to stand up to her mother. That's the one thing I didn't like about the story. It would seem her father simply abandoned them, which you simply wouldn't believe based on the sweet caring man they depict him to be. I've always adored Marsha Mason, and it was hard to see her as such a cold manipulative woman. You can see underneath, at least at the end, that she has her own issues that cause her to treat her daughter as an adversary. But it's hard to forgive.Ryk Mayall is hilarious! He's an absolute gem, and I really wish we would see him in more mainstream movies so I could view his talent without video hunting. He is brilliant in the physical comedy, and a riot even when his jokes aren't all that funny. He also shows some really tender moments. He reminds you a touch of a teacher who really loves a student with emotionally inept parents. He's supposed to be showing her what's wrong with her life, making her wake up to the shell of a person she's become, but you can see what he really wants to do is hold her, kiss the top of her head, and tell her it'll all be alright and that (at least) he loves her.Phoebe Cates turns in one of her best performances (second only to Shag). She plays the vulnerable young woman, who's been cowed by her mother and squashed by her husband, with realism and depth. You can understand her attachment to her philandering spouse (cleverly portrayed by Tim Matheson) when you recognize that she just desperately wants to be loved by someone. But after being; abandoned by her father (and seemingly Fred), emotionally battered by her mother, and losing her only other real friend (Ron Eldard is really charming in this bit) as a child; who wouldn't cling to any shred of love they can get?While this movie is so funny and energetic, it's at the end it really pays off for the grown ups. Elizabeth comes to terms with the fact that her husband really doesn't care, that she can live her life without the approval or permission of her mother, and that she'll never really be happy until she regains the inner child her mother stole from her. The fantasy scene where Fred helps her step back and face all this is really interesting, I particularly LOVE the metaphor of unwrapping the young Elizabeth from the bed where she's trapped by the same masking tape her mother used to lock Fred in the Jack-in-the-Box. The final moment of Fred's departure, with a warm kiss and hug, is heartbreaking but fitting. And closing the film with Fred continuing his efforts by befriending Mickey's daughter proves the whole point, that Fred is very real and that the imaginary friends in this story have a real purpose. They are there to help children in need in the only way kids really can be helped, with fun.  "}{"Title":"Quirky Classic","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Original, creative, and charming; I saw this movie when it first came out with my young daughter. All these years later, we still watch it and enjoy the freaky antics of Fred. There's more than just laughs here. Fred is the imaginary friend of a little girl with a demanding mother and ineffectual dad who really needs someone to be on her side. I'm glad my child's imaginary friends were well behaved, but Fred is a delight to watch. And Phoebe Cates couldn't be more charming.  "},{"Title":"Shamelessly foolish, but an all-around hoot.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was so foolish, but if you can drop your lofty adult ideals of comedy, then you will find yourself laughing loudly like you did when you were a kid.Elizabeth's life is falling apart.  Her husband has left her, she's lost her job, and she has to move back in with her disapproving mother.  To help her through the tough times her childhood imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred, returns.  While Lizzie works to get her husband back, Fred tags along causing mischief, and gradually helping her break free from her domineering relationships.Rik Mayall is an absolute scream.  I wish I had an imaginary friend like him now.  Carrie Fisher as 'the best friend' gives us the sarcasm needed to keep this from being too SNL.  Both actresses playing Lizzie, old and young are completely adorable, though able to pull off the rapid mood swings from her fun with Fred, to her despair at constantly being beaten down.  Ron Eldard, though brief, is sweet and charmingly goofy.I say see the movie.  Stop being such a grown-up and enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I have ever seen!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Call it banal, juvenile, dis-gus-ting, whatever you like.  Drop Dead Fred is still the funniest movie I have ever seen.  Elizabeth's husband has left her, so she moves back in with her mother.  Once there, she discovers the hiding place of her long-forgotten imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred. Together, they create mayhem, much to Elizabeth's mom, the mega-beast's dismay!  Phoebe Cates and Rik Mayall turn in all-star, genius comedic performances.  Carrie Fisher and Bridget Fonda also appear.  But the movie's best scenes are flashbacks to Fred and Lizzie's heyday, making mud and vodka pie when Lizzie was just 5.  If you ever feel down on your luck , check this movie out.  You're sure to be rolling on the floor before it's through.  "},{"Title":"Great for kids and stimulates the childish instinct in adults.","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Rik Mayall is perfect as the 'invisible friend' and Phoebe Cates is just gorgeous.  I can't understand why anyone would give this film a low mark.  It sets out to conjure up a magical adventure from a child's perspective (adults can't see Rik Mayall) and it succeeds.  Solid entertainment all the way through. "},{"Title":"A real good laugh!","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have to agree with the previous respondent...my young son (he's not so young now!)and I must have watched this movie over and over together, and had a real good laugh! I know it was slated by critics, but I can't help but wonder if they didn't see it for exactly what it was meant to be - fun, fun, fun! The scene in the restaurant is priceless, and also when he looks up mom's Marsha Mason skirt and declares 'cobwebs!' still has us rolling around, even after all these years. I also love it when Carrie Fisher smashes the chair in because she thinks Fred is sitting on it, after sinking her house boat (whilst declaring that Murray's wife is out of town!)! I could waffle on for ages, this really is a very good, easy to watch, funny film that is very enjoyable, and remains in my list of favourite funny films. My son and I even watched it a few weeks ago when the networks were running it, even though we have it on VCR!!! I agree, the part of 'Fred' suits RM to a tee! "},{"Title":"STOP BASHING THIS MOVIE!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is way cool.  Why does anyone insist on bashing it.  I love Rik Mayall, I've seen nearly everything that he has been in, that I could get a hold of in America and Canada.  People who didn't like this movie, don't know how to have fun.  Lighten up guys.  It's just a movie. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had me in stitches, it's so funny! Rik Mayall is one of my favourite comedians and he's on top notch in this hilarious movie.Drop Dead Fred tells the story of a young woman (Phoebe Cates) when she was about 6 years old she had an imaginary friend called Fred 21 years later she remembers about Fred. While staying at her mothers house she finds the box which her mother locked Fred in when she was only 6 and opens it, Fred then comes back to life and starts causing all sorts of mayhem!The acting is superb and the story line is very well thought of. Rik Mayall is brilliant in this slapstick movie.I give this movie 9/10.Jonathan Horner (destroy_souls@yahoo.com)  "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud FUNNY","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first started watching this movie, I didn't think it was going to be as funny as everyone was saying that it was. I am glad to say that I was Drop Dead Wrong! The effects were amazing and the actors were absolutely brilliant! Rik Mayall was hilarious all the way through and definitely got you laughing in a heartbeat!!! If you are ever in a bad mood, this is the movie you would want to watch in order to smile! The way his character showed that much love is very touching and very refreshing! I would recommend this movie to anyone who needs a good laugh or wants to watch a one-of-a-kind comedy! There is no replacing or reenacting this type of movie and I give it a two thumbs up rating! If you don't own this movie, you should! "},{"Title":"seriously.....  its worth every minute!!!!!!! <3<3<3","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I looked at the front cover of the DVD and thought... NO i don't want to see this. It will be cheap rubbish! But as soon as it started i was rolling about laughing. How can actors like Rik Mayell make a character like Fred believable!?! It doesn't add up but i had a blast watching this film!!!! The story is funny yet believable and entertaining.. the script is so clever!! i gave it a nine out of ten so that must mean 1/10 i don't like. That one out of 10 is probably a couple of the actors could of either calmed down a bit or acted more but the main actors were sensational.Please see this film! It's so funny... i was loling all the way through. I really recommend this and I'm very hard to please! xxx "},{"Title":"A Fantastically Funny Movie","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" OK, to those who have bashed the film in fear of other children seeing it and emulating certain behavior in the film... get over yourselves. Kids are NOT stupid (in general), and they're generally very good at distinguishing a movie from reality. My son and daughter grew up watching this film with me and not once have they ever done a poo on the kitchen table, eaten anyone's head, nor encouraged the victim to eat their own heads. They have drug dog poo into the house, but I blame my basset hound for that one.I truly believe that those who think the girl was mentally ill has some very real issues of their own that need addressing. My sister, who was only a year older than me and born 3 months premature so she was sort of like my twin, had a make-believe friend. We actually shared her and her name was Cee Cee. She usually behaved well with my sister but with me there was issues on occasion. My own daughter has a make-believe and his name is Gayno. Red hair, high school age (my daughter is 8 and he's been around since she was 3). Yeah he gets the blame for some stuff but seriously, would I seek counseling for her? NO. I just make her clean up Gayno's messes as he's her guest and therefore her responsibility. When my daughter is too old for him one day, I can honestly say I'll miss him. She did inform me that he'll be home for Thanksgiving, but at the moment he's in boarding school. I'll be sure to have extra cranberry stuffing as he's the only one who seems to enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Magical Film","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When i first saw this film i was but 8 years old, seems so long ago now that this was my favorite film, but I'm glad to say nothing has changed. A goofy, wacky and slightly strange film because while the humor in this film seems aimed at a younger audience it to me still holds its captivation.Drop Dead Fred will always be one of my favorite films simply because of the great memories which i hold dear to this film. The first time i cried with laughter, the first time my sides felt like they were going to split and the first time i was touched by a film all in the one story. Now you might find that strange at the age of 8 but i'l always remember that ending so sad, so weird but still so great.The reason i decided to post this is because i recently bought a copy of the DVD for my brother and he has not stopped watching it, which just makes me realise what a relic this film is. I hope this film continues to reek havoc on funny bones for many more generations and the day which i cant remember the film drop dead Fred will be a sad oneAbsolutely love it!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"The cheekiest and funniest movie ever!10 out of 10!","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred was an extremely hilarious film,Lizzie(Elizabeth) was a perfectly rational character,and the way the character Drop Dead Fred was obnoxious,energetic and a bit crazy was laugh-out-loud brilliant and really well-played.The beginning was hilarious(when Elizabeth as a little girl in bed didn't believe the fairytale about a princess rescued by a prince told by her mum and said to her mum What a pile of s***).The movie started to get funnier and more interesting when Drop Dead Fred followed Elizebeth(the character who was the little girl in bed who was the only one who saw Drop dead Fred),who is grown up as a lady, all throughout the movie and causing chaos with her situations.But he also saved her life because her boyfriend was cheating on her,so Elizabeth leaves her boyfriend. It was a bit sad at the end of the movie when Drop Dead Fred couldn't stay with Elizabeth any more,but the thing was he was an imaginary person who was most of the times off the wall but a hero as well.My favourite scene is where Lizzie meets up with her old friend from childhood and then Drop dead Fred shows up sitting on the table and saying Oh no,Mickey Fartpants!Let him grow up!God,he's still talking about love!I always said you should be a girl!.That was so hilarious I always laugh to death on the couch.All in all,the film was side-splitting and touching as well.I'll always watch this movie on DVD whenever I want a real good laugh of Drop Dead Fred and his explosion of chaos and laughter! "},{"Title":"The best film EVER!!","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know how anyone could be so uptight as to find this film offensive!! Granted Rik Mayall's acting may be a bit of an acquired taste (although actually he's a comedic genius) but it really shocked me how seriously people have taken this. I appreciate that it's not for everyone but seriously, if you watched this and felt insulted on behalf of people with mental illnesses you've really missed the point of the film. Elizabeth's not ill, she's lonely and she's the product of a really bad upbringing and the comments that sympathise with her mother scare me! It's a kids film, it's supposed to be silly! Everyone who has said it's immature are the exact kind of people the film is making fun of. I feel really sorry for anyone who can't appreciate this film, you really need to smile more. I laugh all the way through and still cry at the end. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken in earnest","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film I grew up with really, and it's one of the earliest movies I can remember, I must have watched it a hundred times when I was little! I hadn't seen it for years until I picked it up just recently because it was on sale, but I'm so glad I did! Drop Dead Fred manages to portray the magic of childhood so beautifully, and I think it'll be a hit for anyone who isn't afraid to laugh at its silly jokes, and not take themselves too seriously! Elizabeth is a twenty-something young woman, who after having just about the worst day of her life, manages to summon up her childhood imaginary friend. He follows her around, causing havoc, trying to pretend like she's 5 years old again, and some scenes in this are genuinely laugh-out-loud funny! In the end, in what I think is a very touching scene, Fred has to say goodbye and let her get on with her life. Very moving, and more adult than the rest of the film. Additionally, in this scene Rik Mayall is pretty sexy, red wig and all..I've been shocked reading reviews where people were actually offended by this film, because although it is a certificate 12, as I've said I can remember watching it from a very young age- 4 or 5- and it's done me no harm! This film does have some mildy crude parts, and yes a lot of it is vulgar, but what else can be expected from Rik Mayall? It is just simple, childish fun! For anyone that remembers being young, this film is for you, but don't sit down expecting any less than a playful flick! "},{"Title":"I Love This Film","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe this film has such a low rating. It's one of the best films of all time, maybe just because I have a Rik Mayall obsession, maybe just because it is.I have a few things to say to people who didn't like it.- Many people criticise this film saying that it is highly unsuitable for children due to the amount of swearing and violence. Well, firstly, it is not intended for children. At least here in the UK, it was given a rating of 15 (not suitable for people under 15) when it was first released. It has since been re-rated 12 in the past few years, though it really remains up to the parents to censor what their kids see. Though honestly, I saw this film when I was about 7 and it had no adverse effect on me, and I still enjoy it now, as an 18 year old.- People who claim it isn't funny generally do so because they aren't fans of crude and slapstick humour. Well if that isn't what you find funny, don't criticise the film, just don't watch films like this. I can't stand political satire but I don't watch Farenheirt 9/11 and then bitch about it.In itself, the film is cute and funny with vaguely serious undertones in some parts, and is a cult film beloved by many. I highly recommend it to everyone who loves Rik Mayall as it is a typical Mayall role, not to be overlooked by his fans.Watch it! "},{"Title":"An incredibly funny and warm film, with serious undertones","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is an absolutely brilliant film. Rik Mayall is the star of the show here, and it's difficult to exaggerate just how funny this man is. The character of Drop Dead Fred is so unique that he could only have been played by Mayall. Phoebe Cates is also great as Elizabeth Cronin, a woman with a child-like innocence trying to deal with adult problems in the real world while battling her Psychosis which is manifested by an imaginary friend. The antics of Drop Dead Fred are so wonderfully surreal and offbeat that I could not stop laughing. This film is a one-of-a-kind classic.A Great film that I adore! "},{"Title":"Childhood Spirit The Guidance","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop dead Fred is one of those Fantasies that stand out from others it is definitely made for kids that is for sure but the movie can even be seen by older people i will here rate everything.Story. The story is what gives this movie the biggest push and as well it should. It is about Elizabeth Cronin who as a child was always alone with an abusive and demanding mother, when she finds a JACK-IN-THE-BOX toy she calls upon an imaginary friend, his name is Drop Dead Fred but actually he is not just and imaginary friend, because he is helping child to child instead of being only with one. When Elizabeth Cronin loses all her money plus her husband and other stuff she returns to live with her mother, later at night she finds the JACK-THE-BOX and here he returns to help her and of course to cause more havoc hehe. The story is a softer spot with a lot of younger humor made for kids but you will laugh even when older. I am 19 years old and i laughed out, also felt a sense of gladness in the end of the movie thats why it is a softer spot.Soundtrack. The music and other in this movie is mellow and kind and made perfectly for this movie. Even at the exact times, the music is not much vocal just more melodies. And if that was not the point then the music and other would have ruined this fantasy classic Actors. The only place i have seen Rik Mayall was in bottom and i hated him in that series, so to see him play a role in this movie as Drop Dead Fred and like the way he played was incredible. All the way he plays a role suited for him and perfectly, if someone else had played it, this movie was nothing he makes up for every thing he played in this movie. Peoebe Cates is also very suited she plays the role almost as good as Rik Mayall does. The rest of the cast puts out and good performance as well especially Ron EldardSpecial Effects. This is a fantasy so it needs Special Effects and as for a movie from 1991 it is well adjusted with Special Effects and some even looks nice. But there is not much to say about them then that.Summary. All in all this movie is something you wanna see and buy and if you never seen a fantasy before this is a good start. This movie will be liked by none who likes fantasy and by them who likes them. by kids by adults. this movie is worthwhile your time as long as you understand the movie. Aslong as you understand that Drop Dead Fred is not only an imaginary friend but a child's spirit who travels from kid to kid and saves them. then you are good on your way.nothing more to say about this movie check for my other reviews around and see what more is good film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film ... ahead of its time","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a beautiful film. There are so many little messages throughout. Kids have imaginary friends to express parts of themselves they may be too shy to express themselves. I remember my young cousin was very scared of dogs but he had a pack of imaginary dogs that he would talk to and talk about and he claimed protected him. Obvoiously Pheobe Cate's character,Lizzy, needs to express her feelings, her upset and so forth but is so scared of her mothers reaction she blames it on her imaginary friend. Maybe her mom will think less of her if she admits to throwing a tantrum but if she blames Frend then she doesn't have to admit to her mother and even herself that she is upset. Fred helps Lizzy stand up for herself... maybe not in the best way at first but eventually she acts like an adult with her mother and husband due to Fred and her imagination. Imaginary friends are wonderful and if we look a little deeper we can see that this film is simply telling us to listen to ourself --not deny our feelings and give ourselves a hug (like she does at the end when Drop Dead Fred must go). "},{"Title":"One of the most funniest films of like ever!!!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this film when i was 6 and i've loved it ever since.i saw this film the other day for the first time in years, and i've watched it every night since,and i'm 19. No two other people could of played the lead roles, perfectly executed acting and perfect lines. if anyone can honestly say they never found anything funny in the film, they have either no fun or want no fun, i mean the part when he rips the stuffed toys intestines out, genius, and the word 'COBWEBS' always makes me laugh.If you don't want to see childish humour or have any fun in your life, just like her mother, which is the whole point in the film. avoid this film. But if you wanna laugh during the next few weeks randomly because the film is soo hilariously funny, see it, "},{"Title":"Best Movie Of All Time","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this film when I was just eleven years old. I remember sitting in my living room and my mother telling me to watch a movie she had been wanting to show me since i was younger. So, we all sat down to watch it and it made me laugh and cry. It's such a loving and caring film. I would watch it every time it would come on television. But now they hardly show it. It has been nearly two years since I last saw it and I have been looking for it ever since. However, i have not found one single store around here that sells it. This movie has been my favorite move of all time. It is humorous and adorable. It is a film that the whole family can watch together and laugh along. "}{"Title":"Laugh out load","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie!I shared it with my daughter when she was very young.Every time it would come on t.v. we would watch it. Now I'm sharing this movie with my Grandson. I have never heard that child laugh so loud.Who does'nt love Fred?It just makes you feel like a kid again. We laugh so hard;it's wonderful. Kudos to Rik Mayall!!! I'm surprised that a lot of people have not even heard of this movie. It's right up there with other kids classics like Goonies and The sandlot. I don't care how many times I watch this movie it makes me laugh every time!!! I recently bought Drop dead Fred on DVD. As I had never seen it on VHS. I think every parent that has a inquisitive child should purchase this DVD. And when a child is acting out remember their only children for a little while. It has become one of our favorite movies in our 300+ movie collection. "},{"Title":"way cool","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  drop dead fred was my favourite movie as a kid i must of watched it over 30 times i was always scared of it for some reasons but if you always thought how cool it was to have or want to see what it would be like to have an imaginry friend this is for u. "},{"Title":"Good energetic comedy","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This largely ignored comedy isn't as bad as many say it is. Rik Mayall plays the invisible friend from Elizabeth Cronin's (Phoebe Cates) childhood, who has come back into her life in an attempt to make her happy. The story unfolds quite well, but it isn't really the main drive of the film. Rik Mayall could be mistaken for an English Jim Carrey, and this extremely high-energy performance was something he was born to do.Although there are times when the invisible friend becomes irritating, the story comes to a strangely sentimental ending, where your opinion of him is altered. If you look at this film in a completely comic light, and see it as nothing more than a live action cartoon, then there is little to disappoint. The final dream-state sequence includes some great set pieces, and the viewer finds themself surprisingly sorry to see the back of Rik Mayall.If you like seeing Rik Mayall doing idiotic things on screen, this is essential, and although Drop Dead Fred isn't a great comedy, its got some entertaining scenes. Worth a watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's The Mask stole from this one!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, what a wonderful, cute film! Who would have thought! I admit that I'd never seen it till today, even though I once fell down the stairs and broke my watch in the Amsterdam apartment of the director. It's an intelligent, psychologically valid, smart film with actually cute and really funny moments. Jim Carrey's The Mask stole from this one! I'm notta gonna give away how, you'll have to see for yourself. It has some smart directorial stuff, by shooting the last close-up of the main character (Phoebe Cates's) in sunset lighting, which serves as a visual metaphore for closure. It has some great writing, like telling us what happens to Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall) after... (No, see it yourself)and by giving meaning, plotwise, to the title of the film. And some unfortunate technical uglyness like the cut in between the little girl standing up, and her walking downstairs. (I understand why, the follow-up was too complex for the girl to get it right in even a few usable takes, so the director had to fix it in post.) and two lines (dubbed?)in the first half of the film that are at least three frames out of sync, but the director is forgiven, because the majority of the film is so damn cute. Should get a remake starring Jim Carrey (geen gelul Ate, doen!) "},{"Title":"It's a good movie","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This story of friendship is truly unique and I recommend all to watch it. Not only is it funny but it has sentimental moments also. It shows all of us that friends are very important things and they help you be who you are and it shows you that you have to be who you are also. "},{"Title":"Mainly for Rik Mayall fans","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is for those who wish there were a lost Young Ones episode out there. And yet, Fred isn't given the scope to be *quite* as obnoxious as Rick from the Young Ones (or as disgusting as the hermit in the Black Seal episode of Blackadder I). What gave perfection to Rick's grotesque repulsiveness was his intense narcissism which must be absent here due to the nature of the role (how can an extension of a child's personality have an ego of its own?). Still, I'd recommend it to any fan of his. He displays his usual genius for playing a manic, irritating loudmouth (those words not doing justice to his unique style), and I'm just sorry the rest of the effort is so poor. The idea behind it is appealing - a meek, unhappy woman in need of hope discovers something magical and friendly from her childhood that helps her to survive in a cold sadistic world. But the directorial technique is incredibly poor. Many of the scenes are poorly choreographed, such as the food flinging scene in the restaurant andthe Carrie Fisher beating up the empty chair scene. They just fall flat, which is perhaps due to unimaginitive writing as well. The story is also vague at times - why does Charles suddenly take her back? During many moments, one can't tell if Cates is annoyed or relieved by Fred's reappearance. The conflict of emotions is not clearly portrayed. I see the necessity for Phoebe Cates' character being as gentle as she is, but it would have been fun to see someone more adversarial to Fred - someone in spite of whom he was able to be obnoxious - he needed someone to play off of (a straight man -ex. Vivien/Neil) - although again I see why the nature of the roles prevented this. Again - if you consider Mayall a genius, you'll love this film despite its flaws. Give it a try.  "},{"Title":"Funny and cute movie!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my favorite scenes in the movie is when Elizabeth is in the kitchen the next morning after Drop Dead Fred comes back, with her mom and drop dead Fred pops in yelling mega B*tch about the mom)  Makes me laugh every-time.  The only thing that I didn't like was Fred picking his nose and wiping it on Elizabeth.  YUCK! "},{"Title":"Charming, Funny and Touching","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was 10 years old when I first saw this wonderful movie. There I was in the video store wondering what to rent and then this movie caught my eye. I took it home watched it and I enjoyed it so much I rented Drop Dead Fred out the next week and every friday night whilst other people were out being social, I would sit in my room and watch Drop Dead Fred over and over with a coke in one hand and food in the other. Drop Dead Fred is an absolutely funny movie, you can quote this movie over and over, It has charm and the movie still touches me every time I watch it ( Which is everyday )I can not recommend this movie enough, It is my favourite movie of all time. Please don't wait any longerI just hope this movie gets released on DVD some day and more people can experience how great it is.If you are looking for other recommendations, I strongly recommend you rent buy Pump Up The Volume and Heathers.Drop Dead Fred = Amazing "},{"Title":"best movie","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love Drop Dead Fred- it's one of the funniest movies ever made.  I watch it so much, I quote it all of the time. "},{"Title":"A hidden diamant","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Film showed deep insight in growing up. Never tried to lecture, but had lots to say. And all done with great humor. It's a treasure, sure to be rediscovered in the future as an exceptional picture "}{"Title":"Kooky and Touching...","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I actually saw this movie during its very brief theatrical release, and although it has been dismissed as a mediocre piece of work, I happened to enjoy its strange qualities very much. As a whole, it may not be a very strong movie, but there are parts that are very entertaining.Rik Mayall, in the role of Drop Dead Fred, is the main character Elizabeth's (played by Phoebe Cates) imaginary friend who returns to help her win her husband back. He's got a crude English wit that I got a kick out of, but mostly because I remember how funny he was as `Rick' on reruns of the wacky British early 80's television series THE YOUNG ONES. It was great to see him on screen again.The coolest thing is when I discovered that my boyfriend also liked this obscure, sleeper film. We both agree that Ashley Peldon, who portrays Phoebe Cates' character as a little girl is the cutest!!! She steals a lot of the scenes in the film in playing off of Mayall. The `cat burglary' and `mud/pants-pie' memory flashback scenes are absolutely hilarious.This is a light movie, but it has clever devices. I love how like a true childhood imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred isn't seen or detected by anyone else but Elizabeth and mischievous, terrible things that he does are thought to be done by her.I was especially touched by how things are resolved at the end of the film. This film basically deals with how a grown woman must come to terms with her childhood issues and upbringing in order to become a better person and have a better life. This offbeat movie may not be for everyone, but I enjoyed and could personally relate to the overall message of healing your inner child. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched Drop Dead Fred when I was very little.  It had a large impact on my life as a child and when I was growing up.  The movie made me laugh and cry and really want an imaginary friend like Fred.  I only wish I could find more multimedia on the subject. "},{"Title":"The movie was cute and entertaining.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember Ashley Peldon from the soap opera The Guiding Light. She was a wonderful child actor, very talented and on the mark of showing emotions.  I always wondered what happened to her sense leaving the soap. Now I can catch up on the movies she has been in.When I first saw her I could not believe how much she resembled my oldest daughter and now to see her as a child again in her older movies brings back wonderful memories.  She still resembles my daughter today.  They are a few years apart in age and to my surprise their birthdays are also just a couple of days apart..She's very talented and hats off to her.   Thank you for helping find history about her and her movies. "},{"Title":"Warms even the coldest of Hearts.","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As part of my old job I was allowed all of the free DVD's I could handle. At one point I had over 500. I am in the midst of selling a lot of them and it is a painful process. I had a solid pile of about 100 that I wanted to sell. 'Drop Dead Fred' was at the top of the pile. I had never watched the movie and for some reason, last night, it was calling to me. I am really glad I decided to watch it and remove it from the doomed pile.On the surface this is one of those early 90's kids movies that actually is not really intended for kids. Do you remember that movie with Martin Short? 'Clifford'? It is the same idea. It is a style of film making that is not utilized nearly enough. The movie is crewed and lewd and almost perfect. Fred rules! I love the imaginary friend idea and I think it was depicted in perfect absurdity.The plot is simple but far from stale in the way it is presented. Girl has crappy life, remembers childhood imaginary friend and then said imaginary friend comes back into girl's life and wreaks havoc. The film's colorful and quirky nature invigorates the plot 200%. It is also really heartfelt and gives you a warm mushy feeling at the end which honestly is something that we all need to experience every now and again seeing as we live is such a cruel and depressing world full of heartless and blood thirsty ingrates.Underneath the comical veneer is something else- something much darker and disturbing. There is something very psychological about this film. Fred, the imaginary friend, is ID through and through. I would go as far to say that this film should be shown in PSY100 classes to demonstrate the ID, EGO and SUPER EGO and how they work. Although the film is comical I think the plot plays with the idea of mental illness a lot. I will make the argument that Lizzy suffers from Schizophrenia and this film is a depiction of her battle with the illness.I am told that a remake is in the works and that British Comedian Russell Brand is set to play Fred. He is getting a lot of flack on both his message board and this message board as well. Part of me, as Any fan of this movie would, agrees that it is near perfect and a remake is pointless- however if I had one complaint it is that the film does not look all that great (with the exception of Phoebe Cates). Visually, the film is kind of dull. I think it would be invigorating to see the film done with more in terms of effects. And in Russell Brand's defense, have we really seen enough of his work to discriminate against him and know that he will ruin a remake? I HATED 'Forgetting Sara Marshall' but Russell Brand really made it's excruciating length and general blandness slightly more bearable. "},{"Title":"Look beyond the crude humor, there is a message here.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wow I see a lot of hate for this move, and I just don't understand it. This movie is not just about breaking things or disgusting humor (though there is a bunch of this in it.) it goes deeper into the mind of both children and adults. Maybe I can relate to this move because my childhood was not the happiest and I needed an escape, and to this day I still sometimes wish I could just I had that imagery friend who was just a little larger than life. I know from time to time I find my inner child has been bound and I need to set him free. Watch then end of this film and you will see an important message about loving yourself and letting our inner child out. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Bonkers Invisible Friend Film","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Elizabeth, a young woman living in Minneapolis, manages to lose her purse, her car, her husband, her job and her apartment in one day. Moving back in with her overbearing mother, she is plagued by the anarchic Drop Dead Fred, an imaginary friend from her childhood whom nobody else can see. Determined to win her life back, she sets out to woo back her husband and overcome Drop Dead Fred's best efforts to help her.This is a wonderfully mad movie that nobody seems to like but me, with a tremendous pair of performances by the diametrically-opposed Cates and Mayall. It has some really terrific themes going on; the loneliness of childhood, the tyranny of parenthood, how scary it can be to have to grow up, but it's so charming and it never takes itself seriously for long. I love the way Cates plays it totally straight, as an all-American girl, which not only makes Mayall's nuttiness even funnier, but also brings out the pathos and the poignancy of the story beautifully. Mayall is fantastically bonkers, smashing up the scenery and shouting like a good-natured pixie version of his lefty student from the TV show The Young Ones. Whenever the two are on-screen together, the movie just sparkles. There are inventive special effects by Peter Kuran, a rollicking good score by Randy Edelman and great zippy photography by Peter Deming. Sadly, this movie was not a hit, and I know why - it just doesn't have an audience. It's definitely not for kids, but it's far too goofy and immature for boring grownups - that's why I like it so much. It's a shame though, because DeJong is a sensational visual stylist in the vein of Tim Burton or Gore Verbinski, and I'd love to see more movies from him. Still, this is a gem of a comedy, filled with cracking scenes and a truly beautiful ending. Snotface !! "},{"Title":"This Film Is FANTASTIC!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is the marmite of the silver screen. You either love it or you hate it! It all comes down to Rik Mayal. If you think that he is an annoying, noisy, childish purveyor of toilet humour who should be shot, then you will not like this movie, granted. However, if you think that he is an annoying, noisy, childish purveyor of toilet humour who should be crowned King of England so we can all bask in his comedy genius, then get yourself a DVD box-set of bottom or the young ones, rent this movie, book the week of work and laugh your t*ts off! I LOVE IT! The thing about this movie is that he is SUPPOSED to be annoying and childish because, and wait for it, HE'S THE PRODUCT OF A CHILDS IMAGINATION! Switch off the criticisms and let this film do what it does best - remind you of what it was like to be as a kid, and how we all needed something to keep us sane in a crazy world - even if that thing referred to us as snot face! "},{"Title":"AMAZING","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In contradiction to the last comment posted on this site, this will not be such a biased review of the film. This film is one you either love or hate, as you will probably note from the vote section. I actually found Rik Mayall to be perfectly suited to the part pf Drop Dead Fred and isn't annoying whatsoever in comparison to American favourites such as Jim Carrey. In case the cretin who wrote the last comment didn't realize, this is SUPPOSED to be a silly slapstick movie, and therefore Rik Mayall is SUPPOSED to act in such a way. If you don't like slapstick, don't watch it. If you do, then do watch it. I found it really charming and makes me wish i had an imaginary friend. i thoroughly enjoyed this movie at a young age, as do all the younger members of my family. it may have a 12 certificate, but this is one to watch with the family, it really is lovely. "},{"Title":"A Nice Kids Fantasy Film. Rik Mayall is great as Fred. SPOILER","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this film when I was six years old and I of course loved it. I am now 17 and for some reason I still think its pretty enjoyable, as it brings back memories of my childhood and makes you wish that you could feel like the way you where then just for one day and see what it felt like to be young again. I am mostly into grown up films now but some child films I still find brilliant no matter how much I now them from watching them over the years, Drop Dead Fred is one of these examples.The film is about a young woman called Lizzie(Phoebe Cates) and her imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred(Rik Mayall who is one of my favourite comedy actors and as I grew up I have seen him in other really funny shows like The Young Ones, The New Statesman and of course Bottom) in the story when Lizzie's marriage breaks up she is forced by her bullish mother to go and stay the night at her house where she refines her imaginary childhood friend Fred who her mother had locked away many years ago in a box to tray and control Lizzie's life (and by the way I was glad to see Lizzie standing up to her mother at the end) thanks to Fred of course. The part at the end were Fred makes Lizzie realise that she finally has grown up and she can run her own life now and she does not need him anymore and he has to say goodbye to her and give her a kiss and a hug is heartbreaking it made me think that it can be a wee bit sad that I'm as good as grown up now to and to think back to the old days of my imaginary friend. The last seen is good too as we see Lizzie is talking to her friend Mickey who has just found out that his child Nataile has an imaginary friend who's name is Drop Dead Fred and we then now that Fred was not just an imaginary friend he was real and his job is to help all children while they are growing up.This is a great wee gem of a film specially for Rik Mayall fans like me.I give Drop Dead Fred 7/10. Give it a tray. "},{"Title":"How could you not like Drop Dead Fred?","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Fred personifies the obnoxious kid in EVERYONE...even if you have no clue that he's there. He does what we all wish we could! We watch Fred's antics from flashbacks of childhood to even more insane (and inane!) craziness that adults wouldn't dream about. Through all of this we watch as a spurned wife finds herself and her purpose...and her strength. Not daytime-emmy worthy drama, but definitely Oscar worthy comedy! I am constantly quoting lines from this movie for whatever situation arises in life, accent and all...unfortunately no one knows what I'm talking about! I laughed over and over...have watched it over and over. I'll never take the green pills!!!  "}{"Title":"Make her eat her own head?","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie and it's sophiticatedlyness. For those who question Lizzy mental health. Sit down, take a breath and remember that it is just a movie. And for those of you that think the Mega Beast was the victim may I remind you she was the one who said Snuggling is for teddy bears and (to Lizzie) I beginning to think that I don't love you as much as I used to. She is terrible. I am also fairly certain that the creators weren't aiming at the Academy with this one. It's just fun. The only part of the movie that I find sad and a little disturbing is that Natalie(Micky's daughter) needed to have an imaginary friend. It makes me think that she has a terrible home life. ( But no matter what your comments on this movie are, just remember It takes more than a fire truck to stop Drop Dead Fred.  "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Serious Movie Critics! P","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie. I have seen it more than 5 times when I was a teenager.. I still don't understand why it is underrated.I believe that before rating any movie, you should put it in context. Is it a historical movie? is it a social movie? fantasy? drama... What does it communicate to viewers?Now this movie is a goofy movie, or slapstick, and there is nothing wrong with that! You can easily put it on the same shelf with The Mask, Beetlejuice (as mentioned by the previous reviewer), Ace Ventura... However you cannot give it a 1/10 because it's doesn't have a social or intellectual value! Much like all the critics who trashed movies like Dumb and Dumber (early Jim Carey movies were all about goofiness). Now I'm not saying this movie is a cinematic masterpiece, but it's a fun to watch modern slapstick. Again, context. In general, the movie is about a young woman and her childhood imaginary friend. So expect childish behaviours from Drop Dead Fred (played by Rik Mayall, who is described by the character of Phoebe Cates as way out of control). People who will enjoy this movie are people like me, who like watching cartoons by Chuck Jones such as Bugs Bunny, Duffy Duck, Road Runner (and all the other WB cartoons).It's alright to watch something goofy from time to time. My fav quote from DDF I'm the pirate who doesn't touch anything, except this button.  "},{"Title":"Favorite!!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Rented this movie back in 1992 for my son, who was then just 6 years old. I was 26.  I fell in love with it, and so did he.  I bought it on video as soon as I could, and soon, he and I both were quoting lines from it all the time.  There was as much grown-up jokes and fun as there was stuff for the kids.  How could *anyone* that's ever had to grow up (and we all have) not absolutely LOVE this movie?? It's funny, sad, and all about having to say goodbye to something precious.....your childhood.  My daughter began watching it when she was about 5.  She's 13 now, and still cries with me at the end....every time.  My son is now 17, and swears if he has them, his kids will get to see it too.  So what if it's not Gone With the Wind? It's a great film in it's own right and genre. "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw this film when I was about 8 I thought it was funny as hell.  I did not understand some of the jokes because I was so young but when I got older I was nearly in tears because it was so funny.  Watch this film if u need a good laugh!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Obviously, there are some people that take life way too seriously. Where is your sense of humor, Bruno? I fail to see where it mocks mental illness at all. This is meant to be a comedy, not to be taken seriously. Next time, think of a movie that really DOES suck, like Eyes Wide Shut (waste of time). Now that's a movie that needs to be avoided. I recommend Drop Dead Fred to anyone! It's obviously a movie not to be taken seriously. There's a reason why it's a comedy, not a drama! "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Fred","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie and I simply love it to death! I have watched it since I was six years old. I love it and it touches my heart each time I watch it. The part that makes me cry is the part where Elizabeth learns she can't be with Drop Dead Fred anymore. As we all know, Fred is the best character in the whole movie and I think Rik Mayall is so cool. I wish that they would come out with a sequel. I think Drop Dead Fred should have gotten more then a star and a half. I think Ate Dew Jong should get an award or some kind of prize. If you want to quiz me about the movie or talk about it just send me a message. I love this movie so much and no other movie can replace it. "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Fred Should Drop Dead.","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is one of those rare films. One where you get so angry at the film that you want meet the filmmakers and strangle them for making such a terrible film.The film stars Phoebe Cates from Gremlins and Gremlins 2 The New Batch stars in this clunky comedy with no laughs at all and Rik Mayall of British Fame whose performance is so annoying and frustrating to deal with for 103 minutes. The film is about Elizabeth Corrin played by Phoebe Cates who meet her imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred played by Rik Mayall from her childhood.This is a horrible movie and cannot understand why anybody thought that this would be a great idea. The performances are dry and annoying, the story is clunky and the comedy, for a comedy, is just... not... there! This is my pick for the absolute worst film of 1991.Rated PG-13 For Language and Crude Behavior 1hr 43min/103min.BOMB/**** "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Fred","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" How do you review a film when you disagree with the MERE PHILOSOPHY behind it? In which alternate planet is this considered acceptable? I have no idea... All I can say is, I never want to go within a trillion light years of it.There's a little girl, right? She has an imaginary friend (who's not so imaginary) only she can see. An irrepressible goofball called Drop Dead Fred. He's played by the late Rik Mayall, who can be both charismatic and hilarious in the right role. This isn't it. Fred constantly gets the girl in trouble, by smashing stuff up, tipping things over, making messes... etc.Of course, everyone believes the young lady is responsible, so she ends up in trouble more-or-less every day. You'd think for stitching her up so much, the child would HATE Fred. No way. The two are apparently 'best buddies' and the concerned mother, who is painted as the bad guy, is some kind of evil monster.I'm sorry... Clearly I've missed something here. FRIENDS help you. FRIENDS support you. FRIENDS are nice to you. Fred does none of those things. He creates chaos, then just disappears... leaving the kid to take the fall. He also insults everyone around him, won't leave you alone for a second, smears bogeys on your cheek... Yeah, some 'friend'.21 years later, and the little girl is now a fully grown doormat, played by Phoebe Cates. She wants to get back with her ex Charles, even though he boasts in front of her that he bangs his new girlfriend 'like a piece of veal'. In the space of one day she has her car stolen, and is fired from her job. Distraught, she is in no position to argue when her mother INSISTS she stay at her old house for a while. And while rummaging around her old bedroom... Guess who she finds sealed away in an old box?Fred has come back, and he can't leave 'till he makes her happy again'. It's impossible to attach that statement to ANY of his subsequent actions in the film. He smears dog poo all over Cates's mother's brand new carpet. He sinks her mate's expensive houseboat. He makes her beat up an innocent violinist at the mall. And this is just the tip of the iceberg.Needless to say, everyone thinks she's nuts, and later on she gets some pills that could get rid of Fred. This is depicted as a BBAADDDD thing... as if stopping everyone believing you're crazy is somehow undesirable. Better yet, it could rid you of Rik Mayall... playing his most obnoxious and unlikable role to date. And if you've ever seen The Young Ones and Bottom, you'll know how 'impressive' that feat is.What we have here is a difference in opinion between me and the filmmakers. They want me to see Fred as a charming throwback to childhood, where you could get away with any antisocial behaviour because it could be chalked up to hi-jinx. As for the mother, who DARES to try to discipline her daughter for all this bad behaviour, she is an ol' stick in the mud with NO sense of fun.Well... I felt sorry for mum, as she was made to clean up after Fred, and see her valuable possessions get smashed by this invisible hooligan. As for the little girl, how she could find any kinship with this nasty piece of work is beyond me. And the screenwriter too as it happens, who doesn't bother to explain the attraction.Flash forward to when she's an adult, and there's a dinner scene that must be seen to be believed. In the ongoing pursuit of Charles, Cates runs into an old male school chum just as messed up as she is (I won't insult your intelligence by telling you if they end up together) and they go out for a meal at a posh restaurant. Fred is along for the ride of course, and he manipulates Cates's body so she makes a public spectacle of herself... pulling stupid expressions, tipping water onto her lap, throwing food across the room...Any reasonable man would have paid the cheque, mumbled some lame excuse and got the heck outta there. Not this guy though... He finds her manic behaviour utterly bewitching.... And starts doing the same himself. Who does that?! Are we meant to think of them as non-conformist heroes? All I got from it was these two should have adjoining cells in the local asylum. A normal, 'boring' reaction perhaps, not in the spirit of the film... But you know what? I don't care a jot.Then again, no-one's conduct in this movie vaguely resembles anything in real life either. Take Cate's friend, who's houseboat was unfortunately sunk. When she finds out her living quarters and all her possessions are gone forever, she barely bats an eyelid. And when she hears Drop Dead Fred was responsible, with NO evidence whatsoever, she BELIEVES this unlikely story about an invisible friend and starts ripping apart a chair he was sitting in. This is in front of a packed meeting full of her work colleagues. HEY, PHIL!! WE GOT A THIRD ROOM AT THE ASYLUM FREE?I can't leave without mentioning the final scenes, when Mayall gets all gooey. You see, after 'helping' her solve all her problems (was this in a different movie?) he has to say goodbye to Cates, in what must rank at one of the most failed attempt at pathos like, ever... I couldn't wait to see the back of the irritating w*nker. Never mind the mournful background music... I felt like sticking on Celebration by Kool And The Gang.So, to sum it all up then... Did you do good Mr Ate De Jong?Nope. 2/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made.","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm fourteen and have seen this movie a thousand times. I own it on DVD and as I write this, I'm watching it. I love movies that put me in a good mood and this one brings my mood up no matter how bad I feel. I can quote every word and this movie is also a sort of tearjerker. I sobbed to this movie last night as I watched it and dug deep into the meaning. This is such a funny and creative movie that it covers its deep meaning. The movie represents loneliness and how things earlier in life can change how you grow as a person and in Elizabeth's case, she grows very insecurely, very afraid of the smallest things in life. She was so alone as her mother didn't care whatsoever about her and her idiotic husband who eventually cheated on her, she found love and comfort and company in this imaginary friend who connects with her in several ways. She was tired of Fred but she loved him more than anyone could imagine. She didn't want to be alone and despite Fred's annoying antics, she loved having his company more than anyone else. This movie makes you cry with laughter and warms your heart. 1000/10. "},{"Title":"Beautifully nostalgic","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After recently becoming a Rik Mayall fan, I took a break from watching zombie flicks all day to check out this hilarious and heart warming film where Mayall acts as Drop Dead Fred, an energetic and spontaneous child-hood imaginary friend to a 26 year old girl, Elizabeth. Her life has encountered numerous discomforting events and thus she needs some spirit brought back into her. This PG film is sprinkled with unforgettable funny quotes, unique characters, life- questioning provokes (such as about shared reality vs individual reality), mischievous scenes and beautiful friendship scenes. Heck, I sobbed at one point&#x85; Therefore, I find Drop Dead Fred a lovely reminder of childhood adventures. Maybe you will as well.Also, just a relevant though~ I think Fred looks like a cross between Vyvyan and Rick from The Young Ones, since he's played by Rick's actor, has orange hair in this film and has an over-the- top personality like the both of them. What a fitting mix! "}{"Title":"Fred, I heart you.","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" OH, this is STUPID. We ought to be in a store that sells harpoons and nets and hammers. That way, we could harpoon Charles straight through the head, drag him back to the apartment, and then hit him with the hammer until he agrees to come back. It's a BRILLIANT plan. -FredWell, remember your house?...It...sank. I mean, it's all still THERE...it's just...not so near the...top of the water.-ElizabethI'm been pounded flat by the anvil of love like a piece of veal with a salad on top.-CharlesPIRATES!!!! ...We'll sail the seven seas...we'll put on eye patches...we'll cut off our legs and glue on wooden ones!! -Fred "},{"Title":"Best Childhood Film","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this film when I was a child, and hadn't seen it in years. It had always made me cry. And still does. I admit at the age of 26 I still love this film. I hate Elizabeth's mother, she is controlling.I was happy when I saw this on DVD in a store near me, and although it was cheap I wondered if I should get it. No regrets, now I can watch it over and over. And cry at the end. I have just finished watching it and some tears were streaming. You have to watch it till the end to understand. I have watched Rik Mayall in Bottom-a British comedy. I didn't know he had broken out in America, well I was young. I love his look in the film, and thought he and Elizabeth were good for each other (I know he wasn't real). My niece who aged 5 likes this film, although she hasn't watched it all, I will gladly show her. I know she will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Why So Frumpy, Phoebe?","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I did enjoy the crude humor throughout, but see two big problems with this movie. First, the two leads misfire. Of course Phoebe Cates must be frumpy and repressed so she can blossom later, but this means hiding Phoebe's best qualities as an actress for most of the movie. That is a big mistake. Why do producers insist on turning pretty girls into unattractive miserable ones? As for Rik Mayall, the Brits can keep him, and they have. So the two leads are respectively neutered and irritating, right up until Phoebe's booger attack, which is the climax,and best scene in the entire movie. She should have attacked her mom too, just for kicks. Unfortunately we see very little blossoming thereafter, and the movie ends with a thud.Second, the underlying message of this movie is that destructive behavior leads us to emotional growth and a happier life. In other words, give in to your irrational urges to endanger others and damage their property. It will make you a better person! For example, was it REALLY necessary for Phoebe to wreck her friend's houseboat in order for her to learn how to talk back to her overbearing mother and ditch her sleazy fiancé? Evidently yes. But destructive behavior does NOT always, or usually, lead to enlightenment. Frankly only people who can't understand normal thinking would write or believe this. PS If there is a remake, don't forget the boogers. "},{"Title":"Weird, but surprisingly good.","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this movie about twice when I was a kid, and only when it popped up on TV. And when it was on, I was mesmerized.And now that I saw it recently,I am telling every one about it!Though there is SOME foul language, I really would show this to my own kids, because it's so funny.About a grown up woman who's imaginary friend comes back to hang out with her till she's happy, this movie is moving and makes you remember your own imaginary friend.The ending has a good morale and lesson, and the plot, though weird (what isn't weird these days) is well done.Without hesitation, I would definitely show this to any one who would listen. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm wondering how the rating for this film as of now is low. This is a great film, very adorable about a woman who finds a box, locked inside is her imaginary friend that she hasn't seen in years. He was locked in a box by her parents because he was causing so much trouble. His name is Fred and he causes a lot of trouble for her adult self, even sinking a friend's house boat. This is wonderful and will likely entertain a lot of children.I saw this when I was younger years ago. The film shows a woman who needs to grow up and let go of Fred. Which gives some sense to the title, Drop Dead Fred. Leave the woman alone! It's very silly, and unless you're annoying by this type of humor, you will love it.In reality, Fred was not locked anywhere. It was in her mind, and releasing him only released what she had imagined.. That's what you would think, but how else would he have sunken a house boat and done so many things? "},{"Title":"Brilliant )","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm amazed at the number of negative reviews of this wonderful & enlightening film. The central theme is not about crude humour or childish actions, but about the serious issue of childhood repression or oppression. Anyone who has even a vague understanding of child psychology or TA will understand the underlying message that the writer is trying to get across. Fred is representative of the 'free child' that is within all of us at an early age, but which is forcibly discouraged by overbearing and uptight parents, especially the mother in this instance. The film is full of discreet & understated references to the harm that this causes to children, including you & me, the pressure to 'conform' to parents' expectations. For instance the scene where Elizabeth's mother takes her to see a psychiatrist who prescribes her drugs, isn't this a subtle condemnation of the practise of giving mind altering drugs to children? The 'dream' sequence near the end where Elizabeth 'frees' her inner child after years of oppression meaning that she is finally a whole person and no longer needs Fred? A must see for anyone with even the slightest interest in psychology. "},{"Title":"This is a movie about a childish woman trying to find herself in a grown-up world with an imaginary friend she can't get rid of.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I LOVE this movie. It's so sweet and heart touching. There are hilarious scenes (Italian restaurant) and sad scenes (the climax) and scenes that make you want to just laugh and cry at the same time.Everyone can relate to this movie at one point or another. I had to see a psychologist, too, about my imaginary friend Fred the Friendly Ghost. I know what it feels like to be confused by a demanding mother and a kind father, both trying to understand what's going on inside your head (and out).The title is what originally hooked me--Drop Dead Fred. How can you not be curious about such a movie? The moment I saw the title, I knew I had to see it. "},{"Title":"I had an imaginary childhood friend once. He died, though...","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...unlike in this movie, where Elizabeth's childhood friend (Drop Dead Fred) not only never died, but even comes roaring back to life for dear sweet Elizabeth when she is 21, adult, and miserable.I liked this movie a lot, in spite of every good reason NOT to like it. Mainly, it isn't a very convincing story concept to build from (it seems barely believable that a young woman as poised and beautiful as Elizabeth could really have a psychological need for her imaginary friend from childhood, Drop Dead Fred, to come back into her life). It seems this movie was made mainly just as an excuse for Rik Mayall to act obnoxious and goofy, and for Phoebe Cates to be, well, a perfectly sweet young woman.But that, folks, is also what makes for great comedy &#150; that pairing of extreme opposites. You've certainly seen it before Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis, Chris Farley and David Spade, Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenegger, etc. etc. Well, here we have Mayall and Cates, and, well, as a comedy duo (albeit rather weird comedy)... it works!!Yes, I know, it's not all comedy, as there is surely a vague, darkish psychological thread running throughout the movie. But I won't bother trying to psychoanalyze it, because, as a previous commenter noted, people are trying to read way too much into this movie. Just enjoy it for what it is &#150; a weird comedy with lots of tenderness and sweetness thrown in to the mix.This movie reminds me of Problem Child (1990), where preposterous childish antics rule the day. It also reminds me of Beetlejuice (1988), because in that movie Michael Keaton acted in a similar crazed fashion as Rik Mayall. In fact, Michael Keaton could have played the role of Drop Dead Fred (no knock against Rik, though, as I thought he was splendid).So don't be a snot-face or a mega-beast, go rent the video, and enjoy yourself! (My knees got weak just seeing beautiful Phoebe Cates all over again). There are lots of funny physical gags and comic lines. My favorite when Drop Dead Fred is forced to break open the Jack in the Box toy to put Jack's head atop the mud pie. Says he You see, when something's not working right the best thing is to tear it apart to make it better. (Hey, did the mechanics at my garage see this movie a bunch of times, or what??)  "},{"Title":"Slapstick with psychological depth","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  8/10 Although I found this film very funny even at face value, I think it's a non-trivial story, with a few very moving moments, that is often underrated by reviewers who don't notice the distinctly Freudian side. Fred is an id-like figure, and ultimately a noble one, who acts as the catalyst for the heroine to heal childhood wounds and reach psychological adulthood. "},{"Title":"Memories of my own Imaginary friend","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching this movie again recently, after years of forgetting about it, has made me remember my own childhood... and my own imaginary friend. Although mine wasn't as distructive as Fred, he still held on to the traits that all imaginary friends do; always being there for you.  Drop Dead Fred is a hilarious movie.  Simple as that.  I've actually forgotten how funny a movie that it is.  Yes it's cheesy, yes it's a story of an imaginary friend, and yes it has a bunch of actors who really aren't that big now... but despite all that, it's a darn good movie.  Rik Mayall is fantastic in the roll of Fred.  He is consistantly hilarious throughout the whole movie and I found myself laughing out loud dozens of times (which doesn't happen to me that often... I'm an innner laugh kinda guy)  The rest of the cast held true to their characters and all played well opposite the screen stealing Fred. Watch this movie if you want to laugh.  That's all I can say. "}{"Title":"Hilarious, it shows that imginary friends aren't just kiddy things","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  HA! Hilarious! The first time I saw it was on TNT, then i saw the video. The writers of this movie need a million dollars so they can write a good sequel. I quote this movie's tagline Dishes, relationships, wind. This guy breaks everything. Or something like that. Anyway, this movie also shows that a movie doesn't have to be serious to be funny. Drop Dead Fred did a good job of acting like a child. The part that made me laugh the most was when he ripped the doll to shreds and yelled,MY INTESTINES!. Looking at my imaginary watch, it's a quarter to sad, and i gotta phase. Later. "},{"Title":"You have to be in tune with it","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Lizzie is having a bad day. She's lost her job, her car, her home and her husband, all in one day. On seeking refuge with her mother (who is still as joyless and controlling as she was when Lizzie was a little girl), it's no wonder that Lizzie once more takes solace in the company of her childhood imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred. The trouble is that Fred is driven by childish destructive anarchy, and he drags Lizzie along with him.This film is both daft and smart at the same time. Much of the humour derives from childish muckiness and slapstick, brilliantly delivered by Rik Mayall as Fred. But at the same time there is a gentle and sensitive story, hand in hand with Fred's anarchy, about Lizzie learning to deal with her own problems and, finally, growing up.Phoebe Cates is a vulnerable and charming Lizzie, bemused through most of the movie before finally discovering the inner strength she needs, and there is sterling support from Tim Matheson, Marsha Mason and Carrie Fisher.But this is Rik Mayall's film. It proved a bit much for mainstream American tastes, and didn't break him into films, but it remains a performance which is engagingly broad through most of its length, but subtly nuanced at the end. "},{"Title":"actually a very good movie!!!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a great movie! I first saw it when i was 10. I thought it wouldn't have been that good but that was my mistake it turned out to be great.This movie made me laugh out loud many times. Something I really do need to say is don't show to too many younger children because it has a lot of crude humor and cuss words.I believe Rik Mayall did a fabulous job in this movie.I would also have to say that the lady from star wars didn't do that good o a job though. I mean if you want to do good in a movie don't have an affair especially with an old man 20 times your age. ... "},{"Title":"Virtually impossible not to love this film!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is definitely one of those films you will be able to watch over and over again without finding the jokes any less funny than they are in the beginning. Although being released in 1991, almost anybody watching Drop Dead Fred for the first time will love it despite it's maturing age. Rik Mayall is without a doubt the star of this film playing Drop Dead Fred, Elizabeth's imaginary friend who turns up when she needs him most - aka when her life is in turmoil and she needs to find fun and happiness again to have the strength to carry on through. Mischievous and rude Fred is absolutely hilarious, coming up with childish yet spiked pranks, sayings and nicknames which mortify Elizabeth despite her having loved him to pieces when she was a young child faced with her formidable mother.Although it is rated in the UK as a 15 certificate I personally think that a 12 certificate would have been more suitable for this film as it DOES appeal from the young to the old, and only contains a few choice swear words which are fairly mild.Highly recommended that you should watch, or even better buy - its extremely cheap because of its release date and your couple of quid spent will definitely not be a couple of quid wasted! "},{"Title":"a very grown-up kid's movie","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm pretty sure this review doesn't actually contains spoilers, but better safe than sorry?Ambiguously imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred sums up the movie's premise when he says, You see, when something's not working right, the best thing to do is tear it apart to make it better. (He's referring to dismantling a jack-in-the-box in order to garnish a mud pie.)Twenty-six-year-old Elizabeth has just lost her husband, purse, car, and job (all during lunch break!) and been bullied by her overbearing mother into re-inhabiting her childhood bedroom.Fred (re)appears - having been imprisoned in a box by Mom since Lizzie was 5 - as a bundle of qualities that Lizzie wants for herself and her loved ones. He shares a British accent with her absent father, and he wildly, spiritedly resists her mother's uptight, unhappy conformism.Drop Dead Fred is one of those children's movies (?) that (hopefully) goes over children's heads. It includes themes of sexuality and adultery, and there are moments of sexual tension between Lizzie and Fred. Fred also makes crass remarks about women's panties (or lack thereof).On another level, children probably can't (and shouldn't) relate to a story about the bittersweetness of grown-up self-assertion - the discovery that, while there are some outlets for fantasy in reality, it's never the same as when you were wholly content with your imagination.Of course, there are grown-up needs (and responsibilities and joys) that Drop Dead Fred can't accommodate, and the movie presents an optimistic middle ground. "},{"Title":"Good movie with raunchy content","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In my opinion, this is a good movie with raunchy content. The one thing that made me feel uneasy was when Fred (Rik Mayall) did something really vulgar. I don't want to say what it is, though. Still, this movie had very funny humor, even though it was vulgar at times. A couple of parts I really liked the most was when Fred got his head stuck in the refrigerator door and when he was run over by a fire truck. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If I ever have kids of my own, I'm not going to let them see this movie until they're teenagers. Now, in conclusion, I'd like to say, Parents, don't let your children see this until they're teenagers! "},{"Title":"Ah.. The memories..","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was like 5 when i first saw this movie me and my best friend.. How can you not love this movie. Yea too many people think its a stupidity of a movie achievement, to me it brings back my childhood. I learned how to curse thanks to Fred. I kept watching this movie until i was 10. Thats 5 years of laughing all the time. So if you have a bad comment about this movie ,maybe you should check out your childhood movies and how maybe some people might think its not a great movie.. now lets get a piece of dog crap and put it into our parents carpet. "},{"Title":"?","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie Drop Dead Fred was without a doubt the most BEST MOVIE I HAVE EVER SEEN IN MY LIFE!! My friends and i watch it everytime were together...and we can quote almost everyline  that comes out of drop dead freds mouth...hes soo hilarious....Everyday before i go to school i have to watch a little clip of drop dead fred...its that funny that it brightens my whole day.... "},{"Title":"An HILARIOUS comedy! For every age!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most hilarious movies ever made! I had tears in my eyes because I was laughing so hard! It is a great movie for kids, but a much better one for adults! Hilarious! A must-see! "},{"Title":"Hilarious...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The reason for why I initially purchased this 1991 comedy at the local secondhand DVD store was because of Rik Mayall, the late, great British comedy genius.I haven't seen Drop Dead Fred before now in 2016, 25 years after it was initially released. Shame on me, I know. And it was an error on my behalf, because this is a very funny movie and an enjoyable movie as well. And Rik Mayall really do put on a very good performance as the imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred. I was laughing a good amount throughout the course of the movie, especially because of the hilarious situations that Elizabeth (played by Phoebe Cates) ended up in because of her imaginary friend.Rik Mayall is quite well-cast for the menacing make-believe friend, and he seemed to be given free hands to do what he wanted with the character. I was more than genuinely entertained by his comedy in this 1991 movie, his brush with Hollywood, although he was always more at home in the British comedy.Aside from an all-over-the-screen Rik Mayall, then Phoebe Cates also did perform nicely in Drop Dead Fred and borough her usual charms. It was a nice treat to have the Princess herself in the movie for a supportive role, that being Carrie Fisher, of course.Drop Dead Fred is a fast paced comedy with lots of laughs. "}{"Title":"Drop Dead Fred","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had seen the poster and DVD for this film many many times, so I always knew who the leading British actor was, who sadly passed away a year before I watched this, I had many times heard that this film had either mixed or negative opinions, probably the latter, I was still going to give it. Basically Elizabeth 'Lizzie' Cronin (Phoebe Cates) is having the worst time of her life, she has her purse and car stolen, she is fired from her job, and she finds out that her husband Charles (Tim Matheson) has cheated on her, but she cannot stop loving him, despite support from her friend Janie (Carrie Fisher) she is unhappy. In misery, Lizzie remembers her happy times in childhood as a young girl (Ashley Peldon), specifically playing with and messing about with her imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall), and all of the sudden, Fred reappears. Fred has a sole purpose, to cheer Lizzie up, but this is not going to plan, especially with Lizzie's quite cold mother Polly (Marsha Mason) around, who wants to turn her daughter into a younger double of herself. Lizzie works to get Charles back, and even though she is overjoyed to see Fred again and remember the fun times they had when she was a child, he only seems to cause trouble for her. After a number of unforgivable action, which Lizzie blames Fred for (just like in the past), her mother takes her to get help and get rid of Fred forever, Lizzie is given medication to take, but she realises as she is about to take the final pill that Charles has not changed, Fred is the only person she can trust. She follows Fred to a dream world and gets the chance to conquer her greatest fears her mother, Charles's infidelity and the little girl inside her dealing with loneliness, unfortunately the only way she can truly rid herself of these fears is to lose Fred for good and realise she does not need him anymore. In the end Lizzie kisses Fred goodbye, waking from this dream she leaves Charles, she initially argues with Polly, who she blamed for her father leaving, but the mother and daughter reconcile, and meeting up with Mickey Bunce (Ron Eldard) they seem to express interest in being more than friends, she notices his daughter Natalie (Kelly Benson) playing and causing trouble, blaming Fred, even though she can no longer see him Lizzier realises Fred is now Natalie's imaginary friend, she smiles. Also starring Bridget Fonda as Annabella, Keith Charles as Murray and Daniel Gerroll as Nigel Cronin. Mayall with his big red hair and bright green clothes does bring the manic high energy you'd expect from him, and Cates is nice as the girl who is the only person who can see him, it might have been a good idea, but it goes from amusing to irritating a fair amount, and is predictable and almost completely unfunny, stick to James Stewart classic Harvey if you want a film about an invisible friend, this is a mess of a fantasy comedy. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Just Plain Weird","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this when I was about thirteen. I had loved kooky, fun, and effects-laden movies like Beetlejuice, which is what I expected when going to see this. I had also had imaginary friends as a child, so I thought I could identify with it.But Drop Dead Fred was a very different animal from the movies it was marketed to be like - Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure and Beetlejuice were fun and harmless romps, in comparison. In between its sparse effects that were kind of entertaining, DDF was an annoying and vaguely disturbing experience that couldn't seem to decide whether it was a kid-friendly comedy, a kooky and adult horror-comedy, a quirky romance movie, or a very sad and dark story about an insane young woman.Something else that annoyed me was that this was also kind of a chick flick, while it was obviously marketed towards children and young adults. The scene where the scantily-clad chick fixes dinner for her successful jerk boyfriend felt like something I didn't sign up to see -- it was like something in a soap opera. I also felt a little sorry for the homely guy we're supposed to believe is going to be her future husband -- how do we know she won't be bad for him? I mean, she likes vain and successful men, and he's neither of those things. Plus she's nuts, capable of destroying her friend's houseboat without remorse, and he's kind of a chump.The guy who played DDF was miscast, too. He's supposed to be the product of a little girl's imagination. What we get is a loud, scary English dude who knows a little more about sex than you'd think a child would dream up. I think they chose this guy because he WAS some kind of successful comedian, but his loud, insane, dirty limey schtick just doesn't work here. "},{"Title":"Please don't remake this movie!","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I recently found out that plans are underway to remake Drop Dead Fred, which I'm really dreading. You can put as much CGI and cell phone usage in a remake as you want, modernizing it doesn't make something good. To me the original will always be better, hands-down.What's sad about Drop Dead Fred is that the girl in it has a very controlling mother who wants her daughter, above all else, to be a normal so that she can keep her own high reputation. Her husband loves Elizabeth, or Lizzie, and encourages her to use her imagination. When Lizzie invents an imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred, a mischievous man with bright orange hair and a British accent, her mom is furious. She believes her child may need psychiatric care and medication for having a pretend friend, and after separating Lizzie from her beloved friend her husband becomes frustrated and leaves.As Lizzie grows up grounded in reality, it isn't all her mom cracked it up to be. Lizzie is forced to move back in with her mom and ends up reuniting with Drop Dead Fred, much to her mom's horror. She immediately wants Lizzie put on a medication that will kill off Drop Dead Fred, without her daughter's consent, but somehow Drop Dead Fred survives.Believe me, keeping an imaginary friend a secret as an adult isn't easy by any means. It's considered normal when you're six but as you get to be a teenager, and then an adult, it's not just cute to adults, it's considered weird, wrong and insane. This movie terrified me when I first saw it; I was fifteen and knew very little about medication, and honestly believed that the fictional normal pills in the movie really existed. What I discovered when I got older, equally disturbing, is that many medications used to treat supposed and real mental illnesses are often not recommended for or tested with children and teens, but they are still prescribed in Canada.The acting in this movie is amazing, especially from Phoebe Cates, who also stared as Kate in the 1980's Christmas horror classic Gremlins. Rick Mayall and Ashley Peldon were also really great in their roles. The soundtrack was pretty good and the story certainly is original, with slight similarities to the books Syd the Imaginary Friend by Alice Dawn and Magic by William Goldman.The strained relationship between Lizzie and her snotty mom is incredibly depressing to watch. There are tons of modern moms out there who say that raising a child with a solid plan, grounded in reality from the day they're born, is the best way. They don't want their children to have an imagination at all. To take away something like that from a child's life is not only harmful, but it stops them from leading their own unique life. And imaginary friends, at least in my opinion, are not dangerous or unhealthy for children or adults to have, so long as they aren't a malevolent voice whispering to harm others or whispering suicidal thoughts. Anyone can have an imaginary friend and lead a productive life as long as they still have some sense of what's imaginary and what's real. Some imaginary friends might be a child's only support in times of abuse, divorce, tragedy, etc. The same goes for adults.I really hope this wonderful film isn't dragged into the remake heap of today's generation. It does have mild crude humor and bad language, but in moderation. Drop Dead Fred is one of the most original films out there and doesn't need a remake to be timeless, I'd recommend it any day over a remake. "},{"Title":"Almost succeeds too much for its own good","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Due to the great Rik Mayall's recent passing, I decided to re-watch his (pretty much one and only proper) big screen outing, 'Drop Dead Fred.' I saw it in the cinema when it was first released and have almost forgotten everything about it. The basic premise is that a young woman's childhood imaginary friend (Fred, played by Rik Mayall, obviously) returns to make her life hell.Now, the problem with having a (prominent) character whose main role in the film is to be annoying, is that he's annoying. Very annoying. Yes, he's supposed to be. I know that. However, it still doesn't detract from the fact that Fred is a real pain in the&#x85; And this is one of the film's failings. Most people seemed to agree with me. And this is a shame, because Rik Mayall should have done more, but was forever tainted by this film.Yet, believe it or not, there is a certain depth to this film that is kind of buried by the overuse of the word 'snot.' Both Fred and his human 'creator' Lizzie go on journeys. She starts off put upon and afraid of standing up for herself and, with Fred's (annoying) help, learns to stand up for herself. And even Fred mellows and learns to help (properly) without being so annoying. The second half of the film is a lot better than the first (mainly because Fred has mellowed and you may even care a little for him).Don't go expecting too much from this film. If you're a massive fan of Rik Mayall, you'll get more out of it than most. He's kind of on a hyped-up (if that's possible) version of his later creation 'Richie' from 'Bottom.' If you really can't stand such blatant toilet humour and laughs that are derived from people getting mercilessly wound up then you're best advised to steer well clear. "},{"Title":"I had never heard of Rik Mayall until he died","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Rik Mayall died recently. I had never heard of him before then, so I decided to watch a movie in which he starred. I determined that Drop Dead Fred's point is that we all need some fun in our lives. True, a lot of the humor is pretty childish, but it's hard not to laugh at Fred's antics. Indeed, Elizabeth goes through a stark change in the course of the action.If Phoebe Cates seems familiar, you may have seen her in Fast Times at Ridgemont High (remember the bikini scene?) and Gremlins. She married Kevin Kline and retired from acting a few years later, although the entire family starred in The Anniversary Party.Overall, the movie sets out to entertain, and it succeeds. There needs to be a film festival for movies reminding us of the need to have fun. Aside from this one there would be Zorba the Greek, To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar and Chocolat. "},{"Title":"Strangely slow, in spite of Rik Mayall's mania","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Daughter of control freak mother has an imaginary (English) friend who she can blame for doing all the malicious, obscene and childish stuff her mother has tried to suppress in her. Except she's an adult - for some of the movie, that is.DDF takes an age to get going. By the time it does, you're failing to understand why Elizabeth (Phoebe Cates) hasn't been sectioned long ago. Is it because her mother is apparently very rich? There is just not enough subtlety in the way Elizabeth's disastrous dependence on Fred is portrayed. Time and again she acts out her most disgusting and destructive impulses in some stilted slapstick, only for the blaming of 'Fred'(Rik Mayall) to make everything all right.As a kind of primer in psychological metaphor, DDF has a lot going for it. But then it's a Disney children's film. Oh no it isn't, it's a gross-out comedy - no, wait, it's a rom-com. It all comes down to whether you can find any time for Rik Mayall's punk Gene Wilder act. Very clever, very hard work, and some pathos among the madness, but the movie's premise is developed so slowly the whole thing gets very tedious. "},{"Title":"Somebody call Arrow Films. This needs a special edition release.","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would like to see interviews with the cast and crew.This movie was supposed to be Rik's big break into film. He was going to be on the road to Hollywood that Dudley Moore and Peter Sellers went on.But Alas, Drop Dead Fred just dropped dead. Critics bashed it like crazy. Siskel and Ebert put it on their worst films of 1991 and Leonard Malten said it was Only for those who find nose picking funny.But on video and TV, this film developed a cult audience. Diablo Cody liked it, I think Simon Pegg did as well (they both mentioned it on their Spaced commentary, plus Pegg is a big Young Ones fan. Even in Run Fat Boy Run, his character calls his son Snot face), and so does Brandon Hardesty. He said that this film was underrated and had many great adult elements to it.Plus, Brandon is a 90's kid like me. So it's a very nostalgic film for both of us.Critics love to see intelligent films. So jokes where Fred picks his nose and flicks the boogies, stepping in dog poo and wiping it all over the sitting room, the scene where Fred meets his other imaginary friends and all of them pretend to vomit and the scene where Fred and Lizzie make a mud pie, they talk about killing Lizzie's mum, eating her and Fred gets on the table and says And we'll poo her all over the table.Yeah, I can picture Siskel and Ebert watching that scene and reacting to that. They should've shown that clip on their show. Our next movie is Drop Dead Fred. (Cut to Fred on the table) And we'll poo her all over the table.Also, Americans weren't used to Rik Mayall's style yet. So after Fred bombed, Rik went back to television. But fortunately, he and Ade Edmondson created their masterpiece, Bottom. So Rik's career wasn't a total loss.Whether Rik was proud of this film, I dunno.Lizzie wants Charles back, even though he clearly cheated on her and is obsessed with Annabella. Seriously, why does Lizzie want him back? He's a horrible person. Maybe, Lizzie likes that bad boy side of him.Some could argue that Fred is unsympathetic. He sinks Lizzie's friend's boat just for fun, makes her look like a fool in public and gets her into trouble instead of solving her problem.But then Fred was the friend of the 5 year old Lizzie and is pretty much is. He's still stuck in that mode where he's meant to act like a 5 year old in front of her. I loved the scene where Lizzie goes into her subconscious and rescues her five year old self. For a movie about wiping dog poo in the sitting room and nose picking, it's hard not to feel teary at the scene. Also, we all know Rik is an overactor. But in that scene he acts very serious. And he was really good. The effects have not aged well. They're very bad. The scene where Lizzie sneezes and Fred goes flying across the room looks awful. Also the tree bursting out of the stairs is laughable.We also get a small, but sexy cameo from Bridget Fonda in that dress. No wonder Charles left Lizzie for her.Some scenes did make me laugh like Fred's head getting closed in the fridge, he pulls it out and his head looks like a pancake. Also the And we'll poo her all over the table. line. It's a serious, serious, serious guilty pleasure. It's a movie for people who love British comedy (it's an American film, but the humour is very British). Or if you like Rik Mayall, 90's films or silly movies that don't take themselves seriously.Plus a movie about imaginary friends hadn't been done before and have never been done again. "},{"Title":"A girl's imaginary friend comically ruins her life","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Classic late 80's/early 90's comedy. Maybe it's all the horror I've been watching but i saw this as your basic child talking to or possessed by a demon flick in which all the gruesome occult imagery was replaced with campy British physical humor. Lizzie has an awful day, her imaginary friend Drop Dead Fred reappears and proceeds to create chaos in her life. Hi jinks continue, then some really horrible in retrospect but probably cool when they happened special effects go down. Of course everyone ends up happy by the end of it. If nothing else there's a scene featuring Carrie Fisher smoking a cigarette while power- walking, that's a good enough reason to watch anything. "},{"Title":"Although they do get some things right in this movie, I'm all in favour of the remake.","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So, here is a movie that has been hated by a lot of people and a few people really like this movie. I personally don't like it but I thought the premise was an interesting one and they did actually get a few things right with this movie.The plot is that a woman named Elizabeth has just been divorced by her husband Charles. After saying he wants to be with Annabella, Elizabeth loses both her car and job. Then after being forced to go to her mother's house (and Elizabeth's childhood home) and she opens an old Jack-in-a-box that contained her imaginary friend from childhood. Together they find ways to make her happy but Fred causes a lot of trouble as well.So what are my complaints? Firstly, it takes Elizabeth an hour's worth of movie time to get her some psychological help. She even tells people she's crazy and about her imaginary friend and they do nothing but either believe her or react unrealistically. I'm not kidding, people actually believe Elizabeth when talking about her IMAGINARY FRIEND.Then there's the Fred character himself, I can see exactly what they were trying to do with the character, (basically a child in a man's body) but it doesn't really work mainly because of his antics. They're either weird for a young kid's fantasy or too over the top. With all that being said I did like how Mayall was able to take that role and make it his own.But now onto what I thought they did right. I personally enjoyed when Fred did phase out of these antics and actually deliver some good advice to Elizabeth in a flashback saying be who you want to be, not what your mother wants you to be. I also enjoyed the ending, no I am not one of those critics. I personally think it had a good ending. Where Fred and Elizabeth go into her mind and make her stand up for everything that is or has been holding her back (as well as un-restraining a younger version of herself) and Fred leaves saying he can't be with her anymore because she would be perfectly happy in the real world. Then once she does enter the real world she leaves Charles and tells her mother that she is a grown woman and that she is going o live her life. I personally think that's one thing they did get right.So aside from that I am in full favour of a remake. Just not who they decided to cast as Fred (Russel Brand). I personally think that it has a good premise, just in need of a better execution. "},{"Title":"Way, way different watching this as an adult.","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred (1991)Watching Drop Dead Fred as an adult is 100% different from watching Drop Dead Fred as a kid. Yes, I know that certain movies are like that - you'll pick up on jokes that you didn't get when you were eight years old...however, most don't give you an entirely different experience. If you haven't seen Drop Dead Fred, the basic synopsis is about a girl who goes to live with her (terrible) mother after she loses her car, her husband, and her job. As a kid, I remember cracking up at Fred's antics, flinging boogers at people and looking up the skirts of unsuspecting women. As an adult, this movie really ventures into dark territory. It's about a girl, verbally (and possibly physically) abused by her mother - so much so that her father ends up leaving. Finally an adult, she escapes the throngs of her household only to find herself completely co-dependent on men, and ends up in another abusive relationship - this time with an abusive husband. All the while, she conjures up an imaginary friend named Fred (who has a British accent, much like her father).Watching this as an adult, this movie has some heavy things going for it. Lizzy, the main character, definitely has issues upon issues. It's actually fun to see her transformation from co-dependent to independent. Fred's humor doesn't exactly do it for me anymore, but the scenes in which he's simply making Lizzy's body move are still hilarious (a standout scene in an Italian restaurant comes to mind). The acting is fairly pedestrian, the only real standout being Phoebe Cates as Lizzy. Since this, the director went back overseas and hasn't done any movies that I've heard of since then.Kids movies were definitely different back then. Watching this now, I can honestly say that I don't think this is a good movie for kids, but if you saw it when you were younger, it's definitely worth another exploration now.Final Score 3/5 "}{"Title":"Got Off to a Rather Rough Start","Date":"12 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" At the age of 5 Elizabeth 'Lizzie' Cronin (Phoebe Cates) was sad and lonely. So she developed an imaginary friend she called, Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall). But time passes and she eventually forgets about him. Until she loses her husband Charles (Tim Matheson), her job and her car all on the same day. She then becomes sad and lonely. And Drop Dead Fred reappears. Now, normally a friend who returns after so many years wouldn't be such a bad thing. But this isn't any normal friend. Instead he's an obnoxious and destructive influence who was always getting her into trouble. And while she may have grown up, he has not. Anyway, as far as this movie is concerned, I thought it got off to a rather rough start but things began to get really funny immediately after the houseboat scene when Janie (Carrie Fisher) tries to take matters into her own hands. Likewise, the restaurant scene was quite funny as well. Having said that though, there were other scenes which weren't nearly as good and this caused the movie to seem uneven. I thought Marsha Mason (as Polly Cronin) looked great. But as far as the acting was concerned, other than Phoebe Cates and Carrie Fisher, I didn't really care for anybody else in the cast. And as far as that goes, Rik Mayall made me cringe every time he appeared as he was just too over-the-top. Even so, this wasn't a bad movie necessarily and it did have some good moments as I have already mentioned. That said, I have no doubts that some will really enjoy it. But to me it was only average. "},{"Title":"Get in touch with your inner five year old!","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Lizzie Cronin is having a terrible day, her husband Charles leaves her, her car gets stolen then she gets fired&#x85; to make matters worse her overbearing mother insists that she comes to stay with her. That night something strange happens; the jack-in-the-box in her room starts to play by itself; then when it opens out pops Drop Dead Fred; the imaginary friend that she had as a child and hasn't seen since she was young. Drop Dead Fred isn't the gentle sort of friend who might play dolls with her; he'd rip their heads off and make mud pies. He hasn't calmed down over the years and promptly starts to cause trouble for Lizzie. She might know that what is going on is Fred's doing but as nobody else can see him she gets the blame and quite understandably her sanity is called into question. Lizzie just wants Fred to go away and to get back together with Charles but it is clear that he doesn't deserve her; it will take her some time before she realises though. While adult Lizzie is trying to get Charles back we see flashbacks of young Lizzie's time with Fred as he causes yet more trouble.It must be admitted; this film is fairly immature&#x85; but who cares? It has an anarchic charm that should bring out the child in the viewer. Phoebe Cates does a fine job as Lizzie but it is Rik Mayall's performance as Drop Dead Fred that is most memorable; not surprising given that his character is the cause of so much mayhem. Ashley Peldon was great fun as the young Lizzie; she had just the right look of innocence and naughtiness. The story is fairly straightforward but it is enjoyable and has more than enough laughs to make it well worth watching. It isn't perfect of course; some of the effects are a little bit dated and Charles was so obviously sleazy that it was a little hard that she'd even consider taking him back let alone actively trying to get him back. There is some language that some parents might not want younger viewers hearing as well as some mildly sexual moments although these are comical rather than erotic. Over all I'd say this is well worth watching if it is on television or even getting on DVD if you see it in the bargain bin. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Fun for the Whole Family","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Without getting into Phoebe Cates amazing looks Drop Dead Fred still qualifies as one good movie. Like my title suggests, it's not quite good for the whole family. It's aim is directed straight at the teenage audience, and it bulls eyes perfectly. Given there are those adults and parents that enjoy movies such as these, in fact on of them was present when I watched for the first time the other day, most adults will find the movie childish, and most young children won't understand many of the jokes and might try making mud pies on the kitchen table. All in all Drop Dead Fred is worth consideration if your want to see something to make you feel like a child again. Phoebe Cates does a great job at acting out scenes with both Fred and herself. Just don't go into the movie waiting to get a great message or enlightening moment out of it. "},{"Title":"A Dark And Effective Horror Masterpiece","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The always appealing Phoebe Cates plays the central character in this classic horror movie about a dangerously psychotic woman who is tormented by the emergence of her sociopathic other personality, a criminally deranged and manipulative version of Johnny Rotten. Out of control, she destroys her relationships, her family life, and her friend's boat, until eventually, betrayed by her overbearing mother and her philandering husband, she retreats into the only safe place left, the dark and lonely recesses of her own mind, where she must confront ghastly visions of her loved ones and the terrified child she once was.Finally, even her hallucinatory tormentor abandons her, and she regains her sanity at cost of turning her back on everyone and everything she has ever held dear. She begins a new life with the only man who has ever been oblivious enough to stand by her... oblivious enough not to notice even as the first signs emerge that her psychosis has begun to infect his only child...A seminal film, this dark masterpiece was clearly the inspiration for later phantasmagoric horror excursions like The Mask, in which Jim Carrey plays a man who undergoes a hideous mutation, and Amelie, a similar tale of a young woman dangerously disassociated from reality. "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Frdd","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Enjoyable fantasy comedy if you're age nine and below. However, the the film isn't suited for that age group.Rik Mayal is wonderful as the wild imaginary character Drop Dead Fred, who has returned to his old friend Elizabeth after her divorce. His English madcap tune is perfect for the setting of highly materialistic individuals. With her now under the rule of her bitter mother, Elizabeth has to endure Drop Dead Fred as the only fun that is available to her.The film is sweet and sentimental, and it's not entirely intelligent either along with attempting to become the next Beetlejuice, but it's charming and admittedly funny in places. "},{"Title":"A nice and funny all round film, with a meaning to it!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a good film. On the one hand it has slapstick moments, and childish things that still make you laugh and smile. Rik Mayall plays Drop Dead Fred very well, as an immature but loving friend who makes you laugh.The story is pretty easy to follow, which is a bonus. Though beyond the silliness, the slapstick humour, and the childish but very funny jokes, there is a deeper meaning to all of this. It is telling people to lighten up in life for once, and not to take life so seriously. In this film the main character also fights her inner demons, which is her over protective, and controlling mother.Plus it is giving the message that once in a while, its OK to let out the inner child in you and have fun.I won't give it away, but this film does have a really good ending. It is a film with a few recognisable faces like Briget Fonda who makes a cameo, and Ron Eldard who in recent years has played Dodge in the film Ghost Ship, and CWO Michael Durant in the film Black Hawk Down.Also is the actor Tim Matheson who has been in many films and TV shows. One of which was the series The West Wing, which he starred in for the first few series in which he played the Vice President John Hoynes.Overall this is a fantastic film that can be enjoyed on many levels. First just watch it for the comedy and brilliance that is the acting, the timing, and the story, then enjoy it for its deeper meaning. As it really does make you think a little. "},{"Title":"2 prerequisites","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  there seem to be 2 prerequisites for liking this movie 1)a flexible and childlike sense of humor 2)a love of rik mayall i love this movie, and think it is a great comment on the killing of originality and playfulness in our society.  anyone that sides with or relates to the one-sided marsha mason character has some problems.  she only exists as the incarnation of all evil, something for our heroine to push against. with that said, it IS just there primarily to make you laugh, so stop being so uptight.  "},{"Title":"There is a strong possibility that I have over-analysed this film.","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Phoebe Cates plays Elizabeth, a young married woman desperate to win back the affection of her husband, Charles, who has been having an affair with a tarty blonde (he is obviously frustrated to be married to one of the most beautiful women in the world, only to have her dress like a school ma'am and wear full-length flanellette nighties in bed!). When Elizabeth moves back home with her domineering mother, she finds her life further complicated by the re-appearance of her imaginary childhood friend, the destructive Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall), who proceeds to wreak havoc wherever she goes.Cue loads of jokes about poo, bogies and doing it like pigeons.At first glance, Drop Dead Fred seems to be far too childish for most adults, and occasionally too adult for young kids (with some sexual content and swearing). However, this vehicle for the zany talent of British comedian Rik Mayall, is, in my opinion, an oft misunderstood film&#151;one which is much darker and more disturbing than many people actually give it credit for.A large percentage of those who profess to have loved the film since childhood seem to take it at face value they see Drop Dead Fred as a lighthearted and fun fantasy movie&#151;the perfect showcase for Mayall's very physical and energetic style of comedy. I, on the other hand, reckon that there is more to Drop Dead Fred than at first meets the eye. And it isn't all nice. After all, Mayall's early comedy was always a bit dark and subversive.Think about the film a little longer, and it becomes apparent (to me, at least) that Drop Dead Fred is actually a film about mental illness, loneliness and a desperately unhappy person's lifelong craving for attention. Cates' character brings back Fred because she is feeling ignored and unloved (this time by Charles), and is also, once again, being oppressed by her mother, who has always undermined her confidence. With Fred as an excuse for her behaviour, Elizabeth is able to draw attention to herself without accepting any blame. When seen in this light, Drop Dead Fred becomes a whole lot more interesting.Take, for example, the moment when Elizabeth confesses to her best friend Janie (played by Carrie Fisher) that she has sunk her house-boat. One would normally expect screaming, shouting and furious anger at such news. But, instead, Janie remains relatively calm. Surely only a very close, understanding friend&#151;one fully aware of her pal's troubled mental history&#151;would react in such a way.Similarly, when Elizabeth says to Janie that she can see Fred sitting at a board meeting, Janie behaves in a manner which might seem unorthodox to most people rather than saying how ridiculous Elizabeth is being, she instead wheels the empty chair out of the meeting room and tries to throttle Fred. Strange behaviour indeed, until we appreciate that Janie is, once again, well aware of her friend's delicate mental state and is merely trying to placate her.And then there is the ending, in which Elizabeth takes green pills that cause Fred to weaken, and the dream sequence, in which she symbolically frees herself from her mother's ties moments which suggest that Elizabeth had 'lost the plot', and that Fred never really existed.By the close of the film, Elizabeth has gained enough confidence to ditch Charles and confront her mother, and so Fred moves on, becoming imaginary friend to another little girl. Once again, many viewers see this as a positive finalé one in which Fred still exists and is now having fun with someone new.I don't.I just see another child who is suffering from severe emotional trauma (caused by her parents, of course).Then again, I have issues of my own. "},{"Title":"A little taken aback","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I picked up Drop Dead Fred from the bargain bucket at my local superstore yesterday. I had wanted to see the film for a very long time but my dad never let us rent it out. Maybe he didn't like Rik Mayall.Now I'm old enough to check my own movies out I figured I'd buy it and watch it.Being a big fan of Bottom and to a lesser extent Young Ones, I figured I'd really enjoy watching this madcap adventure. I expected the same sort of slapstick comedy and fart gags that got me interested in Rik's acting style in the first place. However I was stunned to find that the movie was not really a harmless comedy but a strange and surreal look at one woman's mental illness.There were some very humorous scenes and dialogue and Rik's performance somehow kept it from being a serious movie about mental health. For me though, there was always the feeling that although I was supposed to be laughing, I really should be feeling sorry for the woman as her psychosis took over her life.After the movie was finished I did regard and still do regard it as a very good film. I found it to be an interesting if somewhat sideways look at a schizophrenic type illness and was entertained throughout. My own expectations led me to believe I was going to get a spanking good comedy when what I really got was a surreal comedy with a real underlying serious storyline. "},{"Title":"Terrible comedy wastes a serviceable idea and strong cast.","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every now and then a film comes along that divides critics and the general public right down the middle. A critics' choice might be a box office flop; a sizable hit with the public can quite often be utterly despised by critics. Drop Dead Fred seems to divide audiences into two camps in such a way. A glance through any movie guide will yield nothing but terrible write-ups and rock bottom star ratings &#150; (Roger Ebert even went as far as declaring, with great finality, that it was the worst film he'd ever seen.) Yet a glance through the user comments here on the IMDb proves that the film has plenty of fans.Courtroom secretary Elizabeth Cronin (Phoebe Cates) has the worst day of her life. In the course of one lunch hour, she breaks up with her philandering husband (Tim Matheson), has her car stolen and is fired from her job. Consequently, she has to move back into her childhood home with her over-bearing and domineering mother Polly (Marsha Mason). When Elizabeth was a child she spent much of her time playing with a mischievous imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall), and upon moving back home it isn't long before the now grown-up Elizabeth starts seeing Fred again. Chaos ensues as Elizabeth tries to piece her life back together with the help (or should that be hindrance) of Drop Dead Fred.There's nothing wrong with the basic concept of the film beyond its simplicity and childishness. The idea of a grown up being revisited by a troublesome imaginary friend from her childhood is fundamentally sound enough. But Drop Dead Fred never builds on its potential - it is a thoroughly terrible film for a number of reasons. Almost every attempt at humour revolves around infantile vulgarity. Whether it's wiping snot on other peoples' faces, peeping up a woman's skirt, or treading in dog poo, the level of humour in Drop Dead Fred starts in the gutter and just gets lower. On the few occasions where anything resembling a fresh approach is adopted, the film settles for time-worn broad physical slapstick of the kind that the Three Stooges were offering fifty years previously. A cast of talented actors are thoroughly wasted in their respective roles. Mayall shouts and jumps around a lot, substituting manic and wide-eyed mannerisms for restraint. Matheson plays the unfaithful husband as a pure slimeball rather than a cunning cheat, making it extremely hard for the audience to believe that Cates would ever really want him back. And Cates herself fights a losing battle in a role that no actress could pull off &#150; her character is alternately gullible, stupid and improbable. Drop Dead Fred is a poor film &#150; on this occasion I'm afraid the critics got it right, and the film's small, hardy band of fans have found something to admire here that the rest of us just can't fathom! "}{"Title":"A Wretched Popcorn bag.","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is a horrible experience full of immature material. Only a very small amount of slapstick humour (which I didn't find amusing while others kind of did), but that's not enough to keeping the whole movie occupied. It was so incoherent that it provided me with the most unpleasant and embarrassing experience I've ever had watching a film.The plot is unimaginable and incomprehensible. Fred is a complete idiot who ruins and humiliates Elizabeth (Phoebe Cates, Gremlins I & II), the main character's life. I mean if you're seeing an imaginary friend you either can't see it or its hallucination. He makes her throw a bin of yellow slimy stuff at her Nan. I would hardly recommend any viewers under 5 to watch this. It could teach them bad manners. If you're watching this pile of puke right now I'd warn you to turn it off, get away from toddlers banging pans together and smashing dishes, go into the bathroom, look into the mirror (cover your face with water), clear your mind and think about something completely imaginable (I know it sounds strange but it's just a warning from me).Now this is a film where the actors/actresses go way over their heads. Once DD Fred causes embarrassment, all the others main actors on the set go bonkers. At one point Liz has coffee with a chap named Mickey Bunce, a date kind of thing, which Fred wrecks as always, causing Bunce to go nuts. I couldn't get my head round it. Martha Mason plays the mother of Liz, Polly Cronin. She's completely unhinged over Fred. It's like she wants to abandon her child on the street. She traps him in a wooden box and wraps it in cello tape, causing young Liz to end up in tears. There's another thing I don't get Why would Liz let loose a mental maniac from the box years later when she's wants to get on with her unstable life (to try and make it better) and it's going to make her life more unstable? If I was her I would just leave him there to suffer and then throw the box into a dump compactor(probably what I should do with the DVD).Now as Drop Dead Fred provides nothing to recommend, I'm starting to think why it was made this way. It could have been a kid's movie. What I mostly think of this is why it was even made. I can't believe it's not on IMDb's Bottom 100 list and why anyone would even like this. It's one of these unusual Hollywood movies where parents, with their children, would end up going to the nearest exit outside the cinema or a DVD showing, which I attended. Any parent would be appalled with the entirely childish and occasionally inappropriate content. I spent most of my experience trying to figure out a way to get out of the place. Misguided, misconcieved and completely mental and stupid, you won't survive the running time. It wastes your time. Avoid. "},{"Title":"A Beetlejuice wannabe","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you like movies about kids who either choose to live in an imaginary world, or are forced to contend with it, then you'll love Drop Dead Fred! It's similar to Beetlejuice, in that our heroine has to put up with an annoying and crazy guy who's always right there beside her. The difference here is that there's no haunted house/mansion (or whatever the people of Beetlejuice lived in) this time. Plus, the crazy man is a former childhood toy, rather than a ghost. Of course, it's a predictable movie. It's very funny and cute, but it doesn't always make sense, especially the final scenes.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"My opinion on Drop Dead Fred","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this film when i was about 10 years old. When i watched it at that age, I thought it was absolutely hilarious. I was laughing all the way through and i was nearly crying at the end.I have watched this again and now I'm older - i don't find it that funny any more. The humour is very immature - which is good when someone around 8 - 12 years old is watching it. I only found bits of it funny.I disagree with people who think this is a film about mental illness. This is a comedy - about a young girls imaginary friend. So if your into immature comedy and imaginary friends. This film is for you! Otherwise pick a different DVD, this isn't a brilliant film! "},{"Title":"I love those breaky noises","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was mistakenly marketed as and is still mistakenly perceived by a lot of people as a children's movie. Kids can enjoy it but there is much in this movie that young children won't understand. Then this movie sits between two worlds adults are loathed to embrace the sillier and more child-like moments of this movie while children will be confused and bored by all the sad and slow moments.The story is all about Lizzie trying to make her way in the world. The problems she encounters are juxtaposed with poignant childhood flashbacks with her imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred. Early in the movie Fred crowbars his way into Lizzie's adult life. Trouble ensues...Rik Mayall is crazy good as Drop Dead Fred. His acting is as colourful as the bright green suit he is always wearing. Being an imaginary friend he is quite invisible so he has no direct interaction with any of the cast except Phoebe Cates as Lizzie. This must have been quite a test for all the cast and they all do well variously pretending that they can't see Rik Mayall when he's right beside them or they can see him when no-one is there at all. Phoebe Cates does the best job of all in this regard. In many of her scenes with Rik Mayall you can easily forget that it's just Phoebe pretending to be shaken, pushed or spoken to by Rik; you have to step back for a moment to marvel at how natural her physical and emotional performance is.Some moments of this movie are so funny and some are so sad. The movie has a strong point to make about life and the way people treat each other and it all comes together beautifully at the end. The final scene between Fred and Lizzie is amazing, awesome.I don't know, this movie is just a joy. How could you not love it? "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie numerous times and still laugh hysterically. The whole plot is hilarious and great fun. The plot of the movie is a young woman whose marriage is falling apart so she moves back with her mother in her childhood home. One night she finds a jack in the box that her imaginary friend was locked inside by her mother. She releases him and he tells her that he cannot go back to where he comes from until she is happy again. The movie brings you on this crazy ride of a woman with the help of her childhood imaginary friend trying to get her life back on track.The team of Elizabeth (Phoebe Cates) and Fred (Rik Mayall) is infectious. I give the actors who are not supposed to see Fred credit for keeping a straight face when Rik Mayall plays Drop Dead Fred. The issue of a person losing themselves and sometimes needing someone to help them find their way back is real.The idea of your childhood imaginary friend coming back to help you is insane but makes this movie so entertaining. "},{"Title":"I like it, but I must admit they could have done better.","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'd love to give this movie a great rating and review, but unfortunately it has some basic flaws that prevent it. Certain things have to be done for any movie to be all it should be. I like the premise very much, and I enjoy Fred's general chaotic manner. Sometimes I just like to see people go berserk. It's a quirk of mine.The character development was lacking. They needed greater depth, and their actions needed more explanation. Most were fairly flat and cliché, such as the jerk husband and controlling mother stereotypes. This certainly made Fred shine among them as a character unlike any seen before, but only he could get away with the random and unexplained actions that the supposedly normal people sometimes chose. The movie would mean more as a whole if it had a fully fleshed plot and richer characters. Begin the right way and then move on to the lunacy.Because the lunacy needs no explanation. They clearly put more work into the madness, after getting together a skeletal plot and barely workable characters. The agenda was wild humor and that's the part I enjoy. Oh, as a mom I would respond very poorly to sneaking out in the night or pouring mud all over the house as the girl and Fred did in the flashback portions of the film. But there's a side of me that enjoys watching them do it. I recognize that it's a fantasy, that he's supposed to be real in his fashion and the bizarre behavior is him acting out a child's anger at her mother's perpetually resentful treatment... the classic mother who never wanted a child.The end is both lovely and out-of-pace. Fred spends the movie seeming not to care about anyone but himself yet in the end, he shows he cares for her and has been trying to help her in some demented way all along. I'm all for that but a little indication of it sooner would help it flow better into the plot. In the end, the girl has to free herself and that explains a lot of frustrating things she did through the whole film, things that seemed insane for any human to tolerate. Turns out she trained herself to go along so well that it takes incredible will and the help of an old friend to stop herself.It has a lot of childish fun (a good thing) but it isn't for children. I still love those glass breaking sounds, and I love it in spite of myself when she wipes a booger on the jerk husband when she leaves him. Lucky for my kids I can still appreciate those things... but I wouldn't show them the film whole and unedited. There's some profanity in it, just enough to make it inappropriate, situations that are just over their heads (talk of infidelity and divorce, and a couple smooching on the couch as part of foreplay... stops there) and loads of what they call imitative behavior. I have a 4-year-old boy. 'Nuff said.I still wish I could rate this movie a big ten. But the failure to fully think out the characters and their actions outside of Fred's made the film hard to watch too much of the time. "},{"Title":"Funny, surprisingly touching...but something's missing...","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Drop Dead Fred is definitely one of the most unusual comedies of the 1990's. After a series of misfortunes, Elizabeth, an attractive but withdrawn young woman (Phoebe Cates, very effective here) discovers her childhood imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred (Rik Mayall, hysterically funny), has come back into her life. While seemingly making things worse for her, Fred actually helps her deal with a philandering husband, an overbearing mother and her own insecurities.The movie flashes back to Elizabeth's childhood (the young Lizzie is played by Ashley Peldon, one of the best child actresses I have ever seen), but I don't think it investigates this era of her life as fully as it should. The relationship between Fred and Elizabeth was brought on initially by Elizabeth's sad home life, but not enough of it is seen. True, this is a comedy, but Drop Dead Fred the character often seems nothing more than excuse to break things and make poo jokes. But I like the way young Elizabeth and Fred communicate and interact...it's actually quite touching and sweet.Drop Dead Fred returns to Elizabeth's life two decades later, after she gets fired, loses her car, and finds herself unable to cope with her estrangement from her husband (played by Tim Matheson). Of course, everyone thinks she is losing her mind when she begins talking to herself and doing bizarre things such as throwing dishes in a restaurant (only she can see Fred....duh.) But Fred, through these actions, helps her to regain the life, innocence, fun, and Fred within her.I must say that the cast is VERY impressive. the aforementioned Rik Mayall (The Young Ones) is PERFECT as Drop Dead Fred, and Phoebe Cates is not only beautiful to look at but also quite good at physical comedy. Carrie Fisher is also fun, and Marsha Mason earns the appropriate boos and hisses as Elizabeth's insensitive mother.Most of the problems in this movie involve pacing...the direction (by Ate de Jong) drags, so it appears the actors are trying WAY too hard to compensate. The character of Drop Dead Fred really doesn't show any depth or have any purpose other than to be obnoxious until the end of the film, when he is finally shown to be sympathetic and quite protective of Elizabeth. At first, I didn't quite understand why an imaginary friend would be someone who gets on your nerves; the adult Elizabeth is VERY annoyed at Fred's return to her life. But then she realizes she needs him and that he actually cares enough to help her, despite his obnoxious facade. As I said, the film barely covers the supposedly terrible relationship between Elizabeth and her mother (the main reason Drop Dead Fred existed to begin with)...At worst, the mother seems cold and overbearing, not the monster that the adult Elizabeth describes. But the movie steers clear of any deep issues or heavy tones; it is, after all, pretty heavy on the slapstick, which is usually funny, but more in-depth character development would have made the movie more rewarding.Overall, if you want to laugh, Drop Dead Fred is definitely worth seeing, especially for Rik Mayall's performance (and what a cast!) The movie drags in spots and seems forced in others, but the hits outweigh the misses and is guaranteed to make you laugh. Just turn off your brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"fun, lighthearted, and silly... that's ALL folks!!","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a little surprised to see how many people are stressing themselves out by over-analyzing this movie.  It was just not MEANT to be all that deep. Drop Dead Fred is simply a cute little film, with a funny/silly plot. Turn it on, watch it, have a chuckle or two, then turn it off and get on with your lives for goodness sake!   "},{"Title":"Entertaining and silly, great fun","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An imaginary friend a girl had as a child comes back and creates havoc.The characters are fantastic and they work very very well.A film that is more for children because of it's stupidity but I like it because of the great stunts.  "},{"Title":"A comedy with a very moving end","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Drop Dead Fred is a comedy which I really, really treasure.It's about Drop Dead Fred, an 'imaginary friend' of a child Lizzie (ie, an adult's perspective of what they can't see because they are 'grown ups') and the adventures they have together.The reason why it is a favourite of mine is that it has a very moving ending, where Lizzie finally grows up, and so Drop Dead Fred can 'move on' to be the friend to the next child who needs him.Before Drop Dead Fred can leave Lizzie, Fred accompanied Lizzie on her personal journey one last time, and together they confronted Lizzie's personal 'obstacles' where she triumphs in the end. It was very sweet and sad.The saddest and most moving part is when Lizzie saw through the gesture of another child (ie, after Fred has moved on), she gets to know that Drop Dead Fred is now befriending this child after leaving her. It is very, very sad and sweet. Especially now that Lizzie having finally 'grown up', she can no longer see Drop Dead Fred anymore, no matter how she wish otherwise. A bond that can no longer be continued once it's over (no matter how much she would like to), other than what's residing in Lizzie's memory. And you can sense from Lizzie's face when she was looking at the next child's interaction with Drop Dead Fred, that look of Thank you for loving me once. It is a most beautiful ending.Enjoy Drop Dead Fred as a comedy, and I hope that you also love the very moving ending. "}{"Title":"One of the movies that make up my childhood.","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite what Maltin says, Drop Dead Fred was probably one of the most magical movies I remember from my childhood. Being 11 at the time it opened, I remember being with mom mom in the theater and laughing and crying (more than once) and trying to hide it (more than once). When the movie was done I remember leaving the theater with a happy feeling that few movies ever put in me. What Leonard Maltin doesn't realize is that while he's over 100 now (haha) he couldn't possibly have the same view of the world that younger people have. The true view of this movie is that true friends always stick up for you no matter how blinded you are by false promises. Maybe Maltin better realize that and not write shallow synopses to make more money on a fat book priced conveniently at 10 dollars.  "},{"Title":"Just drop dead movie!","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Man! What a painful experience it was watching this. I saw almost twenty years ago and still wince ever time I see even the box cover of this cinematic eyesore of a movie! I sat through this atrocity, giving it every chance I could to make me at least smile once, and got absolutely nothing. It was flat from the word go. Cates, A much better actress than what she is given here to do, is just dull to watch as she gets tormented by hear irritatingly unfunny imaginary friend Fred, name of actor cant remember nor do I wish to. You would think that Freds crazy antics would be at least mildly amusing for a little while. But no, he starts out as annoying and gets worse throughout the whole film. Honenstly, I found myself praying for this movie to make one scene or moment or even line funny. Whoever wrote, directed or even produced this crapola needs to be hunted down and flogged! "},{"Title":"Not even Marsha Mason can save this turkey!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Even though Maltin had called it a bomb and Videohound had given it a Woof, I wondered how bad a film could it be?  It had Marsha Mason in it.  Well, they were right.  Gross, disgusting and inept, the film makes no sense.  Even if Phoebe DID have an imaginary friend doing all this mayhem, the fact that she delights in it should have plopped her in a mental institution before the first reel.  Mayall as Fred plays on one note - OUT OF CONTROL.   He is so obnoxious, so awful we look in vain for a machine gun to put him out of his misery.   Marsha Mason plays her tidy, controlled mom quite well but manages also to imbue her with genuine concern and warmth for her crazy daughter, so avoids caricature. Her stylish, controlled performance is the only thing of quality in the film.  Here's a film where we're supposed to identify with and bond with the repressed daughter seeking expression.  Instead we bond with her mom who should have earned a medal just for putting up with her.  This must have looked good on paper (Ms. Mason does not deliberately play in schlock - look at her record), but it plays out like...... (well, something Fred likes to play with). "},{"Title":"The movie isn't funny at all","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Imaginary (but very real) character Fred causes havoc on Elizabeth's life.Phoebe Cates is beautiful, but her range of acting or emotion is rather limited which makes this movie one dimensional (sorry Phoebe). The movie gets tiresome pretty quickly, because of this.I guess the role of Fred is to cause catharsis to Liz, but the story is really awkwardly told. I suppose many of the things that happens is supposed to be funny, but it really isn't. The script writer isn't good at comedic delivery. Cate's dead pan acting makes things worse in this case.So, the movie really doesn't deliver what it should have delivered - funny situation with insight about person's development, and a sidekick who helps named Fred.Not enough talent gathered for this movie for it to work. But experimental movies are okay with me. Producers and actors should have thought more about how to make the situation work. But as it is, it's not a good job at any level. "},{"Title":"Good movie for children!","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I personally grew up watching this movie as a young kid. The acting is not the best but for a children's movie it is great. The whole idea of an imaginary friend really comes to life in this movie. If you are not someone who has an active imagination then this movie is definitely not for you. It's an a good comedy that everyone can relate to in someway. It is definitely worth watching at any age. You can tell it is an older movie by what they wear throughout. It will put a smile on your face and a good movie to relax too. The movie comes with the typical mother who is completely controlling and wants to ruin the child's life. Everyone has been there before. But definitely worth watching with the children! "},{"Title":"Not really a kids' movie","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Several reviewers talk about memories of this movie as children or watching it with children, but I don't believe it is a children's movie. Sexual relations are a big part of this movie (cheating husband later groping wife, Fred's references to, doing it like pigeons, etc.) Two of the gags in the movie where Fred is looking up Marsha Mason's dress (Cobwebs!) and Bridget Fonda's dress (She's not wearing panties!) are definitely adult humor.It does follow, as several reviewers suggest, British humor in the style of Benny Hill (sight gags, sexual innuendo, sound effects). I'd say the broad humor is in the same vein as Beetlejuice, with about the same level of comedic punch, certainly better than the 4.5 (below average) rating the film has on IMDb when I referenced this site.It does have a very definite feel to it, like a lot of movies from the late 80s, early 90s, and this is probably because it was made in 1990. It has that indefinable feel in its music and pacing of other comedies of the period Beetlejuice, Mom and Dad Save the World, Stay Tuned, Skin Deep. But that's not a condemnation, just an observation, and these other movies were successful although they do show a certain style.It's actually nice to see Phoebe Cates as the protagonist and toned down a little with a pageboy haircut and sack dresses that understate her natural beauty and sexiness. It's a shame she isn't making many films now, because I think she could have aged gracefully on the screen with more mature roles that don't depend on her solely as a sexual kitten (See Desperate Housewives). "},{"Title":"Not an award winner but good harmless fun","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like pictures in a dentist's surgery, a family fantasy film made for fun and to offend no one. It will make you smile but not laugh, it will make you frown but not cry, it won't frighten the children and they will enjoy it. I'm glad I saw it on TV and did not pay to see it. Definitely made for TV and for quiet moments for adults. OK ten lines of text eh! Well it has Rik Mayell in it, he was definitely better in the Young Ones, never quite made any impact after that. Loads of potential but just something lacking, perhaps it's Adrian Edmondson, Nigel Planer, Christopher Ryan and Elxei Sayle. I watched this film with my son who I think has a VERY good memory for films and although he watched it loads on video has no recollection of it, which says quite a lot to me. "},{"Title":"Mayall is great; the movie is not.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is largely unfunny - it is impossible to watch the things that happen without feeling awful for the people it happen to (rather than laugh at the situation).  But Rik Mayall does such a brilliant job as Fred that I still watch this movie from time to time.For Mayall fans, there is a wonderful blend of Rick, Flashheart, and even a little Ritchie in the mix.  Definitely worth a look, as I love every moment he's on the screen.  It would actually be a good movie if the humor didn't feel so... tragic. "},{"Title":"Trying to settle the point of precedency between a louse and a flea","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Many young children go through the stage of having an imaginary friend, and Drop Dead Fred, like the more recent Australian film Opal Dreams explores this phenomenon. There is, however, a difference between the two films. Whereas Opal Dreams is a serious film which ends tragically, Drop Dead Fred is an anarchic comedy.The main character is Elizabeth, a young woman in her twenties, whose life seems to be going down the pan at a rate of knots. Her husband Charles has left her for another woman, her car has been stolen and she has been sacked from her job. To make matters worse, her childhood imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred, has reappeared in her life. The central premise of the film is that such friends are not imaginary but really do exist, even though they cannot be seen or heard by anyone except the child whose friend they are. Fred has the appearance of an adult but the personality of a mischievous boy, so Elizabeth is far from happy to see him again. Fred is not only mischievous but also potty-mouthed and destructive; his favourite words are poo, snot and fart and his idea of a good time is to tread dog dirt into the carpet.And the moral of this story is&#x85;&#x85;. yes, this may be an anarchic comedy, but in Hollywood even anarchic comedies can have morals. The moral of the story is that we've all got to get in touch with our Inner Child, to be free-thinking, independent and unconventional rather than boring, stuffy and predictable. Because, despite his bad behaviour, Fred is not the villain of the story. Actually, he's the hero. The real villains are the faithless Charles and, even more, Elizabeth's mother Polly whom Fred calls the mega bitch. Polly is a monstrous woman- a cold, overbearing, upper-middle-class snob who represents conventional respectability at its worst. She has no warmth or affection for anyone, including her daughter or her husband Nigel whom she drove away by her domineering behaviour. Fred promises to make Elizabeth happy again, and this can only happen when she finds the strength of character to stand up to Charles and Polly.The film seems to divide opinion. It was not popular with the critics when first released- Leonard Maltin called it a putrid mess- and performed poorly at the US box office. Its current rating on this board is only 4.9. Nevertheless, it has in some quarters achieved the status of a cult movie and has been fiercely defended by some reviewers. Certainly, I would agree with those defenders that some of those who have criticised the film are guilty of over-analysing it, especially those who see it as mocking the mentally ill. (Elizabeth is not mentally ill; we are supposed to accept that Fred really does exist and is not just a figment of her imagination). The film also has one great asset in the shape of Phoebe Cates, who makes Elizabeth an absolutely adorable heroine; Charles must have been mad even to have looked at another woman. (Even Bridget Fonda who plays his mistress Annabella). Phoebe was one of the most beautiful young actresses of the eighties and early nineties, up there with the likes of Michelle Pfeiffer and Kelly McGillis, and I have always felt her early retirement from showbiz was a loss to the cinema.Nevertheless, my overall opinion of the film was an unfavourable one. Its main fault is that it confuses being free-thinking, independent and unconventional with being simply childish, vulgar and destructive. The responsibility for this lies partly with the scriptwriters and partly with the British comedian Rik Mayall, who plays Fred. Mayall's style of comedy is something of an acquired taste, and he does not seem to realise just how unsympathetic his character is becoming. Fred is supposed to be the happy, anarchic, free-spirited antithesis of Polly's deadly bourgeois conformity, but trying to determine which of the two is the more obnoxious would be (in Samuel Johnson's words) as futile as trying to settle the point of precedency between a louse and a flea.Although the film was billed as a light-hearted children's comedy, in some ways seems unsuitable for children as it contains bad language and some very adult humour. It can be regarded as an example of the sort of gross out humour which has become very popular in recent years in films like American Pie, There's Something About Mary and The Heartbreak Kid. The target audience seems to be that segment of the teenage and young adult demographic which still regards chanting yucky yucky smelly dog poo! as the height of sophisticated wit. It is depressing to realise that someone actually intends to remake this film, although it is perhaps fitting that the proposed remake is to star Russell Brand, another controversial British comedian who divides opinion even more than Mayall did in 1991. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Silly adult fantasy that would fare better now than in the early nineties","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm blown away by how many reviewers refer to this as a family or kids comedy/fantasy? Are you high? Drop Dead Fred is anything but made for families or kids. In fact it's a twisted adult fairy tale comedy that is cute and silly but could have went a lot further had it been released nowadays as a dark comedy with a much stronger more talented cast. The entire time I spent the film thinking what an iconic and remarkable role Drop Dead Fred would have been for Jim Carey as a comeback right now. He could have taken that role and really made it twisted and demented the way it was meant to be. The entire premise of the film pretends to have some sort of morale but it doesn't at all...it's a bitterly ironic adult comedy about a deranged lunatic who uses violence and emotional abuse to make a quiet mousy 20 something girl find herself. Sound like a promising morale for kids? The cast just wasn't strong enough to make the potentially terrific physical comedy, and dark moody one liners really matter. The film seems to be iconic to some and perhaps that's just something about an early nineties film but for the most part Drop Dead Fred misses it's mark while being mildly entertaining.Phoebe Cates, fresh from trying to remove herself from the Brat pack eighties stigma plays Lizzie, a perpetually walked on woman who loses her husband, car, money and job all in one day which drives her to the brink of sanity and Fred. Cates is decent enough but she plays mousy and quiet but never really comes out of that shell the way she should have. This would have been a great role for a stronger actress with better range like Winona Ryder, or Christina Ricci (who was too young at the time, I know.) Someone with a dark brooding side for this tone of the film. Cates struck gold in the eighties but didn't have talent to carry it on. Apparently a very talented British comedian and TV Personality Rik Mayall plays the 'fantastic' drop dead Fred. He never quite nails the idea behind the very dark and often sadistic role...compare it to Michael Keaton's Beetlejuice...and you'll see he doesn't even come close. He is outright annoying and doesn't come across as intelligent in the least. In a round about and disturbing way he is supposed to make Cates see herself and he doesn't at all. He isn't funny and tries too hard with the jokes and pratfalls. Tim Matheson is decent as Cates' slimy husband, and Carrie Fisher is good although completely out of place being far more talented than this cast as Cates best friend. She has one of the funniest roles coming from actual talent as an actress.I'm really not trying to discredit what people think of this film. If you grew up with it as a favorite...more power to you. But for me seeing it for the first time I just saw a lot of twisted potential in it that never pans out. This could be compared to a lot of other films in the same vein and you'd see those other films have big talented casts...Beetlejuice, and Death Becomes Her and even Monty Python films, to name a couple adult fantasy films. I don't think director Ate de Jong really knew where to go with this film and it was probably one of his first English US releases so he jumped on it but it was mis cast and rushed a great deal. Still people seem to love it as a cult classic but I think anyone looking for the type of film that this is should maybe steer clear of this one because it's average and completely misguided sadly. 6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Better than you think!","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Yeah, the movie is cheesy, but there is a Drop Dead Fred in all of us! Lizzie has deep rooted psychological issues spawn from her Mega-Bitch mother. Fred was created by her psyche as a buffer, or protector from the harsh repremandation she received from her mother. DDF gave the Lil Lizzie the courage and the self-esteem that her mother wanted to take away so she could have constant control over Lizzie. Later in life, after DDF had long been gone, the older Lizzie's life was falling apart because once again, she was surrounded by overbearing, controlling people who used Lizzie as a doormat due to her submissive nature instilled in her by her mother. DDF saves the day again, showing Lizzie the light through her inner-strength that was literally taped away in a Jack-in-the-Box. "},{"Title":"Vodka and Pants-Pie anyone?","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a closet fan of Rik Mayall, I decided I had to see this movie when it was on TV one Xmas, especially after seeing the trailers. Elizabeth is in her twenties and has just lost her job, her car and her purse in one lunch hour. Not to mention the fact that her husband has run off with another woman. Forced to move back home by her domineering mother, and once back in the familiar surroundings of her youth, Elizabeth is cheered by memories of her childhood with her imaginary friend, Drop Dead Fred. However, she is shocked when the manic Drop Dead Fred suddenly reappears, on a mission to cheer her up at a bad time. I had difficulty trying to understand what it was the movie was trying to get across to the viewer, and Fred's antics can be misinterpreted as cruel and heartless. The idea is simply what if imaginary friends were actually real, albeit invisible, and what if an imaginary childhood friend were to pay a visit in adulthood. Fred's pranks are not meant to be cruel, they are just out of place in the boring adult world. Whilst the child Elizabeth was thought to be just innocent and sweet, when seen seemingly talking to herself, in the adult world she is just seen as crazy. Whilst Fred does seem to be hindering her a lot at times, and he is sometimes difficult to watch, it is revealed (although rather late in the movie in my belief) that he has actually been helping her to embrace the child within, helping her to lose the insecurities that have developed in later life by looking back to happier times, and making her realise that she can be that again if she wants to - happy.Overall I did like this movie, and it is shame that so many others choose only to focus on the negative aspects. This film does have its weaknesses, but Fred does grow during the movie and he begins to be kind and sympathetic to her towards the end. My favourite scene is undoubtedly one of the last scenes involving Elizabeth and Fred but I won't spoil it.  "},{"Title":"Mind numbing","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Not long ago, I received a free DVD with a Dominoe's pizza order. I knew it couldn't be that good if it was being handed out for free, but I gave it a shot anyways. Man, I still get a headache thinking about that 2 hours of my life I wasted. Oh well. The pizza was good ;-) My first thought was that this is a student or independent film, because I can't see how a studio in it's right mind could possibly make this. The music is like listening to a kid trying to learn how to play a keyboard. The script is laughable. The ending is utterly predictable and clichéd. The acting is horrific. The whole film reeks with an amateur feel.I know there are many who loved this, and I don't mean to p**s any fans off, but I just can't go soft on this review. DDF isn't worth your money, unless you're an eight year old or a mom with a young child. 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Siskle and Ebert listed it as the worse movie either had ever seen","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I went to see this at the encouragement of my movie going buddy. Gordon told me, It's about a puka. You know, like the rabbit in 'Harvey.' We sat in the theater and a small child who was sitting with mom and dad turned to Dad and said, This was horrible. He was about six years old. On our way out of the theater, Gordon said, I am soooooo sorry. We never spoke about it again.Later that week, Siskle and Ebert were on 'The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson.' They spoke about several movies, and when Johnny asked, What's the worst movie you've ever seen, without hesitation and in unison they said, Drop Dead Fred. That pretty much says it all. "},{"Title":"Just a bit about the movie.","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Although this movie has some fairly crude remarks, there is a lot to be enjoyed. As a child, Elizabeth is forced to deal with an overbearing and controlling mother, and a father who feels forced to leave his wife's personality. In all this, her one friend is Fred, who is invisible. He gets her into all sorts of trouble that lands him in a box for many years. One day, when Elizabeth is going through more trauma, she finds this box and unleashes Fred back into her world. One would think that Fred would cheer her up, but he only causes more trouble. If you have any sense of nostalgia, you will love this movie just for the ending. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie for a Weekend Afternoon","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My girlfriend had been pressing me for months to watch this movie. It's REALLY funny! she said. Well, finally I noticed it was playing on cable at 200 in the morning, so I taped it and watched it the next day.Yes, she was right that in some places it was pretty amusing. Kids would definitely love it -- but I felt the plot, as well as the protagonist Elizabeth, could have used a lot more development.One thing I noticed right away is how similar Elizabeth is to my girlfriend in the way she relates to people. I immediately asked my girlfriend whether she liked this movie so much for that reason. She concurred. (Note Ashley Peldon, who plays Elizabeth as a child, also bears a strikingly uncanny resemblance of my girlfriend when she was the same age.)Now that I know the REAL reason why my girlfriend wanted me to watch the movie -- to get some insight into what makes her tick -- I can't bear to give the film the 4 it deserves. Instead, I gave it a 6. Worth watching, but don't spend your money on it. "},{"Title":"Phoebe Cates is great as is rest of cast","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is what the public wants. Forget that other 'Working Title' debacle 'Bridget Jones'. This has poo-poohs on clean furniture. It also has Tim Matheson giving the funniest excuse for cheating ever and getting away with it. It has bad behaviour in restaurants. It has a delightful performance from Phoebe Cates (should have been a star) and an inspired one from child star Ashley Peldon. It has charm. It also has Rik Mayal, but thankfully he's the least of it.They pushed the envelope too much thus receiving a certificate that excluded the age group that was most likely to enjoy it. The only other draw back is the titles. I don't care who Ate De Jong, I want to know who directed the thing. "},{"Title":"Average and Strange","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very strange movie. Too strange in fact to be all that funny. Rik Mayall may well be the funniest man on the planet but that's not necessarily going to make 90 minutes of him going crazy all that funny. This is a lesson that the makers of Drop Dead Fred should have learnt. Don't get me wrong this film has its moments, a couple of scenes are screamingly funny (the fire engine). The film is too uneven. One minute its unbearably cute and sickly sweet, the next its truly dark and anarchic. Just when it seems that the film is going for kiddy orientated comedy Drop Dead Fred turns up and wipes Dog Crap every where. Some scenes such as Drop Dead Fred meeting up with other peoples imaginary friends at the nut house are more disturbing than funny. The final scenes are unbearably sad and poignant and simply seem out of place. Rik Mayall is brilliant, Carrie Fisher is seemingly terminal and Phoebe Cates is awful. This is the sort of film that you think is hysterical when your 8 Years Old. Adults will find this too annoying to be funny. Overall a definate 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Keep this away from children","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie appeared when I was about 12. At the time I was able to watch anything, but Drop Dead Fred was one of the few films I simply couldn't digest.Many say that movie-going children should be protected from sex and violence on screen, but they're all wrong. Children should at all costs be protected from THIS film. The brain-numbingly bad screenplay and terrible acting, pedestrian direction and an overall cheap appearance mix into a terrifyingly psychedelic mess of a film. The only reason why this isn't a C-grade horror or porn is cheap slapstick humor instead of gore or nudity. "},{"Title":"Why is Bridget Fonda not credited in this film?","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Can any body tell me why Bridget Fonda is not credited in this film. She had been in several films and credited aplenty by the time Drop Dead Fred was released in 1991. Maybe she was doing the Producer or the Director a favor, it's a mystery! If anyone has any other Ideas I would like to hear them or I quess it should be see them since this is print. As far as the film itself is concerned I quess it just wasn't my cup of tea. I thought it was a waste of Phoebe Cates, Marsha Mason, and Carrie Fisher. It seemed that the Director and/or the Screenwriter tried for something and didn't quit make it, and I would like to have seen Robin Williams in the role of Fred.  "}{"Title":"Overrated, goofy movie","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If your brand of humor is poo jokes and an annoying guy who likes to draw stripes onto sweaters, than this is a film for you. Not one single thing that Fred did was funny to the rest of us, however. Terribly painful movie to sit through. I like how they tried to make out Lizzy's mom to be mean, bad lady too. If my daughter were a lunatic with imaginary friends wrecking my house, I'd become mean too. The only thing worse than this film is all the people who seem to love it and who talked me into watching this garbage. How many times can they make the same old move over and over again. Bad things happens. Kid blames imaginary friend. No one believes the kid. Kid has to face some test and grow up and make peace with imagination. Zzzzzz "},{"Title":"Yuck.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out.  I was a junior in high school, so my boyfriend and I thought that the sophomoric humour would be most appropriate for a date. We were wrong. We both hated the movie. Drop Dead Fred is just a bunch of outrageous and disgusting gags (pun intended) which might amuse a six-year old one second and have his parents covering his eyes the next.  The idea of an imaginary playmate becoming flesh-and-blood is quite amusing but the plot of this movie (if there is one) keeps Fred nothing more than someone to blame and a troublemaker. My imaginary playmate was much more caring, sensitive, and mature than Fred will ever be... "},{"Title":"It has it's moments, but for the most part it's annoying","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was a kid, I enjoyed this movie. I was 6, so automatically it was aimed at my age group. I thought that this was possibly the best movie ever. Now it just got really annoying. I sometimes wonder how adult actors can do this. I guess if you are desperate in looking for a career.SPOILERS!!!Basically, the movie is about a girl named Lizzie. When she's a little girl she has an imaginary friend named Drop Dead Fred. He is supposedly real. Just only she can see him. He gets her into a lot of trouble. Her mom takes away the box that awakens him. Lizzie grows up. Her mom is running her life. Her fiancée leaves her. Her life is going down the drain. She finds the box and opens it up to release Fred once again. He decides to help her out with her life.It just goes on and on with the little kid jokes. It's an OK film.5/10  "},{"Title":"surprisingly touching in moments!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well this film simply is what you would call utter tosh, poorly written and directed but some things save it firstly Rik Mayall who runs riot throughout the film when he spouts a line no matter how stupid and babyish like snot face he makes it funny by the way he says it. Also there are some good moments in it. Some moments are actually quite nice and when Riks being nice and calm he's almost as good as when he is relishing in the constant screaming and anarchic Tom foolery. There are no good jokes in fact the tagline is the best line of it all but Rik is let loose to good effect and manages to make this watchable. Two particularly funny bits were when Phoebe Cates' character is telling Fred about how great her ex is and how she loves him, she is upset and you see Freds face looking as if he feels alot of sympaphy for her then he suddunly makes a vomiting motion, and I found that side splittingly hilarious the timing and delivery were great. Also another moment where Carrie Fisher is trying to beat up someone elses imaginary friend despite the fact she doesn't see him, that was quite funny. If your a Mayall fan watch but if you require some thought, plot and well written jokes then its best to stay clear. They really aimed this at the wrong audience, its a 15 certificate that has the sort of humour that would apeal to 8 year olds without Rik I could'nt watch it although Jim Carrey would have nbeen good in this too hes good in anything. "},{"Title":"Fair Cartoony Humor","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"    What happens when you create the name before the movie ? I think this is the result. The world of imaginary best friends is blurred with the spirit world when lovely Phoebe Cates is embarassed and embarrasses herself in this fantasy-comedy that has you cringing from one scene after another. Rik Mayall lets loose with the physical comedy, but if far from funny, and Carrie Fisher and Tim Matheson play roles disconnected with the plot. The movie does shine on some sort of psychological you-can't-go-home-again pretense, but the only shining grace is Cates whose mystically arresting presence carries you through the plot even with two horrible hair styles. The movie is a gem when it comes to her chaste and virginal childlike presence, but it's not a very funny comedy on the views and beliefs of children. "},{"Title":"Static combination of gross-out humor and life-lessons...","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harried court stenographer reclaims the inner little girl she was never allowed to be via her imaginary childhood pal. Beetlejuice-like slapstick with no attention to the dialogue or characters (Drop Dead Fred loves to insult, and it isn't clear if we should laugh or recoil at lines like, Let's eat her up and poo her out!). Phoebe Cates does some fun double-takes, and some of the visual jokes have color, but only Carrie Fisher (playing one of those wisecracking gal pals direct from the 1930s) is really in the spirit of this piece. Everyone else has to duck and cover, particularly Marsha Mason giving a let-me-outta-here performance as Phoebe's mother. When the tone switches gears near the finish and we're supposed to see that Cates has found herself through this manic touchstone, it seems an arduous journey. Certainly a competent psychologist might've helped her on this path a lot sooner. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it but just couldn't","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was really looking forward to this film when it first came out. The imaginary friend thing really interested me. I even dragged a friend to see it with me at the theater. But I'm afraid to say it remains in my mind as one of the worst films I've ever seen. My friend still hasn't forgiven me for forcing him to watch it!It's one of those films where I had to force myself not to walk out of the theater because I kept thinking it might get better--but sadly, it did not. There were so many scenes that made me just CRINGE. Things getting messy. Things being destroyed. (I'm avoiding spoilers here.) I just held my head and muttered oh my God over and over.It's clear from the comments here that many people just love this movie. I just can't explain that. I'm cringing now just thinking about it again. Maybe kids like it better than adults. "},{"Title":"Really Annoying","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is one to avoid, it's not even worth renting, save your money. Rick Mayall as Drop Dead Fred has got to be the most annoying portrayal of a character I have ever seen. There is nothing in this movie that is worth praising, just plain awful. Every actor in this has done better work, watch those movies instead.  "},{"Title":"Crap, Utter Crap","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Do not rent this movie if you are in the market  for renting bad movies just for fun. Not only  is this movie terrible, it's not funny.   Very Painful to watch.   Be Warned.  "},{"Title":"Repulsive film belittles mental illness","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Only one other review has pointed out that this film is about a mentally disturbed young woman who goes off on destructive jags and blames them on an imaginary friend. She's a schizophrenic, and the film suggests we shouldn't treat the mentally ill...we should let them go their merry way and damn the consequences. If someone covered your living room table with mud and mixed your milk and sugar into it and then blamed an invisible friend for the mess, wouldn't you at least refer that person to psychiatric care? Instead, the victim--in this case Marsha Mason--is depicted as an evil shrew (or 'super bitch' as the imaginary Fred refers to her) who must be tormented endlessly. Incredibly bad filmmaking and astonishingly offensive to boot.  "}{"Title":"No!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   I accidently gave this a ten, I don't know how I did it I must be more tired than I thought, because I was on my way to clicking onto 1 when somehow, using the most pathetic part of my brain, I clicked 10!!!. The one hope I have now from doing that is that maybe other people who gave this ten were doing the same thing as well, this could explain how this film got such a high average, barely less than 5!.  If you haven't gotten the idea yet, I hate this film, it is one of the most silly, childish stupid monsterous pathetic goes at humour i have ever seen, my backside could write a better film, and i can't even spell or sue good grammer.  "},{"Title":"Vile, cruel, mean spirited, malevolent...","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Thats just a few of the things I thought when I saw this horrid film. To boot this fantasy character named Fred is as vicious as and louder than a full out riot in a penal colony for the criminally insane. All this and bugger humor too ! What a charming pre teen movie (NOT).What many people miss is the fact that Fred is imaginary. He doesnt exist. Its Elizabeth's mind at work.  So that leaves only Phobe Cates' character as the person responsible for all this mayhem and agony. Fred can't break windows, or smash her husband's boat. She did it and she blames Fred when shes caught. She's a full out raging psychopath. This movie IS a chilling warning of how emotional illnesses can energize the vindictive into ruthless, self righteous acts of sheer brutality.This twisted flick reminded me that a neurotic is someone who creates fantasies to calm themselves. Only psychos invest belief into the fantasies so they can live them. This movie could have been called The Squeaky Fromm Story. I cant get over how demented this character is made to be. She's a megalomanical cutesy cutesy whos only freed from her spiteful inner voices when her husband sweet talks her into taking her medication so they can have sex !! Yikes, someone call the Springer Show about this babe.The rest of the time shes full of denial and empty of empathy. Her fits of destruction are followed not by remorse and introspection but by denial and renewed plotting. No shame. No apologies. No attempt at reconciliation or responsibility. She just goes on her way blaming her imaginary friend for all the chaos she visits on anyone she deems worthy. This is one sick girl. One is left with the dreadful fear that sad, lonely emotionally disturbed girls everywhere saw vindication and comforting reassurance in this film. Here on screen is an otherwise normal girl acting out her worst impulses. Vengance, aggression, violent rages....anything goes because anythings justified. Her worst delusions are her plans for everyday acts of sheer terrorism. Shes the poster child for the Passive-Aggressive. She's the Jerry Lewis of female sociopaths and celeb stalkers. Think Im being a bit harsh ? Just imagine that the lead is this movie had been male and that like everyone else in the movie we couldnt see Fred either.If all we had to go on was Fred's voice over then we'd have a glimpse of a Son of Sam like cold-blooded hallucinogenic life. Some basis for a teen romantic comedy. Its no wonder the divorce rate is over 50% and lethal, self justified acts of domestic violence surge to new levels. "}]