[{"Title":"Cross cultural conflict","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"65 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This exquisitely photographed film portrays the cultural clash between Europeans (in this case the Europeans happen to be French) and various native tribes in seventeenth century North America without romanticizing either French culture or that of the native peoples.Perhaps the most striking feature of this film from my perspective was utter arrogance of the Europeans to come into a wild country presuming the superiority of their way of life over that of the indigenous peoples. No character seemed to understand that better than Father LaForgue, admirably portrayed by Lothaire Bluteau. The good Father soldiers on despite the evidence that his presence in the vast wilderness of North America won't make a whit of difference in his life or in the lives of the people he has vowed to introduce into paradise. The Algonquin guides worry about their attachment to the demon LaForgue and wonder whether they shouldn't just kill him. Even LaForgue's young assistant, Daniel, wonders how the presence of a French missionary makes the the native people's lives any better. The Iroquois, who suffer from a harsh depiction in the film, take a more economically-based view of LaForgue -- he and Daniel are seen by the Iroquois as currency to be exchanged for guns.An aside concerning the Iroquois. While the violence depicted in the film is no doubt accurate, what the film does not reveal is that the Iroquois likely became decidedly more hostile when the French began to assist old enemies, such as the Algonquin, in traveling into hunting grounds that had previously been Iroquois territory.But back to LaForgue, whose journey is the primary emphasis of the film. He has journeyed, apparently from a life of some privilege in France, leaving behind a doting mother and (perhaps) a beautiful young woman. He has journeyed away from the pleasures of the flesh, lingering on the sight of a couple making love in the communal tipi and later admitting to Daniel that he, LaForgue, lusts after the young Alogonquin woman,Annuka, with whom Daniel had already struck up a sexual relationship. He gets lost on the journey in the cathedral-like forest and rejoices and being found by Algonquin hunters, who express some bemusement that the Black Robe got lost in the first place. Finally, he journeys to the Hurons and a village beset by smallpox, where baptism has been sold to the natives as a miracle cure as much as it has a key to salvation.By avoiding the tendency of films depicting Native American life to romanticize, Bruce Beresford has captured more profoundly the daily harsh realities of life for the peoples inhabiting the northeastern portion of North America at the arrivals of the first trickling of Europeans. Neither way of life is ultimately depicted as superior to the other each simply is. This is not a feel-good film. Instead it is a realistic, thought-provoking tale of a journey of a man, of cultures, and of life itself. Simply a brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Brutal but beautiful","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  _Black Robe_ is an under-appreciated gem. With fine acting, a strong, literate screenplay, beautiful visuals from the spare, cold Canadian wilderness, and a lyrical, dialogue-light storytelling style, this film is an absorbing experience. Viewers with less patience for visual storytelling, or who don't like having to pay attention to details, will probably find it slow-going.Be forewarned _Black Robe_ is a brutal film, by modern western standards. Gruesome torture is openly referred to; native americans, particularly the northern Mohawk and Huron peoples, are _not_ substantially idealized.Nice ethnographic touches are preserved -- for example, the Alqonkian-speaking group who agree to guide the Black Robe are permitted to clearly express their perplexity at the Jesuit's rudeness for not sharing his tobacco. Similarly, a Mohawk war-leader keenly sees opportunity in permitting the French to live they can be traded for muskets, and forced to teach the Mohawk how to use the powerful new weapons. No simple savages, after all The Iroquois did not come to control much of the northeast through stupidity.While widely excoriated by some native american advocates for its depiction of Mohawk and Huron brutality, the film actually soft-pedals the reality (as noted by other reviewers). The southern, Five-Nations Mohawk may have abandoned ritual cannibalism by this time, but it's certain that ritual torture and cannibalism were practiced throughout the Iroquois sphere of influence up to the early contact period. It was an aspect of their culture, and really no stranger than similar practices as recorded among christianized Scandinavians circa 1060 AD.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully Filmed, Memorably Told","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Wow, what a fascinating movie and different kind of film. One really can't get the full impact of this through a review. Anyone who has seen this, I think would agree with me on that.If I had skipped over the credits and someone had told me Terrence Malick (Days Of Heaven, The New World, The Thin Red Line and Badlands) and directed this film, I would have believed it. Visually, this is his kind of film. I wonder if this movie inspired parts of his latest effort, The New World? There are a number of similarities. Black Robe has the same kind of beautiful and haunting images Malick's films possess but the director in this case is Bruce Bereford, the man who directed Driving Miss Daisy a couple of years before doing this film. DMD also is beautifully-filmed.Black Robe is not just a piece of art. As great as it is visually, this is a powerful story of a well-intentioned Jesuit priest in the early 17th century who travels to New France (upstate New York/French Canadian territory) attempting to convert a few area tribes to Christianity. To unbelievers, that seems pushy but Biblically-speaking it is not. Jesus commanded his followers to do just that (Matt. 2818-20) , so the priest is only doing what missionaries have done for centuries. He also is a good man, stays strong in his beliefs regardless of his own well-being and is a gentle soul. Kudos to the filmmakers for being fair to him.The Algonquins and the Hurons are also shown with their beliefs, too, and their cultures which obviously were in contrast to the white European-based priest. All sides are shown fairly in this movie, with both positive and negative traits of all.I was shocked at a few scenes in here, not expecting them as the film has such a gentle flow to it before anything dramatic happens. We see a few sexual scenes and then some brutal violence. The Hurons, particularly, do not want any invasion of their privacy and culture and are openly hostile to the priest and the Algonquins. The story transforms from a quiet Malick-type New World poetic piece to a violent, suspenseful film and the question is, will the good guys make it out alive?The actors in here, perhaps, are not names most people outside Canada are familiar with, including me, but Lothaire Blueteau as Father Laforgue, Aden Young as his assistant Daniel and Sandrine Holt as Daniel's Algonguin lover Anuuka are all very, very good. All the characters in this film are very credible people, steadfast in their own beliefs and they come across as realistic people. Most films have unreal people with unrealistic dialog....but not in this movie.Another big plus was the soundtrack a lush, haunting score throughout.Without spoiling the ending, or adding political/theological agendas my own, let me just add that if you enjoy a beautiful-looking movie which also has a thoughtful, haunting story with honest characters, you should check this out. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm a history student of second grade of a french canadian university.  So, in a history point of view, I can assure you that this movie is simply amazing.  The story is about a jesuite priest who wants to bring catholic faith to the Indians of the french colony Nouvelle-France (New France, the future Quebec of Canada) in the seventeen century. In fact, there was a lot of jesuite doing that by that time.  The priest and his young translator ask the Algonquins natives to guide them to the Hurons natives. That is also exactly correct! But in their quest,they had some problems with the Iroquois natives. And that is exactly right! At the end, the priest reach the Hurons.  The chief of the tribe tells that if they accept the god of the priest, they will become weak and their ennemies will kill them. And that's what's gonna happen! In fact, the Hurons were the first Indians of New France to accept catholic religion.  I saw the movie with the french dubbing.  The Indians of that time didn't knew how to prononce R.  So, in the movie, they say  obe noie, instead of Robe Noire (Black Robe). I don't know if they said black obe in the English version. In one scence, the priest tells the Indian sorcerer that he is reading a breviaire (book of prayers). And the sorcerer said beviaire, witout the R.  The way the natives are dressed and wears their hairs is also very exact in an historical view. This is not only a great movie, but an amazing reconstitution. Natives actors are great, with August Schlleberg, the always good Tantoo Cardinal and the charming young Sandrine Holt. Lothaire Blutheau is one of the best french canadian actor (see him in Jesus of Montreal). This is absolutely a superb piece of work !  And some kind of perfect history book. "},{"Title":"One of the Finest Portrayals of American Indians in the Movies","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is brilliant, because it defies conventional stereotypes of European settlers and American Indians. This movie strives and succeeds in its portrayal of Indians and whites as human beings, rather than as villains or saints. Those who feel this movie would show the Indians as noble savages will be gravelly disappointed. The Indians in Black Robe can be cruel, and have sexual mores that would disgust the more prudish viewers. The affect of the Jesuit missionaries among the Indians of Quebec is not romanticized or glossed over, nor are the Jesuits shown as evil white devils. All humans in this movie have their flaws and weaknesses and all act morally according to their own cultures' expectations. Beresford has crafted a marvelous film that ought to be required viewing in college history courses across the country.The cinematography is beautiful, whether we are watching the gilded altars of the cathedrals of Renaissance France, the iridescent glow of a fire at an Indian village, the cramped quarters of an Indian longhouse, or the awesome and heavenly magnificence of the Canadian woodlands and what appears to be the St. Lawrance River. This movie does feature explicit sexual acts and gruesome violence, so I would not recommend this movie at all for very young children. I think most teenagers can handle this film. I suppose this film is very hard to find at your local video rental store, but do yourselves a favor and find it. Your efforts will be amply rewarded. "},{"Title":"I was truly haunted by this film","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I noted that this movie was being compared to Dances with Wolves and Last of the Mohicans,aside from the fact that they all three involved native Americans there is little comparison.Windwalker would be a better comparison. This movie is more about this character who is being driven by a fierce passion to save a people and culture he doesn't understand and doesn't want to. It's Man vs. Nature. God vs. Nature. It draws a far more fierce and savage picture of Native Americans than most films dare to in an effort to stay PC which sometimes means pretending a victim or minority is without fault. This character,this Black Robe,is most certainly flawed, but his courage in the face of savagery is inspiring. Also the native Americans in this film seem far more human and less a Hollywood caricature of native Americans. I plead with every movie lover out there SEE THIS FILM. I felt I was truly transported back in time. So, if you are avoiding this film because you hated Dances with Wolves and fell asleep every time you tried to watch Last of the Mohicans, try this film instead.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Soul-shaking","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" When averaging, extreme scores skew the result. So I wonder at the motives of those who voted 1 for this film. Sabotage?Black Robe invites comparison with Aguirre, the Wrath of God, another masterpiece. Two great directors project their vision of two different men who do something we in this civilized culture can hardly imagine plunge into a vast, unknown, alien world. And ultimately into oblivion.The motivation, the source of courage, is faith, on one hand, and hubris on the other. Watch both examples. Though we can easily discern the noble from the base, we experience equally powerful stories. Here is a chance to see juxtaposed two profoundly different outlooks subjected to a common ordeal. What a wonderful, terrifying, soul-shaking thing to witness! "},{"Title":"A beautiful but gut wrenching film","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have to applaud Bruce Beresford.  After his huge success with Driving Miss Daisy, I believe he could have had his choice to direct any film that he wanted to.  To take on a small Canadian/Australian film is not only inspiring but it shows that this must be personal to him in some way.  And it shows here as well.  His direction shows that he cares for the subject and the people and the landscape.  Everything is precise and pristine and immaculate.  I am not a huge historian when it comes to colonization in Canada, and that is a shame, perhaps I should be.  After all, my elementary school history teacher once told me that there are two things that are given to you when you are born, one is your name and the other is your nationality.  Be proud of both.  And it is subjects and films like this that he would have been proud of and so am I.  Although you can get just as much out of this if you are American, there is just a little more substance to it if you are Canadian.  After all, these were jesuits and these are the Iroquois and the Hurons and this is snowy, fridgid Quebec in the winter.  These are all very Canadian and it is a film that tries to shed some light on how our country became what it is today.  It is films like this that remind us as Canadians that we do have a history.  And as silly as that may sound, it is an important statement.  Go up to the average Canadian, any Canadian, young or old and ask them to name all the capitals of our 10 provinces and now 3 territories and I'll bet 6 times out of ten that they can't do it.  Ask them if the Baffin Islands are a part of Canada or ask them where the Strait of Juan De Fuca is and they won't know.  I am not in that category, I know my fair bit about my country, but I am unfortunately one that does not enough about things like Samuel De Champlain and what party Sir Wilfred Laurier was a part of and I certainly don't know much about subjects that Black Robe deals with.  And even though it sounds like this film is good and important only because it teaches us about our history, that is not true.  It is an interesting film but it is also very well made.  I was intriuged and my eyes were wide open during this film.  The acting and the direction and of course the photography was superb.  But as much as this film was a good cinematic experience, I have to say that all Canadians should see it for it's historical importance.  It is a part of history and it is something that should intrigue us all.  I am very proud to say that this is at least partly funded, produced and distributed by Canadians and it is something that all of us should see at least once.  It is a good film and it will teach us a great deal about out own country, and that is something that all of us need.  "},{"Title":"Significantly softened","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film made major concessions to political correctness in its portrayal of the Indians, who are depicted in a considerably more flattering light here than they are in Brian Moore's novel. This could also be considered the romanticizing Dances With Wolves effect. The novel drew some (unjust) criticism here in Canada for its uncompromising approach.The actual history is fairly readily available. The Jesuits in North America in the 17th Century by the great American historian Francis Parkman is the standard 19th c. work on the proselytizing efforts of the French Récollet and Jesuit fathers.Still, if you are not very familiar with the subject, this film is a strong, and quite gruesome, introduction. I'm not aware of a lot of films about the colonial period which are as tough. Not Last of the Mohicans, or the adult westerns from the '50's, in my opinion. Little Big Man, perhaps. Or possibly A Man Called Horse, which I haven't seen. The priest in the story is a composite of actual missionaries, and the impact of this historical adventure thriller is heightened for me knowing that everything in this film happened, and often a whole lot worse.The rights and wrongs, the pros and cons, of the cultural collision of Europeans with the autochthonous peoples are still too contentious, so I would rather not get into them. There is a lot here to brood about afterwards, and chances are good that you'll seek out a copy of the novel -- it's not very long, and a lot easier to read than James Fenimore Cooper. If you're American or Canadian, this is an important part of our shared past.Black Robe is one of the very best Canadian feature films, with a solid cast led by Lothaire Bluteau with August Schellenberg and Tantoo Cardinal in support. The presence of an Australian director, Bruce Beresford, perhaps kept the film from turning into a well-meaning but dry Canadian history lesson.  "},{"Title":"Courage of a different sort","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  As a retired Christian minister, I have perhaps a different view of the movie than some of the other reviewers.I felt that Laforgue,the Jesuit Priest, showed amazing courage to undertake his mission under the most difficult of circumstances.Director Bruce Beresford has addressed the issues of clashing cultures in several of his other films Driving Miss Daisy, Mr. Johnson for example. And he presents the complexities of culture anew in this film.I was struck by the absolute beauty of Québec and the film's cinematography.Back to Laforgue for a moment here is a protagonist that accomplishes his mission with wisdom, intellegence, prayer, dependence upon his faith, lack of violence, and persverance. "}{"Title":"erosion of meaning","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  There are basically no big compromises made in Black Robe, a source of great disappointment to most reviewers. There are interesting characters, a variety of messages, lots of visualized information but no reduction to something easy to accept. No personable characters for whom we can forgive any deed or word, no overarching stirring message, no overblown hope. In fact, how did the film get so much complex reality in?While the clash of cultures is presented, so are the clashes within cultures -- notably among the first nations but covering conflicts among Europeans as well. The film does not reduce the lives of its characters to any simple clash, theme, or plot.The reductionist aspect to the film is the undercutting of the way that people structure their lives around traits, values, kin, enemies -- these meanings are shown, by contrast among cultures and by plot development, to be insufficient and misleading. We cannot identify with the characters because their loves and ideas are shown to be misguided.I felt invigorated and depressed when I saw it on the screen and again on TV. Unlike the morbid European art films of the 60s that showed the meaningless of life by inventing meaningless lives, Black Robe shows people immersed in rich lives -- hard, beautiful, complex, compelling. While the plot may be slow, each scene draws you into a ton of immediate new reality, so you sense you are learning a lot about how people lived and believed and felt. By letting the characters glimpse the error of their constructions -- the insufficiency of love, the limits of faith, the death of kin, the hollowness of stoicism -- the director erodes our own hope for that most human of activities, giving meaning to life.I think this is among the best films ever made. Certainly something like Citizen Kane is childish by comparison. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, very historically accurate","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film is often compared with Dances With Wolves, which is certainly understandable, but personally I feel that Black Robe is the better film, both in terms of art and fidelity to historical fact. I am a history graduate student in New York currently teaching an undergraduate class in the Bronx on early U.S. history, and Black Robe is just about the only film I have no hesitation showing to my students.As a portrait of life in New France (now Eastern Canada) in the early to mid-1600s--when Samuel de Champlain was the leader of the tiny French outpost of Quebec--this film is virtually flawless. The complex relations between ordinary French colonists (almost all male), French Jesuit priests, and Native American tribes in the region (primarily Algonquian, which is a very broad category encompassing many distinct tribes) are rendered with a wonderful degree of accuracy, at least in my opinion. Colonists in New France generally took greater care than other Europeans--particularly the Spanish and the English--to have amicable relations with native people's they encountered. This is evident from the film but is not overemphasized, as we see the obvious conflicts between the French and their nominal Indian allies.Black Robe's take on religion during this time period is smart, and illustrates some of the similarities between native and European beliefs while demonstrating the latter's contempt for native religion (the main character--Black Robe, a term many Algonquians used both in the movie and in historical fact to describe the French Jesuit priests--is the primary example here). The Native Americans we encounter in this film are not portrayed in some idealized, pre-historic fashion, but rather as complex, violence-prone tribes as was actually the case. This does not diminish our sympathy for them and the difficulties they face as a result of the arrival of Europeans--as it should not--and instead actually shows the great extent to which Native Americans in early colonial history had power and affected the course of events.I write this review mainly as a student of history, but in terms of the art of cinema I think Black Robe is also excellent. The film is beautifully shot, and the characters are drawn with a fair amount of complexity. It is a very un-Hollywood film (being Canadian) which probably partially explains why it succeeds. I would recommend it to anyone interested in this period (the American colonies during the 1600s) or anyone who was intrigued by films like Dances With Wolves or Last of the Mohicans. This film has no big stars or Hollywood-style love story (such as the one that made Last of the Mohicans essentially unbearable to watch) but it does a great job presenting the complex dynamic between Native Americans and Europeans during the colonial period. Serious students of history (including teachers looking to show a film about Native-European relations) will find much to appreciate in Black Robe, and I think anyone who likes an interesting film even if it does not have famous actors in it will as well. "},{"Title":"An amazing historical document","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It is rare that a film makes you feel that you are actually witnessing history (rather than the Hollywood Version), but Black Robe accomplishes that and more. What I love about this film (that I have watched over a dozen times and will watch many more times) is that it doesn't take a point-of-view regarding the European colonization of the New World and the native American culture. Both cultures are seen as slightly insane world-views that are, ironically, valid in their own way, yet futile at the end of the day. It concentrates on one Jesuit priest and his journey to the New World. The film demonstrates how difficult his journey was and his passionate commitment to his faith. But it also shows how nutty these priests were to try to preach to the unconverted. It also presents several native American tribes (such as the Hurons and Mohawks) and how truly savage they could be. This is one of the great films of recent (perhaps all) time. I am suspicious as to why it has been ignored. I think that future generations will find a lot to enjoy here--beyond the beautiful scenery, the accurate historical information and the love of the natural world that appears throughout this truly amazing film... "},{"Title":"Magnificent!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I don't know why it took me so long to see this film, as I had heard of it many times.  I think that I was put off by films like The Last of the Mohicans, which I found dreary.  There is no comparison with the oft-mentioned Dances With Wolves.  This film is an outstanding and riveting piece of work.  Why others seem to have found it slow or heavy going is beyond me.  When I reached the end (far too quickly) I just wanted to sit through it over again.  Having lived in Canada for some years, I could only marvel at the early colonizers who explored and settled Canada, a vast wilderness with a long, hard, bitterly cold winter - and I never went further north than Toronto!  Whether or not one agrees with their reasons for going, whether it be trading, grabbing land or the salvation of the native population, the thought of being completely alone in the bitterly cold wilderness does command respect for their courage.  The film is set in 1634, a time when France was a cesspool of venality, corruption, intrigue and religious fanaticism, and when the pilgrims had been in Massachusetts for less than 10 years. The French Revolution was 150 years away.  Life was hard for the settlers, who were on their own, without the survival kills evolved over thousands of years by the native population, whose life seemed brutally harsh but was a necessary adaptation to the land in which they lived.  Early in the film the Algonquin chief tells his daughter than she cannot marry the Frenchman who she had fallen for, as he was a fool and did not know how to provide for her.  That was the key. If a man could not provide for his family he could not take a wife.  Anyone who  became sick or injured must be left behind to take their chances, otherwise they would endanger the survival of the group.  I think that this film makes that very clear.  As the little group makes their way through Iriquois territory they are attacked by the Iriquois who plan to torture and sacrifice them, not apparently out of malice or wanton cruelty, but to please their God.  (We had already seen the Jesuit priest flagellating himself for having impure thoughts).  The films deals at length with the misunderstanding of each other's religion and way of life, which causes  us to question our own - just why do we do that?  Why do the Iriquois fight the Algonquin, and the Huron when there is land to spare for all of them?  Why did the French and English use the native people to fight their wars?  The Indians cannot understand the Jesuit concept of paradise, sitting on a cloud all day with no tobacco, and no sex, but if accepting baptism helps them recover from a sickness , they will compromise.  One gets the feeling that if the Jesuits moved out and another sect moved in, the Indians would convert to the new faith if it suited their purpose. The scenery, as the party begins its long trek to the Huron mission is breathtaking.  What they find when they reach the mission is not surprising, but once again, one has a feeling of admiration for the stoicism and faith of the Jesuit priests who knew that they were going to the ends of the earth and would likely never see their families again.  To someone who buys all their food at the supermarket, or from the take out window, the thought of the self sufficiency of these people who live entirely on what they can catch or forage is quite mind boggling. Already the Indians are becoming dependent on the white man's goods.  The trading post will not be long in coming.  The Husdons Bay Company was set up by Royal charter about 30 years later. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes a beautiful, thought provoking film.     "},{"Title":"An incredibly touching and realistic portrayal of early Canadian history.","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A really great movie with beautiful scenery, reminding one of the natural splendor of early North America. Black Robe is the story of a journey up a river in canoes with an impending winter in wilderness Canada. A French Jesuit priest is transported far up river by Algonquin Indians. The movie uses the journey to contrast the cultures of the French, the Algonquin, and the Iroquois. The movie is not judgmental with any of these cultures. Excellent performances, especially by the young man playing the Jesuit priest. This movie is very touching and is very successful at making you care about the characters. Finally, Black Robe is a good adventure movie, with graphic violence and brutality. All in all a tremendous movie that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Utterly arresting. A film really without an equal in what it depicts.","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Black Robe is a film I have seen at least a dozen times and it continues to cause utter astonishment. The highest quality that any art can have is the ability to arrest the mind of the viewer. Days later imagery is still flooding back to you -- feelings -- ideas -- and of course questions... But questions that properly have no easy answers. The first time I saw this film was about 15 years ago when it was first released. I watched it in a Toronto cinema and afterward emerged into a warm and noisy downtown night, crowded with people, signs, lights cars taxis subways et cetera. Immediately, I was in culture shock. The movie had so taken me into the world of 17th century Canada that I could not adjust to the reality of 20th century Canada. It still has that effect. Astonishing. "},{"Title":"Haunting, stays with you","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and I loved it. Each scene is as beautiful as a painting. It really evokes a mood that stays with you. Everything about it is perfect, costumes, photography, writing, etc. The soundtrack is great, majestic, moving. I caught it a few times on TV, and it captured me again. It really does transport you to another time and place, you can feel the cold, and smell the air. Lothaire Bluteau is so sad, seems lost, but believes he is doing the right thing. The Indian sex scenes are interesting, that is something that is not often depicted, the freedom of their sexuality. This is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"complex, subtle and well executed","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" This film manages to tell the story of European imperialism among Native Americans without glorifying or demonizing any of its subjects or characters. There are no clear cut good guys or bad guys and the only real demon here is misguided faith. The genius of this movie is that it makes it easy for us to view the story from both the Native American and the French Jesuit point of view. The lack of Hollywood stereotypes and minimalist dialogue help make the characters seem more real, making the climax subtle, yet surprisingly powerful. The incredible landscape and the excellent score only add to the proceedings. If you are looking to gain a better understanding about one of the more tragic and overlooked chapters in American history, skip Dances With Wolves and go with Black Robe instead. "},{"Title":"The viewer feels like he also is caught between two mutually exclusive worlds","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of the most genuinely multicultural, or cross-cultural, works of film art I have ever seen.  There are quite a few films of course that show another culture's point of view  -- and no lack of films showing an idealized Indian point of view.  But this one shows two very different cultures in early contact with each other -- and for the most part manages to show us each culture, Great Lakes Algonquin and Huron on the one hand, and French/European Canadian missionary colonizers on the other, from EACH OTHER's point of view.It is the most successful example of that I have ever seen.And it does all this within a serviceable plot.  Not great, but serviceable -- and apparently true, so far as the basic outlines are concerned at least.  As was said above, the early parts of the movie drag too much.  The whole movie, in fact, is rather slow.  But that tends to be the nature of these sorts of films.  Their emphasis is on cultural understanding.  It does a pretty amazing job of that.  Unlike most films of this sort, the AmerIndians are NOT idealized.  (As for instance they are pretty unreservedly in Dances with Wolves and Little Big Man.)  The special and central brutality of some of their customs is amply demonstrated, especially towards the end.  The Hurons are prepared to skin the rival chief they have captured literally alive, after killing and then burning alive his children one by one, essentially to make a political point.  It does not look like an easy life, and I imagine far fewer people would leave this movie thinking they would have wanted to be Indians, or live among them, than feel that way after films such as Dances with Wolves.  It was such a hard life.And yet many spiritual and wonderful things about the native culture come through without question. The centrality of dream visions in their spiritual world is given real power, and we can feel it. We can see how they see the French, and the supposed best of the French, the Black Robes. It is very much how one feels when one can understand two mutually exclusive belief systems.  I suppose in a sense the point of view is closest to that of the young French companion and guide for the Priest.  He falls in love with a beautiful and very young Indian chief's daughter, and tries to join their group -- and yet he also understands the priest, and is attracted to his spirituality.  He sees both sides --- and so do we.It is an interesting movie for those who are historically or anthropologically interested.  It is probably a bit slow if you are just looking for action in a colorful setting.  It doesn't have the pace of Last of the Mohegans, for example.  But that movie is mostly about settler and British military life on the Indian frontier -- but bridging understand of the native cultures they are in conflict with and among, to some extent, through the half breed hero.  This one is mostly about Indian life at first contact with the Whites.  Fascinating, if you like this sort of thing at all. I certainly do.  "},{"Title":"magnificent","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  An ultra-realistic, unforgettable, and magnificent epic! A vision back into time!To compare Black Robe with the infantile politically correct cartoon called Dances with Wolves is a joke. "}{"Title":"Great piece of anthology","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  For having worked on this movie and lived with it for a period of over 3 years I can tell you that it is a work of passion and will remain in my heart a real epic of reliving the struggle of discovering and living the north American wilderness in the 17th century. The characters expose the clash between the European culture and and indigenous survival in a wild rugged country. "},{"Title":"North America was never a Garden of Eden","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Released in 1991 and based on Brian Moore's researched novel, Black Robe relays the story of a young Jesuit priest in 1634 visiting the French settlement that later became Quebec City. Father LaForgue is assigned to a distant Huron mission accompanied by a young quasi-believing assistant and a family of Algonquin Indians. The group faces challenges beyond the harsh realities of the river trek itself, including an attack by hostile Iroquois. Of course the Indians question the strange ways of the priest and his dark attire and wonder whether he is a demon. Instead of addressing him as Father they simply call him Black Robe. I've viewed Black Robe three times now and it never fails to capture my attention from beginning to end (the film runs 101 minutes), which is why I don't get the criticism that it's somehow unabsorbing. What strikes me most is the raw realism. Viewing Black Robe is the next best thing to going back in time and viewing the events firsthand.Other highlights include Lothaire Bluteau's solid performance as the missionary priest; LaForgue's assistant, well played by Aden Young, and his developing love for the daughter of the Algonquin leader, played by the beautiful Sandrine Holt; the Algonquins themselves, particular the patriarch; the freaky midget shaman of a band of Montagnais natives; the harrowing events at an Iroquois fort; the subtext on the truth or falsity of spiritual beliefs, both of the Jesuits and the Indians; and the spectacular cinematography of the Quebec wilderness (mostly the Saint Lawrence River, filmed on location). The film successfully shows the desolate, untamed nature of the NE before the mass encroachment of Europeans.Some may wonder How does it compare to Last of the Mohicans or Dances with Wolves, two contemporary films also featuring realistic portrayals of AmerIndians? Of the two, Black Robe is closer to Last of the Mohicans since the story takes place in the East and there aren't any cowboys & Indians, although the story takes place well over a century earlier. The film differs from both in that there aren't really any Hollywood contrivances, including conventional movie plotting. As great and generally believable as those other films are, Black Robe shows the harsher, bleaker reality, which some may translate as boring.However, as raw and realistic as Black Robe is, it could've been more so, considering that it fails to show one disturbing reality of Eastern AmerIndian culture, as detailed in Moore's book (pointed out by another reviewer) The film avoids depicting the native practice of ritual cannibalism on a dead infant, a custom that was common among the tribes of the Eastern woodlands. To consume an enemy's flesh was to absorb his power. The heart of an especially courageous foe (such as Jesuit martyr St. Jean Brebeuf) would be eaten by tribal leaders. But, don't get me wrong here, I'm kind of glad the movie left this aspect out.Black Robe has the same vibe as 2007's Mongol The Rise of Genghis Khan, so if you appreciate that style of raw-realism you'll likely value Black Robe. Needless to say, if you have ADHD or require constant explosions to maintain your attention, stay far away.GRADE A "},{"Title":"For those who like their history straight up","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The two things that are most striking about this film are its unqualified realism and the beauty of its wilderness photography.The story takes place in the 17th century in what was to be Canada; it concerns a Jesuit priest (Father Laforgue) from an upper class family in France who comes to Quebec City and is tasked with traveling through the wilderness some 1,500 miles west to work at the Huron Mission there. Laforgue is accompanied on his journey by a party of Algonquin Indians as well as by Daniel, a young French interpreter who is primarily just up for the adventure.As the journey proceeds and the seasons move from fall into a harsh winter the mood of the film becomes ever more bleak. The continuing culture clashes between the Algonqins and Laforgue are sometimes humorous but are ultimately sad in their revealing insights into how difficult it is for one culture to understand another. One scene has Laforgue transcribing a brief story told by the Algonquin chief and then having Daniel take the transcription some distance and read it back to another tribesman. Laforgue is trying to show the Indians that he has much to teach them, but their interpretation of the incident is that he must be some sort of demon. When the party meets up with some members of another tribe and they see Laforgue dressed in his black robe and ask if he is intelligent, the Algonquin chief quickly answers, No. On the other hand Laforgue views the Indians in their current unenlightened state as savages.Not all is love and harmony between the various Indian tribes. When the Lafourgue party encounters a band of Iroquois there are some scenes of violence and torture where the squeamish may want to avert their eyes.Daniel, speaking the Algonquin language and having taken up with the chief's daughter, begins to have some understanding of the Indians and their ways. One interesting exchange between Daniel and Lagorgue isDaniel They believe that in the forest at night the dead can see.Laforgue It's childish Daniel.Daniel Is it harder to believe than in men of paradise where we all sit on clouds and look at God?Laforgue's most singular personal characteristic is his unwavering faith. His reaction to sexual temptation is confession of sin and self flogging. He sincerely believes that Christianity can bring salvation to the Indians, but the Indians have their own gods and view Laforgue with incomprehension. The film's success in making us understand both of these positions gives the ultimate conclusion a dimension of tragedy. "},{"Title":"Accurate, I think","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" While living abroad several years ago, I bought this DVD to watch and to remind myself of Canada. I have travelled to all of the places depicted, sometimes by canoe. The film wanders inaccurately to locales in the wrong direction and as a historian at Ste-Marie among the Hurons (in Midland, Ontario) once explained to me, 'Black Robe' is at best an imprecise amalgam of the trips of different people over different years. Does this matter?I have shown 'Black Robe' to foreigners abroad but in my experience, something goes missing in the translation. The film seems too simple, too boring or too brutal. But to foreigners who visit Canada and see the space and the distance (rocks and trees!), the film presents a dimension of the country, in fact the continent, that is hard to fathom otherwise. 'Black Robe' is an honest attempt, accurate I think, to portray the initial meeting of two civilizations in a place without people. It is much more accurate, in my opinion, than 'Dances With Wolves' or even 'The Mission'. My advice? If you are not American, watch this film either before or after a trip to the wilds of North America. If you're a prof, show this film to students but lead a discussion before and after with care.Lastly, two scenes I liked in particular 1) Lothaire Bluteau forlornly taking a crap off the side of a canoe (very tough to do) and 2) the comparison of the spires of trees and the spires of church columns. We all should feel small, and the quietude, abandoned in a North American forest, or a European cathedral. "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a gift. Beautiful cinematography, spellbinding adventure, powerful acting and historical accuracy all wound up in a wonderful story line. It is not only a study of the French in the New World (with an emphasis on the Jesuit experience) but also of the native Indians which they encountered. Instead of trying to simplify each group by stereotypes the film sympathically delves into variances in each culture and how individuals reacted and interacted differently to the changing environment and ultimately an acceptance of each other. Unlike other films that have an agenda either to glorify or attack Catholicism (i.e. colonial expansion) or to praise or defame Indian life (enlightened shamans vs dumb savages), Black Robe shows its characters in moments of incredible faith, insight and personal triumph along with all their mistakes and failings. For me that is the theme of the movie as it is more or less a commentary on the human experience then as now. What a pity that few movies these days seek to explore anything other than the obvious and dish out a stale formula of sex and action with a mind-numbing blur of special effects. Black Robe will cause you not only to rethink your take on the past but more importantly will allow you to examine your own personal value system in today's world. This movie will stay with you for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"One of the ten best films of all time.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  My movie watching days go back to the 1940's.   I rate movies by several factors  Entertainment value; Information; Acting; Story; Honesty; and total Impact.Ive kept a top ten list since the 60's.  'Gone With the Wind' has been on top of that list since I first saw it, in 1949.Black Robe took second place when I first saw it, 2 nights ago. This film provides an extremely good picture of the rigors and difficulties encountered in the early days, in The North. The pristine quality of the earth, and its majesty come through crystal clear in this film . I will remember Black Robe  and its characters as long as I live. Its one of those stories that makes you not want to get up to go the bathroom.  "},{"Title":"one of a kind!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  One of a kind look at American Indians and their relationship with early settlers and naive missionaries. With attention to details, realism is preserved--guns that don't shoot straight, settlers that are actually kind to the native population (though certainly not in the majority), and missionaries questioning their faith and ability to remain celibate--all make this a very original presentation on the subject.The Canadian wilderness is still well enough preserved to be believable. The acting is some of the best I've seen in any blockbuster movie, without marquee-grabbing actors.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely awesome","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a must see.I would like to say that I enjoyed reading the excellent comments of others about this movie. I was just as moved by this movie as most of you. I would like join you in my praise for this movie.I was awe struck throughout this movie. Watching Black Robe, was like actually being there. It was as if I had heard about this place and these people but now I was transported in time. This may sound trivial but it is the best way to express my reaction. Througout the movie I strained to see every detail in every scene. I tried to catch every nuance. It seemed so real that I expected to smell the smoke, the water, roasted meat etc.The cinematagraphy was incredible. It is refreshing to see a movie that does not rely 100% on special effects for its 'cinematagraphy'. The scenes from altitude showing the line of canoes paddling through the vast wilderness were awesome. The sound track was powerful. The camera was able to create sensations of fear, abandonment, helplessness that were so vivid.The dialog was superbly realistic. Facial expressions were used more than words to convey thoughts.  What little was said was in such simple short sentences that got to the point. It is just what I would expect from the no non-sense Indians interacting with an idealistic priest.I am not a history or anthropology expert but I feel that the movie was highly accurate. The director portrayed both cultures bias free (a rash statement to make). The director allowed the viewer to condemn or extol either culture. In the end I felt like the young Frenchman- I could see both cultures for what they were - not good and not bad but coping with the situation at hand.The importance of religion (both Christain and Indian) in everyday life is very well depicted. The Catholic religion is portrayed on equal footing with Indian religion. To White man and Indian alike, both appeared mystical beyond comprehension. The dilemma of which culture, which religion to choose was well depicted with the young Frenchman. However the same dilemma existed for the Indians. Everyone had to choose and each choice took them in a different direction. It seems that in order to survive it is best to be able to switch back and forth at will.I feel that the movie McCabe & Mrs. Miller in some ways addresses the same sort of issues. A California gold rush mining town  advances toward 'civilization' when a whore house and a church arrive at the same time. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoyed Black Robe. It is one of an extremely few Hollywood movies that I could recommend.  "},{"Title":"My personal experience with our Native People","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I saw this film the year it came out. At the time, I was representing the administration of New York Governor Mario Cuomo in conducting relations with the Haudenosaunee, particularly the Mohawks of Akwesasne. Having grown to respect and admire the resilience and determination of these remarkable people, Black Robe made a big impression on me.I spent a little over two years (1990-1992)engaged with the Mohawks settling the issue of providing for their public safety needs and negotiating a state/tribal casino gaming compact. Both of these initiatives ultimately ended successfully. The process of developing an indigenous public safety force involved multilateral discussions involving the Mohawks, New York, Quebec and Ontario. It was interesting to me how many of my colleagues had seen Black Robe and agreed that it was a beautiful and fairly accurate depiction of history and cultural frictions that persist to this day. To those of us sitting around the table, Black Robe gave us a sense that we were playing a meaningful part in a long and fascinating history of the meeting of cultures and hard work that goes into creating a relationship of mutual understanding and respect.Terry O'Neill, Esq. Albany, NY "},{"Title":"The Sad History of Misunderstanding, Ignorance","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Black Robe (1991) Released with poor timing in the aftermath of a similar themed film - Kevin Costner's Dances with Wolves - Black Robe largely got lost in the shuffle. That's a shame, because the film is actually quite remarkable. Not to say that it hasn't had influence on other films however. Black Robe certainly must have had quite an influence on Terrence Malick and his The New World. The title credits are clearly inspired by those in Black Robe, and other aspects are familiar as well.Set in 17th century Quebec, the film follows a young Jesuit priest, Father Lafourgue (Bluteau), referred to as Black Robe by the natives. He travels with a band Algonquins lead by Chomina (Schellenberg). With Father Lafourgue is Daniel, a young Frenchman, who is in love with Chomina's daughter. The young priest soon begins to inspire fears that he is some sort of demon, and many in the band wish to leave him behind, or possibly even kill him and his companion.Their travels meet turmoil among other hostile native tribes, leading not only a struggle between peoples, but a struggle between faiths. Beresford creates a very bleak atmosphere, using the cold Quebec landscape as an intimidating, but still beautiful backdrop. The weather feels cold, the air crisp. It's really quite a beautiful film to look at.Bruce Moore, who wrote the screenplay and the novel it was based on, went to great lengths in research to accurately portray this period in time. Many have praised the film for its accuracies, while a number of others have however complained that it shows natives as savages. I have to disagree. Neither side is shown as total bad guys, nor total good guys. The film gives everyone a fair shake. Both sides have/had their reasons, and both sides committed terrible acts. Certainly, not all Natives were all about peace and love, which is not a slight to them in the least. Their history is a noble one, and they had every right to fear and be hostile in the face of Europeans. That said, I'm probably overcompensating for the film, because it really doesn't show Natives as savages at all, especially not the Algonquins. Moore claimed, in fact, that he actually toned down the violence of the Natives compared to what he found in his research. That said, what he found in his research was most likely overstated to begin with.Black Robe certainly is a bleak picture. The naturalistic photography and tone adds to the depressed atmosphere. This is not a story of joys, but of sorrows. When the film ends, we are told what history has already told us - the Natives were slaughtered and the Jesuit's mission by and large was a futile failure.Though the film sticks to its own dark history, this is more than just a very well done history lesson. Black Robe is a parable of the horrifying results that come from misunderstanding, miscommunication, and ignorance. While the Jesuit mission was well intentioned, it was more a product of Eurocentric ignorance than anything else. The Native people had their own religious beliefs, and the film shows that. The lessons in Black Robe are transferable to any number of modern day conflicts. We have not learned our lesson, and by removing the gloss and glamour off the period epics of old, Black Robe serves as a reminder. Such a shame its so overlooked. "}{"Title":"A Journey through a Spiritual Wilderness","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Brian Moore is certainly a great and gifted writer. Black Robe which flowed from his pen onto the silver screen is a spiritual journey through the wilderness. On screen the wild beauty of unsettled North America is breath taking.Father Laforgue (Lothaire Bluteau) is a French Jesuit dispatched to New France (Canada; Northern NY) to bring the gospel to North Americans.Why? asks LaForgue of his superiors. The importance of the mission is underscored by an older priest who admonishes Laforgue that Christianity must be brought by the French to the unchurched North Americans just as the French had once brought it to Europeans less civilised than the French. On LaForgue's trek through the wilderness to the Jesuit mission to the Hurons LaForgue's companion the courier du bois Daniel (Aden Young) also ponders the same question. These North Americans, Daniel tells Father LaForgue, are the real Christians; they live for each other and share everything; so they don't believe that in heaven you float on a cloud.What will LaForgue learn of life and faith on his journey through the hostile forbidding wilderness? Cheers! "},{"Title":"Harsh, honest view of the clash of two cultures","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" If Bruce Beresford's 'Driving Miss Daisy' suffered from a softened, Hollywooden view of history and racial conflicts, the bleak, beautiful sometimes horrific, always uncompromising 'Black Robe' is its correlative opposite.Set in the 17th century, both the Native Canadian people, and the French Jesuits who come to bring then religion (when they already have their own, thank you very much) are presented as deeply flawed, cold and cruel at times, blind to the complexities of each other's humanity.Yet both are also touched by moments of kindness and understanding that lead to the sense that this story of one Jesuit's torturous trip with a band of native guides is not without it's growth for all involved.Most critics were mixed on this, and I understand their objections, though I don't share them. The film is distant emotionally, and we never really get inside any of the characters, even the titular priest, called 'Black Robe' by the native people. The film is more illustrative than dramatic. Again, the exact opposite strengths and weaknesses of Beresord's 'Driving Miss Daisy', which was full of wonderfully moving characters, but lacking honest context.But I found the historical context here, and intellectual insight, the suspense inherent to the story, along with the physical beauty of the locations and the sharply honest insight into the Native universe enough to be always engrossed and interested, and ultimately quite moved. "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A most impressive movie. For once, politically correct stuff has been reduced to the absolute minimum, namely a transcultural love story-- feeble but tolerable. Apart from that, everything is as it should be. The scenery is breathtaking, the score likewise, and the characters, each one a prisoner in his own universe, are very convincing. The last words on the screen are as strong a message as everything else in the movie the Hurons, turned Christian because they expect some medical profit from the priest's water remedy, are overrun and exterminated by their pagan neighbours. So, in the end, nothing whatsoever is left from the desperate attempt we have witnessed. "},{"Title":"A Stunning Movie With A Fair Portrayal Of Both Native And Jesuit Culture In 17th Century New France","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Black Robe is a beautifully filmed, sensitive and in the end emotionally moving film depicting the work of French Jesuit missionaries in New France in the 17th century and their interactions with the natives (particularly the Hurons) of the region. The real power of the movie comes from the authenticity with which both the Jesuits and the natives are portrayed. Too often we get caricatures from Hollywood. Missionaries and natives are either romanticized or demonized. But this isn't a big-budget Hollywood production. It's a Canadian-Australian film that presents a pretty balanced view of both groups. Neither are innocent the Jesuits perhaps a bit too rabid in their determination to challenge what they perceive as the savage native culture, the natives perhaps a bit too cruel in their response to the Jesuits - but such is culture of any kind. All societies have their good and bad features. Overall, the good outweighed the bad for both cultures in this movie. The natives are depicted as having a rich culture and spirituality of their own; the Jesuits are depicted as having a true and sincere love for the natives and truly believe that they are offering them paradise by sharing their religious faith with them. The natives are shown quite appropriately as having mixed reactions to their European visitors. They're intrigued by them and yet also recognize the dangers that European incursion pose for their culture. The Jesuits have an equally mixed reaction to the natives appalled by what they perceive (by European standards) as some of the less civilized aspects of the culture, but also recognizing them as people loved by God and therefore deserving of love from them. I thought the story did a great job of balancing all of these different perspectives.Also a highlight here was a superb performance by Lothaire Bluteau as Father Laforge - the Jesuit priest whose missionary journey we follow after he's dispatched from Quebec by Champlain and heads for the inland Huron mission. Bluteau seemed to capture the character perfectly - both his hesitancy about the natives and his very sincere love for them. In fact, I found a scene near the end of the movie to be extremely moving, as a group of sick Hurons approach Bluteau at the mission and ask to be baptized. As Bluteau seems to hesitate (he's previously suggested that the natives shouldn't be baptized without a firm understanding of the faith) the leader of the group asks do you love us. As Bluteau looks over the desperate people in front of him and remembers some of those he's encountered in the past he's finally moved to respond simply yes and the baptism proceeds. Too often the portrayal of European colonization of America portrays only the greed and self-interest of the Europeans. That's undoubtedly true in so many ways and demonstrated by so much tragedy for North American natives, but one should recognize that, especially in New France, the early Jesuit missionaries were in fact motivated by a sincere love for the natives. It may be hard to understand from a 21st century perspective, but offering Christ and the Gospel to the natives in that context was done out of love. Religion is so often offered in caricatures and portrayed in a negative or comic light today that to see it portrayed in a noble and loving way may grate on some viewers who can't understand that. But this movie, I thought, was a wonderful and realistic portrayal of the Jesuit motivation of the era, and a fair portrayal of native culture and response to the Jesuits.Strengthened by some stunning scenery which offered a very authentic feel to the New France being depicted, this is a very strong movie. If one can't imagine a movie featuring natives to be anything but bloodthirsty savages or missionaries being anything but greedy exploiters then the reaction to this will be negative. But anyone interested in a realistic and thoughtful presentation of the era and cultures and motivations depicted will find this well worth watching. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Powerful land, Petty humans","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Black Robe (1998) Set in 1634, the Jesuits decide to send out one of their new Priests to help spread the word of Jesus to the barbarian natives in Canada. He is a fresh-from-seminary, wide eyed, starry-eyed man full of his religion, and ready to see the entire world through these eyes &#150; and only these eyes. His journey into deep Canada &#150; during the winter, with the guidance and protection of barbarians, is a lesson which will either help him grow, or kill him. Besides the powerful landscapes dwarfing all the petty concerns of humans, Black Robe is incredibly refreshing for its balanced and fair look at ALL people. This is NOT an indictment of religion, nor a pc glorification of the Proud Native. It is a gritty, open look at the flaws in each society, each leader, each member, each shaman. No one is idealized, and Hollywood is kept at bay. Scoring is equal to the landscapes and moments of realization or bravery. This is a quiet movie, set in a relentlessly cold world, full of interesting details &#150; a place you'll be very interested to visit, but not want to live there. "},{"Title":"Powerful story & staggering impact despite direction flaws.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie at all.  Boy, was I surprised to see the most eye-opening story of early colonization of North America!  Yes, the movie is rife with small flaws throughout.  Sometimes they can be distracting (for example, you lose the illusion that a movie should create and instead you get the feeling that there are production people behind the camera) but still, the story and some of the characters depictions are so strong that you are still left with a haunting and depressing feeling long after the end credits.The best side of this movie is that it shows the life in those times to be as brutal and unappealing as it probably really was.  It makes you think twice before you might think I would like to have lived then!  Well, I don't think so now!Unlike DANCES WITH WOLVES, this movie does not have Hollywood, dreamlike romantic qualities.  It punches brutal reality right in your face.  All the characters are human beings, they are vulnerable, weak, selfish and not even likeable.  But somehow you still feel for them.So, would I recommend it?  Absolutely, despite the flaws.  The story will stay with you for a while. Rating it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Thin plot hampers, but still a good film","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Well made but obviously plotted tale of a Jesuit priest attempting to bring the word of God to ignorant Huron Indian savages. Fine acting, directing, cinematography, and well paced, but a tad too transparent.The first half of the film drags, because it sets up, too well, the foreboding doom that the pious priest will undoubtedly encounter. He clearly is completely inept to deal with the situation, relying only on his invisible faith to sort out any problems that occur. His only response is, roughly, My God is right., It is the will of the Lord., and, somehow this is supposed to convince the Indians that he isnt a demon, or to believe in a god that says sex is evil, and so on. As if his behavior wasnt enough, we also have the Indian leader having dark dreams that warn of forthcoming tragedy. It is spelled out just a little too well, and the film becomes a waiting game. Once the midget Indian preist tells them he is indeed a demon, and they tire of Black Robes empty promises and cruel god, we know the downfall is right around the corner.The final half of the movie (and the following is not a spoiler, because as I've said, the movie is blunt about what will happen) when the priest is abandoned and then captured by the Iroquois, who will skin you alive, slowly, in order to hear you beg for mercy, the film does pick up and begin to move better because it has gotten past the long foreshadowing of failure. Once we actually get to the failure and watch it play out, it is more interesting.All in all, a very good movie, just one that doesnt have any surprises. "},{"Title":"censorship on mohawk customs?","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The movie is great for everyone who, like me, feels the fascination of frontier saga. I liked it so much that I bought the book and in the novel to my amazement I found the Iroquois described as cannibals. The scene depicted in the novel has been somehow censored in the movie, where the victim (an Algonquin child) is only slaughtered in front of his father. Since then I looked for new evidences of this custom and I found it, with difficulty. It's quite odd that the American natives, for many years and in many movies forced in the role of villains, have enjoyed this form of respect. It seems that even the word Mohawk means man eater. Don't know if it's true, but I think that some form of ritual cannibalism in one people's past is nothing to be ashamed of.  "},{"Title":"Good clash of cultures movie","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" It's 1634 Quebec. LaForgue (Lothaire Bluteau) is a Jesuit which the natives call Black Robe. He and young Daniel (Aden Young) are sent on a dangerous journey by Champlain to the distant mission with the Hurons. They are guided by a group of Algonquin Indians led by Chomina (August Schellenberg). Daniel falls for Chomina's daughter Annuka (Sandrine Holt). Simple things like a clock and writing seems to be magic for the natives and they suspect Black Robe is a demon.There is great realism in this movie. The characters are human and complex. There is confusion and lots of misunderstandings. It's a no nonsense take on the grim early interactions. Both sides are doing what they perceive to be right but the clash of cultures is too much. The acting is superb especially from August Schellenberg. The locations are grand and they have a brooding danger about them. The wilderness takes the movie and never lets it go. "},{"Title":"about solitude","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" a film who escape from classic formulas. and the result is a honest image about Amerindians and Europeans and their relationship. the heart of this relation - the profound solitude who defines the Jesuit priest who believes in his mission in few moments more than in God and the natives Canadians for who the danger against their life style is ambiguous. clash of civilizations, it is one of the most touching and clever films about this theme. Lothaire Bluteau does a splendid role, exploring the vulnerability and the faith, the need to help the other and the conscience of sacrifice. the images are amazing. the mixture of sex, violence, pieces from old religion is more than beautiful or convincing. but the great virtue is the precise courage to give a honest portrait of the characters. "}{"Title":"Superbly Photographed w/ Minimalist Story","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Preceding Last of the Mohicans but following Dances with Wolves, Bruce Beresford's Black Robe seems to strike a neutral ground toward depicting Brian Moore's screenplay of a Jesuit on Mission bringing the Christian Faith to Huron Indians. Although I have not read the novel, the movie's cinematography, costuming, and settings are first rate to be sure. Vast landscapes of water, forests, trees, woodlands, and ice are on full display out in obvious location - there aren't too many sets. The story interestingly compares the supposed righteousness of one religion over another through dialog of characters though none seem to accept or appreciate the others religion, neither Indian nor Missionary. The acting was satisfactory, while the story is somewhat minimalist. Indeed the settings command the picture, and the movie is a worthy of watch because of them alone. "},{"Title":"A very good movie on the initial French presence in Quebec","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" 'The English and the Dutch have colonists, we have priests' we hear a French militia man saying in the beginning of the film set sometime in 1630s at a French outpost somewhere in Quebec, Canada. The priest who is seen walking past the militiamen and construction workers is father Laforgue (played by Lothaire Bluteau; a great performance). Laforgue is a young Jesuit sent from France to the New World to convert the Hurons and other indigenous tribes that lived once in large areas of Canada and the northern states of the US.To aid Laforgue in his mission the local French authorities ask a group of Hurons (allies of the French at the time) to accompany him until he reaches a Jesuit-controlled mission much deeper in Quebec. During the trip of the group we see past moments of the life that Laforgue left behind in France (through a number of flashbacks) before deciding to commit himself to such a task in the New World. The trip is dangerous. We learn that except the actual hardships of the trip the Hurons will try to avoid the Iroquois (at least other tribes of the Iroquois nation, since I did my homework and it appears that the Hurons were part of the great Iroquois nation) and the English who have started to become more powerful than the French in the region.Soon, however, friction begins. For the Hurons (a traditional pagan society with Shamans acting as the intermediaries with the spirits) the Christian message of Laforgue 'love your neighbor' will mean certain death to the hands of the Iroquois. Therefore, they view father Laforgue with suspicion, even hatred after a while believing that he is a demon (especially after he demonstrates to them the reading of a book, a fact that unsettles them) and they start to wonder if it is worthwhile to risk too much for a person who promises them a paradise in an afterlife after death.'Black Robe' is a very interesting film but I think it is not for everyone. To start with it is not entertaining, it is not epic. There is no 'payback' for this mission that Laforgue undertakes. Despite the idyllic scenery of the New World the trip is very hard and demanding and the eventual conflict with the Iroquois is very harsh. Laforgue, nonetheless is a brave man and perseveres. His conviction to introduce Christianity to the Hurons and convert them is too strong and gives him the courage to go on. The question is if it was worthwhile. The movie cleverly avoids taking sides on this matter. I believe this is the big question that the movie asks and there is no easy answer. A 9/10 from me. "},{"Title":"The Mission redone.","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Perhaps you could say that this movie suffers from the fact that the movie The Mission got released 5 years earlier. Both movies feature a similar concept, with as a big difference that The Mission had more star-power behind it. But is it better or worse than The Mission? In my opinion there isn't all that much difference, though The Mission still remains a slightly better movie due to all of its professionalism involved.I'm of course not saying that this movie isn't a professional one. It really is a very well made movie, that is good looking and told in a good and intriguing. I just have to say that religion isn't exactly my cup of tea, so the main subjects of the movie just didn't really appeal to me, though the movie still worked out as something interesting enough for me.Thing that makes this movie interesting is its cultural clash, between the and the Jesuit priests and the Canadian Indians. Sometimes their difference lead to something good and they start learning from each other but mostly it leads to something ugly and violent. The movie does hold back a bit though at times, no doubt because otherwise the Indian community would had felt angered and offended by the way they got depicted in this movie. It doesn't make the whole movie experience any less interesting or good to watch though. It basically is being a respectful movie to both sides, by showing everything from the two opposite sides. It helps to create an understanding for both of the sides as well, which makes you condemn no one either. You can understand both sides and all of their motivations and actions, whether you agree with them or not.It was interesting to see this movie taking place in Canada, instead of America or somewhere in the Rainforest. Canada has a totally different feeling and look to it, which works out as something refreshing and also beautiful to look at. The natural environments are all great looking and get beautifully brought to the screen by director Bruce Beresford and cinematographer Peter James.Another things that adds to the atmosphere of the movie is the musical score by Georges Delerue, that works out as something haunting and beautiful for the movie.It really is a quite intriguing movie to watch, even when you really aren't into its subject.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Beautiful Work of Art","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" My AP US History teacher recommended this film to my class and I think it was an exceptional work of art. I was compelled throughout the whole film, watching every single scene with interest. Bluteau does a great job with his character as a Jesuit Priest and I believe that watching this will boost my knowledge of the Jesuits and will help me later on with the AP History test. I feel that this film should have been more acknowledged amongst the society because it shows what a film really should be made of. Not all films are supposed to be action-packed, whereas this film touches the mind and maybe the soul of those who believe in the Native American spirits. I recommend this film to all who are interested in North American history or just want to watch a good movie. If you feel against this, email me for a good argument. =) "},{"Title":"great film, a must see","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" i thought this movie was an excellent representation of the misconceptions of other people and other cultures. throughout the movie we see that even though the Jesuits could communicate with the Natives and vice versa there was still a great amount of misunderstanding. though this movie may not be an exact historical time-line of events it was refreshing to see a story that wasn't so one sided, at least in my opinion. it showed how the Jesuits convinced the Hurons in the end to be baptized by convincing them that they would be healed of their sickness if they accepted God and also it showed how the Jesuits did not claim the responsibility of the foreign diseases brought over from the Old World but blamed it on the Native's lack of Christianity. this film also showed how both sides thought the other was stupid, the Native's believed the Jesuits God was the clock and didn't understand the whole concept or for instance when the Black robe was lost and the Native's were directing him- they didn't understand how or why these foreign people didn't know anything about working with the land. all in all i did enjoy this movie and i do recommend it. it has a lot of interesting and thought provoking concepts. being of partially Native decent i have encourage many of my friends to watch it and all them have been enlightened. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film which I just saw is extremely powerful.  I, myself am aCatholic so I found this film of special interest since it is about aJesuit Priest.  The priest is a brave but flawed man.  The theologyof the time was also extremely flawed.  Especially the reasons forconverting people.  But the film is all about the ending. SPOILERALERT  When the Native Americans tell the priest baptize thembecause he loves them and not because baptizes them for theirconversion or because they believe it is a magical ritual that wouldcure them.  This almost moved me to tears.  This is whatconversion and baptism should be about. "},{"Title":"Wonderful insight into minds not like our own","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  In addition to being a great story about a little-depicted part of North America's history, Black Robe portrays with stark effect the wide gap in the way that white Europeans thought and acted compared to the way that native Americans thought and acted in the 17th Century.   "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  A Jesuit missionary, Lothaire Bluthea, takes a deadly journey up river to convert the Indians in 1634 Canada.  This film, written by Brian Moore and directed by Bruce Beresford, works on every level.  It a beautiful film, with the scenery and photography alone worth the price of a ticket.  It also presents perhaps the most accurate of life among Eastern North American Indians to be found on film.  However, more than that, this is also an intelligent film, which unlike, say, Dances With Wolves, fails to fall into the trap of politically correct moralizing.  There are both good and bad Indians.  And if the missionary is guilty of possessing an arrogant, Eurocentric attitude, he gains a true love for the Indians as a result of his trials.  A first class effort. "},{"Title":"Like walking into the story and being there.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Like walking into the story and being there, hardships, cold weather, physical, mental and emotional as well as spiritual experiences included. The characters were well established; the journey M&E of developing 'trust' levels among the aboriginals, the French hunter and the Jesuit Priest made for true problem/solving successes and frustrations. "},{"Title":"Courage is nothing more than fear that has said it's prayers","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film works on many levels. It is very beautiful just to look at. But I was very moved by the Priest's faith, how it is tested, and how he relied on his God. Being a Priest, he also showed he was human and struggled the same struggles we face today with betrayals, fear and temptation. He showed me that indeed it is true what I had heard in my recovery meetings... courage is nothing more than fear that has said it's prayers... "}{"Title":"brooding, complex narrative","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  this is a fabulous effort a brooding, complex, and visually rich narrative. the awe-inspiring use of location, and the often claustrophobic interiorspaces/scenes tell the story as much as the plot and dialogue. both the script and the characters are fully developed, and the camera carefully andthoughtfully takes the viewer into conflicting realities and cultures, letting them self-reveal and letting the viewer reach their own conclusion. to have any one of these qualities is unusual (especially with the manipulative, bloated budget schlock hollywood is spewing out these days), let alone having them all in one movie "},{"Title":"Rare, realistic glimpse of Eastern American Indian life","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is the best attempt I have seen to make a true-to-life, culturally unbiased depiction of an early encounter between the white man and American Indian, in Eastern North America.  In keeping with this aim, it unflinchingly depicts several incidents of what seem to European eyes to be shocking cruelty and 'barbarism' of the Indian.   Although the Indians appear from the point of view of the visiting priest,  the white man's beliefs, appearance and customs are also shown from a startling, alien perspective.  All the same, it is a story of a heroic quest, that leaves you with a sense of the awesomeness of human courage and the mystery of the commonality of human nature across gigantic cultural boundaries.  And, yes, the photography and the aboriginal landscapes are breathtakingly beautiful.Movie depiction of Eastern Indians, and of this era in North American history, are so rare, that I have to give it extra credit for illuminating a culturally formative time. "},{"Title":"That was powerful film-making, brother Bruce!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The following quote might scare the kids; yet read it, because I deconstruct it after-wards.'No film better captures the strangeness and complexity of the Native-European collision in North America. The courage, fear, religious fervor, confusion, nobility, and savagery of the natives and Jesuits are conveyed with an almost anthropological dispassion, with the beautiful, brutal Canadian wilderness portrayed as the ultimate, sovereign force.'&#151;wrote somewhere a _blogger; well, pals, he couldn't be farer from the truth. I don't like to bash a fellow _blogger&#151;but this one is wholly wrong. Why? Why, fair reader? Because--(1)&#151;BLACK ROBE is a enormously enjoyable movie&#151;a very fun movie; literate and original, yes, but in a mainstream and discreet ,unassuming way; Beresford is no Godard or other experimental directors; consequently, BLACK ROBE is straight fun, a dramatic thriller; --(2)&#151;there are no scientific whims, no savant antics&#151;it's a suspenseful drama, a thrilling and hugely palatable movie;--(3)&#151;and where did he came with that sovereign nature from? Beresford's flick is entirely about people.On the funny side, there's sex, there's violence and brutality; on the priestly side, the movie's thorough and keen. It's nothing above Beresford's head, as it were&#151;but an original, likable and straight movie.I remember that Lothaire Bluteau, a Canadian, was the lead. "},{"Title":"Multiple cultural collisions","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great movie about the meeting, not only between europeans and indians, but also between different indian tribes and different european people making this part of history dealt with in a less dichotomizing manner than what is usual. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I've seen this movie on TV a number of times and absolutely love it! Very similar in feel to Last of the Mohicans though what I like about this movie is the more human aspect of it. It's been a while since Ive last seen it so I can remember enough to comment on the plot details, but this is a great movie to check out. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The failure of moral and cultural relativism","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Brian Moore grew up in Northern Ireland and considered joining the priesthood before he moved to Canada and abandoned his Catholic religion later in life. I've not read this nor any of his other novels, but I am told that on several occasions he explored the idea of a priest losing his faith, and I wonder if perhaps, in spite of his outward angst against the Irish clergy, he wasn't in fact (like so many ex-Christian writers) struggling to cast of his guilt and to justify abandoning his own vocation.In Black Robe, for which Moore wrote the script as well as the book, he has chosen not to inject overtly anti-clerical themes. Perhaps he preferred to let the times speak for themselves the French clergy in North America did most certainly believe in their mission to convert the Natives to Christianity, and no one believed in any sort of philosophical or cultural relativism. To the modern, deracinated and denatured man, this is offensive in and of itself and there would be no need to add the demonising of clerics so ubiquitous to contemporary cinema.But to those who dare question the modern liberal conscience, this film is done accurately enough to sympathise with and appreciate the Jesuit's mission. The French are portrayed as sympathetic but imperfect the clerics are naïve and occasionally condescending in their dealings with the Natives, but as we watch their efforts unfold Moore, whether he meant to or not, shows that they truly wanted and tried to understand and relate to these poor souls they ministered to.And to pray for the salvation of these poor, savage souls was hardly condescending, and not only from a Catholic standpoint. For the Natives, life was short, violent and fearsome; death was always around the corner. Their religious beliefs were tightly wound with their daily routine and way of life (as they are in all pre-Enlightened societies, including those of Europe and European North America) and with life so tenebrous they feared anything innovative would completely destroy them. We have accepted the gifts of the French, and we have come to depend on them. That will be the end of us. This is evident in Chomina's gradual coming to grips with Christianity and with the Abbé Laforgue (known to the Natives as Black Robe), but his unwillingness to let go and accept Baptism even on his deathbed. The Huron sense that the transformative power of the Baptismal water is so profound that they will cease to be Huron, that their enemies, the Iroquois, will sense their weakness and destroy them.And yet, Moore has so successfully replicated the brutish world of the Native American that the viewer who can overcome modern Political Correctness will indeed find himself wishing not for their destruction but that they and their enemies could, in one sense, cease to be Huron, cease to be Iroquois, for their own sake and for each other's, before it is too late! And they, too, understand this as Abbé Laforgue reminds his young companion, These people are gifted with intelligence. It is significant that Abbé Laforgue himself is perceptive enough to realise that fact, even though their intelligence is one that he can never understand. The movie ends on an apparently hopeful note and then reveals--through text--something utterly depressing about the near future, reflecting perhaps Moore's reluctance to show a happy triumphant Christian ending. But Moore neglects to tell us the complete story or to allow us to see hints of the ultimate triumph.Romanticists will be sorely disappointed by Black Robe, demolishing as it does that nice little myth of the Noble Savage, which has never amounted to anything more than a childish fairy tale. Leftists, too, many not appreciate it, for though it depicts the characters from their own and from each other's perspectives, the reality is that pre-colonial Native American culture was often excruciatingly cruel as Chomina himself confesses, he is as selfish and sinful as any white man. There is neither postmodern white guilt complex here, nor the crass Cowboy and Indian games of old Westerners. In fact, there is very little in this film with which to sympathise from the standpoint of the modern Enlightened liberal conscience, and thank God for that! At last we have a movie about real human beings defined by their own time. The cinematography, moreover, is stunning one truly feels the profoundity of the loneliness in the vast empty continent of North America. One complaint, though if Moore went to this much trouble to portray the Natives speaking their own languages and Abbé Laforgue praying in Latin, couldn't the French have spoken to each other in FRENCH and not English?? "},{"Title":"Conversion A onetime event?","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Warning Possible SpoilersIn Black Robe, Australian director Bruce Beresford tells the story of the Jesuit missionary experience in New France (Canada) during the 17th century. Beresford's reputation for historical drama and his ability to elicit multilayered dramatic performances serves him well in this film based upon Brian Moore's 1985 novel. Lothaire Bluteau, the French-Canadian actor who was so well received in Jesus of Montreal, plays Father LaForgue, a pious priest who is traveling 1,500 miles to a wilderness mission with a family of Huron Indians led by Chomina, who is played by August Schellenbarger. The award winning Schellenbarger brings a multifaceted dimension to the role that reveals his 30 years experience playing Native Americans. One wonders if he is ever offered a role based solely upon what he can do as an actor (which is considerable) and not chiefly because he has the right ancestral background. Both actors are understated in their performance and hit the right note in their portrayals. The priest, who is driven by faith, is convinced that he is saving souls from eternal damnation. This is his sole purpose at the beginning of the film begin, although it becomes less so toward the end as his character evolves and his ministry grows into more of a Jesus-oriented ministry of love rather than a Church-oriented ministry of conversion.The film's depiction of indigenous life is convincing in it's illustration of both the intertribal savagery and the traditional generosity at the heart of their community that helped to preserve their society before the Europeans arrived. It is widely held among anthropologists that it was the European introduction of trade and religion that advanced the demise of a people who had flourished for centuries. Few films have been able to juxtapose these competing points of view, erring on either one side or the other. Skimming the list of the 442 films that IMDB logs under the keyword Native American, I would guess that the majority of them err on the side of the other-the non-white. Black Robe makes an effort to offer a balanced portrayal. The film's success lies less in its depiction of either the tribes or the Europeans en masse, than it does it in depicting the growth of certain individuals within each community-especially Father LaForgue.The Jesuit missionaries who were sent to save the savage souls in the New World were absolutely convinced of their rightness and were thus willing to martyr themselves for their God. It was this very conviction that disallowed any alternate view, even when confronted with the possibility that one existed. The young Frenchman Daniel (Aden Young) argues with Father LaForgue that the tribe instinctively lives a life steeped in parallel values They share everything without question. The priest's retort is immediate, They should question! His response may be more of a knee-jerk reaction to his own burgeoning doubts than it is to their lack of the same.Conflicting cultures and divergent world-views create circumstances that are misconstrued as evil. The film visually depicts this contrast during a canoe ride wherein the Jesuit priest and the tribal medicine man sit glowering at one another. Both men worship the same God, but use such different languages and rituals in their spiritual practice, that each is convinced the other is demonic. The tribe's solution to this perceived evil is slaughter in the name of self-preservation, while the priest's is conversion, which in the long run amounts to the same thing. The final scene in the film shows Father LaForgue baptizing the Hurons in response to their superstitious request-not their conversion. This long journey has been both physical and spiritual for the Jesuit, as he grows in ways that he could not have foreseen when he began.One might argue that one only grows spiritually when faced with spiritual challenges and conflicts. One might also argue that one only grows spiritually when one finally accepts the redeeming love of Christ and then sees that love shine through the face of others and is able to respond as Jesus would respond-by loving. As Father LaForgue looks at the faces of these Huron's that he doesn't yet know or love, he remembers the faces of those he does, and he is finally able to love them as Christ loves them (and us) for who they are and not for who he believes they need to become. And it is because of this love-manifested in the Spirit of Christ-that he is able to minister to them through baptism. Conversion for these Huron's may yet come, but for LaForgue it will certainly continue, not just a one-time experience, but as a neverending growing into God's grace. The film ends with the camera panning from the baptism to the cross in silhouette against the rising sun, and there is a profound sense of hope and beauty. It is cut short as harsh, black words appear on the screen proclaiming the demise of the Huron Nation within a short 15 years. I fear that as long as Christianity-or any religion-believes its way is the only way to be in relationship with God, we will more often destroy in God's name than we will love. Until we can understand conversion as an ongoing process of individual spiritual growth effected only by the Holy Spirit of God, and not as a one-time event to which we are personally obligated to compel others, we are doomed to repeat our mistakes. Whether we are Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, practice an indigenous spirituality, or are walking some other spiritual path, we must all first love the one God we all share, and secondly we must love each other as God teaches us all to love. Only then will we be truly on the path to conversion. "},{"Title":"Cruelty and Faith","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Here's one movie, among seemingly numberless, that actually portrays the Catholic Church in a neutral light.  The priests depicted here are faithful men, attempting to spread their vision of God and humanity--not the foolish cartoons you see in most movies today.  And the Indians are equally neutrally portrayed, brutal, violent, vicious in many respects, and ignorant of European or modern ways The scene where writing, simple writing, is explained is quite well done, it seems like magic to the primitive culture of the Indians.  But the humanity still comes through, and that ultimately is what it's all about.  It's interesting that the Black Robe, the priest from a European church, has come to this unspoiled land, but inhabited with primitive peoples, and wishes to do God's work.  He is brutallized, assaulted, destroyed in many ways, and it is a wonderful revelation about the faith men have in God that he still prays for their souls God have mercy on these souls, even though they may never look upon your face. I found it to be a wonderfully human story no matter what religion one professes--it's about faith and the beauty of civilization, and yet also the beauty of nature--but it's brutal horror as well.    As an Indian lies dying in the snow, the priest cries out how his God loves him, even then, but the cruel nature of their lives prevents that idea from being believed.  It's quite moving.  If one can go into this movie without prejudice, about Indian cruelty or the way Europeans settled the North American continent, this will be an immensely enjoyable movie.  "},{"Title":"What was happening in 1634 - Story of John Nicolet","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Champlain's personality was the only thing that saved the colony from extinction. Attached to the Rouen company as he was, Nicolet nevertheless deplored their lack of zeal for the advancement of the colony, but like Champlain he remained faithful to his ideals; and when in 1627 Richelieu formed the company of the Hundred Associates he yielded to the new order. When Quebec was surrendered to the English, in 1629, he betook himself to the Huron country, where he remained until the return of Champlain. Perhaps his greatest service was rendered during the three years of uncertainty when he aided in keeping the Hurons friendly to France amid times of failing markets and meager supplies. Only the Algonquins appeared at the English marketsIn 1634, Nicolet came into a portion of his reward by being appointed clerk and interpreter for the Company of One Hundred Associates. In pursuance of his duties he was commissioned to undertake an expedition to the Tribes of the Lake for the purpose of making peace between them and the Hurons, thus opening the western fur-markets to French companies. Thus the first white man to see any portion of Michigan, Brule, went as an explorer in the personal service of Champlain ; while the second explorer under took a mission of trade, also at the instance of Champlain. From the founder of New France, Nicolet carried messages to the Hurons requiring them to furnish ambassadors commissioned to make peace with the western tribes. Nor was this peace to be merely a matter of sentiment. It meant that the road between the western nations and the St. Lawrence markets would be cleared for the passage of the distant Indians, between whom and the French the intervening tribes were accustomed to act as middlemen, thereby obtaining a considerable profit. On July 4, 1634, Nicolet assisted at the foundation of Three Rivers, half-way between Quebec and Montreal. The town speedily became the seat of a prosperous fur-market and the home of many a trader and explorer, among them Nicolet himself. Three days later, amid the shouts of the Frenchmen and the noise of the cannon mounted on the new fort, Nicolet set out with the Jesuit Fathers Breboeuf and Daniel, who were destined for the Huron mission ; and the three Normans doubtless beguiled the toilsome journey by tales of their native country. The colossal Breboeuf, capable of enduring any hardship, has left the record that Nicolet shared the labors of the journey with the most robust of the red-men. At Allumette Isle they parted, the missionaries taking the direct road to the Huron country ; "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Interesting drama, set in 17th century Canada. Plot is solid, though takes a while to develop. After a point, however, it becomes a good adventure/survival story. Obviously many of the points the director Bruce Beresford and writer of the book and screenplay, Brian Moore, wanted to make with the movie are the effects of religion, and its messengers, on the unconverted masses it comes into contact with. This is done reasonably well, and some of the reactions of the natives are quite interesting, and very plausible. However, the ultimate conclusion is a bit unsatisfactory, and overly simplistic.Decent performances, though none stand out. "}{"Title":"When cultures clash.","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Black Robe is a credible attempt to dramatize the clash of cultures in the early seventeenth century in what is today the region comprising northern New York State and Quebec, Canada. In this movie the principal characters a Native chief, his wife and daughter, a French priest (the Black Robe) and his companion, a young French man, are people caught up in a chain of events that highlight the similarities and differences, as well as the best and the worst features, of two cultural groups, one French and Catholic, the other Native American and non-Christian, as they take the first tentative steps in establishing contact. Remarkably, the two groups have much in common. Both have chiefs, both utilize similar rituals to strengthen group solidarity, both have warriors, both have priests, both have strong religious beliefs, both understood firearms, and both are inquisitive as to the nature of the other, including sexual, and are capable of interacting with each other on an intimate, including sexual level. Yet these similarities are far outweighed by their differences, such as in race, technological development, literacy, language and military power. For instance, in one scene, the French priest demonstrates writing to the Natives which the Natives find perplexing and disturbing. In another scene, the Natives are amused by a clock, which, though obviously important to the whites, to the Natives is little more than a silly noise-making contraption. Some aspects of the story are contrived, such as the affair between the priest's traveling companion (who, of course, is young, tall, sensitive and handsome) and the chief's daughter (who, of course, is young, lithe, passionate and beautiful, with a lovely countenance and a slight streak of rebelliousness, enhancing her charm), the gratuitous depictions of acts of copulation and close-up shots of horrible combat wounds, and the inclusion of bad, that is, unruly and sadistic Natives, complete with scowling faces and menacing, mocking laughs, all clearly added for dramatic effect. These additions are pure Hollywood. Nevertheless, this movie succeeds as a work of art because of the presence of the main character, the Black Robe. He is the bulwark of the story, the hub around which the movie revolves. This character is strong because he has moral integrity, that is, he is not a phony. He really cares about the Natives, as people and not just as targets for spiritual exploitation, and he knows that they are dying and wants to save them the only way he knows how; by bringing them salvation, unconditionally, through Christian faith, something which he really believes. The Natives sense that he cares about them, that he is not scheming to hurt them or steal from them, and are even comfortable enough with him to playfully poke fun at him, a sign of acceptance, and something they would not dare to do, or care to do, with most other white people, who they detest. Because if the Natives had hated him, they would have let him die or have murdered him, without hesitation, but they did not. When he was lost, they found him; when he was left in the forest, they went back to fetch him. By the end of movie, his acceptance by the Natives is complete as they come to him for spiritual comfort to ease the pain of their suffering. For Black Robe, his mission is fulfilled; for the Natives it marks the beginning of a process of assimilation into a new culture that will soon lead to their cultural and physical decline, and for many, their extinction.Also, mention must be made of another principal character in this movie, Chomina, who fully grasps the predicament of his people and the implications of the white man's presence in what was once Native land. His character is symbolic of the best features of the Natives strong, resolute, courageous, fair, honorable, fundamentally peaceful, uncorrupted, and above all humane, and his death represents the end of an era, which becomes even more apparent when his daughter decides to stay with her white boyfriend and not return to her people. Perhaps this interpretation of Chomina may seem a bit expansive, yet there were Native Americans who were known to embody these traits, so the character cannot be discounted as a mere cinematic contrivance.That this movie contains interesting and noble characters is commendable, yet what makes this movie worth watching is the substantive nature of the story itself which candidly addresses themes relevant to today's post-9/11 world in which the clash of cultures, under the banner war on terrorism, has taken on global proportions.One other point The clash of cultures depicted in this movie is part of a larger process of cultural decline and regeneration that occurs continuously throughout history everywhere in the world as cultures rise and fall and are replaced by other cultures. Languages that once flourished are now extinct; empires that once stretched across continents are long since gone. Understanding this makes the process more comprehensible but provides little solace for those experiencing the process, especially if it is their culture that is disappearing. One cannot help but be moved by the plight of the Native Americans as they realize that their way of life will be gone and that there is nothing they can do to stop it.The movie tells a compelling story about people from two cultural groups struggling to get to know each other and form social bounds under difficult circumstances and for that reason alone this movie is worth watching. "},{"Title":"beautiful scenery and stark realism of tribal culture","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  Morality and ethics are based on survival of the fittest. The Europeans thought they would be welcomed with their religion. Man were they ever wrong. Overall a good depiction of tribal cultures. "},{"Title":"Seems to be often misunderstood!","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" I felt compelled to register and leave a review after reading a couple of the old critics reviews. The end left one thinking it was all heading to nothing?! Bleakness for the sake of bleakness etc. The end is excellent and beautifully portrayed to the extent didn't you love them all as well. It ends with a beautifully poignant moment and the little history that comes up confirms the end for the priest was not about the result or fruits (unlike the old priest who was willing to sell baptism as magic for conversations) but the faith itself, which actually ended being forged through his journey from an intellectual concept to one of love, the message of Christianity. Do you love us Black Robe, the faces and yes, genius. Lovely pace and rhythm to it and the man who felt it was all in bleak grey weather should go to a tanning salon, Canada-winter!, I will give it 10 not because I believe it but its a hell of a lot more than 7.1 when you look at the score of some superficial s... on this site. Loved it. ps one critic thought his point about Indians having gods put across nebulously, eh clarity is not simplistic. I was clear what he was saying and it was not judgemental, that was the joy, there is no answer,live with or watch Hollywood smuck the whole of your life and don't go out. It was pretty close to art which is not common in commercial film. "},{"Title":"b/c of Catholicism?  OR the giant war that happened right after.","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" Gorgeous movie. My only real problem is the screen at the end claiming that the Indians got wiped out after they converted. They did, ... but there was also this little thing called the French and Indian War.And in that war, these Indians happened to side with the French. The F&I War was pretty dang big, cost enough money to cause the American Revolution a few years later, and ended in a gargantuan battle where the British won because the kill ratio was 3 dead French/allies for every 2 British/allies.So yeah, the movie's a little disingenuous there.Also, what's with this stupid 10-line minimum? "},{"Title":"beautifully photographed but downbeat history lesson","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" A young French Jesuit priest journeys west into the New World in the early 17th century, facing all the usual challenges of the primeval wilderness savage natives, inclement weather, and so forth. The similarities to 'Dances With Wolves', released two years earlier, are hard to ignore, not least in the way both films reduce complex historical issues of cultural dislocation to a grade school picture book level, throwing the White and Red man together against a background of (in this instance) breathtaking Autumn and Winter scenery. But unlike Kevin Costner's more commercial prairie epic, the newer film favors grim authenticity over audience-friendly hindsight. And without even a leading man of Costner's crowd-pleasing appeal it becomes little more than a handsome but depressing history lesson, not exactly a winning combination at the box office. Lothaire Bluteau is no less beatific in the title role than he was as 'Jesus of Montreal', and director Bruce Beresford seems determined to continue making shallow, issue-oriented entertainment ('Driving Miss Daisy', 'Mr. Johnson') for audiences without much real interest in the issues. "},{"Title":"Probally the greatest American Indian film ever told","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a very powerful,moving Native American film that shows just how wrong the morally righteous Christians were in the 1800's when there was the first settelments on the rivers of North America And the US & how the white man came and became a burden onto the Indian by making trade with them which in forth makes it become necessary for the Indians to become dependent on their goods which is the beginning of the end for many of their tribes. But,astonishingly they hold true to their long held beleifs as the white man constantly comes to them making them bow down to their God who mostly in the film, they seem to fake worshipping.  ****SPOILERs*******  In the scene where they are all bowing before a antique clock & when it rings they think it's a white man's god instructing him what to do & then later they make fun of the white man for even listening to the clock, is quite funny & goes to show how much of their old ways they still hung on to at all times. Not until they begin to fall ill, from the white man's germs I might add do they even begin to try & prey to the white man's God. Great acting from Lothare Bluteau as the Catholic priest who will die trying to save the Native American's souls in the harshest of weather conditions & braving the cruelest of indignities bestowed upon him by rival Indian tribes ( as the scene where he is singing to his God & the Indians cut off his finger with a sharpened seashell is most brutal!). And the great but unknown ADEN yOUNG is also great as the young man who wants to become a priest until he meets the beautiful Indian girl of his dreams. Great scenery,awesome script and great tragedy makes this one of the most haunting films you'll ever witness.***** out ***** "},{"Title":"A dream is real. It must be obeyed.","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":" The historical accuracy of this film appears to be good, and there is no doubt that the cinematography and costumes are absolutely beautiful. Québec, Canada is, indeed, a region that is beyond belief in it's scenery.The performances by Lothaire Bluteau as Father Laforgue, the man who is to bring religion to the savages; and August Schellenberg were superb. The clash of civilizations is an interesting concept, and I always am amazed by those who think theirs is better. At last count, there were over 3,000 gods in history. Why does one think theirs is superior to anyone else's? The only criticism I have of the film is the absolutely inordinate amount of time spent doing nothing. Just seeing Father Laforgue walk around reading his breviary is an indication that time could have been cut. "},{"Title":"Great Views","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  The cinematography in Black Robe is outstanding. Excellent shots of the snow and the forest. Great visuals all throughout this film. This film has been compared to Dances with Wolves, which I feel is a much better film. I did, however, enjoy Black robe for its dark undertones, authentic costumes, and beautiful scenery. Although not as well made as Dances or Last of the Mohicans, history enthusiasts will enjoy this film very much. "},{"Title":"Beautiful cinematography, unfortunately that's all","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie tells the story of father Laforgue(Lothaire Bluteau), a jesuit priest on a mission to convert indians into christians. The story takes place during the colonization of North America in the seventeenth century.Regardless of how accurate and historically correct this movie is it still didn't amaze me at all. First of all the storytelling is all too slow for this kind of a movie, you almost feel like watching a movie from the 70's. The characters aren't really that interesting and very poorly written. The dialogue seems quite unnatural and stiff pretty much all the time. I suppose this was a low budget film otherwise they surely would have hired real actors. Especially first timer Aden Young and lead Lothaire Bluteau are horrible. I makes you wonder what it really took to become an actor those days. Apparently nothing considering their past and present work.When i heard that this movie would be coming on TV i got really excited because i'd wanted to see it for quite some time now. I must i was very disappointed afterwards, mostly because i was expecting a great epic with loads of action like The Last of the Mohicans. It's unbelievable that people compare it to movies like Dances with wolves and The Last of the Mohicans because it's not even close. This movie doesn't have any action at all. I wouldn't even consider it to be an adventure film. Surely it's a story about a journey through the wilderness but it's more of a Drama then Action or Adventure.What's then good about this movie? I'll tell you, the amazing, totally awesome cinematography of Peter James. That and the beautiful filming entirely saves this film. Also the music by Georges Delerue is good throughout the film although it lacks variation. One other positive aspect is that the natives didn't speak english which i for one were expecting in the beginning of the movie because it's quite common in these kind of movies. I think about half of the spoken language here is something else then english. One can just hope that it was somewhat like the original native language that actually were spoken among the Hurons, Iroquis and Mohawks.At the end of the day it's not all bad. It's a decent try. It's worth renting but i wouldn't buy it. "},{"Title":"It's hard to believe that people got paid to make a movie this awful.","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, History","Review":"  I have watched a lot of movies in my day and have never been so appalled and disappointed with a film as I was with Black Robe.  The acting was poor; almost what I would expect out of a high school film class.  The idea behind the film is great in the fact that it was trying to portray the hardships of the Jesuit missionaries and the Indians alike. Unfortunately, it just did not come together and ended up being a 145 long sleeping pill.  I cannot understand how this movie can be compared to film greats such as Dances with Wolves and The Last of the Mohicans.  It lacked the development, excitement, and class of Wolves and Mohican. "}]