[{"Title":"Demi Moore bold to go with the little known Ocracoke, NC accent...","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that Demi Moore was bold to go with the little known Ocracoke, NC accent because most people will probably (wrongly) think that she was doing a very bad job at a North Carolinian/Southern USA accent.Ocracoke is a small, fisherman's island at the bottom of the North Carolina Outer Banks island chain and is only accessible by ferry. This isolation has kept the accent there mostly unaltered since the 17th century days when it was inhabited by British seamen. The Ocracoke accent sounds like a mixture of Brit and Yank, so what you hear Demi Moore doing in this movie is really quite accurate.I also enjoyed the cozy portrayal of the Manhattan (NYC) side street neighborhood life. The NYC avenues tend to be wide, impersonal and busy, but the narrower, townhouse and small shop filled side streets can be quite friendly. It gives me some nice, childhood nostalgic memories to see the happier, day-to-day aspect of NYC life shown in this film.I watch this romantic comedy whenever it is on TV, and I have no complaints about it at all. I find it to be a sweet, feel-good film with occasional hints at magic realism, but without plunging too far into that iffy genre.I feel that all the players did good jobs, and that the locations and settings felt very true. Nice production values too.If you like Moonstruck, then you will probably like The Butcher's Wife too. "},{"Title":"Choice cut!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know, I know, it's basically a boiler-plate piece of Hollywood fluff but I really loved this movie. I am a hopeless romantic and thought this movie captured the essence of falling in love and finding your split-apart...er...soul mate. )Jeff Daniels is wonderful as the shrink who can't help himself as his world unravels and falls apart thanks to the whacky Demi Moore character. Demi is perfect as the ditzy but charming butcher's wife. I really liked Mary Steenburgen in this story... she looked beautiful and sang like an angel. I liked all of the little characters too. The music at the end is haunting and perfect for the finale which wasn't surprising but who cares!!! "},{"Title":"Has its own charm, why compare?","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this romantic movie just fine. Demi Moore as Marina is in earnest even though she gets off to a wrong start by marrying a man she thinks is the right one, but her feelings aren't based on solid ground as it turns out. Jeff Daniels is less believable in his role as a psychiatrist and comes across as being more neurotic than his patients!Introverted Stella, played by Mary Steenburgen, is a charmer and her singing is almost the highlight of the film, at least to me. As well, a certain butcher named Leo is also captivated by Stella's modest ways and they are drawn to each other and soon fall in love. This only adds to the confusion in everyone's lives and doesn't help solve their problems.The movie isn't a first class romance but if accepted on its own terms it's very enjoyable with a message or two about life and understanding. I tune in to see it whenever it's on, might get the video too if funds permit. "},{"Title":"sweet, charming and lovely!","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I just love, love, love this film. The cast is perfect, right down to   all the bit-parts. At first I was bothered by DM's accent (& her blonde   hair is a shame) but the sweet script transcends all that.     All the characters are pitch perfect, the lines so funny & the message   inspiring! The locations are also great, I don't know where this is in   NYC, but I would love to live there!    I think Jeff Daniels is simply brilliant in this film, and Mary   Steenbergen too. The scene where DM tells her she's a singer is lovely   & the sparky scenes between JD & DM are so sweet and funny too!     "},{"Title":"Sweet, but predictable","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Demi Moore (with a blonde do) plays Marina, a clairvoyant who marries a New York butcher believing him to be the man of her dreams. Once she gets to New York she finds out that while her powers seem to be accurate when she advises other people, she may not have made the right choices for herself...I was forced to watch this movie by my girlfriend and found myself pleasantly surprised. It's no classic, but is a sweet, enjoyable film (though it's fairly easy to spot how things will work out early on).Over here in the UK the film received a 15 certificate, presumably for the one instance of strong language that actually jars with the rest of the film, and possibly for the lesbian character/s (though they barely touch each other on screen).I sympathised with most of the characters, especially Mary Steenburgen's would-be singer (she has a surprisingly good voice, by the way). Marina's complete accuracy when it comes to predictions that don't involve her is a little far-fetched, especially when she gets her own life in such a mess.Worth a look if you like low-key romantic comedies with a slightly magical twist (not a large genre!), or if you liked Simply Irresistible (1999) with Sarah Michelle Gellar. Not really one for most guys, though. "},{"Title":"Gentle fantasy with interesting ideas","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a sweet fantasy with a good message about life, love and destiny. I usually skip movies with medically-oriented protagonists but the fantasy/psychic elements more than make up for the fact that Jeff Daniels plays a psychiatrist. Demi Moore is lovely, though the blonde hair is not. She would have been better with her natural look. Molly Steenbergen is great. I like the way regular people are touched by magic. Less stereotypical than a lot of other romantic comedies. Some people might be distracted by Demi's Moore's accent but I thought it worked well. The movie deals with psychics in a normal manner for a change. Unlike so much of TV and movies now, I really liked most of the characters and believed they were good people. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Charming!","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I missed this movie in the theaters the first time around and just saw it on cable. Despite a few jumps in logic - like tying up one of the romantic loose ends by making one of the characters an instant lesbian - hmm, wish life were that easy - (and by the way - that's the spoiler) - I thought this movie was a sweet departure from current popular fare. This is the kind of fanciful movie they used to make in the 1940's - nowadays we're not asked to just go along for the ride and enjoy ourselves. Nice way to spend the afternoon. And by the way, I know Demi got roasted for this role - I thought she was charming, and I'm not generally a big fan. "},{"Title":"The cast took this comedy seriously, so why shouldn't we?","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What a treat to catch this movie on a HD channel recently; yes, it is Schlocky-wood, but it's done as a carefully crafted ensemble piece. And what an ensemble! The cast has some great moments, especially for Demi Moore and Jeff Daniels. But there are some characters in the background who would become well known for performances yet to come (e.g., Frances McDormand in Fargo and Miriam Margoyles as Prof. Sprout in the Harry Potter series). This is an enjoyable, humorous, ironic, feel-good movie... you surely won't have to apologize for crude language or over-the-top violence in any scene (well, you will have to get used to Demi's full length blonde hair, and after G. I. Jane that may be tough to do). "},{"Title":"Cute when you get past the accent","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For someone who likes modern fairy tales, this is a great movie. Granted, Demi Moore's accent wasn't the best- but I blame that on a bad voice coach- not her. There was actual chemistry between her and Jeff Daniels. If you liked Practical Magic, you'll probably like this one too. Basically, if you want a cute, distracting movie with a little bit of the paranormal (Moore plays a psychic- yes, a real one), like urban settings and slightly predictable love triangles with a happy ending, you'll love this one. This one is for the innocent in the audience- or the people who can overlook one bad point for the big picture, because in the long run, this movie is awesome. This one and Moonstruck are my two favorite 'chick flicks'.....and I don't normally like chick flicks. "},{"Title":"I can't denigrate this feel-good movie","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's a harmless, little romantic comedy that entertains and delights me. I watch it every time it's on TV.Demi's character conveys mystery and innocence...and the blonde hair is most suitable to that end. Plus it foreshadows (spoiler) that Jeff Daniels (also blond) and she are meant for each other.The gay parts are subtle and sweet...I take no offense at all and am surprised that others do.I no longer expect perfection in any movie. Having said that, if you just want to be entertained and need a break from violence, cursing, and nudity....give this movie a try. "}{"Title":"# 95  simply rotten (web)","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" From the cover, I thought it was a sort of fairy tale in small town USA at Christmas and i was wrong  it starts indeed in the coast but then the action goes to a neighborhood in NYC at summer. In a way, it reminds me then about « Do the right thing » because we see the inner dynamic of the locals. It's also very similar to King's « Needful things » as a newcomer disrupts a small community by « magical » means ! But soon the movie turns horrible, insipid and totally boring as those characters are really repulsive  the stupid and cheating husband, the suspicious shrink, the old witches, the young rebel, the blues catholic, the lesbian couple ! After one half-hour, i had enough of those silly characters, endless talkative scene without any action and repetitive guessing waves. Beyond, i wonder why the need to marry them if they have to split immediately! Moore can be pretty as a blonde but totally fails when it comes to energize the movie ! As i picked up the movie to complete my run about Frances, i push the forward button to her scenes and wasn't surprised by her new life that fits perfectly in a so dumb movie ! Now you know what's the butcher will give you so don't complain if you have stomach pains afterward ! "},{"Title":"nice fable but Moore not entirely natural","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Marina (Demi Moore) grew up on a North Carolina island with her grandma and clairvoyant powers. She sees signs of her other half coming and Leo Lemke (George Dzundza) rows his boat on shore. She immediately marries the butcher and moves to NYC. Everybody is shocked at the pairing. Marina tells Robyn Graves (Margaret Colin) to stand up to love. She asks her psychiatrist boyfriend Dr. Alex Tremor (Jeff Daniels) to marry her but he rejects her. Marina convinces Leo to hire troubled Eugene (Max Perlich). Grace (Frances McDormand) owns the dress shop and Stella Keefover (Mary Steenburgen) is reserved. Tremor is angered as everybody takes Marina's advise and Leo is beside himself.Demi Moore is blonde. She's so very, very blonde. She's trying to play a southern unsophisticated mystic. If you could accept that, then this is a charming little film. It's such an odd turn for her that it's bound to rub some people the wrong way. It's admirable that she tries to be different but it doesn't feel entirely natural. There's a fine fable at its core if you get through the blonde outer core. "},{"Title":"A movie with a little bit of charm.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a somewhat charming little movie starring Demi Moore as Marina Lemke, who thinks she married the perfect husband. When she returns to her butcher husband's home in the city, she makes a lasting impact on its residents with her love advice, bringing her closer to the real man of her dreams.From what I remember, it's a simple and cliché romantic comedy flick with lesser excitement and lesser suspense. However, the acting is quite good and you may get a few chuckles here and there from the light comedy.The plot is not incredibly fast-paced, but for a movie at 107 minutes, it's really not too bad to watch.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"maybe, almost nice","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" a comedy like many others. not brilliant but decent for the good intentions. a cast like colors on paper with the hope to seems be an art work. Demi Moor does a good job. not remarkable, far to be special but enough for translate the desire to explore large parts of role. the result is not a success but could be reflection of too high ambition of director. because the magic is victim of a pink chaos. because the actors are only shadows for a show who has many interesting opportunities. a comedy like many others. not so bad. only mediocre. its fundamental sin - the sacrifice of magic for a not convincing drawing. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's lost film?","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Mild spoilers below. This film is not very highly regarded, and there are some good reasons for that, but I enjoyed it a great deal.Demi Moore was the wrong choice for the lead role. Her Southern accent is shaky, and her down-home folksiness can irritate. I don't like Andie MacDowell much but she might have been a better choice. At least her accent wouldn't have leapt all over the map.However the supporting cast are mostly excellent, with interesting and quirky New York characters. I loved the psychiatric patient with the bowler hat, whose sessions keep getting interrupted. The plot is classic Woody Allen, a farcical series of partner-swapping japes, and the script is tight and funny. There are some great lines, for example I'm not a homewrecker! Well... that's not true... But I don't want to wreck YOUR home. I like your wife too much. And then later, from another character Why are you f'ing with my life- to which the response comes back I never touched her! There were parts of this film that were syrupy, but with the acidic script it avoided sugar-coma for the most part. At the end of the film, I was amused and touched. It's a fun watch, and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Married To The Butcher","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" PLOT IN A NUTSHELL An affable if starry eyed Southern Belle (Moore) marries an equally affable yet less starry eyed butcher from the North and, believing it to be a sign that he is the one she marries him and goes up north with him to help him at his butcher shop. Naturally, things don't go as planned as her as her borderline mystical nature starts to alter the lives of those around her, much to the chagrin of the local psychiatrist (Daniels). When the dust settles a number of love lives will never the same - including the life of the butcher's wife herself. May not be a romantic comedy classic but it's pleasant, affable romantic comedy bolstered by a fine cast bringing much needed warmth and sincerity to the proceedings. "},{"Title":"I guess some people are just too overly sensitive and hateful to understand this movie at all","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is the best performance Demi Moore has ever given in my opinion. She shows that despite her long time film career she is not the cookie cutter actress most people seem to want her to be. The accent she uses for this character is wonderfully eccentric and brings a realness to her that really makes her shine in this role. I loved her in the long blonde hair and flowy summer dresses much more then her typical costumes designed to show off her body. She was perfect as an out of whack psychic who can divine others fortunes accurately but not her own. This is a typical problem with true psychics by the way. The emotions they feel and the needs they have make it near impossible to accurately see their own future, hint this is why you never see a psychic win the lottery. Demi is sweet and totally alluring in this film and anyone who says otherwise just has a grudge against her.This is a wonderfully whimsical romantic comedy with great acting on all parts. Mary Steenburgen plays a perfect shut in turned night club singer and sings beautifully in my opinion. Jeff Daniels is perfect as the semi neurotic psychiatrist whose life is being turned inside out by this lovely psychic. George Dzundza is a great comic butcher and shows that he really has the chops to be a great actor. I think the problem with this film is just that some people tend to take it to seriously and want too much from it. I have watched it over 30 times now and I love it more every single time I watch it. I wish Demi Moore would play more roles like this instead of crap like GI Jane and Charlie's Angels. As for the lesbianism add in, I don't agree with homosexuality but I'm not going to force my sensibilities on other people. There are people that are homosexual, there is no getting around it, and as long as there are there will be some of that life style written into films. If you can't deal with it then just change the channel. Don't complain that Hollywood is trying to convert everyone because it simply isn't true. There is no homosexual conspiracy. Deal with it. "},{"Title":"No spoiler...nothing that's not in the summary","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It must've gotten an editor's or director's re-cut.This is NOT the same movie I saw approximately 20 years ago.The movie I saw had the same core actors, but revolved around her magical thinking notion that the ring she found in the fish would fit her husband-to-be.The movie had LOADS more soul than this cut. and even made you believe in magic. The real kind. this re-cut makes me HATE whatever soulless machine took over Hollywood and sucked the life out of ALL entertainment.They need to STOP destroying the best movies ever made (they did the same to Miracle on 34th Street)SHAME ON THEM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 "},{"Title":"Unusual Wife","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Butcher's Wife has an original story about a girl who can see things that will happen in short future. She marries the butcher in the get go and they develop awkward relationships with people from the neighborhood. Then, the film develops very slowly and things happen too implausibly. People change pairs, shrink ends up seeing the psychiatrist and some other weird stuff. This is a light fantasy comedy made for chicks that won't be enjoyed by many like it wasn't by me. I don't feel able to rate it from 0 to 10 since I'm not the target public for this film. Maybe if you're in a good day and every romantic thing makes you happy you may like it-- or maybe not. "},{"Title":"Can understand many not liking","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Butcher's Wife is a poor film by so many standards it is difficult to list them all. But I like it. I find it immensely re-watchable.Firstly, I think Demi Moore is horribly miscast. It almost needs an unknown to take this lead role, and also someone who can convey vulnerability and innocence - which frankly isn't Demi in this role.Secondly, I am also unsure of how effective Jeff Daniels is in his role. But the script doesn't help.However I love all the secondary characters - particularly the Stella/Leo story and the Grace/Robyn story. And I can forgive the very average Directing, below par cinematography, set design, script editing, score - everything. Basically feels like a TV movie.There is just something in the back of my mind saying if only they gave it a good script-editor, decent director and cast, then everyone else would understand why I like it. Silly, huh? "}{"Title":"Sitcom-ized Marty with an unmagical silver lining and a miscast star","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Television director Terry Hughes tried his hand at features with this improbable and uneven modern updating of Marty, with magical overtones and quirky eccentricities--not the least of which is a miscast Demi Moore as a psychic sprite with absurd golden locks. Moore believes she is fated to marry a lonely but charming butcher (the wonderful George Dzundza, looking a lot more handsome than we're supposed to think he is); after the nuptials however, she begins to have real feelings for another man, yuppie psychiatrist Jeff Daniels. It's this kind of thinking in Hollywood--that a younger, slimmer man would be a better catch for Demi Moore than a balding, chubby guy like George Dzundza--that sinks most romantic comedies, and nearly does this one in as well. Daniels is exasperating while trying to shrink Moore's head, while Dzundza's fire is lighted by local spinster Mary Steenburgen, a closet chanteuse. The film is not the merry romantic mix-up it wants to be, and Demi is too callow to be passed off as this blonde sweetheart (she fails to connect with anyone on-screen, not to mention the audience). Perhaps happily-ever-after stylist Hughes was just the wrong pick as director he turns a promising scenario into a flat-footed sitcom. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the film","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have screened this movie for the 4th time.Watching Demi Moore makes it hard to remember she is not acting (re. suspension of disbelief). Jeff Daniels' character plays a good neurotic.On the pro side, I found the direction fair to midland and the supporting cast excellent.The screenplay is sweetly romantic and sentimental.I did not find the theme overtly pro-homosexual. Rather, it was a mature look of life and love and it's happenstance. I would enjoy talking with my youngsters about the film as it embodies life's essentials. "},{"Title":"Great cast except for the celebrity!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I guess they couldn't get Julia Roberts. This script was way above Demi Moore's capabilities. She was overshadowed by the talent surrounding her. Mary Steenburgen stole the show with her singing (don't forget, Jessica Lange was nominated for an Oscar in Sweet Dreams for not singing). Well, some have it, and some don't. I can't wait to see Meryl Streep do her own thing in Prairie Home Companion. The last time we heard her vocals was Postcards From the Edge. Jeff Daniels, Frances McDormand, and George Dzundza were fine. It was a good script and an interesting storyline. Butcher's Wife was well directed. Too bad it was brought down by the lead character. A perfect example of how Hollywood has sacrificed art for celebrity. Kudos to the movie and everyone in the cast with the exception of Moore. "},{"Title":"There is fantasy and then again there is silliness.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I tried very hard to like this movie because I love the fantasy genre, especially subtle entries like PORTRAIT OF JENNIE and MIRACLE OVER MILAN but this movie jumps the track.  Why?  Simple, you just cannot believe in the sincerity of the title character.  Marina can see into people's minds (maybe even their hearts?) but while she is trying to be the guiding influence in the lives of her neighbors her own life is a shambles because she misinterpreted a prophecy concerning herself. Alas this barefoot girl with cheek to spare needed someone to advise her while she was advising others.  Too bad this movie was not made 20 years earlier with Vittorio DeSica directing and maybe Monica Vitti in the starring role.  Then we might be acknowledging it as a classic today. Well we can dream, can't we? "},{"Title":"Magic of Butcher's Wife never gets off the ground.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's always a depressing experience when you can feel magic happening in a film, and then it's never used to its full advantage. These were exactly my feelings after seeing THE BUTCHER'S WIFE, a romantic comedy with blond-haired Demi Moore. She plays a clairvoyant with an overactively romantic spirit, who uses her gift for telling the future to act as a matchmaker to assorted residents of a small town, one that resembles a small borough of New York. She tries out her whim by marrying the first man that touches her clairvoyant heart (George Dzundza), and goes to live and work with him in his butcher shop, hence the title of the film. Jeff Daniels plays a shrink in the town whose advising is countered by Moore and her fortune telling, leaving him to question her abilities and his own heart (he falls for her too, if you hadn't already guessed). There are some real wasted talents in this film, including Mary Steenburgen, who is a complete ditz with no real substance except to sing her heart out. Future Oscar-winner Frances McDormand also appears to no effect as a town lesbian. There is some beautiful set design for this film along with a few so-called magical portions, but these sections (precious few that they are) have no connection with the rest of the heavily disjointed script. When I think of all the love stories I've seen and been touched by, this one doesn't even come close with a ten-foot pole! Rating One star and a half. "},{"Title":"Not again!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Comment first for Ian Small town? They make it pretty clear that the name of that town is NEW YORK CITY--specifically Manhattan.So again, here we have a sweet tale with no sex or violence and very little language. But I would feel uncomfotable watching this with my kids in the room because of the strong pro-homosexuality message.  Does somebody in Hollywood actually get paid to purposely spoil otherwise G rated movies by throwing in just enough immoraity to make them unsuitable for general consumption?Demi Moore shows here that she can be a knockout WITH her clothes on, although I'm not partial to blondes and would ratehr have seen her with her natural color. Jeff Daniels does a good neurotic. My only criticism of the casting is that the role of Grace should have been given to somebody who could really sing like Bessie Smith, and then given a chance to do so.  "},{"Title":"Revolting!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I wouldn't elaborate if I didn't have to. Demi Moore is a joke from the moment you clap eyes on her, especially in this film, and then of all things, she opens her mouth! That puts the last nail in the coffin, you might say. Blech.And then she further appears in one big glob of wasted talent (herself excepted) that is as offensive as it is bewildering. I like my romantic comedic entanglement just a wee dram more innocent, I guess.Downright vulgar, which is sad if only because that vulgarity is the only stand-out feature in the story. It's rather like a comedian who uses a lot of profanity and offensive jokes to cover a lack of talent. That's just what it is, in fact. "},{"Title":"Demi Moore stars in a another classic......not.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If the Title The Butchers Wife puts you off watching this film count yourself lucky, take the hint and dont bother with this rubbish. The film is about a simple clairvoiant who marries a butcher after she dreams that her future husband will walk out of the sea.When she moves to New York she meets a group of people who she gives spiritual and relationship advice that turns all their lives around including her and her new husband's. If that description sounds dull you would be right to think so. This film is like an overlong , dull sit com that has no humour or pattern to it whatsoever. Is there anything good i can say about this film?.......no not really. 4 out of 10. "}]