[{"Title":"A love story which stays inside of you long after viewing.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A love story, deep and consuming. The characters stay with you, like family.(I'm not sure what a 'spoiler' might be with a title like 'Dying Young' - so, if you don't wish to know what the movie is about . . . skip this comment!)I've survived five different cancers since 1959. I've watched many others die from cancer, mostly because I've been treated in Veterans Hospitals since 1961 which had 'open cancer wards' of forty to sixty beds and we see all there is to see in each other's lives. I've seen this movie in real life, mine and many others' lives and families.You will be utterly absorbed by the consummate, intricate writing of Richard Freidenberg's adaptation of the Marti Leimbach novel and the 'invisible' direction - my finest compliment - done by Joel Schumacher.Throughout the film you'll be absorbed by the character's lives. How utterly real their pain, how complete their anguish, how deep their fear,how intense their love both of the cancer victim Victor Geddes (Campbell Scott) and the loved ones - especially the caretaker becoming lover, Hiliary O'Neil (Julia Roberts).If the Victor Geddes character had AIDS or Parkinson or Alzheimer's Disease? The audience and reviews would be thunderous applause; nines and tens. But about cancer? The audience is frightened to give acclaim to cancer, the shadow disease.The predictable audience reaction to a cancer victim story is amazing Viewers fear contagion! In real life - friends, relatives, loved ones are frightened to death to visit a person with cancer; to 'touch' them?, to breath their air?, to be nearby?. That fear is brought to the theater, to the television and to the VCR. Fear is the Bitch Goddess of Cancer and was ever present in 'Dying Yong'!I've never seen Julia Roberts (with whom I've been stuck since 'Pretty Woman) 'disappear into a role' as she did portraying the woman in love with a man dying with cancer. (I didn't see it in 'Erin Brockavich', at least not by comparison). Campbell Scott, playing the cancer sick Vic Geddes, is likewise consumed by the character and is invisible as an actor. There is not an actor before the camera throughout the film . . . just people about whom you Give-A-Damn; about people, not actors.This is an amazing film.Some might think I am biased because of my having had cancer Perhaps. But, to see the gut wrenching under current, words which are never said, emotions programmatically withheld, denial and lies issued and ignored even though instantly recognized until there is a no longer any ability to do so was (is) the most profound treatment of catastrophic illness I've ever seen on film. I kept wanting to yell at each character to speak up, shout, get it out, say something!(I wonder if those who have not had cancer had that same reaction.)I hope that those who see this film will see the magnificence of its incredible love story (in spite of illness!) and feel its adroit kick in the shin rendered against the 'silence and lies' between those about whom you care when ill. This story is about love, about life, not about death.If ever an actor deserved to be awarded an Oscar it was Julia Roberts' portrayal of a woman in love with a man dying with cancer in 'Dying Young.'See this film It is an incredible love story! You'll feel happy for all the characters, and, yourself.Killiam Tierney "},{"Title":"One word; Fantastic.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this video in a sale for only £2.50 and although I knew it had Julia Robert in it, I thought that maybe this was going to be another Firehouse which.. Well did nothing for me. I turned the video on, lied on he sofa and cried! Very few movies ever make me cry, this being one that has never failed to every time I have seen it.Hilary O'Neil is hired as a nurse when Victor Geddes' father goes away on business. Eventually, Hilary becomes more than his nurse, she becomes, in my opinion; His reason for living. This movie is a powerful and moving story of one man's need for love and a woman's need simply for a job.Definitely one to watch!  "},{"Title":"Beautifully sad movie that just misses the mark.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My first complaint was that Vincent D'Onofrio was totally wasted in this role, although he brought some much needed life to this role. If they had fully developed Vincent'Onofrio's character then this could have been a beautiful and powerful triangle, but they wasted most of the supporting characters.Campbell Scott was great as the young man dying of leukemia and gave a riveting performance as a young man who had never been able to fully live his life and groping for what he considers his last chance of happiness before dying.Campbell Scott also has the courage to be unlikeable and at times arrogant rather than a plaster saint. His inability to connect and understand the simple friendship offered by Gordon(Vincent D'Onofrio) is almost painful to watch. He envies Gordon's easy openness and zest, and is also jealous of the way that Gordon effortlessly connects to JUlia Roberts character,Hilary.The most poignant scene is when this young man of wealth, privilege, and education tries to relate with Gordon and Hilary who are getting a kick out of answering the questions to Jeopardy. He scores big on the questions that he studied in college, but grows more and more frustrated as Hilary and Gordon bond over their ordinary knowledge of TV shows-- like their singing the theme to Gilligan's Island. They are having fun, but Vincent can only see it as a competition.In that moment he sees a world that he has never known and probably will never really get, and he lashes out at both of them. Gordon is hurt and puzzled and Hilary is torn between anger and understanding.I wish that they had had Julia telling Gordon about how the character of Vincent was struggling with cancer, and having all three of them interact with each other bringing more depth to their struggles-- Vincent's jealousy of watching Hilary and Gordon interacting, and Gordon reaching out in friendship to help his new friend. It also would have given Hilary more insight into her emotions, and, when she made a choice it would have had more meaning. "},{"Title":"Dying young","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every time this movie comes on television, I sit in my bedroom and watch it from start to finish as if it was the first time I've seen it. It is a film that focuses on a man, Victor (Campbell) dying of leukemia and his internal struggles of wanting to be carefree and wanting total companionship from the Hillary (Roberts), the woman he hires to take care of him. Eventually, Victor wishes that he could be well so that Hillary can look at him in a different light; however, Victor cannot see pass his disease to allow anyone to be in his life including his dad and Hillary. He abruptly stops his chemotherapy to go live life and die; however, he does not seem to be living it since he so competitive and wanting to be better than anyone else. You want Victor to be cured of the disease and you want him to be less envious of the well people and to stop worrying about death and just live, which is the whole message of the film. Don't be afraid of death since we all will eventually die and no one knows exact time when death will wrapped them in his arm, which is a very powerful message. Great acting from Campbell and Julia. Great cast. Please watch this film and formulate your own opions. "},{"Title":"Romantic tearjerker depicts heartbreak of cancer","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may not be classic cinema, but I found it a moving portrayal of both the suffering caused by cancer to its victims, and the grief to the loved ones who support them. Of course it's also a romantic tale of the relationship that develops between this particular patient and his caregiver.The movie chronicles the story of a young woman, Hilary, who, following a recent betrayal by her boyfriend, takes a job as a private caregiver to a rather difficult young man, Victor, suffering from terminal blood cancer. It dramatically depicts Victor's struggles with chemotherapy (the scenes most memorable to me), and Hilary's assistance, with its ever increasing emotional involvement. Julia Roberts brings her typical endearing qualities to the role of his nurse, who risks a broken heart by falling for a young man who is most certainly going to die soon. I've never seen Roberts in a role for which she didn't elicit viewer sympathy. Campbell Scott, son of actor George C. Scott, is also convincing as the young leukemia sufferer. My major complaint is Victor's lack of supportive family relationships (as I recall) or apparent faith. The movie could have been more meaningful if he'd had these, yet in addition, loved and needed Hilary. This scenario is dramatic, but it is unfortunate and simplistic that she is portrayed as his sole reason for living.Get out the Kleenex, folks, for the entire movie. I liked the ambiguous ending that left the viewer able to cling to the remote prospect that Victor might miraculously survive. Its message of course is the devoted loyalty until death that Hilary offers. Some viewers have mentioned an alternate suicide ending; that would have definitely ruined the film for me. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts scores again in a 4 handkerchief role","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts shows once again how she can take an ordinary script and turn it into a worthwhile flick. This is a great movie for one of those rainy afternoons when you don't mind a little tear here and there.No one in Hollywood can cry and hit you right in the gut like Julia. Along with Campbell Scott,who is dying from Leukemia, they both give believable performances and the music score is quite good.  "},{"Title":"Moving, Realistic, and well acted!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As someone who has seen this movie numerous times, I can honestly say that this movie isn't for those people that are looking for a Happily ever after. This movie is as realistic as a movie about such a subject(Cancer) can be. But the best thing about this movie is the relationship that the characters have. The actors, Julia Roberts as the hired nurse and Campbell Scott as the very sick young man are excellent and believable in their rolls. If anything this movie brings out the fact that he has a short time to live, how he chooses to live his life is what this movie is about. The story ends in a way which WE the viewer choose the path we want to see it. If you want a happy ending you can say that they left together and he was cured, BUT if you are realistic and are aware of how many lives cancer takes you know that they had their time together and eventually he dies. You don't know when you are going to die, nobody does. But we have now, so live with me Victor. Live with me--Hillary(Julia Roberts). Those words are the basis of this story, to live the time you have, live for the day. I have recommended this movie to many of my friends and I am doing so here and now. A must see. "},{"Title":"What a movie?","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I think it is one of the best romance films on the market. This movie can move you in so many ways. It made me laugh, it made me angry, it made me cry. I thought the end was very touching. I cried so hard. I don't know why the review says he dies because no one knows. It has an open ending and you can take from it what you want. I know everyone is allowed to have his or her opinion but to say he dies is assuming. I like to believe that he lives. He was getting better with the chemo. He could get better again. I thought this was just the best movie ever. "},{"Title":" The last face you see will be mine becuase I love you","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts is excellent as Hilary in this impressive romance film. The remaining cast is spectacular. The costumes are elegant. One of the excellent flicks in the genre, Dying Young will press the viewer to love until death. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film that takes off -- but forgets how to fly","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To put it simply, the opening third of this film is intense. Quite intense. Campbell Scott's Vincent is a tortured young man who only wants to live enough to prepare himself for death. Julia Roberts' Hillary is essentially her Vivian from Pretty Woman (I hope everyone who sees this film is as unimpressed as I was with the shameless allusion to Pretty Woman when Hillary steps off the bus in -- gasp -- a red suit), but it suits the film well. But the passionate acting from Roberts, yes, but mostly Scott absolutely rends one's heart. When Hillary declares that she thought this guy was going to die, the audience is right there with her. Scott's performance is so rare and so special during these opening minutes because he is not self-pitying. He is aware of his disease, and he's trying to fight it. He's beyond emotional pain, and as he struggles through the physical pain, we start to feel it too. By the time Victor announces that his treatment is finished and he's ready for a vacation, the audience is ready for one too--it's really too much to watch a character we're instantly so attracted to come so close to death so many times.However, with the change of scenery comes a change of momentum. This is not surprising considering how emotional the opening third of the movie is--I'm not sure any movie could sustain that degree of intensity for the length of a feature film. Sadly though, the couple's time in the beach house becomes, as one critic put it, a kind of music video which features long shots of endearing moments between the two main characters. I would have liked to see more *real* discussions, interactions, etc. between the two than the endless close-ups of their pretty faces. The townsfolk are superfluous--essentially they're stock characters, cut-outs of real people that serve no real purpose in the film. Vincent D'Onofrio's Gordon is the most confusing character of all. He seems to have some sort of flirtation with Hillary, but this is never developed, explained, or resolved. A shame, as it could have added more drama to a section of the film that was sorely lacking in any sort of dramatic effect.The ending of the movie isn't bad, but it never quite recovers the momentum of the earlier section. However, I find that no matter how much I dislike the middle part of the film, I keep thinking about the film as a whole, and really really liking it. If you're prone to it, this film will probably make you cry. If you're not interested in tears, it's still worth watching because at the very least it will make you appreciate how lucky you are to not be going through what Vincent goes through--not having to make the decisions or sacrifices he makes each day.I recommend watching it at least once and forming your own opinion. "}{"Title":"Wonderful, moving film","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As many other comments have said, this is a truly moving film. I had a friend who suffered from leukemia, but she didn't make it. All the despair, hope, and courage she displayed is displayed by Campbell Scott.And Campbell Scott - what an actor, who has never made it big, but perhaps he doesn't want to. My favorite comment I ever read about him is this with George C. Scott and Colleen Dewhurst as his parents, this guy could run the Kentucky Derby and win.Julia Roberts, way before Erin Brockovich, shows compassion and a resilience to helping Vincent. Of course we know that she will eventually fall in love with him, as he does with her.I like that the movie ends in a grey area. We are left to wonder if Vincent makes it and if Hilary stays with him. Truly a well-made film that deserved more notice. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. It rates in the top 3 of my favorite movies. I just bawl every time I watch it. It shows that love can conquer all. It can conquer drastically different backgrounds, wealth or lack of it, and seemingly different/incompatible personalities. And, most of all, that the person you need in your life and fall in love with are not always the people you imagined yourself being with originally. One thing I really like also is that you don't know if Campbell's character dies in the end or not. You just know that Julia's character is going to stand by his side. Campbell Scott and Julia Roberts do an outstanding job! And, Colleen Dewhurst, as always, does an excellent job. I just learned that Colleen Dewhurst is Campbell Scott's mother, interesting. Great acting, great story!!! "},{"Title":"I liked it although I admit it's not great...","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this movie an 8 out of ten for the following reasons I am aware that it's not great but it still has that thing that makes you cherish it nonetheless. Even more so, some dialogues are just flat, unbelievable, but I blame the writers, not the actors. I enjoyed Campbell Scott's performance. If anyone reading this happens to like him, I recommend Singles and the more recent Roger Dodger. Julia Roberts is good as usual, and looks really young and beautiful too. So, I guess it works on other levels, at least for me. Anyway, check it out. "},{"Title":"Never outstanding, yet it works well","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie that is most definitely not all it is reported to be, but Dying Young is still a moving film that depicts the destructive disease of cancer quite well.Julia Roberts returns to good form in her role of an untrained aide for the terminally ill Campbell Scott, who gives a fine and most convincing performance. The plot is predictable, yes, but it remains a very well balanced drama throughout, a credit to the film's director Joel Schumacher.Perhaps only a must see for sentimentalists and Roberts fans, Dying Young turns out to be quite a good film.Saturday, April 4, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Still loving this movie...Campbell Scott scene","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After 17 years I still love this movie. Campbell Scott was awesome. He was so intense. I love the part at the party where he is watching her from behind the candles. Then when she starts dancing with Gordon and she looks for him and spots him watching her. You can see the love and the ache, and the passion he has for her. His eyes say it all. I wish he would have been in other bigger films. He is a great actor and he played that part so well. It's weird seeing Julia that long ago. She looks different, but yet she looks the same. She was great in this movie also. I didn't want the movie to end as they walked out the door. I wanted to see more, maybe a 1 year later thing and they have a baby. It still makes me cry every time!!! "},{"Title":"not great but useful","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" a sad story. and good performances. a triangle. a leukemia case. the desire to discover the beauty of life. touching scenes. and the predictable end. result - not a great film. but with many pieces for become one. a touching story who preserves freshness and force, seduction and bitter flavor. Julia Roberts, Campbell Scott, Vincent D'Onofrio - each does an admirable job. but the most important presence is, in a small role, Coleen Dewhurst. her character becomes key of the only real refuge against pain, death, lost and anger. sure, the links between Campbell Scott and his mother is a significant detail. but not the most important. because Estelle is that kind of character who could transform the order of a manner to discover small things. and she has a brilliant interpreter. a film who could be useful. "},{"Title":"sad romance","Date":"30 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hilary O'Neil (Julia Roberts) is bitter after her boyfriend cheated on her. She applies for a personal live-in nursing job but she's dismissed almost immediately. Victor Geddes (Campbell Scott) is a rich young man dying of leukemia. He over-rules his father and hires the sassy girl with the short red dress. As they get closer, they find themselves in a complicated relationship.Julia Roberts is beautiful and sassy. There're a couple of fun early moments. Campbell Scott never convinced me as a romantic lead in this movie. The romantic chemistry doesn't work for me. Director Joel Schumacher has done plenty of good work but I don't think he does well with romantic material. It's a lot of overwrought love in this and it all feels very forced. "},{"Title":"Dull And Dreary Affair","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the time of this movies release, Julie Roberts was flying high thanks to Steel Magnolias in 1989 and the mega hit Pretty Woman in 1990. Sadly dying Young misses the mark by a long way.Plot in A Paragraph Hilary O'Neil (Julia Roberts) has little luck in work or love. After recently Leaving her boyfriend when she caught him cheating, Hilary finds herself living with her eccentric mother (Ellen Burstyn). One day, Hilary answers an ad in a newspaper for a nurse to Victor Geddes (Campbell Scott) a well-educated, rich, and shy 28 year-old who is dying due to leukemia. Despite his father's protests, Victor hires Hilary to be his live-in caretaker while he undergoes a traumatic course of chemotherapy.This movie is a dull and dreary affair that attempts to manipulate the viewers emotions at every turn. The direction is awkward, and it's easy to see why director by Joel Schumacher did not make any more movies like this. If you like Roberts, watch it once, and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Very fine","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a positive surprise! I expected something much more naive, romantic, and over-sentimental, but it was quite realistic - but still fine and moving. I have had someone dying from me from cancer not long ago - not a lover but a very good friend - so I recognize much in the movie. My friend also came to a point, when she did no longer feel the awful side-effects of the chemo worthwhile - but instead wanted her hair back, and to live as normally as possible and only take pain relief until the end. An end which would have been inevitable anyway. The actors are all first-class, and there are also many beautiful exteriors and interiors, party scenes, nature scenery etc.. The only thing I disliked a little, was the My Fair Lady-concept. I mean the rich and well-educated man, who teaches the simple but brazen working- class girl about art-history etc. - while she teaches him about life. And then, of course, they fall in love. That felt dated, and also for 1991 - it would have been more expected in a movie from 1941...But all in all, I find the movie well-worth watching! "},{"Title":"A nice movie starring Julia Roberts","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts who used to be known as America's Sweetheart with hits such as Pretty Woman,Eat Pray And Love and the ever so good but sorta average Mirror Mirror,here she decides to tone it down a bit and star in this A Walk To Remember styled flick Dying Young with Campbell Scott.Here she plays Hilary a woman who caught her boyfriend having a steamy session with another woman and Hilary is heartbroken. She comes across an ad on a paper where she has to look after a man and she decides to take the offer. But the man's father doesn't want her to look after his son as she wasn't a doctor. But the young man named Vincent(Scott) saw her and took to her straight away and decides to hold a secret interview down in his room and she gets the job from him. Apparently Vincent was diagnosed with Leukemia 10 years ago and lost all his hair and doesn't have much time left. So Hilary decides to look after him with romance blossoming along the way. As time goes past Vincent starts to get his dark hair back and himself and Hilary go off together and spend the holidays in an old house away in the countryside. But is Vincent hiding something from Hilary and will Hilary stay by his side when his time is up?Overall this film was great. Its not the best film ever made and part of this movie is so depressing but it took me 23 years to see this film as I got the DVD triple pack of Julia Roberts which contained this movie,Mystic Pizza and Sleeping With The Enemy. If you are looking for a tearjearker or if you like me a fan of Julia Roberts then check it out.Overall its a 6 not as good as A Walk To Remember but still worth checking out. "}{"Title":"Catchy Title - great photography","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd always wanted to see Dying Young - with its catchy title.Enjoyed the movie; it's certainly a concept movie; leukaemia patient finds love with his nurse. The production values were absolutely superb as were the interiors and the costumes.Julia Roberts was great, as was Campbell Scott, and a hint of menace from Vincent D'onofrio.Enjoyed the wide open vistas of California and the gorgeous towns and building built along the coast The soundtrack was good with a mix of popular and orchestral.Thoroughly recommend this film as a good all round concept movie which should please most people in the family. "},{"Title":"best romantic movie","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it was a fantastic movie i cried while watching it. Julia Roberts was pure and pretty that time, still, beautiful and charming now.but Campbell did change a lot i just couldn't believe he was the same personthis movie was quite touching. i highly recommend you to have a watch of this movie since it's the best romantic movie i've ever seen. I like Julia a lot. i still remembered her first act in Pretty Woman. She's so beautiful!!!! I fall in love with her charm. About Campbell, why did he change so much? i understand people get older and look older in a natural way, but he was that HANDSOME in the movie..anyways, i love this movie, i'd like to watch and watch it again and again "},{"Title":"ball of  memories","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember first meeting with it. and the powerful echo of this story about sickness and love and hope. than, the measure of basic emotion was lower. but this version of Love Story was a powerful seed. excellent opportunity to discover Campbell Scott and for be fascinated by Colleen Dewhurst. for feel joy of an art lesson and inspired drama about life sense. for be touch by the light of lead character face and for accept than Julia Roberts can be more than poster. more than film, it is a ball of memories. delicate, fragile, not extraordinary, maybe common. but precious. as cage for an age. as root of a nostalgic tree. it is not special but its beauty, far to be spectacular, remains touching, bitter-sweet. and, I suppose, that fact can be a kind of virtue. or only sketch of an invitation to see it. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts Elevates This Film","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dying Young is a romance film that is based on a novel of the same title by Marti Leimbach.It stars Julia Roberts and Campbell Scott together with Vincent D'Onofrio, Colleen Dewhurst and Ellen Burstyn.It was directed by Joel Schumacher.When Victor Geddes discovers that he is suffering from leukemia, his wealthy family hires pretty, young Hillary O'Neil to help nurse him through his chemotherapy treatment. As the two struggle through the debilitating effects of Victor's treatment, she unexpectedly discovers they have much in common, even though he is wealthy and intelligent. Their growing friendship quietly develops into a deep and powerful romance that ultimately tests the boundaries of true love and attempt to make the most of their time together. The film presents a beautiful love story between two people one of whom is terminally ill.Although the plot is not original and has been done in many movies before,Julia Roberts provides a great performance to elevate it from being just another mediocre,clichéd and predictable tearjerker.Also,one great thing about the movie is the beautiful cinematography as the location was set on the San Francisco Bay Area. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, far superior to the similar Love Story.","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess I'm just not in the main stream. How can IMDb readers give Love Story (1970) a composite grade of 6.7 and Dying Young only 5.4. Julie Roberts is much, much better than Ali MacGraw (proof of who is the better actress is that MacGraw went literally nowhere, as she deserved, after Love Story while Roberts is still a star, an Oscar winner and a respected actress). The story line of both is somewhat predictable, but Dying Young has an infinitely better script. In Dying Young the viewer truly empathizes with the characters, while in Love Story, neither character is worth knowing. Only the most sentimental will tear up in Love Story, while Dying Young bring most to tears. While this does not mean that it is a great movie, it does mean that the characters are believable and well acted and the story line is good enough to overcome its somewhat predictable premise. Curl up with a loved one and a box of tissues. If you are at all the least bit sensitive you will like Dying Young. "},{"Title":"Great movie, timeless for all of us who have experienced losing someone we love so much.","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hilary O'Neal was not prepared for the job she took as a caregiver to someone with leukemia, Victor Geddes. At first, she just want to have a job and a life away from a mother who did not understand why she could not stay with her cheating boyfriend. She accepted the job of a caregiver just to get over a failed affair and be out of her mother's house. Day one, she was ready to give-up, after she experienced how complicated and difficult the situation with Victor after his chemotherapy treatment. (Julia was very convincing, she was Hilary)She however stayed out of compassion and although Victor being rich and an only child of a successful, widower lawyer, who often times was obnoxious, Hilary slowly found out there is sweetness in him. (Campbell Scott was at his best as Victor).Victor who was eager to experience life again, away from hospital treatments, deceived Hilary that he completed his treatment, so she would go with him for what he called vacation. They drove north to Mendocino, spent time alone together and fell in love. (If you are a woman, you will fall in love with Campbell; and if you are man, you would like to be taken cared of by Julia after watching these scenes)But without his regular chemotherapy treatment, he felt sick again after several weeks, but hid it from Hilary. Victor was competing with a local carpenter they met at a bar, Gordon, for Hilary's attention, worried that she will want Gordon instead because Gordon and Hilary have much in common. (Kudos to Director Joel Schumaker, for the subtle introduction of an almost love triangle) Hilary found out Victor was sick again and felt that Victor planned ending his life, instead of going back to hospital treatment. Victor didn't want to go back to a life he had for the last ten years, he wanted Hilary to stay with him until he passed. Angry and scared, Hilary left, called Victor's father, knowing he was the only one who can convince Victor to go back to treatment. So she thought. (I haven't seen Julia acted as passionately again in her other movies, as she was in this movie)For the last time, they attended a Christmas party by a local vineyard owner who befriended them during their so called vacation. When Hilary arrived at the party with Gordon, Victor was jealous. He was determined not to go back to the hospital again, left unannounced and prepared to leave and hide again. But Hilary knew him very well by then, he followed him back to the house and begged him to stay with her and get well. It was obvious they have fallen truly in love with each other, and determined to stay together again, hopeful, they left Mendocino to face the future whatever it might be. (This part of the movie was the best I've seen)The ending scene was inspiring, it touched your soul. It could have not ended any other way. After watching this movie in 1991, and many times again and again in the last twenty years, my mind hasn't changed - Julia Roberts and Campbell Scott have been my favorite actors the last two decades, and Dying Young my favorite movie of all times. To my regret, Hollywood don't make movies like this anymore. Thanks a lot to Sally Field. "},{"Title":"You can tell there's a problem with a romantic drama when you find yourself not really caring whether or not the couple gets together at the end.","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You can tell there's a problem with a romantic drama when you find yourself not really caring whether or not the couple gets together at the end. That, unfortunately, was my problem with Dying Young a movie that I was hoping would stir my emotions, since I am usually a sucker for pictures like this. Dying Young stars Julia Roberts and Campbell Scott, the latter as a young man sick with leukemia, the former as his nurse. As you would expect, it's a Florence Nightingale tale with the two falling in love. But the fault does not lie with its two stars, and not at all with its director, Joel Schumacher, but with its writer, Richard Friedenberg.The screenplay is rather limp, playing with the rhythms of conventional melodrama far too often, and without any real zing. A movie can get by with being conventional, if a lot of heart is poured into it by the storyteller. But that is not the case here. Gifted as they are, Mr. Scott and Miss Roberts do not have a whole terrible lot to work with. She is hired by him, he takes a shine to her (could any man not?), she resists him but pities him, and then warms up, and voila! They're sleeping together. But that was all that I could sense from the picture. The two stars steaming up the screen every once in a while. They did not seem to have a real relationship. I cared a little more whether Mr. Scott's character lived or died, but even at the end, I couldn't have felt less on the question of whether or not the couple would be able to come together again. As if we didn't already know and expect. The script also touches on some good subjects. Chemotherapy, for instance and how it can help kill cancer, but also make life for the patient a nightmare. However, the narrative does not develop these moments to register an appropriate impact.Thankfully, the movie makes the wise choice of limiting scenes with the leading lady's mother. First of all, the dialogue is silly (she actually tells her daughter to move back in with her boyfriend, even though she caught him in bed with another woman, just because he paid the bills) and Ellen Burstyn's performance is sheer ham-acting.Telling the story in a solid narrative also seems to be Mr. Friedenberg's weakness. For the movie is told with a lot of big lumps to bounce over. Take for instance, a rather oddball scene with Vincent D'Onofrio. Of course, being a romantic drama, there has to be a secondary character to make the leading man jealous. Anyway, Mr. D'Onofrio brings them a television set, and they watch Jeopardy. The sequence proceeds to them trying to outguess each other on what the answers are, and just when it seems it might be leading somewhere, it all ends. The moment is nice enough, and grabbed my attention, but when it cut off, it left me wondering just what on earth the point of it all was. Yes, it did more or less resurface twenty minutes later at a predictable dinner scene, but not registering with much impact. And speaking of which, Miss Roberts' decision to run away from the hospital to the country house is rather awkward. Given the fact that the characters are not romantically involved yet.And just what was the point of Miss Roberts running into her ex-boyfriend in a bar? Where to or from did the scene come from? Director Schumacher is to be commended. Except in a couple of jump cut scenes at the beginning, in which we see Mr. Scott suffering from chemotherapy, he does a solid job of directing. Most lovely are his moving images at a country house the couple move into about midway through the picture. A scene in bed between Mr. Scott and Miss Roberts is handled wonderfully, with the camera swishing away from them just as they start to kiss and fondle each other, and then finding the mirror across the room. He also does something that I consider wise. Avoiding the sex scene. He shows us the beginning, and the end, but not the middle. Evidently, he had more faith in the story than the screenwriter.Not to say that Richard Friedenberg's screenplay is a hack-job piece of work. It's adequate enough, but not impassioned. The few tender moments are generated by Mr. Scott and Miss Roberts, and thanks to Mr. Schumacher's fabulous directing. And the movie as a whole is not bad by a long shot. But by the end of it all, it did not seem to matter what became of either character, and I did not feel as if I had gotten to know either of them. As a result, their relationship did not seem to amount to a whole heck of a lot. It's a great idea, with good intentions and good acting, but not much heart. Maybe the original novel by Marti Leimbach works better. I would be interested in finding out. "},{"Title":"Better than average tear-jerker","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Plot in a nutshell Hilary O'Neil (Roberts) is an attractive but educational and occupationally challenged young woman becomes involved with a wealthy, well educated young man, Vincent Geddes (Campbell Scott), dying from leukemia. First she becomes his nurse despite no formal medical training, but later the two fall in love, even though they know their love is doomed to fail because of his leukemia.Sounds like a typical chick flick tear-jerker but manages to rise above that. Shows that Joel Schumacher actually is a competent director, something that was unfortunately tarnished and forgotten due to his misfortune of directing Batman Forever and Batman & Robin. Julia Roberts gives what is probably considered one of her better performances as the frustrated young woman who reluctantly becomes the caretaker, but then falls in love with the ill-fated Vincent, only to be devastated by the fact that his poor health ultimately dooms their romance to fail. Vincent is also well played by Campbell Scott. Their chemistry probably helps elevate this above the usual sappy nonsense. "},{"Title":"The premise for this film sounds a bit far-fetched...","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" and when this film first came out I avoided seeing it because most people said it was silly, another star vehicle for Roberts, etc. But it really isn't. It is a good story made better by decent acting which should never be under-estimated.While Roberts was still in her early stages. Often cast as quirky, offbeat characters, after the success of Pretty Woman. She adds depth to the character of Hillary, a visiting nurse who ends up falling for her patient; well-portrayed by Campbell Scott.Roberts manages to be touching, and also comedic, without using cheap old standby tactics to make the audience like her- (When I think of this, I am thinking of Goldie Hawn, same quirky smile; or Jennifer Aniston-same gestures again and again to the point where it is formulaic and unbelievable.And the audience realizes they are being manipulated.) Roberts is the sympathetic character, Scott the arrogant well-to-do patient, embittered and dying of cancer.There is also a small cameo role with Colleen Dewhurst, and the ending is not trite and predictable. There are some beautiful scenes of the Northern California coastline. You will enjoy this film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"comments","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movies it was sad but very good.  I would like to see it go on DVD.  Its a realistic movie for down to earth with a real life trauma.  I really want this title on DVD.  Julia Robert  is a great actress she can play any role really well. "}{"Title":"my favorite movie in all times","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Since i was 11 years old back in 1991 this movie has been my favorite and I guess it always will be. I just wish I could have this one om DVD cause my tape is running out and are almost not watchable any more. =( I wish everyone would see this amazing film. And see what a great joy it is. Campbell Scott is a beautiful person. And I hope that one day I will be able to meet him. If anyone fells the same way I do please write it down here and tell anyone else so they don't miss this wonderful movie. Leukemia is something that I have been facinated buy ever since I saw this movie and I hope we will find a cure for it soon. Thank you everyone who made this film or my life would not be the same. "},{"Title":"Want to feel? Then feel this movie. Sheer Excellence!","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely amazing, well done on this flick, sheer excellence. Julia Roberts knocks us all for a loop once again with her superior acting. Campbell Scott, brilliant performance, he will have you believing his condition. This may be a chick flick but certainly one that you will not forget. If you have the chance, add this flick to your collection, take it and run. You wont be disappointed with this film. The portrayals of both characters is superbly done. It reaches into your heart and tears it out. If you don't shed a single tear through this film, then you don't have a heart. If a film can move you its worth your time. Get the Kleenex out, you are going to need it. Don't miss this film!! "},{"Title":"A raw cow dead is more exciting.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hilary isn't a nurse so she goes to apply for a nursing/care taking position for Victor. Victor is dying of cancer and he needs Hilary to help him get through it. Well, she isn't a nurse but she still gets hired and then they go on a date 20 minutes into the movie. Then they live in a beach house and I think the friendship of this movie is very touching but the romance just doesn't work very well. Victor has a very boring personality. It's like watching Ben Stein when he is really bored.Then there is this meaningless love triangle which doesn't do much to help the movie. Hilary fights with Victor when he gets sick and I thought that she was his caretaker. Guess not.It had a good ending because the ending didn't drag on and on- it just ended nicely. I wish they had just a nice friendship, it would been better than a strange maze of graves. "},{"Title":"I thought I might Die before it ended...","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film might have been better had it tried harder at showing a man fighting heart and soul to beat his cancer. Instead all I got out of it was some whinny self-pitying boob. Julia Roberts plays the part of a woman hired to be a nurse maid to Campbell Scott (as Victor Geddes)as he goes through the agony of blood cancer treatments. Victor Geddes comes from a well to do family with lots of money, and it struck me as strange that the father that hired Julia would not want to find a professional nurse instead of some blue-collar street girl. In any case Victor's cancer goes into remission and then they of course fall in love and head off into the woods. It has all the clichés of any cheesy love story.....Victor's cancer comes back of course and their love is tested but they are strong and he will fight the cancer and win.This film has 3 parts 1) Man has cancer--lost in self pity--meets cute blond chick with no knowledge of being a nurse.2) Mans cancer goes into remission---man and cute blond chick fall in love---run away to the ocean.3) Cancer comes back---love is tested---end of story. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch because of content!","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" had a real hard-time viewing this film. It is hard to watch a movie about someone going through chemotherapy. That is why I rated the movie low. If it doesn't bother you, you may give the movie a higher rating. I also was not convinced by Julia Roberts performance and saw no reason for her to gradually fall in love with the gentleman that is going through the ordeal. He seemed to be very obnoxious the whole time!The scenes where he goes through his painful chemotherapy are very difficult to watch and one wonders why Roberts is willing to stay with him.If you want to see a really moving story with Julia Roberts about death, I highly recommend the movie Flatliners. Roberts gave a much better performance in that one. "},{"Title":"a drama of terminal love","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A modern opera of love, music and dying. Julia Roberts is as young and beautiful as ever. Campbell Scott dramatizes the physical and psychological effects of chemotherapy on a young man, dying from leukemia, to perfection. I could not think of a better setting than the rocky Pacific coast of Mendocino, California with its melancholic moods and its somewhat eccentric population, to give perspective to the end of this tragic story. The pieces of modern art, shown in this movie, are gorgeous and most appropriate. I am no fan of the saxophone of Kenny G. Give me Ben Webster, Charlie Parker, Gerry Mulligan, Coleman Hawkins or John Coltrane anytime. This is a film for mature audiences. I am afraid that most young people don't relate very well to this kind of story. "},{"Title":"Good film that's very romantic, touching, heartwarming, and moving","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts and Campbell Scott shine as an aimless young woman and a young man suffering from leukemia. DYING YOUNG is a good film that's very romantic, touching, heartwarming, and moving. It's a love story that ultimately tests the boundaries of true love. The music is good, too, especially All The Way, which is the song that Victor (Campbell Scott) played at his home at one point in the movie. Also, I thought that he looked good with his hair slicked back at Estelle's (Colleen Dewhurst) Christmas party. In addition, I thought that Hilary (Julia Roberts) looked very beautiful in the long, white dress she wore to Estelle's Christmas party. In conclusion, if you like love stories that are happy and sad at the same time, this is the movie to see. You will really be touched by it. "},{"Title":"Good film that's very romantic, touching, heart-warming, and moving","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia (Roberts) and Campbell (Scott) shine as an aimless young woman and a young man suffering from leukemia. DYING YOUNG is a good film that's very romantic, touching and moving. It's a love story that ultimately tests the boundaries of true love. The music is good, too -- Especially All The Way, which is the song Victor (Campbell Scott) played at his home at one point in the movie. Also, I thought that he looked good with his hair slicked back at Estelle's (Colleen Dewhurst) Christmas party. Some of my favorite quotes are, That's all this redhead could find. There's no real food in the house, No, uh... Unless you want a Twinkie omelet. Ha! Twinkie omelet! I practically laughed my head off at that! I thought that Hilary (Julia Roberts) looked VERY beautiful in the long, white dress she wore to Estelle's Christmas party. In conclusion, if you like love stories that are happy and sad at the same time, this is the movie to see. You will REALLY be touched by it.  "},{"Title":"Sweeter than honey. Only for the genre lovers","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes moving, sometimes slow, this is a classical Julia Roberts movie. If you like the touching movies this is it. A young man has cancer and is condemned to death. A young woman is hired to take care of him and, of course, a romance is on view. You can see how love can make your few last days the best days of your life. Everything the young man does, he does it for her. She dares to love him even knowing he's going to die.As I said before, nice but a little too sweet, mellow. "},{"Title":"I felt like I was dying","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts plays a young, beautiful, working-class woman who is hired to nurse a rich young man, Campbell Scott, who is dying of leukemia.  Guess what?  They fall in love.  This trite, confused, and overly-stylized film, directed by Joel Shumacher, is nothing short of a disaster.  There isn't a single genuine or convincing moment in this entire flick, which is really saying something since you'd think they would have hit upon at least one or two by accident.  This is undoubtably the worst tear-jerking romance since Love Story stank up the screens.  The only reason I rate this one film higher than that film is because Julia Roberts is better actress, and nicer on the eyes, than Ali Macgraw, and Julia, thank God, doesn't spend the entire film calling Campbell Scott 'preppy.' "}{"Title":"A believable story and Julia Roberts is terrific!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a 'sleeper' and not a box office hit, so I nearly did not get it.  But I am glad that we saw it! The acting is excellent for the two lead roles Julia Roberts and Campbell Scott (who played Hamlet and other top notches).Julia was superb and we admired the fine acting that she did. My wife cried near the end because she herself came very close to dying of cancer (of the liver, was told she had 4 months to live - that was 6 years ago). But it was not a depressing story at all.This is a quality film.  There are no car chases, shoot-outs or cheap sex, just a good solid story by two fine actors. See it. "},{"Title":"It's no 'Terms of Endearment'","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  But it shouldn't be written off completely because of that.It's a very one-dimensional story really which isn't shy in it's aim of trying to get every last member of the audience crying their eyes out before it's over. So one thing it isn't, is subtle. If the first remission won't get you, the third one will.However, the first post-chemotherapy scene is quite harrowing and the hand held camera-work as Julia Roberts dashes from room to room after him as he shouts and vomits all over the place, is very well done. But then the film gets far too silky from there - instead of a realistic portrayal of a leukemia sufferer, we get a worthless romance with the illness somewhat slotted in the background. Can't somebody tell these people that there are enough romance films out there, and I for one would have much preferred a progression of the cancer storyline and it's impact on him - however uncomfortable that may have been, I just think it would've been a lot more worthwhile.If they had done that, maybe the film would be remembered and respected more than 10 years after it's release - rather than a film hardly anybody's even heard of.Quite a disappointment, I'd give it 4/5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":" Running away? I thought that was my trick.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts sparkles with brilliance in the excellent romance Dying Young. Campbell Scott is ravishing also as he looks so good in this one. Always a favorite in the romance genre, Dying Young will tear the emotion from its viewer. The chemistry is ecstatic between Julia and Campbell. They should do more romances together. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts vehicle is hopelessly dry-docked...","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Failed tearjerker never quite takes off, with the standard, sassy Julia Roberts characterization at the film's center. She's a directionless young woman with no future (but lots of big red hair) who takes a job as nursemaid to a leukemia patient. Will they fall in love once he's on the mend? Perhaps...but why? These two never seem to connect on a soulful level, and she's so busy being coy, being tough, and being caring that it's difficult to get a grasp on her. Director Joel Schumacher might have been in over his head the film needs a light, sensitive touch and it's telling that the only well-directed scenes are the ones where Campbell Scott is being a jerk or when Roberts finally lashes out in anger at him near the end (the only time when she reveals something about herself that feels halfway real). It's always nice to see supporting players Ellen Burstyn, David Selby and Colleen Dewhurst, however Burstyn is terribly miscast as a half-wit who collects dolls, Selby has next to nothing to do and Dewhurst (Scott's real-life mother) has a introduction--whirling around with an electric smile--that seems as though she's destined to be the story's grande dame, its Arc Angel, when actually she's not even much of a catalyst in the goings-on. Dewhurst, like Roberts, is just decoration in Dying Young, which is perhaps why it seldom tugs at the heart. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"All heil Joel Schumacher.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No, not really. Of course I'm joking. I'd rather be buried alive.To be fair, Schumacher has made some good films - Falling Down is great fun by any standards - but his bad far outweighs the few good projects he's worked on. His influence on a film is instantly recognizable.Dying Young is one of Schumacher's sappy flicks, about a woman (Julia Roberts) who decides to nurse a dying man (Campbell Scott) who has blood cancer. Typical story - hatred for each other at first followed shortly by a deep romance, which ends in...well...I guess I shouldn't ruin it.The movie is hokey and artificial - it struck me as one of those Hallmark Channel specials you would see on daytime television. If not for the cast it could easily be found in such a slot.It's a curiosity simply because Schumacher fans - as in, the kind that love to hate him - may find it interesting to see him attempt a romantic weeper. "},{"Title":"Underated Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me till now to see this movie, and i wish i had seen it back in June of 1991. i stayed away from this movie because the critics just bashed the heck out of it, my only gripe with it is that i watched it on vhs,Fox has not relesed it on DVD. Julia Roberts was wonderful as Hillary and the music and cinematography were excellent. Also the stairway she walks up is not located on Nob Hill but is on Broadway and Lyon streets witch is in the Pacific Heights section of SF.All in all i really enjoed this movie. Please 20th Century Fox release this on DVD,Julia Roberts made two movies this one and also Sleeping with the Enemy(1991) with Fox and neither has yet to be released by them. "},{"Title":"Julia at her most boring!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In 2000, Julia Roberts finally showed her acting chops in the box office hit, Erin Brockovich! If your looking for a Julia movie..rent EB! Stay the heck away from a bland, little movie called Dying Young!  Dying Young is a boring movie devoid of thought and depth! The romantic scenes seem odd and pretentious! If decide to watch this movie ( please don't!) you will notice that everyone looks miserable. Not because it's a tragic love story, but because their under contract and they would have gotten sued if they left! Rent Love Story if you want a sad and weepy ! Not this wishy-washy, tedious movie!      "},{"Title":"Way Too Manipulative to Work Completely.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts becomes the personal nurse to a young man dying of terminal blood cancer (Campbell Scott, son of George C. Scott) in this film that becomes a bit too manipulative early on to really work as well as it could have. Naturally a relapse in the disease means that Scott can have a glimpse of life with Roberts as they fall in love, but of course how long will he be healthy enough for them to be completely happy together? A sappy film that melts into obscurity real fast with corny cinematic techniques that tire very quickly. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Dying Slowly","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This sort of thing is bad enough on the small screen but on the big screen a weepie has to have the the abillity to move.Pass the Sick Bucket please.Did this movie have to be so boring and tedious.Julia Roberts looks lost at sea in this.A really Bad movie that builds up to nothing.1 out of 10 "}]