[{"Title":"Very underrated, and probably released in the wrong year","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"73 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is very underrated.  It's highly imaginative, creative and clever.  It's just plain fun and in my opinion this film tops the first one.  But the film was forgotten when it first came out, and became even more overlooked as the years passed. Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey also bombed at the box office, whereas the first one was a pretty good hit and very popular. I think the problem may be that this film was just released a couple years too late.  In 1991, Bill and Ted already seemed so '80s. Even though the '80s were only a couple years ago back at that time, the landscape of the music and style for kids had changed so radically with gangsta rap, hip hop, Pearl Jam, Nirvana, grunge and the Seattle sound.  Bill and Ted with their Ozzy Osbourne, Van Halen and Guns N' Roses music along with their '80s style seemed so out of place and very outdated in '91, and I think that's one BIG reason the film bombed at the box office.  Nobody but surfers were still saying stuff like excellent! and bogus! in 1991. Gremlins 2 which also came out in the early '90s suffered a similar fate of being a good film that bombed at the box office because it was too associated with the '80s.  The transition from the '80s to the '90s was a much faster change then now with the '90s and '00s.  1991 was nothing like 1988 or 1989, whereas right now, 2002 and last year 2001 still looks/looked like 1995 or 1996.If only Excellent Adventure which was made in 1988, was released THAT YEAR instead of 1989, and Bogus Journey was made quickly and released in 1989, then it too would have probably been just as wildly received as the first. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most underrated movies I've seen in a long time, Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is the second hilarious adventure of Bill S. Preston Esq. and Ted Theodore Logan, aka Wyld Stallyns.  There are two ways to look at this film First, you see dumb dialogue, far fetched plot, juvenile idea. OR.. You see brilliantly downplayed idiots who yet again find themselves in a situation too big for their brains. Throw a Bruce Willis or a Arnold Schwarzeneggar into this plot and it becomes a big blockbuster movie. Bill and Ted go into the story with the same level of sincerity, only it's Bill and Ted. This is a tricky fence to balance on, but when you watch the movie not as a throwaway screwball comedy, but as an adventure featuring two guys who have no business being in an adventure, it becomes so much more.  "},{"Title":"A Film That Puts The Fun Back In Funny","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Who says sequels can't be as good as originals? This movie proves that that is not always true. It was well-written, more mature, and just out-and-out funnier than its predecessor. Alex Winter once again showed great comic timing as Bill, although the film was absolutely stolen by William Sadler as Death (Don't overlook MY butt. I work out every day, and reaping burns a lot of calories). Some may call it stupid humor, but that's not really the case; the funniest scenes in the movie - such as the Twister scene or 20 Questions - are original, well-played, and just plain clever. We all know Keanu Reeves has never been known so much for his acting, but he's above his average here, and Winter, Sadler, and George Carlin are all great fun.Certainly this film can't appeal to everyone. If the idea of, say, Death playing Battleship, Clue, and Twister doesn't seem funny to you, you probably won't like it (although you may want to lighten up a little). If it does, well then you'll probably agree with me on this Bill & Ted rock!!! "},{"Title":"Talk About a Hidden Gem of a Movie!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't tell you how many times I saw the first Bill & Ted movie before ever seeing this sequel...because it was a sequel, so I figured it wouldn't be as good. I was wrong. I first saw it on television; my sister watched it with me. I couldn't stop laughing. She kept shaking her head, saying, it's not funny, it's stupid - but she kept laughing, too. How can you not laugh at the sight of Death playing Twister? Or, You ugly, red, source of all evil!! I loved the first movie, but I think the second, despite being darker, is funnier, more imaginative, and better written. William Sadler as Death was so, so, funny, so dead on (no pun intended), he deserved an Oscar nomination; this film made him one of my favorite character actors. Alex Winter & Keanu Reeves made Bill & Ted into airheads you root for. They're stupid, sure, but man are they good-hearted! So thumbs up from me; a third Bill & Ted movie would probably be too much, but they did go out in fine style. Catch you later, Bill & Ted! "},{"Title":"A non-heinous sequel!!!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I wouldn't dare say this film is better than the original, but it is very good in it's own right.  The comedy in this film is just as good as the original though, there are so many scenes that get me laughing just thinking about them.The story in this film is even more bizarre than the original, but that's what makes it so great.  Peter Hewitt does a great job directing this film with a great cast.  The core cast from the original film returns to their characters in this film and all do a fantastic job with their roles.  I don't care what anyone says, I think Keanu Reeves is a great actor!  I really enjoyed his portrayal of Ted in both of these films as I did Alex Winter's Bill.  I was very happy to see George Carlin returning to the role of Rufus, very cool!  Hal London Jr, who plays the part of Ted Logan's father does a really good job.  The scene where Ted possesses his fathers body and Hal London Jr begins acting like Ted is a great scene, and he pulls it off impressively well.  I can't forget to mention William Sadler as Death, he completely made the movie for me.  The rest of the cast is quite good as well.If you liked the first installment of the Bill and Ted series, then I would hope you would like this film as well.  But, don't expect it to be as good as the original.  I really hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"It's silly.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I admit it's very silly, but I've practically memorized the damn thing! It holds a lot of good childhood memories for me (my brother and I saw it opening day) and I have respect for any movie with FNM on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Sharper than warranted.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It was only on my second viewing, years later, that I realized two things about this movie 1) I enjoyed it immensely, and 2) that because its execution is decidedly sharper than the premise itself warrants. I had laughed my way through the movie before it occurred to me to renew my initial protests--valleyspeak and loogies and airheadedness (even *good*-natured airheadedness) just aren't inherently funny, especially when drawn out to feature length. But though the movie's momentum does begin to sputter out towards the end, Reeves and Winter and Sadler (and Hal Landon Jr. in an unforgettable scene) display such a remarkable sense of comic timing throughout that even the more clumsily-scripted jokes (e.g. Ted failing to recognize a certain inhabitant of Hell) work as effortlessly as the witter ones (e.g. the challenge). And the teaming of Winter and Reeves clicks so well that the teaming of Bill and Ted (who spend only one scene separated in the entire movie, disaster if they're not well-matched) appears utterly unstrained.(Side note I found the first movie to be only sporadically entertaining--sightly different comic sensibilities there, it seems.)I give it a 7.75. Surprisingly good fun. "},{"Title":"You gotta love this one!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was a kid, I totally loved both Bill & Ted Movies. The other night, Bogus Journey was on and since it was at least 5 years since I last saw it, I decided to tune in. AND I LOVED IT ALL OVER AGAIN! This film is still funny after all those years. 'Excellent Adventure' is better, but this one rocks just the same. Sure, some of the perfomances are a bit cheesy, but hey, this entire film is cheesy in a cool way. Plus it features the coolest personation of Death ever in a movie! Concluding Totally like non bogus movie dude! Way Excellent! STATION!!! "},{"Title":"Most Triumphant","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I got the first Bill and Ted movie for christmas and I had to get the second when I saw it in a store. This one was (I think) just as funny as the first but a much wierder story. It was funny how they had their own personnal hell and how they had to play death. The funny thing was that they played him in stupid little games like clue. The only thing I'd change is Station and Death being in the band but other than that it was great. "},{"Title":"Underrated indeed","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I give props to some of the other top-ranked helpful reviews here as I build on some of the points they made for the film being underrated. Looking at the film through a restricted view of pop culture, particularly '80s fashion and West California style (and how the '90s departed from that), is one example. Comparing the preceding Excellent Adventure to Back to the Future (first movie) is therefore also apt, IMHO, for that very reason. I seem to remember some critics of the latter film pronounced it an '80s nostalgia trip and panned the later two sequels as crappy-add ons to an already complete movie. Professional critique about Bogus Journey seems to echo the same, but unfairly, I think. (Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel *did* like Bogus somewhat, however, and Ebert admittedly did not see Excellent.)I liked Excellent Adventure, but I thought Bogus Journey had a better developed storyline. A full 20+ years later after the movie hit our theaters, I still think so. To use a more modern catchphrase, it's epic. I figure the storyline was a very tongue-in-cheek take on epic folktales; more so with parody references and the more intricate content of deleted scenes. (I will laugh smugly if the proposed second sequel has Bill or Ted saying that-- Epic!) "}{"Title":"Imaginative and silly; Good fun.","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" My Take A goofy, yet imaginative mess. Keanu Reeves (Yes! That Keanu Reeves) and Alex Winter return as the two punk-rock idiots in this sequel to the time-trotting adventure comedy BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE, now a cult classic. In this sequel, Bill and Ted are given much more to do than travel through time. They might as well travel Heaven and Hell too! During the beginning of this sequel, Bill and Ted are preparing for a Battle of the Bands competition which may make them more famous than ever. Meanwhile, many years in a futuristic civilization, the time-wizard from the first film (the always watchable George Carlin) is running a university praising Bill and Ted's names. There, an evil tyrant (Joss Ackland, from THE HUNT FOR RED October) plots to get rid of the two idiot rock-stars once and for all. So he sends two identical android replicas (In the words of Bill and Ted Robot Us's) to do the dirty job.There after, Bill and Ted experience death and must find their way through Hell, with inhabitants that happens to include the duo's worst memories, and then through Heaven in an attempt to get back to earth to save their girlfriends... and their show. Along this whacked-out voyage, they play board games with none other than Death (William Sadler, from DIE HARD 2), reminiscent to a similar moment in the 1957 foreign film classic THE SEVENTH SEAL, aid help from a couple of intelligent alien beings and more.BOGUS JOURNEY's array of exuberant special effects gimmicks aren't up to to-date standards, and even some of the humor and the for-the-time look and feel are somewhat dated (to be honest, the film also feels like it was released on the wrong year, even for the 90's). But with it's no little lack of imagination and a lively turn by both the performances and direction, BILL AND TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY is fun, imaginative, and yes, bogus.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Bogus dudes!","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the sequel to the brilliant Bill and Ted's excellent adventure, Bill and Ted are under threat from the future, as the evil Chuck De Nomolos sends two evil robots, disguised as Bill and Ted to earth to kill human Bill and Ted, in order to change the future.In a great comedy pairing, Winter and Reeves excel to deliver delicious humour to the audience in this entertaining sequel. Though lacking the sharpness of the first, Bogus Journey still has the great catchphrases and dialogue from the leading pair, not to mention an hilarious performance by William Sadler, who brings a humorous side to the figure of depth, the grim reaper. Watch for the games sequences, the best moment in the entire film, but one of many great techniques used to justify the genre.Though still packed with humour, this film has a more dramatic film towards it, with stakes being more serious and situations more risky. This gives the film great dimension and another lovable feature. The creators also stretch the boundaries of the fantasy genre and the use of realism, with hell and heaven being heavily symbolic and present in the plot. The fantasy genre is again spot on with the use of that amazing time travelling machine, though again somewhat confusing at points with the use of timing, and objects and situations being placed before it happens in the present, as is evident in the final couple of scenes.The first watch I hated this sequel, but the second time was a real joy as I appreciated the jokes and story more, and though the jokes and plot aren't as strong as its predecessor, Bogus Journey has enough feel good motives, jokes and a fairly steady plot to make it a good natured family film. "},{"Title":"Pretty much as funny as the first","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill and Ted are back, only this time an evil dude from the future has sent back an evil Bill and Ted to destroy them, thus destroying 'Wyld Stallions' and the basis for human society in the future. This time Bill and Ted have to travel through the afterlife 'Totally Bogus' and save humanity 'Excellent'With much of the same zany humour and some wonderful new characters like the grim reaper, station and robot Bill and Ted (stations creation) Bogus Journey once again entertains, and is worth watching for its soundtrack alone.7/10 A most triumphant sequel Party on Dudes! Hehe "},{"Title":"a most excellent adventure","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill and Ted's bogus journey is possible the most excellent film I have ever watched. Though the acting and scenery etc is poor, who cares. The story line is brilliant and the jokes and words they come up with are most excellent, the ideas are great as well. I recommend anyone to see this classic. The best part is obviously when they 'melvin' death, i was cracking up for 10 minutes and missed the next part of the film. This is so much better then the first one, which was great as well. Possibly the funniest movie of all time!!!!! I think the best parts of the film however, are when Bill and Ted shout excellent and play the guitar solo, it was hilarious. Rock on Bill, Ted and Eddie Van Halen, bring out a 3rd film!! "},{"Title":"One of the best sequels of all time!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 1991 saw the release of the two best sequels of all time TERMINATOR 2 JUDGMENT DAY and BILL & TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY. Out of the two, I've always liked BILL & TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY a bit better. TERMINATOR 2 JUDGMENT DAY is the better made, but there's just nothing like Bill and Ted. Besides Chris Farley and David Spade in TOMMY BOY, it's hard to think of a greater comedic duo than Bill and Ted. They are one of a kind.Seemingly influenced by National Lampoon's O.C. and Stiggs, Bill and Ted were created by Ed Solomon and Chris Matheson, two incredibly talented writers who invented the duo while performing at a local theater in L.A. back in the 1980s. The two quickly began writing a screenplay about two and before long BILL & TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE was born. The film, shot in 1987 and released in 1989, became a big box office success and an instant cult classic. It wasn't long before work began on the sequel. Stephen Herek, the director of 'EXCELLENT ADVENTURE' wasn't keen on working on the sequel since he considered it to be too mean-spirited and unlike the first one so Peter Hewitt, making his feature film debut, was brought in to direct the sequel. There couldn't have been a better director for the job. BILL & TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY is marvelously directed. It's filled with its own unique style and energy that can't be matched.What makes 'BOGUS JOURNEY' one of the best sequels ever is that it while it is darker than the original, it is just as fun. It doesn't change the characters like most sequels do. Bill and Ted are the same lovable characters that they were in the first film. This is because it was written by the original writers. Most sequels are not written by the same writers as the first one, but since 'BOGUS JOURNEY' had the same screenwriters, it ended up being just as good as 'EXCELLENT ADVENTURE' if not even better. Just like the first one, 'BOGUS JOURNEY' is absolutely hilarious, well written, fun, and above all, original. It's filled with spectacular special effects and fantastic comedic performances from Alex Winter, Keanu Reeves, and William Sadler. It's an unforgettable 'journey'. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not rocket science but FUN none-the-less!","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When will people learn that some movies are made for fun and are not necessarily out to change the world? If you realise this then expect to have heaps of fun while watching Bill and Ted's bogus journey. This is a movie that is heaps of fun to watch, Keanu and Alex make a great on screen team reprising their characters from Bill and Ted's excellent adventure with even more 'style' then they had in 1st movie. It's not rocket science but it's great for a laugh, the characters being extremely like-able and the story-line being so radical you have to laugh. Don't expect 'deep-and-meaningfulls' just expect pure fun! "},{"Title":"Very funny and clever...","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I got the DVD for free and didn't watch it the first few months I had it.  After all, it was Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey.  But while in the mood for something light, I put it in.  What I got was a movie that I enjoyed more than I thought I would.  If you're expecting Henry V, you're going to be disappointed.I don't remember much from the first film, which I saw many years ago, but I found this entry to be extremely enjoyable.  While it has its jokes that fall flat, most of the time it delivers, and numerous times it's hilarious.  The character of Death, a direct takeoff from Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal is used to great comic effect, as he plays a game of Twister and falls victim to a Melvin.  There is a game of Charades where Albert Einstein correctly guesses Smokey and the Bandit 3.  The two title characters congratulate God on Earth, as well as his other planets (and snickering when Bill mentions Uranus).  It's absurdity will turn off some, but if the idea a band composed of Death, alien scientists, medieval princesses, and hip-hop dancing cyborgs instigating world peace through their music, then this movie is worth a shot.True, there's nothing really profound or groundbreaking here.  But were you expecting there to be?  It's simply a funny, clever piece of entertainment.  The writers obviously had fun writing it, everyone there looks like they had fun making it, and I had a lot of fun watching it.  Who could ask for anything more? "},{"Title":"I Love Movie","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I realize that alot of people hate this movie, but i must admit that it is one of my favorites. I happen to like it better then its predeccesor and happy to like it better than alot of movies.First off, I think that people never give the story any credit, much like Back to the Future, Time Travel is hard to write, and in this movie they included Time Travel and a Spiritual Journey.I also feel that Keanu and Alex were on there best performances in this movie, they looked cooler, acted cooler, and said cooler things.The set design of this movie is awsome as well, The sets are quite detailed and massive at times and it can be hard to believe that these sets were made for a movie about two teenage buds who can hardly spell...but isnt that the genius of the whole franchise, making these two idiots bigger than life characters that are responsible for the entire utopian future of earth.The costume design was awsome as well. Bill and Ted actually look cool in Bogus Journey, where as in Excellent Adventure they look rather like, well as they would put it, FAGS!!!Even the music in this movie is awsome, the score especially. There so much i could say about this film, cause i love it. But this is one of those movies i grew up watching and everytime i did i liked it more, so i can understand why people hate or just think its Bogus compared to Excellent adventure (which i also love by the way).GET DOWN WITH YOUR BAD SELF!!!! "},{"Title":"A great entertainment","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Lord, how I love this film. I've seen it many, many times since I first saw it in the theaters, and I can only say that it never fails to make me laugh out loud.  Alex Winters and Keanu Reeves are both hilarious as Bill and Ted (and their evil robotic counterparts), and William Sadler finds just the right note of profound embarrassment for his performance as the Grim Reaper. What continues to strike me about this film is its spectacular originality. No one in their right mind would have guessed that Bill and Ted would die, then journey through heaven and hell with the Grim Reaper and two furry aliens to avenge their deaths.  Yet that's exactly what happens.  Man, this movie just makes me all happy inside.  Station! "},{"Title":"We're There, Dude","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first film had little ambition so nothing sticks to the screen.  It was a bad version of 'Back to the Future' with zero charm.  Once accepted that Bill & Ted are nitwits, the joke can only get hammered at the audience for so long before it breaks.This is a surprise.  This is your only spoiler warning...By today's standards, this is more fun.  This was shunned upon release, sad considering that more talent is involved than the first time.  We get the photographer of 'Face/Off', the editor of 'Fugitive', a production designer from Burton's early work, and the sound designer of 'Matrix'.The writers made up for their shallow first outing with something deep.  Since this was shunned by the fanbase and public, the director probably decided the style was too extreme.  It's not, it fits the material.  Like 'Death Becomes Her' and 'Catch-22', this dares to be smart, but we like our movies simple so we don't buy it.  Probably since this dared to be different is why it took 12 producers to pull it off.  What's so good?--Nice self-reference towards Keanu; from airhead to Messiah.  See also Arnold Schwarzenegger.--Joss hates his creations as much as he hates their counterparts, he makes his own hatred.  The Evil B&T and the good robot usses have the same vocabulary as their originals lesser copies and depreciation of language.--The duality motif.  Nowhere else is this evident than in the photography styles, lots of high and low angles.  They even use Roy Brocksmith from 'Total Recall' to emphasize the point.--The choices motif.  I don't know where this started in the genre (maybe 'Ghostbusters'), but it's used pretty well here.  It even boils down to the 7 games against death--Battleship and Club.--Film self-reference, even present in the game against Death (Clue).  This is smarter than Tarantino or Brooks.  Notice the Premier magazine cover at the end Bill and Ted The Movie.  Ironic also how Death and Nomolos were villains in the 'Die Hard' and 'Lethal Weapon' sequels.I still have some minor nits, but nothing compared to the original.  Music and film are different mediums so it makes no sense why many scripts revolve around the former--particularly in the teen market.  Carlin is a great comedian, but in these movies he's wasted.  Also, for all the daring this effort shows, even cracking gay jokes, they can't kill a cat?So, despite looking like a Nickelodeon production, this is incredibly interesting.  From this movie we got Beavis and Butt-Head.  We're in Heaven and we just mugged three people.  Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "}{"Title":"Totally Bogus.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey (1991) Dir Peter Hewitt / Cast Alex Winter, Keanu Reeves, William Sadler, George Carlin, Pam Grier Bogus certainly describes the film. It begins with a Star Wars parody with George Carlin making a narrow escape to warn our moron guitar playing heroes about a world domination scheme. Bill and Ted are teenagers with the intelligence of a snot rag who are auditioning for a major concert but they are eventually thrown off a cliff by robot look-alikes. Perhaps they tried to stop production of this film. Darn it, they failed. The Grim Reapers challenges their souls in the film's one great laugh where he is whooped at Battleship, Clue and Twister. Then they venture to Heaven in search of the smartest scientist who ever lived so that good robot look-alikes can be manufactured. Anyone who claims to be the world's smartest scientist ought to know better than to be caught on camera during one of the year's stupidest films. Bogus plot directed by Peter Hewitt with dazzling special effects. Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves look foolish and act like jackasses. William Sadler is the one performance of great hilarity as the Grim Reaper completely overtaken by teenage madness. Pam Grier is underused, but then again she should be thankful not to be seen more than needed here. Carlin is unfortunately wasted in a film that might have been interesting had it not been so stupid. Score 2 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Bill & Ted should have stayed home","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This bogus journey never comes close to matching the wit and craziness of the excellent adventure these guys took in their first movie. This installment tries to veer away from its prequel to capture some new blood out of the joke, but it takes a wrong turn and journeys nowhere interesting or funny.There's almost a half-hour wasted on showing the guys doing a rock concert (and lots of people watching on free TV--since when does that happen?) Surely the script writer could have done something more creative; look at how all the random elements of the first movie were neatly tied up together by a converging them at the science presentation. Not in this film, which pretty much ended the Bill & Ted franchise. The joke was over.The Grim Reaper is tossed into the mix, for whatever reason. This infusion, like the whole plot, is done poorly and lacks sparks for comedy or audience involvement. There's a ZZ Top impression, hammered in for no reason. There's lights, smoke, mirrors, noise. But nothing really creative or funny.Skip this bogus thing. "},{"Title":"Odd escapade of film making","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a weird film. While the first movie  was fun and entertaining, this film tried  too hard to be an actual movie. The  music, the special effects and cinematography  was too much and too artistic. They  should have made this movie as fun  loving and as entertaining as the original  instead of trying to make a legitimate  film. While the scenes with Death were  funny and entertaining, the rest of the film  lacked in so many areas. Also, what the  heck was up with the fashion of the future.  This film clearly tried too hard, and it backfired.  Quite an odd film to watch. "},{"Title":"A Heinous sequel","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is a heinous sequel to the first movie Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, also an excellent movie. It's about an evil dork from the future who creates two evil robot twins of Bill & Ted to kill the good Bill & Ted. They do kill Bill & Ted. So Bill & Ted must get help from the Grim Reaper, two mentally challenged little dudes, and from two good robot twins that they create. You can watch it a million times and never get tired of it, not to mention keep laughing. I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Party on dudes!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is my most favourite movie in the whole world! I know almost every single line! Keanu Reeves portrays Ted Theodore Logan, a hottie living in San Dimas California, with his best friend Bill S Preston Esquire (played by Alex Winter).Everything's excellent for everyone's favourite surf-speaking dudes! With their own apartment, a pair of bodacious princess babes and a spot on the upcoming battle of the bands, life couldn't be any better! but all of that goes down the tubes when Bill and Ted's evil robot twins kill the Sand Dimas duo and then take over their lives! Replaced on earth by the bogus robots, the real Bill and Ted embark upon a most unwanted expedition...straight to Hell! Now, their only hope is to give the Grim Reaper a wedgie, and then challenge him to the Ultimate Death Match of all time! but can Bill and Ted cheat death, save the world from evil, rescue the princess babes and be back in time to win the battle of the bands? or will their heinous metal twins change the duo's destiny forever?Bogus Journey is way better than the origional, which was really really good too! If you haven't seen this movie, then WHERE THE HELL HAVE YOU BEEN FOR THE PAST 10 YEARS????? )Just kidding! This movie is the best and always will be! Keanu Reeves is totally hot in this movie too which also makes it worth watching! ))) "},{"Title":"It's bogus, but still entertaining","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Oh, come on, learn to have a little fun. When I was a kid, oh, this movie was Oscar-worthy to me. I thought it was absolutely hysterical. One of the best movies I had seen.Now, it's a little stupid, but come on. If you enjoyed Excellent Adventure, you should most likely have fun with Bogus Journey. This was the movie before Dude, where's my car?. Only this one is actually funny. Like I said, it's just a good time. It shouldn't be taken seriously and if you enjoyed the first one, you should like Bogus Journey. It's just a funny movie with some memorable characters. For your enjoyment only, watch it, let go, and remember that it's a silly comedy. That's all.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Sequel That Deserves a Revival (Especially on DVD!)","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey!  This takes me back.  In retrospect it seems to be missing a little bit of the gentleness and wryness of the original.  That said, this is an enjoyable little lark that never runs out of inventive twists.  I wish they had made a third installment made with the same zest and imagination.  The Bill & Ted Trilogy--that would be cool. Oh, well...This movie needs to be released on DVD in its widescreen format. I want to see it in its full 2.351 aspect ratio!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the most wildly inventive movies of all time","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who doesn't think Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is one of the greatest movies of all time needs their head checked. It somehow manages to be both completely inane and no-brainer, but also terrifying knowing and clever at the same time. One of those rare films that actually improves upon it predecessor, Bogus Journey can be enjoyed again and again. Notable highlights include the duel with Death and the ending, which is highly emotional. Keanu wants to forget all that Matrix rubbish and get down to doing what he does best, Ted Theodore Logan in Bill and Ted The Return.  "},{"Title":"Non-heinous, dudes","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say?  I know this movie from start to finish.  It's hilarious. It's an strong link to my past and will change the way I view film in the future.  Hypothetically speaking ) The down-fall?  There's no Socrates Johnson! "},{"Title":"......Now they are History!!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great, it has everything that the first one had but more.... And I love it a lot. I just love the part where they go to Hell then Heaven. It is great, but to me the best part is when the actual Battle of the Bands at the end, in which Bill and Ted actual become famous, the song is great as well God gave rock and Roll to you. The return of Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter is great in their best Film yet,and the presence of their new friend Death is a great touch.And I have heard rumors of a 3rd Bill and Ted movie.But this is great and is probably better than the original.So I give this an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A most non-heinous sequel","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The second but seemingly not the last entry in my second favourite time travel comedy film series, this is a most non-heinous sequel. It is not on quite the same level as the first film but the script by Chris Matheson and Ed Solomon is nevertheless very funny and it is well directed by Peter Hewitt in his feature film debut. The second half is generally stronger than the first. I loved many of the designs in the film such as the Devil, Station (the two little ones more so than the one big one), the Easter Bunny, the Good Robot Usses, Heaven (clearly inspired by A Matter of Life and Death) and Hell. The film's original title was Bill & Ted Go to Hell but it was changed at the insistence of the studio because of the (over)sensitivity concerning the use of the word hell. However, I think that they made the right decision for the wrong reason as the film's actual title is catchier and more descriptive. Besides which, I don't think that they spend enough time in Hell to justify the original title.Five years (relatively speaking) after their jaunt through time to pass history, the lovable metalheads Bill S. Preston, Esq. and Ted Theodore Logan have moved away from home and are gainfully employed at Pretzels and Cheese but their band Wyld Stallyns has yet to become to the musical force that will bring the world into perfect harmony. That said, they are poised for fame as they hired to play at the 4th Annual San Dimas Battle of the Bands. However, things are afoot in the future. In 2691, the decidedly fascist ex- gym teacher - is there any other kind? - De Nomolos has built evil robot versions of Bill and Ted and sends them back in time to the late 20th Century to kill our heroes. They are most triumphant in their mission and the dearly departed Bill and Ted spend some time as ghosts before being exorcised straight to Hell by Missy, the former's ex-stepmother and the latter's new stepmother. The boys must make their way through the afterlife and back to the temporal plane in order to prevent their fiancées - the Princess Babes Joanna and Elizabeth from Medieval England, which isn't really in Iowa - from being killed. Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves are once again very entertaining as Bill and Ted. They also get some great material as the Evil Robot Usses who, since they have much the same personalities as the original versions, are oddly likable as murderous robots from the future go. While I was watching the film, it occurred to me that Evil Robot Usses would be a great name for a band. Someone obviously agreed with me as there is already a band with that every name on Facebook. Winter also plays Hell's manifestation of Bill's rather frightening looking grandmother Granny S. Preston, Esq.William Sadler is hilarious as the put-upon Death, who is astonished when he loses to the duo in a game for their immortal souls. Losing to Bill and Ted can't have done much for his self-esteem. Although he is initially not too pleased at the thought of being their lackey, he gradually grows rather fond of them and willingly helps them in their mission to defeat the Evil Robot Usses. Not many people can say that they have literally laughed in the face of Death but Bill and Ted do it several times. That's certainly something to boast about! One of my favourite little moments is when Death apologises to God for inflicting Bill and Ted on him. One would think that God would be a little aggrieved that they mugged three people in Heaven itself but he seems pretty cool with it, actually. Sadler also has a cameo as the Englishman who is seen watching Wyld Stallyn's first TV appearance with his wife and daughter, played by his actual wife and daughter. Joss Ackland, who later admitted that he thought the film was pretty rubbish, is good as the vaguely German-accented De Nomolos but he has barely ten minutes screen time even though he is technically the main villain. Still, he has more than George Carlin, who appears in a mere two scenes as Rufus but is nevertheless great in the role. Pam Grier has a fun cameo as Ms. Wardroe. The film also features nice appearances from Hal Lindon, Jr. as Captain Theodore Logan and Amy Stock-Poynton as Missy and makes excellent use of the considerable vocal talents of Frank Welker as the Devil, Station and the Easter Bunny. However, I have always thought that Matheson and Solomon missed a trick in the Heaven scenes in not briefly reuniting Bill and Ted with one of the personages of historical significance from the first film such as Socrates, Lincoln or Joan of Arc. The film's original ending, which was unfortunately not used, would have featured De Nomolos spending eternity in Hell with the Evil Robot Usses, whom he despises as he did too good a job in recreating Bill and Ted's personalities.Overall, this is a very enjoyable sequel. I am really looking forward to the recently (re-)announced Bill & Ted 3, which has been in development hell for five or six years now but will hopefully see the light of day in 2017/8. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Hilarious,Underrated Sequel.","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is an excellent and hilarious sequel that combines great direction,a wonderful cast,terrific laughs,a fantastic script and a memorable score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey an amazing sequel that's worthy to the original.Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey finds Bill(Alex Winter)and Ted(Keanu Reeves)who's band Wild Stalyns have entered a battle of the bands while at the same time asking their girlfriends to marry them. Things are going well for Bill and Ted until the two are killed by evil robot versions of themselves sent from the future by an evil leader named De Nomolos(Joss Ackland)who wants to rule the world. Now,Bill and Ted have have to get back from the dead defeat the forces of evil.Released in 1991,Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is a brilliant and hilarious film that was the follow-up to the Cult Classic Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure. While Bogus Journey was a modest success at the Box Office grossing 38 million dollars against a 20 million dollar budget,the movie has always had a mixed to lukewarm reception among Bill and Ted fans and doesn't get the same love as the first film and I don't know why. Maybe it was because it had the misfortune of being released around the same time as the SCI-FI/Action classic Terminator 2Judgment Day which was a much bigger hit or maybe the characters Bill and Ted peaked in popularity with the first film which is a shame because Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is a film that is underrated and overlooked. One of the things I love about Bogus Journey is that while being sequel to Excellent Adventure it takes on a much different tone and feel from the first film. Instead of making an other movie about time traveling Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is many things funny,wacky and at times surreal. For 93 minutes Bogus Journey throws in everything but the kitchen sink because in this film we get Comedy,SCI-FI,evil robots,Death,intelligent Alien Scientists(Station!),the afterlife,spirituality Heavy Metal and Rock music all in one movie done with great imagination and Humor. Some Bill and Ted fans will be turned off by difference in tone and style,but I love it because it's a movie that while a sequel sets up it's own world. The Comedy and Laughs in Bogus Journey are laugh out loud funny with Humor that is on par with the original while at same time giving the Comedy in this film it's own sense of style and pace. The screenplay by Chris Matheson and Ed Soloman is fantastic giving the movie quotable dialog and inspired scenes. As for our heroes Bill and Ted their journey in this one isn't the fun excellent adventure they had in the first film as the two go through a wild and unpredictable ride going to Heaven and meeting God(which is a beautiful)going to Hell and meeting the Devil and others(which is a twisted and funny scene)and playing board and toy games with the Grim Reaper(one of the funniest scenes in any movie). Bill and Ted may get kicked around in this film ,find some of their Journey insane and crazy and still can't play their instruments for their own sakes but we as the audience will root for these two characters to find a way to succeed and get a victory against the forces of evil. The ending of Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is sensational with a mixture of laughs,surprises and music that adds to the Bill and Ted legend and will leave viewers happy. A terrific conclusion.The cast is great. Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves are excellent and hilarious once again as Bill and Ted bring laughs and nice chemistry. William Sadler is amazing and funny as Death,who helps out Bill and Ted. Joss Ackland is great as De Nomolas,the main villain. George Carlin is wonderful once again as Rufus,the man from the future. Pam Grier is sexy and memorable as Ms. Wardroe. Annette Azcuy(Elizabeth)and Sarah Trigger(Joanna)are good and beautiful as Bill and Ted's girlfriends. Amy Stoch(Missy),Hal Landon Jr.(Captain Logan)and Chelcie Ross(Colonial Oates)give good performances as well.The direction by Pete Hewitt is is terrific,with Hewitt bringing a nice visual stunning look to the film and always keeping the camera moving. Great direction,Hewitt.The score by David Newman is fantastic,epic,uplifting and mysterious going with the tone of the movie nicely. Amazing score,Newman. There is also a wonderful Heavy Metal/Hard Rock soundtrack including songs by Megadeth(Go To Hell)and Kiss(God Gave Rock N'Roll To You II).In final word,if you loved the first film,Comedies or SCI-FI,I highly suggest you see Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey,an excellent,hilarious underrated sequel that is worth your time. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The original Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure movie was a cute concept; a lighthearted late 80's movie about time traveling metal heads who were destined to bring about world peace... assuming they could pass their history exam. It's a pretty enjoyable movie, though mired in a lot of stereotypical time travel tropes.Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey, however, is a better movie in just about every single possible way. While the original movie was rife full of fish out of water scenes where Bill and Ted were confused by the various eras of history, Bogus Journey elevates things to a whole new level, seeing the duo transcend mere time travel and move on to higher planes of existence, truly fitting the outrageous idea that these two are the heralds of world peace.Bogus Journey has cooler locations, crazier characters, and funnier dialog than the last movie did. It's a movie that's not afraid to poke fun at its own absurdity, and there's a carefree energy to everything that you can't help but get swept up in. But it never loses control of itself; this is a movie that's silly with a purpose, and even though they're dumb as a sack of hammers, you can't help but root for Bill and Ted. Bogus Journey thankfully does not let itself become a movie ABOUT how dumb Bill and Ted are, and it treats their motivations as legitimate, giving it just enough weight to carry itself forward, no matter how absurd it gets.The only complaint is some of the language used in the film. There are a couple of points where homosexual slurs are casually used -- once by the villains (which I can accept as them being in character as villains), but then later, it's used again in a slightly less innocent scenario. 1991 was a long time ago, and that kind of language isn't acceptable anymore, but what's done is done, I suppose. A minor blemish on what is otherwise an incredible and hilarious movie.Even if you've never seen Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, consider watching Bogus Journey. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Bill and Ted tour the Afterlife","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In the idyllic future created by the influence of the Wyld Stallyns, Chuck De Nomolos (Joss Ackland), has become angry with the society and system, so he decides to change things in such a way that his ideas would form the basis for a new future. De Nomolos and his followers seize control of Rufus' (George Carlin) classroom and the phone booth time machine. De Nomolos reveals that he's constructed robot duplicates, Evil Bill and Ted, which will go back to the 1990's, kill the real Good Bill and Ted, wreck their lives and reshape history in De Nomolos' image. In 1991 San Dimas, Bill S. Preston, Esq. (Alex Winter) and Ted Theodore Logan (Keanu Reeves) along with their girlfriends, Joanna and Elizabeth-the English princesses from the 1st film, are auditioning for The San Dimas Battle of the Bands. Bill and Ted still can't play and it shows despite Joanna and Elizabeth being accomplished at keyboards and drums. Ms. Wardroe (Pam Grier), the concert's organizer, let's them in the contest out of some strange pity anyways. Bill and Ted celebrate at Capt. Logan's house, where it's shown that Bill's former stepmother Missy divorced Bill's dad to marry Ted's dad. Bill and Ted take the opportunity to propose to Joanna and Elizabeth with Ring Pops, who accept gladly. Afterwards, Evil Bill and Ted arrive and call Good Bill and Ted, using voice mimicry, pretend to be the Princesses to seemingly break off the engagement. Good Bill and Ted feeling dejected are happy to they assume are their helpful future selves when Evil Bill and Ted arrive at their apartment. Evil Bill and Ted convince the good pair to come with them. After driving into the desert, Evil Bill and Ted gleefully reveal their true intention to murder Good Bill and Ted so they can take control of their lives and ruin the history of Wyld Stallyns. Good Bill and Ted attempt to fight back but they're no match physical match for the evil doppelgangers. After dying, Bill and Ted must find a way back to physical existence to save the Babes and History itself. They are accompanied on their journey by The Grim Reaper (William Sadler), whose character is a parody of Death from the 1957 Ingar Bergman film The Seventh Seal about a knight playing a chess game with Death to see whether he lives or not. In Bogus Journey, however, Bill and Ted play Death in a series of Milton-Bradley games.True fact The working title for this film was Bill and Ted go to Hell and thrash metal pioneers Megadeth have a song on the soundtrack called Go to Hell. The soundtrack also features music from Slaughter, Faith No More and KISS, who perform the credit track God Gave Rock and Roll to You. It's a pretty entertaining film and a rare case of a sequel bettering the original. Some the jokes are childish and the slang, California surfer accents and some of the musical anecdotes can be tiresome, especially when Bill and Ted quote Every Rose has it's Thorn by Poison at the Gates of Heaven. Some parts it haven't aged well either since the future glimpsed at the beginning looks like an encapsulated picture of over-the-top late 1980's/early 1990's fashion inspired music videos. It would cool though to have a class that could allow a person to learn musical theory and history from great composers and rock stars in person through the use of a time machine. The afterlife in particular, though,looks pretty strange in a good way, the bluish gray haze of the spirit plane, and Hell did look scary, at least it did to a 10-year-old when I first saw this movie. "},{"Title":"Pushing the ridiculous too far","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As I was watching the first Bill&Ted I was thinking that it represents the end of an era, the 80's, where studios would risk on a fun movie that didn't take itself at all seriously. The sequel, unfortunately, is bogus. They push it all too far, they remove from the fun of the first and they push the movie all over the place evil despots, robots, Death, The Devil and God. If in the first movie the pleasure was to watch the hapless Bill & Ted, in this film William Sadler steals the spot.Bottom line while still a little funny, it was a lot more boring than the first film. Studios didn't do it for fun this time, they just wanted to cash on the success of the Excellent Adventures. In view of 2015 rumors about a third part to be released, I wonder if the... franchise, I guess we must call it, will regain its irreverent fun side or be yet another reboot of a sequel that is a prequel of a previous reboot, as is the custom nowadays. "},{"Title":"Decent Sequel","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A tyrant from the future (Joss Acklund) creates evil android doubles of Bill (Alex Winter) and Ted (Keanu Reeves) and sends them back to eliminate the originals.Somehow, when this film came out, it had better reviews than the original. In retrospect, that baffles the mind. While not a bad film (William Sadler is especially good), there is no way this holds up to the original. It is a little too dark, the music a little too dated, the script a little too scatter-brained.Talks of a third third continue... will it ever happen? I am starting to think not, though Keanu Reeves is now (2015) not the star he was from 1995-2005 and could probably make himself available... would Bill and Ted be the same, or would they have become mature adults? "},{"Title":"Lacks The Charm of The First Film","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" On paper, Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is a sequel that should work. The plot is not a complete retread of the first film and some of the script is actually pretty creative. Unfortunately, the film severely lacks in charm which is one of the main elements that made the first installment enjoyable.Reeve's and Winters do an excellent job of reprising their roles, but their dimwitted metalhead personalities become an over-reliant source for jokes which become more redundant than funny. On a side note, the addition of William Shatner as The Grim Reaper is a highlight of the film.Even though the film is attempting to actually be something different than the previous installment, it bites off way more than it can chew. A bunch of sci-fi elements are introduced including robots and part of the plot involves Bill & Ted dying and traveling to the afterlife. While it all should fit the absurd humor of the film, none of it flows together coherently and feels sloppy and scatterbrained. Their are a few funny bits scattered throughout, but a lot of it just dully drags along delivering little laughs. Bogus Journey had all the elements in place for it to be a good sequel, but it falls apart in it's execution losing it's charm and much of the humor along with it. It's not a terrible sequel, but one that's pretty forgettable and only worth watching if you are a hardcore fan of the first installment. "},{"Title":"Not entirely bogus, but also not nearly as excellent","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" All of the charm (and most of the humor) of the original seems to heave been sucked right out of Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. It's nowhere near as funny and tends to drag in places as a result. Really, the reason to watch this is William Sadler as Death. The entire sequence with Bill & Ted challenging him to various board games is the movie's best part, and he's still a bright spot as he tags along through the rest of the story. Still can't believe that's the bad guy from Die Hard 2. In any case, it's a textbook case of one actor stealing the whole show.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not non-triumphant, but not non-non-egregious either.","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bogus Journey opens in the year 2619, where Bill & Ted's music and philosophy has shaped society and everyone wears awful clothes made from sheets of foam. Clearly upset at being forced to dress in such a ridiculous fashion, evil fiend De Nomolos (Joss Ackland) creates robot doubles of the Bill and Ted and sends them back in time to kill the originals, which they do by chucking them off the Vasquez Rocks.Death, however, is only the beginning of the righteous dudes' bogus journey, which sees them travelling to hell and heaven, before returning to life to do battle with their metal doppelgängers and De Nomolos.With the news that there might be a third Bill & Ted movie just around the corner, I thought that now would be a good time to revisit Bogus Journey, which I remember not being very impressed with when it originally came out&#x85;Almost a quarter of a century later and my opinion hasn't changed while not totally heinous, this sequel is is far from the excellent adventure that was the first movie. In an effort to go one better than before, Bogus Journey packs in as much craziness as possible, including robots, aliens, the Grim Reaper, visions of Heaven and Hell, and the Easter Bunny, but in doing so the film it loses what made the first film so great heart. And Diane Franklin.The best thing about the whole film is Death, played by William Sadler, who provides the film with all of its funniest moments, including a neat homage to Ingmar Bergman's iconic art-house classic The Seventh Seal. But a creepy bald guy in a robe with a scythe playing Battleships and Twister simply ain't enough to carry an entire movie.5 out of 10, which I considered pushing up to 6 for Pam Grier and Kiss's cover of God Gave Rock And Roll To You, but&#x85; no Diane Franklin. Bogus! "},{"Title":"Smokey is the Bandit!!....","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The world of our distant future is a utopian one, thanks to the lyrics of two 20th Century rock and rollers, Bill and Ted.However, a villainous Joss Ackland threatens to throw history off-track by sending evil robot Bill and Teds back to kill their good counterparts.Finding themselves dead, the boys must outwit the Grim Reaper and traverse Heaven and Hell to return to the land of the living, rescue their girlfriends and win at the all-important Battle of the Bands.....Less of a film and more of a group of sketches melded together to make something quite bizarre, Bogus Journey works because of the two leads easy going style, and Sadler's wonderful camp portrayal of the Grim Reaper.For a film that is so out there, in a narrative respect, the imagery and the camera-work is truly genius.From the moment we first meet Death, it does have a lingering feeling of Bergman to it, and the make up is beautiful too at this point of the film.The depictions of Heaven and Hell are brilliant too, and the film is at it's funniest when we meet Einstein and a game of charades.It loses it's way come the end, and becomes a little too self aware, but it's still a fun throwaway movie, that can be enjoyed from time to time.But it's still the best film ever made featuring someone who is inexplicably satisfied by having a Melvin. "}{"Title":"Just as good as the first.","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Oddly Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is just as good as Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure. They're both truly ridiculous with the occasional classic scene and laugh. I really wanted to enjoy these movies but I think I waited too long. There have been so many developments in film that it is hard to think these movies are the work of a genius. I am only quoting other reviewers.I think I like this storyline a little more than the first but they seem even dumber this time around. Kind of reminds me of Dumb & Dumber. And personally I just don't think this movie genre was made for me. I in no way only watch intellectual films because I love turning off my brain for animated movies and comedies for example but I just don't enjoy lowering my brain down to the level of a pot-smoking monkey. And even that makes me think I just insulted many monkey's on the planet. "},{"Title":"Not as good or nice as Excellent Adventure, but with some good bits","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure is a sweet, naïve (in a good way), funny and original. It's feelgood comedy. Bogus Journey takes the premise of the unlikely heroes to a whole WHOLE new level. Reeves and Preston are playing both themselves and their evil robot selves. It's more adult, not so family friendly as Excellent Adventure was, and whilst some of the SFX hold up, it hasn't stood the test of time quite as well. Preston and Reeves are funny though and again look like they're having a great deal of fun with the film, and play around a lot with the characters. Again, the princesses aren't particularly convincing, but Ted's father played by Hal Landon Jr and Death (William Sadler) are both great especially Captain Logan's impression of Ted. There's some great one-liners and memorable bits but generally I don't like this one as well and it's not as clever and the repeated lines mean that the script isn't so witty either. It's really a vehicle for Reeves as he's by far the highlight; him and Death! The music is good but on many levels, it's offensive in the guise of easy laughs.Watch the credits for the newspaper articles. "},{"Title":"That rare sequel...","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sequels suck, that's true pretty much all the time except for a few rare exceptions such as GODFATHER II, THE ROAD WARRIOR, and THE DARK KNIGHT. And BILL & TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY, a follow up the smash hit...EXCELLENT ADVENTURE. It's been a long time now, but the first movie featuring the slacker Southern California duo was a big hit at the end of the 80's. The follow up came out in the summer of 1991, the same summer as TERMINATOR II JUDGEMENT DAY (which is also a pretty good sequel and which also featured evil robots, same as BOGUS JOURNEY). Sadly, BOGUS JOURNEY flopped at the box office because culturally the 80's were over, along with Big Power Ballads and anthem rock, and the decade of Nirvana and Pearl Jam had arrived. Now, more than two decades later, with the pop culture wars of the 90' long settled, one can see how well Bill & Ted's second outing has stood the test of time.This time around, the boys are killed by their evil robot alter egos, go to hell, meet Satan, confront their worst fears, cheat the Grim Reaper, sneak into Heaven and manage to get back home in time to win The Battle of the Bands. It's just one damn thing after another as our not-nearly- as-dumb-as-they-seem heroes somehow find a way to overcome any and all predicaments. Along the way they poke fun at any number of pop culture conventions from time travel, Southern California, to the existential angst of Ingmar Bergmann. There simply is no other movie of its time quite like it. Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are still perfectly over the top as the ultimate Dudes; if you can't stand their surf speak accents, then you just don't get it and never will. One of the great things about BOGUS JOURNEY is the equally outrageous characters they go up against, starting with William Sadler's Grim Reaper, whose Scandinavian accent gets thicker as he gets ever more exasperated. Joss Ackland does a send up of super villains as Chuck De Nomolos; why wasn't he ever cast as a bad guy in a Bond movie? As it is, both Sadler and Ackland had great turns as villains in the DIE HARD and LETHAL WEAPON sequels. George Carlin returns as Rufus, winking at the audience, as if to say he knows he's selling out, but knows he'll be forgiven just the same.Then there's Missy, the two bodacious princess babes, the evil usses, Station, Melvined, Pam Grier, Clue, Twister and Battleship, Granny S. Preston Esquire, Colonel Oats, Spy magazine, Every Rose Has It's Thorn and God Gave Rock 'N Roll To You II. To see BOGUS JOURNEY now is to stand with your back against one decade (the 80's), with another (the 90's) out in front. Every now and then, there is talk of Winter and Reeves reuniting for another BILL & TED, but I think they should quit while they're ahead. "},{"Title":"Has more entertainment value than the first","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I actually liked this sequel more than the first one. But while the first one was a hit, this one ended up flopping at box office unfortunately. Which led to not being another sequel, until now which is a very long gap. Everything is just more imaginative and creative this time around. Also more innovative with the places they visit and do and the people or inhuman things they meet. They deal with androids of themselves from the future, ghosts of themselves, games with death, adventure through hell and heaven. And it all connects well, unlike the previous movie. While the first Bill and Ted movie bore me, this was has entertainment value. If you liked the first Bill and Ted movie you will probably like this one as well. Although it's a bit more crude than the previous one. Although this is nothing compared to the crudeness in the comedies today.6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bill & Ted's Boring Journey","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Mistakenly, I had gotten this one thinking that it was the first movie (which looked quite funny from the trailer). I only realized within a couple of minutes after the first few sequences that I was watching the the sequel...and expectedly it turned out to be a boring dud. There are a few laughable moments but nothing to tell others about. I actually found myself dosing off every now and then. The point of this kind of film is that they're 'supposed to be' so cheesy and...well, bad that they're funny. So it's cheesy and bad pretty much in all department (acting, makeup, lighting etc) but 'Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey' just isn't funny. "},{"Title":"Bill and Ted travel to Hell and Back to win the battle of the bands","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is the sequel to Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure and in my opinion it is just as good. Where in the first movie, Bill and Ted travelled through time, here they travel to heaven and hell and experience what it is like to be dead, and in their words it is bogus and most unheinous. Where as in the first movie everything was really good, this movie, everything is really bad. Like the first movie, they end it with a huge concert but this one is somewhat heaps better as Bill and Ted fight the bad guys and win as their opening to battle of the bands. Chuck De Nomelos (Joss Ackland) is one cool bad guy. Martin Erbert, who liked this movie, said it was as thin as ice and as light as a feather. The comedy is quite like that, light and funny and in my opinion, quite good for American Comedy (which I tend not to like). As for being thin, I don't think so there is numerous things that one can think about in this movie, as in any movie. This movie deals heavily with the afterlife, looking at both heaven and hell. Bill and Ted go to hell first and when they escape, they then go to heaven. The classic quote here is our album covers lied to us! The filmmakers have created a hell which is not nice. Many of us consider hell to be a wild place where we can do what we like and not suffer any consequences for it. Heaven is boring and dull and hell is fun. In Bogus Journey, hell is not fun, far from it. The first thing we see are people screaming to be let loose. Bill and Ted go deeper in and find that they will spend eternity going over all of the bad things that happen. They manage to escape though. This helps move the story line for they must get home and save their fiances. The thing is that in reality, once you are in hell there is no escape. Bill and Ted were lucky, we will not be so. Heaven is really interesting as well. It is a beautiful place where everybody enjoy themselves. The imagery in interesting when they enter as all who pass through the gates. Heaven here is much better than Hell, and God is a really nice guy, as Ted comments after God helps them in sending them to Station. The problem here is that Heaven is portrayed as a place where all the good people go. It is not a place where only those who believe in God and follow Christ go, but rather a more liberal version. This movie is different, but in essence the same. They go on a very strange metaphysical journey and finish off with a great show. The difference is is that they have opponent directly trying to stop them from succeeding. This isn't simply finishing a history project, this is saving the would from the evil Chuck De Nomolos.However the interesting thing is (and people will call me an idiot because of it) but Bill and Ted are both Christ figures. The reason I say that is because they both die and come back to life, the travel to hell and then to heaven, but they also defeat Death and bring him under their power. As death says when they ask him to take them somewhere 'you have beaten me &#x96; I am yours to command'. Further, they end up becoming a pivitol point on Earth's history and change the direction that it is heading, and to finish off, they ascend into heaven, in the sense that they leave Earth to go and play on Mars. While this is all quite interesting, what this tends to show us is that we as a culture are still looking forward to the coming of somebody to make everything all better, when in reality that person has already been, and while we need to still look into the future, we also need to look back to the past to see what has already been done. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Some sequels are organic - they kind of grow out of their predecessor in a way which feels natural and which leads to them being as good, or nearly as good, as what came before. Then there are cash in sequels - a film envisaged as a one-off is an unexpected hit and a sequel can therefore be justified in order to milk that unforeseen market a bit more. This tend to be much more unsatisfying than organic sequels. Very occasionally a movie is both organic and a cash-in, and Bogus Journey is a case in point.The seed for Bogus Journey was sewed at the end of Excellent Adventure - we need to know how Bill and Ted progress towards Wyld Stallynhood. And, in Bogus Journey, we discover the answer - not very well, mainly due to the fact that future nemesis De Nomolos (Joss Ackland) kills them. In order to win a Battle of the Bands, they therefore have to make their way back from the afterlife, which involves challenging the Grim Reaper (a very funny William Sadler) only rather than Bergman-esque chess games, Bill and Ted prefer Twister.This is as daft as the first one, albeit lacking a little of the joyous sense of playfulness in that one. Still, the time travel fun and games are just as cleverly thought out.This is good fun. "},{"Title":"A Fun Throwback for Cold War Kids","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Go way back to page ten of this review section, and work your way back up. Go ahead; I'll wait.Done? Well, then you've probably noticed the same trend that I have. You could nitpick all day long about the lame jokes, dated timing and obviously derivative plot points and shtick in 'Bogus', but this movie seems to be one of those 'hate me now, love me later flicks.Bill and Ted's biggest problem was that the original appealed to those 80's kids who followed the tends and considered themselves on the cutting edge of fashion. That worked fine for the original, but obviously bombed in 1991, when no self-unrespecting slacker would be caught dead wearing anything but flannel or admitting he liked anything about the 80's. As Ted would put it Dude, this is a totally deep hole. Wanna play 20 questions? They say nostalgia goes in 20 year cycles, and that certainly seems to be the case here. Here in 2010, those of use who grew up with Cindi Lauper and Megadeth are beginning to look back to appreciate some of those pivotal films that (like it or not) made us who we are. If you're one of those who look at 'Bogus' as if it were an outdated (Fa gs!) ripoff, then you're missing the point and probably spent six years growing facial hair, wearing flannel and looking like you just crawled out of bed.In self-referencing its own origins (the Star Trek episode and and time traveling with a phone booth), B&T makes no attempt to hide its creators' love for homage. Quentin Tarantino, anyone? I'm not saying 'Bogus' is 'True Love,' but I do think it needs to be appreciated for what it is a fun snap-shot of our society at a time before child psychology, Ritalin, anti-smoking ads, terrorist paranoia and the proliferation of media fear-mongering. So, for all of you B&T haters out there...turn off your Screaming Trees CD, get that hair out of your face, go to the beach and lighten up. Narcissistic depression and intellectual ennui are SO corporate. "},{"Title":"An actually quite clever satirical look on death and the afterlife","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sequels generally are inferior to their predecessors and this case is no exception but that doesn't make this film bad. Far from it the Bill and Ted films are possibly Keanu Reeves' best work and he really does shine in this film. Him and Alex Winter have a real chemistry that I think will sit alongside the classic double acts. The scenes set in Hell and indeed Heaven are possibly the most interesting of any other set there in any other films. The scene where they turn up in Heaven to meet key figures from throughout history is one of genius. I also really love William Sadler's Grim Reaper, this is possibly one of the funniest things about this but the genius of the duo Bill and Ted will remain genius for a long time coming. "},{"Title":"Party On Bill! Party On Ted!","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Will and Ted's Bodacious journey is an existential trip through themes of mortality, religion, time, Heaven and Hell, man's quest for fame and his fears of the body being overcome by a soulless machine. It is the most intelligent work of fiction since Paradise Lost and references many great past works of art- Dante, Iron Maiden, Virgil, Shakespeare. This time the dudes are a famous rock band having travelled through time collecting icons from the past- Napolean, Joan Of Ark (Noah's wife), Oscar Wilde, and Charles Darwin. They took the skills they learned from each of these people, abducted a couple of Princesses, and finally learned to play their guitars and write hit songs. These songs teach the world to love again and war, hunger, evil are vanquished for eternity. We fast forward into the distant future where an evil dictator who despises good music called Simon Cow-Al wants to rule the world. He eats Rooshus (the cool guy from the first film who helps Bill Playboy Esquire and Ted Theodore Alvin) and gains the power to send two cyborgs back in time. The cyborgs are living tissue over metal exoskeleton and coated in mimetic poly alloy allowing them the survive the turmoil of time travel, and they can imitate anything they sample by physical contact. It is their job to Kill the good Biff and Fred and take over their lives by making terrible music that no-one could like. By doing this they will change the world forever- Gryll and Jed's music will never be made leaving a world of war, famine, and hatred, and more annoyingly, bland boy/girl group pop music. There is a startling twist as the good guys actually are killed and they have to work out a way to save the world, themselves, and their wives from the evil Dopplebangers inhabiting their bodies.Penelope Spheerhead shows her knowledge of both youth culture and real culture by mixing modern day music and phrases with post modern sets and artistic references, and seeks to teach us all something by delving into our very psyche to show us ourselves. She presents the nightmares which faced the late 80s teen in a society which had abandoned them and beckons us to dissect the post structuralist jingoism, self love, and malaise of the time. Charging us with a belief that we can indeed change the world it is an inspiring message, but in order to achieve such dreams we must traverse and indeed face our nightmares. To overcome is to succeed, to defeat Death is the first step in truly living and not merely surviving. In the words of Kenneth Reeves- 'Wow!' Best Scene For a fun game- see how many songs, bands, and albums cover references you can spot throughout the film. There are at least 6. "}{"Title":"While not quite as funny as the original, it still is jam-packed with laughs","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, I'll admit it--I am a goof-ball and I occasionally love a really silly comedy. While I have seen more films by Kurosawa, Bergman and Truffaut than practically anyone on the planet, I still have a soft spot for a dopey comedy that doesn't try to be sophisticated but is simply funny. A few such films that immediately come to mind are MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, UHF, START THE REVOLUTION WITHOUT ME, STRANGE BREW and the Bill and Ted movies. They all lack snob appeal but only a zombie or professional film critic could dislike them.While BILL & TED'S BOGUS JOURNEY isn't as wonderful as the original Bill and Ted film, it still is great fun. Also, unlike the original, it actually seems to improve with repeated viewing. I remember not loving the film the first time I saw it--possibly because the other movie set such a high standard for laughs and because the Hell sequence was unnecessary and unfunny. But, every time I see it again I am amazed at all the great moments--particularly those involving the Grim Reaper. And, by the way, this reaper is about as different from Bergman's in THE SEVENTH SEAL as you can get!! In addition to a lot of laughs, this film features some excellent music--one way that it's actually better than the first film. The Kiss anthem at the end is great but so are the rest of the hard rock tunes--provided you aren't an old killjoy like De Nomolos. Great viewing for kids and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Better written, sharper and even more fun.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Now this is more like it! The first movie had some iffy dialogue and some weaker acting, but it seems like the team behind this got their stuff together for the sequel and put out a solid, thoroughly enjoyable, hilarious and creative comedy that will keep everyone on the edge of their seats the whole way through.Seriously, this is just full of great stuff, brimming with creativity, and it's less of a spoof on 80s movies at the same time. The scenes in Hell are great, and so are the ones in Heaven. There's really no shortage to the mad-cap adventurous romp that this one promises, and you will never see another movie like this. Even the hammy final act of the movie isn't as bad as the first one, being generally heartwarming and enjoyable in its extremely cliché repertoire of family fun movie bliss. And even Keanu Reeves, despite looking about 30, isn't that bad here.Sounds like a good deal to me. "},{"Title":"I guess sequels can be better than the originals (occasionally)","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves return as the two dopes from San Dimas who get sent on another trip of a lifetime as someone from the future feels exactly the opposite the way it was presented in the first movie.The only difference is that their trip is somewhere between Heaven and Hell and ends up being both. When they meet the Grim Reaper, they get the chance of an after-lifetime to play him for a chance to return and stop two evil robots from ruining what future they were supposed to have. Besides playing roles they have...er...perfected, they also play (and revive a couple of extra sales in the process) some classic games (I even have my original copy of Battleship in the closet).The reason I liked this movie better than the original is because it deals with what it might be like instead of what was. Without spoiling the movie, I can't give you anymore information about this (I guess you'll just have to watch them both and decide for yourself! 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Lot of fun  again with  the inseparable teen friends traveling through of the time and space","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In this following ,the stupid and geeky adolescents journey to Hell and Heaven and confront against a villain(Joss Acland) from the future and a duo of robots are substitute them.While in the first part the inseparable dudes meet get to know some of the history's most famous characters Sigmund Freud,Gengis Khan ,Socrates,Lincoln,Napolen,Billy the Kid,Joan of Arc,this time appear  Albert Einstein,Johann Sebastian Bach,Benjamin Franklin,Thomas Edison,Confucius, and even Grim Reaper(William Sadler in a double role), among others.The movie like the first part is developed throughout time tunnel and the location named St Dimas little town.They pass along the universe in a time machine ,a telephone booth.Again Rufus(George Carlin),an emissary from the future comes to help them.This sequel such as the original is a sci-fi comedy with noisy action,humor,tongue in check and is very amusing .A dimwitted Keanu Reeves(Matrix,Speed) and an airhead Alex Winter(Borrowers,Freaked,Lost boys) play a fully sympathetic and surrealist couple.The film contains a breathtaking special effects ,adding a nice cinematography(Oliver Wood)and lively musical score(David Newman). This following also achieved success in the box-office and video rentals,both films are nowadays deemed cult movies with numerous aficionados.The motion picture is well directed by Peter Hewitt, a familiar comedies expert(Tom and Huck,Borrowers,Garfield).The flick will like to teen comedy buffs.It's followed by a cartoon TV and television series .Rating  Acceptable and entertaining in spite of the inspiration,magic and freshness had partially gone. "},{"Title":"A little off the wall, but a good movie anyway","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is the sequel to Bill and Ted's excellent adventure. Their bogus journey follower almost directly after the first movie, and does just as good of a job if not better to entertain the viewer.The plot is an evil person from the future is trying to kill Bill and Ted using evil robots that look exactly like Bill and Ted. Once the robots kill Bill and Ted, they must compete with the grim reaper (death) and return their lives to normal.The acting in the movie is top notch, and even thought it is a little weird at times, especially Bill and Ted's conversations, it is a great movie. The wannabe rockers sure have made another great movie. Pick this up the next time your at blockbuster! "},{"Title":"so much fun","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It may have not been up for academy awards and admittedly, it's pretty cheesy, but it's just so much fun! Nothing makes me smile like Bill and Ted. Lovable, optimistic, and hilarious, Bill and Ted are a great way to unwind.Although I love Excellent Adventure, Bogus Journey is funnier to me. Death is flippin hilarious and Bill and Ted are even more endearing. People give me grief about loving this movie, but only really pretentious movie-watchers will say it's not even a bit entertaining. If you like this, you'll probably also be a fan of Wayne's World, Dude Where's My Car, and Dumb and Dumber. Admit it, though foolish, they make you grin and turn your tickle box over. So watch them just for kicks and giggles!! "},{"Title":"The Special Effects are Heavy Handed but Still an enjoyable sequel.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Two years later... Bill (Alex Winter) and Ted (Keanu Reeves) are becoming near rock stars in the present future but still needing more work in their instruments. In the future, Bill & Ted are in the public popular history but then a evil man (Joss Ackland) is set to kill Bill & Ted by sending cyborg look-likes to destroy them. Cyborgs are sent to the past present and they actually murder the real Bill & Ted. Now, Both guys are spirits and they have to travel through Heaven and Hell to save themselves and their future.Directed by Peter Hewitt (Tom and Huck, The Borrowers) made a clever sequel with terrific visual effects. Much more funny and entertaining than the original. William Sadler (The Shawshank Redemption) steals the show as The Grim Reaper.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has the theatrical trailer and an amusing behind the scenes featurette. This sequel was a Box Office hit like the original but it is also (Believe it or not), one of the best sequels ever made (depending on your point of view). George Carlin reprises his role from the original briefly. Pam Grier also appears in a bit role. It's a enjoyable fantasy comedy. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Really great, and fun movie","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is awesome. If you take it too seriously, of course you will hate it; however, it's quantity of dudes and right ons brings laughs and faint memories of about 15 years ago. I like its ability to make me simply chuckle at obvious jokes and silliness, and its ability to make me want to watch its precursor, Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure (1989). If you are looking for a film full of multifaceted jokes, and totally mature humor, don't watch it; however, if you want a film that is humorous and silly, yet intelligent and engaging, you will enjoy it. I actually wish more of this sort of picture showed up in today's theatres. And hey, it's Keanu Reeves acting the way everyone parodies him as acting...right...doesn't get much better than that ) "},{"Title":"Funny yet stupid","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As with a bunch of guys at school we must give this a thumbs up. Even the Grim Ripper made us smile. Those two alien things made me laugh, Bill and Ted were the stupidest yet the funnest in the entire movie. This is a lot better than the first one. And yet for some reason I feel that it misses something. Something big. Something important. Made a better house and girlfriends. No, I'd say better villains. Use clones instead of robots.I gave this a 7 out of 10 because of those two robotic doinks.The Grim Ripper, don't be scared he's not the deathy kind, is funny. When he fell from the sky I split a gut. Splat, I'm not sure about those aliens. What where they? Scientists? No way. "},{"Title":"Hilarious dumb comedy","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Before reading this, it may be important to realise that I haven't yet seen Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. But after watching Bogus Journey, it's high on my 'to watch'list. The movie has a wacky but simple plot line. Two guys get killed by evil robots of themselves, go to heaven, hell, in between, and return to Earth with the grim reaper to destroy the robots. Bill and Ted are basically lovable idiots who walk around saying 'dude' all the time and play air guitar riffs every time something good happens. Although it begins to wear off after a while it is hilarious the first few times. The film also delivers some classic one-liners I can't believe we just melvined DEATH! and when they arrive in hell We got totally lied to by our album covers. The whole hell sequence is insane but the movie begins to get a little lame when Bill and Ted get back to Earth. The rest of the film survives mainly on fleeting moments of idiocy (such as the time game at the end), and the rather sappy serious line at the end The best time is now. And the best place... is here just doesn't fit with the feel of the rest of the movie. The Grim Reaper gag (which involves him unwillingly following Bill and Ted around) is great, but by the end it has lost its humour somewhat (eg the reaper rap, which would have been funny earlier in the film, but seems a bit tired at the end). Apart from all that, I couldn't stop laughing throughout most of the film, and I'm looking forward to seeing Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure as soon as possible. "}{"Title":"A wild, imaginative and eccentric fantasy","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Sequels rarely improve on the originals. Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is bursting at the seams with wacky humor, craziness and invention. Yes, the first was a brilliant ride too but it doesn't live up to this.Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are just great in their dual roles as good Bill and Ted and evil Bill and Ted robots from the future. I've never really seen Keanu as convincing in anything else, maybe it's the characters he chooses and not his talent. Too bad his biggest exposure has been as a wooden statue in the god-awful Matrix trilogy. But it's not just Reeves and Winter this time, William Sadler's Grim Reaper is also along for the ride and he steals the show like you've never seen before. Rufus isn't in this one for very long but William Sadler more than makes up for that.The plot is a bit much to swallow if you're not familiar with the mechanics of the original. A nasty old tyrant 700 years in the future sends evil robot Bill and Teds back through time in the phone booth time machines to kill the good Bill and Ted and prevent their perfect society taking over the world. Once dead Bill and Ted go to hell, challenge the Grim Reaper to a game of Battleship, visit God (after a spot of mugging in heaven), get help from a Martian, brought back from the dead, make good Bill and Ted robots and take on the evil Tyrant guy during a Battle of the Bands finale. Whew! Peter Hewitt (only 25 at the time) brings a bizarre sophistication to the sequel that wasn't present in the blandly shot first film. B&TBJ literally looks like a whacked-out cartoon come to life. The production design is very colorful and vivid, reminiscent of Tim Burton, only not crap.Don't misjudge this film as being in the same sub-genre as those awful stoners Jay and Silent Bob or even Wayne's World. This is not a dumb generation Xer film, it's a lovely, silly fantasy for all ages and is definitely superior to the original.Hey Warner, hurry up and release the Bill and Ted animated series on DVD. I want it NOW! Unlike Excellent adventure, this film was shot in plain-old 1.851 and the anamorphic transfer on the DVD looks fine and does justice to the very broad color pallet of film. The soundtrack is in Remastered Dolby 5.1 and it sounds above average if not amazing. Definitely get this.Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is thoroughly non-non-non heinous. "},{"Title":"Great movie, doesn't get enough praise","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is a great fantasy movie that is usually simply forgotten about. I don't know why. People generally remember the first movie and the sequel actually is better. I've always wondered if the changing times had something to do with the box office failure of Bogus Journey. These guys were cool in 1988 and 1989 but in 1991 they sorta seemed like they should be on the shelf collecting dust next to Miami Vice. Bill and Ted's excellent, party on dude! and other 80s behavior really lost it's edge and luster a mere 2-3 years later in 1991. I mean you could still do a lot of 80ish stuff in the early 1990s, but the 80s decade was kinda going out of style and there was a limit to how much you could get away with. Bill and Ted's style was simply over the top extreme 80s and that was just too much for the changing times to carry. Unfortunate timing probably hurt this movie's mass market appeal, and it demonstrates how the fickle American pop culture can easily forget a couple of characters that were the epitome of hip and cool just a few years before. "},{"Title":"A mostly Bogus movie with an 'excellent' exception","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I hadn't seen Bill and Teds Bogus Journey in years til I was flipping channels the other night and saw it on one of the Showtime channels.  I was always amused by the Bill& Ted gag, the first one is pretty good, but the second one fails to live up to the first; that is until Bill and Ted die. Once they are banished to the afterlife by Missy, err, Bills mom, err Teds mom, whatever, the best part of the movie begins.  William Sadler steals the movie as Death, the Grim Reaper, who allows them to challenge him to a game for their lives.  The whole movie is worth watching just to see the scenes where Death battles B&T in games of Battleship, Clue, and Twister. Sadlers performance as Death impressed me, sadly, the movie goes downhill after that, though Death has a few more funny scenes, including some in the credits where we see what becomes of Bill and Ted, as well as the Reaper.  "},{"Title":"A most bodacious sequel!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, I had to get that joke in.Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey finds our two heroes at the second phase of their destiny. The battle of the bands. But the evil Chuck De Nomolos (Joss Ackland) doesn't want that to happen so he sends two robotic versions of Bill (Alex Winter) and Ted (Keanu Reeves) back in time to kill the real Bill and Ted. The robots succeed by luring them into a desert and throwing them off a cliff. Bill and Ted are now ghosts and they escape from Death (William Sadler) and return to San Dimas to try and save the babes from the evil robots. To do this they need to get their bodies back (They have to challenge Death to a contest, but this is after the really funny scenes involving Bill's grandmother and the Easter Bunny) Naturally they win and Death takes them to heaven where they beat up a couple of wise guys and then see God to try and find a robot to build good robots. They find a Martian scientist named Station (Who is two people really but can fuse into one, or is that the other way round?) Anyway they get to the battle of the bands, destroy the bad robots and then take a 16-month guitar course and a two week honeymoon (After defeating De Nomolos via the time game) The movie ends with newspaper clippings about the Wild Stallyns and their mega success (And Death's lip sync scandal). The movie is much better looking than the first, special effects wise, production wise and even the booth design is better. Unfortunaetly George Carlin isn't in it except for a glorified cameo (Pretty much the same as the first eh?) and some of the stuff isn't as funny as it could've been but at least everyone of importance returned from the first.A respectable 8/10 "},{"Title":"Dude...this movie rocks!!!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess you can say I have a sentimental attachment to the film.  I saw both the Bill and Ted movies when I was just a little kid, and remember coming back home and imitating their every mannerisms.  I thought Bill and Ted were like the coolest guys.  'Til this day, I still love the air guitar gag and I find myself doing the air guitar along with them whenever those scenes come up.While many didn't know who the hell Keanu Reeves was until Point Break or Speed, I still know him as Ted Theodore Logan.  He seems most at home with his role, as he gets to say dude after almost every line of dialogue.  This movie makes me wonder what happened to Alex Winter.  I know he wrote, directed and starred in a cult favorite called Freaked a couple years later, which I only saw in parts, but afterwards he disappeared.  I guess the B & T movies didn't give him as big a springboard as Keanu, who went on to become a megastar.  Joss Ackland makes a fun over-the-top villain and William Sadler is a dryly humorous grim reaper.    The humor is low-brow, yet never obnoxious.  It's all done in good taste, and the film maintains a certain charm.  I love most of the dialogue.  One of my favorites is, Hey man, don't fear the reaper, followed by the air guitar gag.  The Uranus line also cracks me up constantly.  I guess what makes these films work are the Bill and Ted characters themselves.  They're very fun-loving characters, who are quite dim-witted but at the same time lovable.  They're not contrived characters, in which their whole schtick depends on the fact that they're stupid and that the screenwriters simply don't have any good ideas.  I always have fun watching the movie, even on countless repeat viewings.  It's funny, it's harmless and just plain rocks.  The music is great as well.  The film ends with a cool rendition of God Gave Rock and Roll to You.  I'm sure I'm about to read a bunch of reviews saying this film's stupid and this film has no class.  Nit-picking at a film like this shows you don't have much better things to do with your time.  Just sit back and have fun.  You'll have a most excellent time!  Wild Stallyns rules! My score  7 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Wouldn't it be great if....","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...they made a third!?!?! I, of course, am only joking. Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is a film I remember very well as a kid.(spoiler follows if you haven't seen it)I remember the Kiss song God Gave Rock n Roll to you II being played all the time on MTV and why the hell not... it's a classic tune!I prefer Bogus Journey to Excellent adventure by a long stretch. I think the story and gags are ten times better. Plus they have Death in this one, he proved to be the most excellent choice to join the rockin' rockers that are Bill and Ted... Plus I always knew George Carlin was Pam Grier... have you ever seen them in the same room together? Just as I thought... no!7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting..","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this film and have seen it over 20 times but I wouldn't recommended it for people over 18 as you might find it rather boring and pointless. If you enjoyed the original then you'll love this, the humour is so not funny it'll make you laugh! "},{"Title":"The Reaper is best","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  William Sadler's portrayal of the grim reaper is quite possibly one of the funniest things I have ever seen.  It is great to see his serious demeanor reduced to frustration and desperation when Bill and Ted challenge him. As the movie progresses he continuously falls on his face, making him seem like just another character as opposed to the image the grim reaper usually represents.  One other great thing about this movie, I loved the song God Gave Rock n' Roll to you by KISS. This movie was most non non non non triumphant. "},{"Title":"Imaginative follow-up to Excellent Adventure.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This followup film to Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure starts in San Dimas, Ca, in 2691 AD, at Bill and Ted University, where students wear very colorful, futuristic clothes. As we learned from the first film, the music of the Wyld Stallyns calmed the savage beast of mankind and led to peace and harmony all over the world. But the bad guys in the future didn't want to take this anymore and plotted to send Bill and Ted super robots back to the present, in the same old phone booth, to kill the original Bill and Ted, thus change history for their crooked benefit.SPOILERS - do not read further if you have not seen the movie...When the time capsule leaves Rufus (George Carlin) manages to latch onto it, but does not arrive at the present, apparently lost in the circuits of time. We correctly expect that he will somehow show up later to help put things right. The robots arrive, and quickly they push Bill and Ted off a high, rocky cliff where they fall to their deaths. We see their black and white ghosts (souls?) come out of their bodies to be greeted by the Grim Reaper. They manage to elude him for a short while by giving him a melvin, and they show up at a seance where the scared participants send them to hELL. Get down, and give me infinity, says the Sargent making them do pushups. In hELL they meet up again with the Grim Reaper, they had to beat him in a game (not chess!) to be brought back out of hELL. They played battleship, electric football, twister, he finally gave up after 4 out of 7 and took them to Heaven, where they have to sneak in and eventually get two Martians to bring back to Earth to fight the evil robots, and the dead Bill and Ted come back to life.Back on Earth, they all go to a hardware store, get parts which the Martian converts into two good robots, while riding in the back of a van, and the evil robots are destroyed on a concert stage. Bill and Ted realize the importance now of playing well, so they go away for 16 months to practice, and use the time booth to return to the concert and play! We've been to the past, we've been to the future, we've been to the afterlife, but the best place to be is right here, now!I rate this film higher than most do. True, it is silly, but it is well-done silliness. A very imaginative story, told well in this film. "},{"Title":"This isn't that bogus of a movie","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Keanu Reeves, Alex Winter, and George Carlin.Bill & Ted are back, but something bogus happened.  They died! It seems as if they're robotic clones have killed them and are ruining they're lives. They must travel to hell and back (literally) in order to save their lives and their girls.  I didn't enjoy the concept of the film as I did in Excellent but I still laughed a few times at this. "}{"Title":"I Loved it!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie when I was growing up!! People still talk about it in my school (now college) as far as how great it is; it's just so dumb in that fun, relaxing way.  )If you're looking for anything with a realistic-at-all plot, don't watch this.  But if you're bored & want something different, check out this one (or their 1st one which most people say is so much better) "},{"Title":"All`s I can say is THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great sequel to Bill & Ted`s Excellent Adventure. What I also like about it is that George Carlin, my favorite comedian, is in it again. I love the Grim Reaper in this movie, William Sadler could play a really good Grim Reaper. I like how Bill & Ted become friends with him. What made me laugh a lot was(*SPOILER*) when they gave the grim reaper a mega wedgy.(*SPOILER*) I also laughed a lot when they played him in battleship, electric football, twister, and clue. The song at the end of this movie is one of the greatest songs I`v heard in my life. ROCK ON!!!! "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The original was one of the best films ever made, it was that good. This wasn't as good, but it could have been. The appeal of the first film was the historical figures & time travelling, which could let your mind wander off. You couldn't really do that here, and death, hell & marsians aren't as interesting subjects. It was still enjoyable & had some great scenes, but was more suited to younger viewers whereas the first was for all ages.6/10 "},{"Title":"HELL YA!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Death getting a melvin has to be hands down one of the funniest parts in any movie. Although the movie lacks the charm the first had it still does the trick of making you laugh your ass off. This was the role Keanu was born to play. Although the movie is brought down alot with the characters Station it still doesnt take away from the stupid comedy known as Bill & Ted.......does anyone remember the cartoon?7/10 (Must own for my collection) "},{"Title":"The brilliant intertextual links to Bergman's Seventh Seal","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  William Sadler's portrail of Death in this film is a perfect mirror image of the same character in Ingmar Bergman's classic film, The Seventh Seal (1957). The scene of challenging the grim reaper to games of chance such as clue, battleship and twister is a wonderful intertextual link back to the original film in which the game of chance that is chosen is chess. I loved Bill and Ted but I enjoyed it even more after seeing where some of its influences came from.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Sequel.  Every bit as good as the first.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While it is quite a bit different than the first and Bill and Ted may be just a shade dumber, Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey still has all of the magic and fun that made the first one so enjoyable.  Things seem to be a little bit bigger in scope now.  Bill and Ted have somehow manage to complete high school and be accepted (!) into college.  They've also managed to hang onto their medievel girlfriends and, aside from the fact that the band is still struggling, they're doing alright.  That is, until a crazy guy from the future sends a couple of Bill and Ted robots back in time to wreck things up and make sure that the band never happens.  So, Rufus (Carlin, again) jumps into (more like hitches a ride from) the ever-faithful phone booth and goes back to warn Bill and Ted.  Too late, Bill and Ted are knocked off by the evil Bill and Ted and soon wind up in hell.  not good.  Lucky for them, Death (Bill Sadler) is none too bright. The guys are now on a journey to stop the evil Bill and Ted and to save mankind as they know it (remember, their band is what's responsible for worldwide peace in the future).  While the premise may be COMPLETELY out there, just like in the first, it still works.  The guys are just as fun to watch and hang out with and the Grim Reaper makes good company for them as he bumbles and complains his way through most of the movie, making snide remarks and even half-way apologizing to God by saying they melvined me.  It's hilarious. Just like in the first, the music is awesome.  We get a lot of early-nineties metal (Faith No More, Megadeth, Primus, and one of the best songs Kiss ever recorded God Gave Rock and Roll to You).  Yes, I bought the soundtrack back when this movie was still in theaters.  Faith No More fans might also appreciate a cameo by guitarist/founder Jim Martin. With the success that Keanu Reeves has had over the last decade, it would be so much fun to see him and Alex Winter be Bill and Ted again.  It's a real shame that they don't make movies like this anymore. "},{"Title":"Tha Grim REaper","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is really one entertaining flick, and hasnt lost any of its appeal over time. its been close to 6years since i last saw this film, and its still so Funny. You should especially watch out for WILLIAM SADLER the one from The shawshank Redemption and the green Mile...He is absolutely hilarious and steals the scene everytime he is on....DEATH IS COMING.......and u better watch this BOGUS JOURNEY "},{"Title":"Twister the Reaper!!","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Keanu shows that he can play in a comedy!!  But guys, watch the Reaper. He is really brilliant. Who doesn't want to plat Twister and battleship with him. And the way he is standing before God, it must have been an Oscar. This movie is great and the music is of course fabulous.  "},{"Title":"To the pure in spirit, all things are pure","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There's something remarkable about Bill and Ted. Though they go to hell (literally), yet they suffer no ill. Why? Because of their irrepressible cheerfulness, honesty and generosity of spirit. They escape from hell by challenging Death to a game of chess, and then twister! This is a parody of the deeply serious and philosophical Antonius Block in Ingmar Bergman's Seventh Seal; he played chess with death, and lost. Bill and Ted win. I think there's something to be said for their naive cheerfulness. "},{"Title":"very weird","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I watch this movie a 1 or 2 years ago. But I remember it very well. 2 teenage guys get in trouble with 2 robots that look like them exactly. They also pay a visit to heaven and heck. This movie somewhat funny, but is a little silly. I would give this movie 7 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Excellent, awesome, bogus and crazy","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the two films about Bill & Ted are excellent. It's a real drag that they're not on DVD. I for one really hope that they will be in the near future. If U have not seen the movies yet, I urge U all to do it......See them you WONT be disappointed ( I hope) "},{"Title":"Class","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a class film, a lot of laughs, it doesnt take itself very seriously. If you are looking for one of the all time classics here then you will be disappointed.  However this is a funny film, a funny plot and funny characters.  I suppose with the rule of three this is a funny film!Watch it, this is a most non bogus excellent film. party on dudes! "},{"Title":"Does big budget equal the same magic?","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the movie I was more excited for than any other movie that I can remember.  More than Phantom Menace (yes, I'm serious)  The original Bill & Ted's was the most fun I ever had at the theater and I was hoping for a repeat of that breath of fresh air I had back in early 1989.  Well, this just didn't have that same originality.  Don't get me wrong, this movie's great.  It's just not as easy going.  This movie actually has some mildly serious themes in it (although, mild is the key word here) and the whole thing falls apart in the end.  Had it not been for the cutting room floor, this one could have been much better.  The novelization proves that. Anyways, I was happy enough just to see my favorite buddy-duo reunite for one more screen adventure.  Were it not for the poor ending (damn you Hollywood studios!  Damn you to Hell's labyrinths!) this could have been a 9 or a 10.  Well, probably a 9.   "},{"Title":"They Melvined me.......","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie, as well as the previous one, it makes me laugh every time, the Reaper is one awesome character, I can't wait for a DVD version of these films, its such a fun movie, not much else to say except it simply rocks. 8/10 "},{"Title":"it was ok","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie back in 1992,and my opinion never changes about it. It has a few laughs, but nothing more. I liked the first one better,but the first one was nothing groundbreaking. It had more laughs,and was more entertaining than the second one. I give Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey ** out of **** "},{"Title":"A Most Excellent Sequel!!!!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, this is a most innovative sequel to a movie I have ever seen.  In the first adventure, the two lovable heroes traveled through time.  And now you get to see them travel through heaven and you know where to find a way to destroy the evil robot versions of them.  I give this movie a A.  Although not as great as the first one, it is still a great movie. "},{"Title":"Not as excellent as the first, but still quite funny.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While not able to live up to the comic genius of its predecessor, Bill And Ted's Bogus Journey is still a very enjoyable film. The Grim Reaper's scenes, in particular, are quite amusing, and there are some fairly clever jokes.A high-spirited, good-natured laugh, without the preponderance of objectionable material that has come to dominate many more recent comedies.  "},{"Title":"Can't beat the original","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bill's and Ted's Bogus Journey isn't as good as the originalbecause it's more darker than the original.In this one Bill and Ted go to hell and I like more travelling in time than going to hell. And who wouldn't. It would be great if they made third part for Bill and Ted. "},{"Title":"Obsessive Fun on and off the screen","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie so much it became an obsession!  I went to see the entrancing performances of Alex, Keanu and Bill every night for two weeks at the local drive-in's and had a huge poster on my bedroom wall.  Whilst in California I had the pleasure of meeting the three stars of the film at various times and locations and they are just as endearing and amusing in person.  Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is a weird mixture of comedy, romance, drama, and plain stupidity! ...could have done without the 'stations' and those weird get-ups at the triumphant finale scene though...  "},{"Title":"Great adventure for everyone who wants to escape reality","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you feel like watching a movie where everything gets completely wacky, but its still good, then this is it. This movie throws an off-the-wall adventure at two teens. It's full of laughter, effects and adventure. All in all its good clean fun for everyone. I think most people will enjoy watching this movie for one reason or another.  "}{"Title":"A very cool film.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoy the Bill & Ted films and this is a great sequel to the original. The film isn't so much about plot as it is just watching Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter. I just want to say that William Sadler is great as the Grim Reaper. He takes the role over and it is very funny. I had a great time watching this film. I own the laserdisc, so I've watched it several times and it is still great.  "},{"Title":"I believe you, dude!  Even better than the first","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After travelling through time in the first film the least likely heroic duo of all time (Quite literally!) go beyond what anyone thought possible when two evil robots are sent back from the future to kill Bill and Ted. The jokes in this one are even better than the first as they meet every major player in the afterlife including, the devil, God, the greatest scientist in the universe and the grim reaper himself played to perfection by the underrated William Sadler.Whilst the first film feels very much like a film of the eighties this one is more timeless in its appeal as the story stretches incredulity even further. Whilst anyone else may feel like being dead is a tragedy, Bill and Ted, due to their blind optimism, see it as a bit of a setback that they have been killed and try their utmost to return to the mortal coil, and for this, we, the viewer, love them for it.The direction does not let up as we move from funny scene to funny scene with superbly stupid dialogue and wonderful acting from the two leads, their charm keeping your interest as we head towards the inevitable bizarre conclusion.Many people have assessed, probably correctly, that when this film came out it was probably seen as outdated by an audience desperate to leave the eighties behind, whereas now that time has moved on we can watch it again with more an appreciation for the gags within it, rather than worrying about fashion or trends or seeming outdated for liking such a film. A good comedy is good comedy and will always outlast any fashion sensibilities, so shall it be with this film. Underrated by movie goers but hopefully it will eventually crawl up the IMDb rankings. "},{"Title":"Keanu Reeves meets Ingmar Bergman","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First, what I should say about Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is that I liked the first movie better. But I won't deny that this one is still really funny. My favorite scene is actually when Bill (Alex Winter) and Ted (Keanu Reeves) jump into the men's heads to try to get the word out. Just imagine some individuals addressing police officers, and they suddenly start talking like surfer dudes! Ah, but the movie's most interesting aspect - at least in my opinion - is the presence of the Grim Reaper (William Sadler), and the fact that Bill and Ted play games with him. Never would I have guessed that a movie starring the guy from Speed would feature a scene paying homage to an Ingmar Bergman movie!But anyway, this is mostly an excuse for nice, brainless fun. Most of the dialog consists of words like dude, cool and yes, bogus. A wonderful romp. Also starring George Carlin, Joss Ackland and Sarah Trigger. "},{"Title":"Sometimes scattershot, but a worthy sequel nonetheless","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure was one of the surprise hit phenomenons of the late 80s. It was a pretty bizarre concept. Two heavy metallers rocketed through the ages in a time-travelling phone box. But it was surprisingly entertaining. Far more than you might imagine.It didn't seem necessary to continue, but nevertheless, three years later, Keanu Reeves and Alex Winters reunited for a further adventure, Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey.This film is a complete polar opposite to the first. It has a much darker tone, which may explain its lower box-office reception. You could easily compare Bill & Ted to the first two Back to the Future films. There are eerie similarities.Back to the Future was an enormous hit. It had a freshness and vitality. A snappy pace. A true classic. But Pt 2 was a little more frowned upon. It wasn't quite as optimistic as Pt 1. People thought its screenplay was too incomprehensible to follow. And while by no means a flop, its box-office takings weren't as impressive.You could easily say the same of Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. And while I think Pt 1 is slightly superior, this sequel is a reasonable success. At least its not a rehash. Far from it. Its a far more ambitious project than the first one.Time travel was the crux of the first film. Here it hardly seems to matter. Its just the drop-off point for an even more wackier adventure.At the start of the film, we get to see more of the future we only glimpsed in Pt 1. The Utopian society Bill & Ted's music helped to shape. Nomolos (Joss Ackland), a 27th Century dictator is tired of a peaceful future. So he intends to change history by sending two Bill & Ted lookalikes, really machines in disguise, back in time to eliminate the real Bill & Ted.Reading that, you could be forgiven for thinking the film has ripped off the plot of The Terminator. But that's just for starters. Once Bill & Ted are killed, they wind up on a bizarre trip through Heaven and Hell, seeking help from alien scientists, and even trying to cheat Death itself (or himself, at Battleship!).Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is quite a broth of ideas. And I thought Pt 1 was far out! This makes that film look straightforward. Screenwriters Chris Matheson and Ed Solomon have returned to pen this sequel, and they've really allowed their imaginations to wander. The film takes numerous new paths, and takes us right along with it. But for such a wacky, off the charts adventure, the film is surprisingly coherent.Somehow everything works. Despite all the different ideas being volleyed about, I never found it difficult to follow. In fact this is an even more breezier film than the first one was. It moves full steam ahead from one inspired setpiece to the next.Its hard to say which is the funniest because there are so many memorable things about it. Perhaps the most novel innovation is William Sadler's Grim Reaper. He's come to claim Bill & Ted's immortal souls, but by beating him at Battleship and Cluedo, he gets drafted into they're adventure, to take on Bill & Ted's evil lookalikes.This is by far the best thing William Sadler has ever done. Decked out in black cloak, white makeup and enormous scythe, he looks like he's having an absolute ball. He doesn't have to do very much to make you laugh. Sometimes the camera is content to linger on him standing in the background doing absolutely nothing, and you find yourself cracking up. The Grim Reaper never seemed so groovy.Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is filled with tiny inventions. Bill & Ted's personal Hell is of gigantic Easter bunnies, hardass drill sergeants and scary Grannies. Then we have Death choosing a hoe over his trusty scythe in a department store. And yet all at the same time, the film never forgets its plot line. Stopping Nomolos's masterplan.At the end, the climax does feel a little anticlimactic. But up until then, the film steers a surprisingly steady course. I suppose a few gags here and there fall a bit flat. Ted possessing his own Dad is not as funny as it should have been, but if you like decidedly different films unlike anything you've ever seen, Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey is unmissable entertainment.And its not often you can say that about a sequel. "},{"Title":"Daft and goofy but consistently amusing and enjoyable if you are in the mood","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Following their excellent adventure Bill and Ted prepare for their future as global role models despite the fact that they cannot see how it could ever happen. Meanwhile, in the future, Chuck De Nomolos has had enough and plots to rewrite history with him as the leader. He steals the time device and sends back his own creations, two evil robot versions of Bill and Ted, to kill the originals, replace them and destroy their legacy totally. Bill & Ted are understandably narked to be dead but are determined to make it out of hell and back to Earth to destroy their evil selves and save the day.Narrative wise this film follows on from the excellent adventure of the original film and pretty much keeps the same silly sense of humour as well. The fact that the plot is nonsense is well hidden by the fact that it does actually have a nice flow to it although it certainly helps if you are into the moment with it. The story essentially allows yet another adventure, this time focusing on the afterlife (rather than time) before coming back to the real world for its climax. It is consistently silly but it is also consistently amusing with lots of nice slacker moments that take things to the daft extremes (the ongoing spoof of The Seventh Seal is a winner) and it is fair to say that, if you like the original then you'll definitely like this. It is very silly though and does rely on you liking the dude speak that hasn't dated that well, but it has enough goofy charm to it to be worth a try.The cast are pretty good although in this sort of thing it is quite difficult to judge someone's performance in a film like this. Reeves and Winter are, of course, excellent; they both fit their characters perfectly &#150; so perfectly in fact that it took many years for either of them to really get past these films. Sadler is a great reaper, although hardly the most intelligent of spoofs he is certainly a fun character. Support from Ackland, Carlin, Grier and others is OK but they are more or less just going along with the flow and they never threaten to get in the way of the title characters as they dominate the film.Overall this is silly and goofy but funny. If you get annoyed by silly things then it is unlikely you'll like this but if you are in the mood for a daft, undemanding comedy then this will probably suffice &#150; although it helps if you liked the original or any of the comedies that have followed in its footsteps since. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Two years later, and we are into the nineties. Grunge has taken over from hair metal, and some intelligence is injected back into rock music. Therefore the antics of Slackers Bill and Ted do not have the same impact as they had in their first movie. However, this is still a worthy sequel, and a funny movie.In the future the music of Bill and Ted has meant world peace, but a maniacal villain decides that if he can go back to before Bill and Ted were famous, and kill them, he can change the future, preventing their music from being heard. He creates two Robot Bill and Teds who quickly kill the humans and take over their lives. If they mess up the Battle of the Bands contest, the future will be sealed. Meanwhile Bill and Ted find themselves in Hell, with their eternities going to be spent living a constant ironic punishment. This can be seen as a metaphor for the decisions youth must make- should we be forced to choose one path and follow it for the rest of our lives. Like the first film, the theme of choices, and what to do with your life is prominent here. Bill and Ted however realise the alternative- Defeat Deat at Chess, and return to the land of the living once more. This they do, and return to earth, via Heaven, to take back their lives, and save the world. Death comes along too.The film has many moments of humour, lots of one liners and keeps the charm of the first outing. Yes it is all still very simple, with the message that music can heal the world being a little child-like and dated. However, if you read the message as being-music is escapism, freedom, and something which brings happiness to millions of people, then it works better than most other films. Reeves and Winter again are perfect for their roles, Death is excellent, and Rufus is as cool as always. As with the first film, it is not as stupid as it sounds, with many references to past works of art and literature mirrored beside modern works of music. An entertaining film whichever way you choose to look at it. "},{"Title":"Good fun.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS **Bill and Ted's adventure continues. An evil rebel in the future sends back two evil robot copies of Bill and Ted. Their mission; to kill Bill and Ted and see to it that their music never will form the future. The robots have no hard time of killing Bill and Ted, and the real Bill and Ted are already dead when they realize they have to fight back. It is not too late, just a little more complicated. They just have to duel with Death, go to hell and heaven to do it.The second movie about Bill and Ted is really good, not as good as the first one, but good nonetheless. The humor is just as silly. I guess many will find it a little too stupid but I think they manage to balance on that edge which separates success from just juvenile junk. There are not as many interesting characters this time around but the character of Death makes up for all this. He is great. A nice story where details and twists are used to their full potential. All in all, good fun with no serious sense at all.7/10 "},{"Title":"Bill & Ted go to Hell... literally","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The evil Joss Ackland tries to ruin the future by sending back two evil robot versions of Bill & Ted to kill the real Bill & Ted and prevent them from becoming the most excellent band the Wild Stallions. This results in Bill & Ted embarking on an odyssey that takes them to Heaven, Hell, and all points in between and recruiting the Grim Reaper and two alien inventors to build some good robot versions of themselves to battle and destroy the evil versions of themselves.Do the heroes triumph? Of course, dude! Good thing Reeves and Winter are still in the spirit of things.About on par with the first, but the film really doesn't get going until Bill & Ted literally go to Hell (don't miss their most extended fall through the great void before actually landing in Hell). While in Hell, they encounter their deepest, darkest fears - the Easter Bunny and Grandma! In order to escape Hell, they must take on the Grim Reaper in a series of games that most excellently parody the chess game between the knight and death in The Seventh Seal.Definitely worth a look if you're in the mood for something light weight and goofy.  "},{"Title":"As bad as it gets.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was so poor I had to turn it off in the end. I have never watched such a pathetic film. I loved the original and was looking forward to more of the same but was sadly disappointed.My advice to anyone thinking or watching/buying/renting, don't go there. "},{"Title":"The Best American Comedy EVER!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so darn hilarious, you have to treat it seriously.  I think that Bill Sadler has the most impeccable timing of any actor.  Truly wonderful.  I would put this movie on par with Pee-wee's Big Adventure and Con-Air in terms of how funny it was.  This movie also marks the stereotype loser character that Keanu Reeves would continue to exploit for the remainder of his career.  Key moments are Ted's Dad being possessed, Hell sequence, and ANY line uttered by Sadler.  This movie stopped being printed so go to eBay or tape it when it's on TV cause this one's a keeper my friends.  Good night! "}{"Title":"Slightly crap compared to the original!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally I am a huge Bill & Ted fan. Bill & Ted's excellent adventure was the best thing that ever happened to me and I love it to death. In the first film there was something heart warming and charming about the two dudes and their attempts to pass their history exam, sadly a bundle of this charm was lost in Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey. Although Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey had some memorable, funny moments and plenty of hilarious quotes, the plot was a little more dismal and Bill & Ted's mission was a lot less fun and less educational than traveling through history. The story was darker and more complicated, and that's where this film failed in achieving the enjoyable entertainment of Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure. Bill & Ted's personalities are still as lively as ever here, but certain aspects have changed such as the characters, while amusing in their own way it seems they interacted better with the historical figures. It may be possible my expectations were a little too high for this film, but it was a little disappointing for me since I enjoyed the first movie immensely. Unless you are a Bill & Ted fan, this movie will be less than appealing to you, but I do recommend the first movie, it's suitable for all ages and it's great in bringing you humor and an interesting history lesson.  "},{"Title":"Every bit as good as Excellent Adventure, and some","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I love Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, so I was looking forward to seeing Bogus Journey, despite memories of not liking it that much when I was about 8. How wrong I was. Bogus Journey is every bit as good as Excellent Adventure. Like Excellent Adventure, Bogus Journey is very silly, but also like Excellent Adventure it is non-stop hilarity from start to finish. The story is still engaging this time around, the script and gags have a lot of laughs, the film looks good especially with the set pieces which by the way are spectacular and the pacing and direction are efficient, while both Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves are very engaging and likable and I loved the references to the Seventh Seal as the duo battle the Grim Reaper. Overall, a truly fun sequel. I can't choose which film I prefer, both are incredibly entertaining and require several re-watches. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Better then the first","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I thought that the first movie was cool and excellent, but the second movie is even cooler. Evil robot monsters, good robot monsters. Aliens, demons, evil Easter Bunnies. Yeah, that was cool. The writing was cool, I wish they didn't make the Grim Reaper so human. I think I understand why they went that way, but still I wish they could have found another way. Bill and Ted are their excellent selves and the effects are wicked assume. Except for the whole Reaper thing, it was a perfect movie. At least we can see Death, which is more then I can say for FINAL DESTINATION. But here's the hitch, if you didn't like the first movie, then there's no way in hell that you will like this sequel. But if you liked the first movie, then you will like their BOGUS JOURNEY, 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure Was Excellet, Bill and Ted' Bogus Jurney Was, Well... Bogus.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Horrible unfunny movie (few funny parts(Dude, I totally posesed my Dad!)). The first film ruled all hell and the second film should go to hell (Just like Bill and Ted dose in the movie). The funniest part was the ending newspaper credits(Laugh, Laugh). But don't sit through the whole movie to wacth it. 2 out of 100.  "},{"Title":"What Bogus Dreams May Come","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This sequel is hilarious in a delusional sort of way. The theme is like What Dreams May Come, Bill & Ted finding a way out of hell, even though no one ever had. This is hilarious. When Bill & Ted play the reaper, he says You may select your game and they play such modern day games as Battleship and twister. This is hell, can you imagine having the option of selecting a game, and playing games you buy from Toy stores, instead of the ancient wooden Chess?! What Dreams May Come was accurate in giving an image of heaven and hell. It's hilariously bizarre. At the gates of heaven, The Reaper is asked Don't I know you The Reaper Replies no pretending to be a girl.The image seems to be a total satire to serious images movies with images of heaven and hell. It lets go of some of the disturbing, serious stuff, and brings real laughter. Ted says to the devil choose your own you fag and the two are thrown against the wall to play the reaper. Highlight Bill & Ted before they go to hell, but are dead go to the police station and possess their dad dude, to tell the town about the evil robots that killed them a moment you have to see. one drawback, Ted saying girls mature faster than guys is a generalization that's just sexist. Bil & Ted are dumber and funnier than in the First. "},{"Title":"Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Excellent Adventure is a great time travel film with two pretty dumb teenagers as the stars, but this sequel is more stupider than the teens themselves, from director Peter Hewitt (The Borrowers, Thunderpants). Basically, in the future, where the world peaceful because of the music of Bill (Alex Winter) and Ted (Keanu Reeves), Chuck De Nomolos (Joss Ackland) wants to change the past to make a new future (for himself), so he has sent two evil robot copies of the two teens (played by the same actors of course) to kill them and stop them winning the Battle of the Bands. Evil Bill and Ted manage to kill real Bill and Ted, and now dead, Bill and Ted are trying to find a way to warn people of the two evil copies, especially for their princess girlfriends safety. In the process, Bill and Ted are sent to Hell, and relive some of their personal hellish experiences, until they decide to try and win a game against the Grim Reaper (Die Hard 2's William Sadler), and when he loses Battleships, he tries Cluedo and Twister, lol, this is a nod to the film The Seventh Seal. The Grim Reaper is now their servant and companion, and they not only win their lives back, but get help in Heaven from some alien geniuses to build good Bill and Ted copies to defeat the bad ones. Also starring Pam Grier as Ms. Wardroe, George Carlin as Rufus, Amy Stock-Poynton as Missy Logan, Jim Martin as Sir James Martin, Hal Landon Jr. as Captain Logan, Annette Azcuy as Elizabeth and Sarah Trigger as Joanna. It has some funny moments in it, but it is verging on desperation for laughs, particularly when they go to Hell, it is nowhere as funny as the previous film, but it is certainly not unwatchable. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In 1989, a lowbrow comedy from Dino De Laurentiis called Bill And Ted's Excellent Adventure made a forty million dollar return on an estimated ten million dollar investment, virtually guaranteeing that a sequel would be put into the works. While the original was a lighthearted piece of fluff that took a boyhood fantasy shared by many and made it real, the sequel is often the sort of conformist tripe portrayed in Joss Ackland's character. You know, the kind that our titular heroes would pronounce as bogus. Indeed, bogus is the key word in this particular title.One problem with the Bill And Ted idealistic future, and one that pretty much scuttles the whole deal, is that their future is as conformist and bullying in its mentality as the people the characters regularly denounce or make fun of. In a world where everyone is apparently enamoured of the sort of try-hard glam-rock that polluted airwaves in the early 1990s, anyone who asks what the point of this crap is happens to be an enemy of the state. A truly good alternative band like My DyING BRIDE could not be allowed to exist in the Bill And Ted future. Hell, Jim Martin, who makes an ironic cameo appearance as himself early in the piece, would probably not be allowed to exist in this world.The plot essentially focuses on an old teacher of Rufus who has decided that he has had enough of the present, and wants to rewrite the past in his image. Of course, in this future where the absence of war is confused with peace, we have to ask who can blame him. But to get to the meat of the matter, this archvillian decides to send two robots back in time to kill our heroes and subvert their fledgling musical careers to put forth his message. The result, as is made clear in the trailer, is Bill and Ted struggling to put one over on Death and thwart the plans of the antagonist. I have to admit, the idea of two Californian lunkheads finding the passage back to life (let's see if anyone who subscribes to their thought pattern gets that reference) is a fairly interesting one. It's just that what is done with it in this film is not.One of the things that made Excellent Adventure work was the fact that little, if any, insight was given into the future that Rufus went back in time to try and protect. In Bogus Journey, we are shown how education is remodeled in the Bill And Ted image. Quite honestly, if the future San Diemas as depicted in this film is the screenwriters' idea of an ideal future, they can keep it. There is no argument, no difference, no disagreement, and no conflict. That sounds awfully like a description of what it is probably like to be dead to me. But if you believe the people who wrote this film, substituting one herd conformity for another will make this perfectly okay.I gave Bill And Ted's Bogus Journey a five out of ten. It has some rather amusing moments, such as when Jim Martin gets out of the phone booth. William Sadler makes an amusing Death in spite of the fact that the character as written has absolutely none of the traits that make Death as a general character work. If the writers had performed as well as these two, then my comments would be considerably different. "},{"Title":"I am in awe","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It baffles me how such insanely stupid c*** can be so popular. At no point in this utterly meaningless trash was it even remotely funny, or intelligent, or even laughable. It was just plain awful. My already faltering respect for Keanu Reeves took a deep plunge - luckily, there is The Matrix to hold on to...I think I need to watch it as antidote now.With the exception of Barb Wire, this is probably one of the very worst movies I have had the misfortune to watch. The only reason I saw though it all was that I was paralysed by the awfulness and couldn't reach the remote. "},{"Title":"A bit better than the first one","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Rated PG for Violence and Language Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey is the sequel to excellent adventures.I think that this film was better than the first.The first one was good but I found this to be funnier and more entertaining.Its also a bit darker than the first one.In the future, where everything is peaceful due to bill and ted's music, an evil ex teacher sends two robots back in time to kill bill and ted and change the course of history.Now the real Bill and Ted must go through heaven and hell trying to stop the evil robots.If you liked excellent adventure, you will love this one as well...maybe even more like I did. "},{"Title":"Mindless entertainment","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely not as good as the original movie, but nonetheless still an entertaining movie -- you just have to close your mind.If you just want to turn off your mind for 1.5 hour, sit back, and watch some fairly wacky ideas with total suspension of logic, this is the movie for you. "}{"Title":"Not a pretty good children movie","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was an pretty lame movie and it too dark for small children. That easter rabbit scared my 2-year-old cousin. Don't let your children  watch this movie, only if they didn't get scared by that Babe Pig In The City movie.** "},{"Title":"Bad Sequel To A Great Movie","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey has nothing on Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Excellent Adventure is intelligent, fun, and hilarious. Bogus Journey is none of these things. Excellent Adventure is one of my favorite movies of all time, and I just viewed Bogus Journey for the first time in it's entirety only a few months ago and I did not laugh once. There was ... maybe... one scene I thought was decently ok during the whole movie, and everything else I was embarrassed to watch as the actors made fools out of themselves on the screen. Even the things they tried to bring back from the first one and use again in the second one were horribly unfunny and painful to watch as they were used again. I'm so glad I rented it instead of buying myself both DVDs at once without seeing it. "},{"Title":"How's it hanging death?","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, but Bogus Journey was not as good, even the presence of Joss Ackland and Pam Grier could not improve it really. SMALL SPOILER Evil Bill and Ted come from the future to kill real Bill and Ted, and it's up to our heroes to save the day! A couple of funny moments include (possessing Dad, playing games with Death, Cluedo and Twister amongst others!)It didn't have the same impact as the the first film did for me.Overall rating ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"This was a bogus movie","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I would call this the worst movie of 1991. I mean it was nice to see Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter return as Bill and Ted. But the acting was poor. And the jokes were not funny. The only thing good about this movie were the special effects. Keanu Reeves said no to Speed 2. He should have said no to this movie. Although I hope The Matrix sequels will do better. "},{"Title":"Bogus.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey maintains the spirit of its predecessor but lacks the humor and smarts &#150; it's a lame, limp, unfunny, sporadically amusing foray into Hell (literally!) with two guys who, according to the original film's marketing tagline, can't even spell the word 'history.'Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure was the surprise smash hit of 1989 and launched the careers of struggling actors Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter. It was only inevitable that a sequel would be made. And in 1991 the public received the first &#150; and apparently last &#150; continuation.It didn't exactly flop, but it didn't win over critics at all and appealed primarily to the die-hard fans of the first film. As a result it didn't do very well and there wouldn't be another sequel.The main problem is that the movie is too goofy, silly and over-the-top. Second problem is that it was made in the 1990s. Adventure was made at the very end of the previous decade, where the clash of the '90s was already becoming visible (the bright clothing, punk attire, rock music, etc.). It was a perfect mix of '80s dopeheads and surfacing fashion that resulted in an enjoyable, and surprisingly witty and even thought-provoking, time-travel fable.In Journey the '90s had already generally overtaken every aspect of the series and Bill and Ted just seemed outdated. In the sequel they now live at college and are planning to get married to their girlfriends. They're still numbskulls but the whole pastiche isn't as cute &#150; it gets tiring very quickly. It's kind of sad to watch. And the creative force behind the film is obviously lackluster because the funniest parts are only laughable because they're so bad &#150; such as the proposal sequence, in which Bill and Ted ask their girlfriends to marry them at the same time as each other and go through a three-minute 'gag' that isn't as funny as it is desperate.Soon after that, Bill and Ted meet their 'evil' twins &#150; robots sent from the future to kill them, take their place, and then destroy the future (the real Oblivious Duo later become rock gods who revolutionize and bring peace to the world &#150; hinted at jokingly in the original, embarrassingly expanded upon here). Whoever thought adding robots to a Bill and Ted movie was insane &#150; the first film worked so well not because it was so surreal, but clever. Killer robots &#150; apart from The Terminator &#150; is one of the most desperate things to ever appear in motion pictures, or at least in sequels, because it means writers can't think of a better way to kill off their characters.Bill and Ted are killed (rather darkly for such a lightweight odyssey) by their counterparts and wind up in Hell, where they play games against the Grim Reaper (a la Bergman's Seventh Seal) in order to gain back their lives. But instead of a game of chess, they challenge the Reaper to &#150; you guessed it! &#150; Twister. (For those who haven't had the chance to play it, savor your luck.)Meanwhile Bill and Ted back on earth (the evil ones, that is) manage to wreak unbelievable havoc as insanely over-the-top cartoon-ish idiots. It gets old quick.Kudos must be given to the photography of some of Journey's scenes &#150; mainly the memories of Bill and Ted examined during the underworld sequences. However the majority of the movie suffers from this same sense of excessiveness &#150; it works once and a while, but overall betrays the lightweight backbones of the series.Reeves and Winter give admirable performances but the material is so thin, that this time they don't sound like real idiots &#150; they sound like scripted idiots. Reeves knows it's bad material &#150; watch him suffer throughout the proposal sequence, as if he's thinking to himself, How did I get into this?My guess? The real Satan has something against him. Hmm, coincidence that he was in The Devil's Advocate, then.I really enjoyed the original Adventure, mainly because it was fresh (despite obvious similarities to 1985's Back to the Future) and funny. It gave a new spin on the slacker generation, seamlessly blending the paradox notions of time travel with teen spirit.Bogus Journey manages to maintain that free spirit of Excellent Adventure, but the film itself loses steam very early on. From the onset it's childish and silly, with bright colors to rival Vanilla Ice. Bill and Ted just don't survive in the nineties, a fact proven all too well &#150; and pathetically &#150; in their last cinematic Journey.  "},{"Title":"Cheap Doctor Who rip-off","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a cheap rip-off of the BBC's classic Doctor Who series.Bill & Ted travel trough time using a phone booth...- Doctor Who did the same thing from 1967 to 1989...Highly innovative, isn't it...Most of those who liked this movie will be wondering why in 5-10 years, at which time this crap of a movie will be totally outdated! "}]