[{"Title":"The racism was THERE!","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  To the guy who questioned the racism in the movie.... you need to do a little homework, cause that was all truth. Although the movie was a fictionalized account, the racist elements shown were very much true.The idea that it couldn't have taken place in the 60's, of all possible timeframes, is absurd and quite ludicrous. All of the major black acts from the 60's were subject to racism where they were treated poorly when off stage. ALL used the service entrance, or kitchen, to enter the venue in which they played. I'm talking Marvin Gaye, Sam Cooke, the temptations, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Jackie Wilson, Stevie Wonder.... you name 'em.The practice of fronting songs recorded by blacks with white groups was commonplace in the 50's-60's. Unfortunately, many racist whites didn't want their music to have a black face on it.Do your homework prior to debunking historical fact.The movie is THE all time music themed rags-to-riches film ever made.  "},{"Title":"No matter how hard it gets...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  By now, every film buff knows the legendary story about the plucky, tenacious indie filmmaker who maxed out all his credit cards to realize his celluloid dreams. Spike Lee was one of the directors most associated with the tale, as he completed SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT. Another was Robert Townsend, who made the hysterically biting satire HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE, about the African-American experience in Tinseltown.Once that film became a surprise success, Townsend finally found himself a respected talent, and chose his next project accordingly. He decided to chronicle the long, hard road to success traveled by a black singing group, through several decades of triumph and tragedy. Using the personal experiences of the legendary R & B group The Dells as a blueprint, (they also served as technical advisers), Townsend hammered out a screenplay with friend and colleague Keenan Ivory Wayans, and THE FIVE HEARTBEATS is the result.Though the film contains moments so overwrought with melodrama that they threaten to slip into parody, the issues of racism, class distinctions, greed, payola, and the ever-present lure of sex, drugs and excess that accompany celebrity status are never treated casually or simply glossed over.Whatever plot points the script may sometimes seem to stumble over, the talented cast, lead with steadfast confidence by actor/writer/director Townsend, never miss a note or a beat, especially when helped along by a great soundtrack, supervised by jazz/funk/R&B great Stanley Clarke. Every performance is remarkable, with special mention going to the underrated Michael Wright as Eddie, the group's talented and troubled lead singer, to Leon as the group ladies' man, (whose good looks and talent have landed him in several other similar high-profile roles), and to the overlooked Hawthorne James as the malevolent Big Red, the epitome of a man who has completely sold himself, body and soul, to the dark side of success.Townsend also manages not to forget that between the dramatic moments, what makes a great musical is great MUSIC; songs that remind us why even though the concept of people suddenly bursting into fully orchestrated tunes defies logic, the pure, giddy sense of fun and enjoyment we derive from such moments are why musicals are a genre that simply refuse to die.Nowhere in HEARTBEATS is it more apparent, than when Townsend and actress/singer Tressa Thomas team up on a show-stopping number called We Haven't Finished Yet, as Duck, Townsend's character, struggles to write a song, getting some unexpected and able-bodied help from his baby sister, who nearly brings down the house! It's moments like this that make musicals memorable, and in a niche that can never have too many well-rendered stories about groups from back-in-the-day, THE FIVE HEARTBEATS is a genuine classic that can be recommended not just to black audiences, but to moviegoers of any background who love good stories about music and musicians. "},{"Title":"Truth Hurts","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Coming from a highly musical family, and knowing the struggle and hardships that abound, I have to agree with the clichés and other trappings of fame that this film has to offer. It is a slice of the American Pie, that no one seems to want to believe. There are other movies about African-American actors, musicians and entertainers, that show the same scenarios of racism. Dorothy Dandridge really did have to use the bathroom in a Dixie cup, and when she stuck her toe in the pool they drained it and cleaned it. People like Big Red did, and do, exist. There were people who were hung upside down from the balcony, because they demanded to be let out of loan shark type contracts, or demanded to see the books. It still goes on today. To say that this movie just shows the racist, drug addicted side of the music industry is just inaccurate. This movie is one group's struggle. The movie is based not only on The Dells, but on the experiences of many of the groups in that era. Look at the Frankie Lymon Story. It seems too outlandish to be true, but it is a true story, and that is just part of life.I have the stories from my father being on the road with various bands in the 50's and 60's, and there are some things that go on, on the road that can only be understood if you have been on the road. My mother has told me about the late night parties at the studios in the 60's and 70's, and some of the crazy things that happened, and again, only if you have been there, can you understand what happens after hours behind closed doors.I personally have been on the road, and I have been in the studio, late, recording. There is an energy that happens that cannot be explained. Some people can handle it, others cannot. This movie depicts both. I have known people like all of the characters in this movie, and the portrayals are accurate. Yeah, Can't nobody Sing, Like Eddie King, but at the same time could you keep the show going, being that high? This movie shows the ups ad the downs. It isn't all gravy. It is life. I thank Robert Townsend for this accurate, at times gritty, dirty, beautiful portrayal, of friendship, talent, commitment, and love. It reminds me of my father and his brothers, my mother and me. It's life. "},{"Title":"Answer About Racism","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie was not intended to create an atmosphere of racism, but rather keep the movie in prospective given the era of it's setting. Many artist in those days were subjected to unfair treatment by the mainstream record labels in those days. Here are a few examples 1. Frankie Lyman and The Teenagers were a group that was comprised of numerous ethnicities. One member of the group who Chris Montes (who was latino), was cut from the group by the label's producer because he was too ethnic. Chris Montes did later go on to record a few hits of his own such Do You Want To Dance.2. American Bandstand which first in 1952 played mostly Rock and Roll which, was pioneered and played by mostly black artist. However, it wasn't until 1957 that Johnny Nash, Jackie Wilson, and other African American singers performed on the show.3. The Temptations, The Four Tops, The Dells, and many other such groups were restricted to playing all black venues during the 50's and early 60's in the south. This gave rise to would later become know as The Chitterling Circuit, as the venues were mostly nightclubs, and juke-joints. These artist received harrassment from local law enforcement agencies, and townspeople on a regular basis whenever they came to the highly segregated south.As far the scene where the record company brings a white group called The Four Horsemen, that's not really a stretch. Most of the time what would happen is that a black group would write or even release a song to the black audience, while the record company would have that same song covered by a white group to be released to the mainstream audience. The covered version of these songs were the ones that normally got air play from disc jockeys. The best example I can give of that is the 1955 hit by The Platters Only You (And You Alone). This song was released on Mercury Records, while one of their subsidiary labels Dot Records released a covered version of the same song by a group called The Hilltopper's who hailed from Western Kentucky College (all white school...segregation you know.) The Hilltopper's version of Only You hit number eight on the pop charts six weeks after the release of the Platters version. The Platters version however reached number on the R&B charts, and crossed over to the pop charts were it number five. A few months later in 1956 The Platters hit #1 on the pop charts with The Great Pretender, which was covered by Stan Freberg in the same year without the same success.All of that is to say that the movie has its facts straight about what black artist went through in those days, but it's about much more than that. It's about the rise, fall, and resurrection of a talented group, and the proof that love and friendship can withstand all of life's ups and downs.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece!!!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a masterpiece, it combines an excellent cast, with motown style music, a great story, and a great film all around, Robert Townsend is a genius! after watching this film you get an idea of what it was like for bands struggling to make it to the top, and what happens when they get there, I highly reccomend this film!!!  "},{"Title":"real, honest, memorable","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The Five Heartbeats was a real, honest, remarkable film. It was packed with emotion. Well acted by all involved. A must see to appreciate! The portrayals on the members in the group were believable. It is my understanding that this is a story based upon the popular singing group, The Dells. I don't know how true it is. I feel that Robert Townsend not only acted well in this film but, he did a fantastic job in directing it, too. To me, it's one of if not the best piece of work that he has done. I also enjoyed his film, The Hollywood Shuffle but the Five Heartbeats is my overall favorite. Kudos to Mr. Townsend for a job well done and may we say his greatest works are yet to come. Thank you Mr. Townsend and I hope to meet you one day! "},{"Title":"Wonderful film!!!!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great film. It displays the passion and purity if music during that time and a real world depiction of the music world even today. Robert Townsend did a wonderful job of taken the story of a great group and telling it in a cinemagraphic manner. By far one of the best biographical films to date. "},{"Title":"Film was loosely based on The Dells","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  On almost all the comments everyone assumes this film is based on The Temptations. Which is a fair assumption given The Temps' lead singer David Ruffin had a serious drug problem,as did the 'Hearts in this film.This film is actually based on a group named The Dells. The Dells started recording in 1953 (as The El-Rays, and changed to the Dells in '55). They have atleast 3to4 dozen R&B hits in every decade from the 1950s to the 90s. Everything in the Film except for the lead singer being a drug addict is based on their experiences. As with most Hollywood films somethings were embelished for Dramatic effect. The Dells also sang just about every song the soundtrack. The theme song A Heart Is A House For Love was a #13 R&B in 1991. Happy to say the Dells are still performing and recording together after 51 years, with no personell changes since 1957. The Dells served as Technical advisors on the film, and at the end of the credits they show a picture of them and the Film is dedicated to them.  "},{"Title":"Greatest African American i've seen!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I have the DVD of this movie and it is moving. It shows all races black and white that if you want something to keep working toward it and never give up. This movie really touched me and gave me a new outlook on my life and the things that i do. Where are the great writers like the ones who wrote this story? We need to be giving them all of the credit and praise because they are the ones who believed that the world should see how black music began and evolved into what is the most dominant music in America. We have had problems over the years with the really bad music and the really great music. This shows that black people lots of talent and much more charisma and can truly ACT. "},{"Title":"a good clean move","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This was one of the cleanest movies I have seen in a long time. It just goes to show you, it doesn't take boobs and exploited sex to enjoy a movie. And I just love how to DUCK forgave his brother JT for the ultimate sin. It was an outstanding movie I rate this movie 10000000000! The way the movie was portrayed you wouldn't have guessed it was fictitious. But if you think about it it's portraying a signing group from the 60's that went through so many trails and tests. One of the biggest test to me they had to go thourgh was letting their best friend Eddie go after all they been through together as a group. they thought it was no hope for Eddie it was amazing how Eddie changed his life after hitting rock bottom. "}{"Title":"The End-All of Rags-to-Riches Musicals","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  After you've seen this, you might as well just avoid seeing any other movie regarding going form nothing to having it all in the music industry...some stories may be more dramatic, some more extreme...but this one pulls it all together lays it out like no other. I have seen this movie probably 20 times and will surely see it another 20. All of the ingredients are there. It's well made and yet, the roughness apparent in the script and acting at times seem to add to it's charm. Perfect imperfections, as Cee-Lo Green has named his new Album, is how I'd like to call it. When you watch the %H, you feel like you're back in the 60's and understand that the groups of that time simply had this fire inside that they had to get out of themselves....the problems came only after the fire was released WHat does one do NOW?Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful movie...Hey Bobbie T. Lace us with another one of these!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best black themed musicals movies ever made","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The Five Heartbeats is clearly one of the best black musicals ever made. The songs are catchy, it has heart and humor. Robert Townsend is clearly one of the most talnted black directors of our time and he proved it with this film. Check it out for a good timne. "},{"Title":"so where is Michael Wright's Oscar?","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Strengths and cruelty of the R & B music business are dramatized with humor, love, tragedy and the ultimate triumph of family with an African American flavor. The music is all butter ...no margarine here... at a time when the music was the show and the show was the music. Talking about cruelty ...the only thing meaner than the villains in this film was the limited way it was distributed...how long did it play in your hood. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films ever made.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film has it all. More people should get into this one. Drama, heartbreak, fun, excitement. One of the most incredible multi-layered performances ever by Michael Wright as Eddie Caine.  The writing slips every now and then but you forget all about that because of the sheer charisma of the performers. This is one cult classic for the collection. "},{"Title":"Great Music","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is such a wonderful, underrated film. Everyone I recommend it to looks at me like I'm crazy until they watch it and become total fans. One of the many delights about the Five Heartbeats is the soundtrack. The songs were written, performed and recorded with such attention to period detail they sound like they really come from the years of the movie. And most of them are great songs anyway. If they had been real they would be classics today. A Heart is a House for Love which was actually sung by the Dells, made it to #13 on the R&B charts. Most of the music came from Stanley Clarke, the brilliant bassist and composer. But Thom Bell, one of the originators of TSOP, contributed importantly too, including one of his old songs for the Delfonics. There are so many cool moments in this film. Michael Wright and Hawthorne James offer stand- out performances in a great cast. The Five Heartbeats is easily Robert Townsends best film. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie - it was interesting and not overly sentimental","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was almost too much like the Committments and That Thing You Do and that wonderful mini series about the Temptations. But is was only almost. It was wonderful on it's own. Robert Townsend is wonderful. I really came to care about these characters and what was going to happen to them. There was a lot of really good music as well. One wonderful surprise was the singing of the little sister of one of the lead characters. I could not believe her voice! In fact, there was seldom a wrong note. The only reason I didn't give it a 10 is that it was really stretching in places for credibility. However, it was really entertaining overall. "},{"Title":"The Five HeartbeatsResonate A Universal Message","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I've seen this wonderful movie several times and can honestly say this;The movie itself is dramatic,funny,moving,exciting,and intriguing.Needless to say that the sets are great,the women gorgeous and the music quite good.I also applaud the entire cast on such memorable acting performances.The movie,written by Keenen Ivory Wayans and Robert Townsend(who is also the Director)has at its base a universal message it emits that is really the essence of the film.The message is thatNo matter what happens in life,ups and downs,good or bad,gains or losses-we must lift ourselves through it and keep on pushing for the better,no matter what.Just like in the song feature-No matter how hard it gets,we haven't finished yet. I can say without a doubt that this movie took me through just about every basic human emotion possible in its 120 minute cycle.I laughed,cried,cheered,despaired,danced and even reminisced(Since I'm an old Motown era fan from back in the day).No other movie has ever taken me on such a complete ride of emotions to say the least.That in itself makes the movie compellingly realistic.It's loaded with treats and surprises for everyone-for instance once the Heartbeats get there first hit song played on the radio/The group and family members are all asleep.The song comes on the radio for the first time.Someone is awakened thinking another member of the group is belting out notes,telling him to hush as others react the same.Then as they find out that none of the group is singing,they are suddenly surprised and excited to hear their first hit song playing on the radio.What an awesome jubilant moment in which all present wake up,screaming,cheering,dancing,and celebrating,all in their pajamas,robes,nightgowns and sleeping caps.Robert Townsend used his comedic skill to really spice up lots of other fun scenes in the movie.Almost everyone who I know who saw the movie liked it,and I personally think it has become a classic work in its own right.Sadly this film was certainly overlooked for(I think well-deserved)recognition for major awards such as Oscar nominations forBest Picture,as well as an acting nomination for Micheal Wright as the mercurial Eddie King Jr.,the original lead singer ofThe Five Heartbeats.In my opinion,this movie is a great ride for people of practically all ages(R rating withstanding of course),as well as all races,genders,and backgrounds.At my age of 50,I proudly see that the movie has successfully broken into the interests of our currentHip-Hop music generation although the movie is based on an Old-School singing group/hats off to the excellent production of the songs in the movie too.It's one of those movies that make an ideal collector to pop-in the machine on a rainy day or to just put in when friends drop by.The Five Heartbeatsis a movie I recommend to all those movie lovers who like a good story. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Highly recommend this for anyone that has a good night free or with a significant other and a nice bottle of wine. The Soundtrack is great addition as well. All parts were played great no cheesy acting here. This is based on the Dells and shows how they worked together to start and create the group. It shows struggles, family, and friends and the life back in the 50's 60's It closely resembled the Detroit era and the small growing record company's as well. Very well laid out and scripted perfectly. Robert Townsend played a very good role in this movie as did the other actors. If you want to see Harmony's, Dance moves of the 50's and 60's this is the movie to see as there are very few like it. There is a Temptations movie out too that is just as good showing the bands problems and change of lead singers. "},{"Title":"Transcends the Cliches","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Read all the other comments here and couldnt agree more- saw this on the shelf at the video store some years back and grabbed it up- was stunned by the music- couldnt believe that some of those tunes werent real. I actually sought out the tape of the music- had a hell of a time finding it, btw. WoW!! what a great tune 'I got nothin' but love' is!Recently saw the movie again and was struck, as were others of you reviewers, by the somewhat ham-handed set pieces that were trotted out to illustrate what happened to these guys. Tell you what though- Michael Wright is just a tremendous actor- what a shame that his career seems to have gone nowhere. And whatever became of Tressa Thomas- what a voice! My 17 year old daughter (already a fan of the music) saw the movie and was just enchanted, especially by Leon- no surprise there. So in spite of the obvious cliches in the script, 5 Heartbeats ultimately comes out a winner. "},{"Title":"The movie was great","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The only thing I agree with is that it was probably loosely based on the Temptations. I thought the movie was really good. I saw it when it first came out 12 yrs years ago. Most movies that old do seem different when you watch them years later. I loved it the first time I watched it and loved it again when I watched it tonight! All the Heartbeats ROCKED, but Leon has always had my heart! "}{"Title":"Popular but still BLACK!!! RE July 2004","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Only someone foolish or not of the African-American persuasion would say that black artists did not experience racism in the 60's, when black artist still experience racism today. And, the attempt to masquerade white artists while using black voices is not so outlandish. The recording industry, the music industry, and the marketing industry are three completely different animals. Music, recording, and marketing can be combined to create a synergy that is altogether real or on the other hand you have Milli-Vanilli. If it was done in the 90's I am quite sure it was practiced in earlier years. Everyone that is in business is in business to make money and while there is making music and recording music, it all boils down to money. Marketing - optimizing profits by directing sales toward the market that has the potential to generate the highest earnings. The ideal of a sell out was popularized with the advent of the Hip-hop culture, before that time it was about money and money only, not being accepted into a culture that lauded KEEPING IT REAL. "},{"Title":"I wish Robert Townsend would make another about Marvin Gaye","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I loved the Five Heartbeats! I have watched it so many times. I have it on VHS and DVD. I thought they did a wonderful job in this movie. The actors did such a wonderful job that I thought they were actually singing. They really did a good job on the acting! The songs were really good. Everyone I talked to liked this movie. I am ready for the Marvin Gaye story. Come on Robert and Keenan.Please make some more films about the music when singers could sing and the songs made you move. This was a refreshing story and I knew it was about the Dells, Temptations and others. Robert and Keenan, thank you for a movie that I enjoy watching over and over. Excellent job! "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Some people run at the first sight of stormy weather ... But SOME people hold on and work it out together. -- Breakout lyric from the movie's soundtrack.This movie has absolutely everything.It's got comedy of all sorts, yet this movie really isn't a comedy.And it's got compelling moments that'll make you think and make you feel some kinda way about given relatable characters and life circumstances, yet I wouldn't exactly fit this movie into a mold of your typical drama.The Five Heartbeats is the loosely autobiographical tale of the rise, fall and ultimately triumph in life of a hit five-man R&B group from the 1960s (my father and uncles have an ongoing debate about whether this group's experiences were based upon The Temptations, The Four Tops or The Dells).This movie seems like a real-enough, real life story about how money, fame and stardom can breed distrust, hate, disloyalty and an assortment of shady dealings that could undue any family relationship or close friendship.The story follows five young men who start out as close friends who share a common passion and talent singing.Of course, they get discovered but as they start to and eventually make it big, they discover their moment at the top is filled with tragedy, anger, addictions and deceptions of all kinds -- realities totally different from the starry-eyed images they'd had of making it big once upon a time.Overall, this movie is very much uplifting because, while it takes a life time, these five friends eventually overcome the past and learn some invaluable life lessons.This is a movie for families -- the plot and various scenes will be interpreted differently by kids and adults, however, both demographics will be able to relate to this movie's overall theme and message.Fame and fortune are fleeting. Friendships -- good friendships -- are priceless. This is a movie that was out and out ignored by Hollwyood. Easily Robert Townsend's best film and deserving of Academy Award consideration. Awesome acting, brilliant writing and a blazingly inspiring soundtrack. This movie is the complete package. Guaranteed crowd-pleasing movie and one you can watch over and over and over, and not get tired of.Probably one of the best movies I've ever seen "},{"Title":"People under 50 don't get it","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was excellent. Every nuance of racism, drug use, etc were depicted accurately for black performers during those times. For those who think that those things were over-exaggerated are probably reading history book versions (cleaned up no doubt) of the struggles of that era. Those things HAPPENED! Also, this movie was NOT about the Temptations, it was about the Dells. The Chittlin' circuit, dirty managers, in-fighting EXISTED. Baby Boomers GET this film, because we lived it-we didn't read about it. This movie is great. I highly recommend it. Young people, don't read about it, ask your parents, grandparents--they know the real deal. "},{"Title":"A movie that gives you a good feeling after wards, probably the best musical movie ever!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" When I saw this movie the first time I was surprised in the end how a musical movie went straight into my heart so quickly. The soundtrack i superb and the acting i very good, especially Eddie King Jr makes a strong impression with his strong acting and a broken past. This movie shows you the strong relationship between the band members and how they struggle to survive in the music business that isn't always a road to glory. The movie ends in a great way that i memorable for a very long time. The director has done a great work, this is a movie for all soul music lovers, if you missed it try to get a hand on this movie, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very predictable but good","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Movie chronicles the rise and fall of a black group named the Five Hartbeats. They're played by Robert Townsend (who also wrote, directed and produced the movie), Michael Wright, Leon, Harry Lennix and Tico Wells. It follows them from 1965 to 1972 dealing with their problems with women, parents, other bands, drugs and money. Also the movie doesn't soft pedal the racism that black groups had to deal with in the 1960s.The story lines are very predictable--I saw every one coming--but the movie is very quick-moving and the acting, directing and music keep you watching. In fact there are TOO many story lines going on--the second half of the movie becomes a little disjointed with multiple stories going full force. Also Michael Wright's acting was way too over the top--he quickly got annoying.However all the other acting was good and the songs and dancing were incredible. Also it's nice to Diahann Carroll in a small role. This movie came and went very quickly in 1992 (the studio had no idea on how to market it) but it's a very good movie. Worth catching. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Depiction of Music Industry","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The Five Heartbeats is about five best friends who formed a singing group in high school. The quintet participates in a local monthly talent show with hopes of being discovered. A talent scout unexpectedly sees potential in The Heartbeats and decides to offer them a deal, work with them for a month and, subsequently becomes their manager. After weeks of rehearsal the manager arranges another performance at a more competitive talent show. The group wins the contest and stumbles across a record deal the same night. With the record deal, the boys also get a chance to professionally record their original song. As their career progresses, The Heartbeats struggle with discrimination, substance abuse, and betrayal. The Five Heartbeats offers an entertaining yet didactic depiction of the untold story regarding the problems in the Black American music industry during segregated times. The first example of problems in the Black music industry is racial issues due to separate but equal laws and segregation in the South. After recording their first single, a record distributing company suggested that the song did not fit the group and continued to advise the song be given to an all Caucasian male group. Needless to say, The Heartbeats all but agreed and became even more enraged that the record's cover originally did not have a picture of the group but instead a picture of a Caucasian family at a beach. Because of the low budget the record company gave them while touring, The Heartbeats had to stay in the cheapest areas and survive under rural conditions. To add insult to injury, some of their touring caused The Heartbeats to have shows in the South. While driving the tour car with the group's name and title of their first single, they are unreasonably stopped by the police. The police have The Heartbeats stand outside of the vehicle, ruffle through their belongings and make them sing out of spite and ridicule. The next example of problems in the Black music industry would be drug and alcohol abuse. Lead singer, Eddie Cane Jr., begins to cope with stress and pressure by using alcohol and illegal drugs as many vocal performers have in history. Along with the owner of the record company came a cocaine dealer making drug use enticing to Eddie. Eddie's use of drugs does not alleviate his problems but instead worsens them. He loses his beloved girlfriend, his spot as lead singer, and his melodic voice which also removes his purpose in The Five Heartbeats. Eddie attempts to use Big Red, CEO of Big Red Records, to convince the manager to keep him as the lead singer which may have been Big Red's ulterior motive. However, it turns out unsuccessful and Eddie's once affluent lifestyle immediately declines. The final example of problems in the Black music industry is the motif of betrayal. By trying to persuade Eddie to go against Jimmy, Big Red has an agenda of his own to take over as manager of The Five Heartbeats. J.T. Matthews, brother of Donald Matthews, goes after Donald's fiancée, declaring their love for each other to be untrue because of his feelings for her. Because of Eddie's decline in vocal talent, The Five Heartbeats are forced to find another lead singer, Flash. After using the group to bring his name up, Flash makes an attempt to become a solo artist leaving the group without a lead singer once again. Subsequent to all of the hurt the group has been through Donald removes himself along with Flash never to be heard from again. I personally enjoy this movie because of its entertaining aspects as well as its detailed look into the music industry since that is my desired career. The minor roles and musical selections in the film are what make it entertaining. I would definitely recommend this film for anyone that loves musicals. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! I absolutely love this movie. From the acting to the singing all the drama etc.... Will always go down as one of my ALL TIME favorites!!!! "},{"Title":"Five Uneasy Pieces","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The rise and fall and the return to glory of an African American rhythm and blues singing group is presented in Robert Townsend's, The Five Heartbeats. Set between the years of 1965 and 1977, The Five Heartbeats is a biopic that tells the story of how five young black fellows catch a break and rise to fantastic fame and breathtaking stardom, only to be taken down by greed, jealousy, drugs, womanizing, and corruption from within.Like most, I would love to like The Five Heartbeats. But it is a film made with totally simplicity. That is, the film glosses over how the Heartbeats made it so fast and how their music made them so special in the eyes of the public.You see in the movie, the Heartbeats making the cover of Time, Newsweek, and Ebony magazine in their epic rise to stardom. Yet sad to say none of the music in the film ,despite having R&B music great Thom Bell's input, is anything special. The songs are not sung by the actors portraying the Heartbeats in the film and are poorly lip-synced by the same actors.The movie shows the corrupt head of the record company the Heartbeats work for, Big Red (Hawthorne James), taken down and indicted and sentenced to prison for murdering the Heartbeats' manager, Jimmy Potter(Calvin Patterson) in a big front page headline in a newspaper. For a movie that many posters here have said portrays the reality of the music business perfectly, the fall of Big Red is a bit of a stretch. Red was supposed to be a Berry Gordy type of businessman. It would have been impossible to have pinned the murder of Potter on him and even harder to bring him down.As for the part in the film where The Heartbeats see a new album of theirs have the picture of a white family at the beach instead of themselves on the cover, well that had to be one of the most awkward scenes in the film. Yes black R&B acts in the 1940's and the early part of the 1950's had faced a great deal of racism. But by the time the Heartbeats (Their rise started after 1965) became big why couldn't they be seen on an album cover together? Why would their own record company present this them way? What would putting an white family on an album cover of black R&B group have to do with crossover appeal? Townsend seems unable to present the problem the group supposedly had with racism properly. I mean if you make the cover of Time magazine that is crossover appeal isn't it?When the film was made, Robert Townsend, was hot and he knew it. Hollywood Shuffle and Eddie Murphy's Raw made him a hot producer. He and Keenen Ivory Wayans wrote The Five Heartbeats. The Five Heartbeats, missed the mark by a wide margin. The film is inconsistent ,trite and a bit too long. In the long run the Heartbeats, their own stories as individuals, and their own music, couldn't and cannot match real life music groups. The story is supposed based on the real life R&B group ,the Dells, but Townsend couldn't translate their story in a competent manner. "},{"Title":"Needs a pulse...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Just watched this again on cable last night and had a few thoughts on it In better hands (and bigger budget), this would have been terrific. As it is, it comes off like a crummy TV movie-of-the-week or a soap opera. I always assumed it was based (loosely perhaps) on The Temptations or a similar Motown group. And while it has all the ingredients of a great story, every scene is played out soooo dramatically.Make no mistake, the cast are talented, but the material hardly let's them show it. The dialogue is standard, bargain-basement rock and roll fluff. And the cliches are all here; drug addiction, cheating, sleazy record execs, meteoric success, speedy downfall etc., and while I don't doubt they occurred, the movie just piles it on and wrings out every emotion for all it's worth.Of course, the movie never bothered to go beneath the surface. Strictly a mainstream, safe look at a fictional group - all handled nicely. No painful drug scenes, no devastating wrecked marriages, no genuine look at how the record industry worked back then.Considering how many groups fell in to the same trap (Frankie Lymon would be a great story), The Five Heartbeats at least leaves you wondering what really happened. "}{"Title":"Should have been called Flatline","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know what movie all the other commenters were watching or maybe they haven't seen a lot of films, but this movie was bland and cliched. It covers every singing group who makes it cliche ever done in a movie. There's the discovered at a talent show, the magazine covers showing their rise, the lead singer with huge ego and drug issues, the big label wants to do something with them they don't like, and every other cliche that's already been done. There was absolutely nothing original about this film.The part when the one singer says I've got something on my mind, and I'm thinking, don't say she's pregnant and he says she's pregnant, and I just sunk in my chair. This movie should have been a TV movie, since it plays like one. Townsend is just a guy who was hot for a while and in 91, could have made any script. If this script was presented today by a new writer, it wouldn't get past the reader.For the most part, the five leads were okay but some of the lip syncing was off, but here were some really, really bad performances in this. The funniest part of all was the awful woman melting in the front row scene, which was so bad it was laugh out loud funny. "},{"Title":"What's with the racism against White people?","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was fun to watch except for a couple of things. First, the attempt to pretend as though White record producers wanted to substitute a White group in place of the Five Heartbeats was utterly retarded.Secondly, the attempt to pretend as if they were subject to racism when in fact Black music groups were a hugely popular in the '60's, is pathetic.The film traces a group which appears to be based upon the Dells. The group has its' highs and lows. You'll notice a number of cliches throughout the film. This causes the film to slow down in a number of places. The running time could have been shorter with better editing.My advice is watch the film but ignore the overt attempts to create racist feelings. "}]