[{"Title":"Classy Modern Noir Fantasy","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"62 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although he received tremendous praise for his memorable film production of Shakespeare's HENRY V, DEAD AGAIN was the film that really introduced actor/director Kenneth Branagh to mainstream American film, and for a time he and then-wife Emma Thompson were the most celebrated acting couple since Olivier and Leigh. The marriage did not last, but fortunately this film did--and I say fortunately, for although it is somewhat forgotten today, DEAD AGAIN is an overlooked jewel of a film classy, noir-ish, stylish, and very memorable indeed.The story is fanciful. In the late 1940s noted composer Roman Strauss was convicted of murdering his noted pianist wife Margaret, and was sentenced to death. Some forty years later, a young woman suffering from amnesia falls into the hands of a no-nonsense Los Angeles private eye--and under hypnosis she recalls not her immediate past, but the lives of Roman and Margaret. Is this reincarnation? Is she Margaret Strauss? Is the private eye to whom she is attracted but of whom she is also strangely fearful the reincarnation of Roman Strauss, Margaret's killer? Is history repeating itself? Scott Frank's clever script makes for a fast-paced, twisting, and fascinating plot-driven film--and it is flawlessly played by Branagh and Thompson, who assume dual roles as the 1940s Roman and Margaret Strauss and the 1980s Mike Church and Grace. The supporting cast is also excellent, with memorable performances by Andy Garcia and Derek Jacobi--and a truly exceptional cameo by Robin Williams, who here for the first time demonstrated that his talents went far beyond comedy. The shifts between past and present, nightmare and reality are exceedingly well done, and although the plot becomes more and more fantastic the entire film is so perfectly executed that one buys into it every step of the way.If DEAD AGAIN has a flaw, it is that some of the twists and turns are predictable--but in the film's favor I must admit that it sweeps you along so quickly that you seldom have time to analyze that failing while you actually watch the film. It is also to a certain extent a one trick pony film; the film is at its most powerful upon a first viewing, when one is oblivious to what is coming. But even so, it is tremendously effective and it holds up as well today as when it first appeared on the big screen. The current DVD includes little in the way of extras beyond commentary tracks by producer Lindsay Doran, writer Scott Frank, and director-star Kenneth Branagh--and these are as hit-and-miss as commentary tracks usually are, but they hit more often than miss. The picture and sound quality is overall very good. Recommended!Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh is alive again.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Trying to work à la Hitchcock is a very perilous taskKenneth Branagh walks out with honors.The numerous influences and nods are interestingNotorious Rebecca Spellbound Vertigodial M for murder come to mind but there are certainly more...Brannagh is a pupil who assimilates things easily.He's helped by a stellar casthis then-wife Emma Thompson,really beautiful,Hanna Shygulla ,in an underwritten part ,Robin Williams,Campbell Scott,Andy Garcia -You want to stop smoking?Have a look at his last scene!-.... The marvelously far-fetched plot grabs the audience till the very end as the two stories meet.Brannagh and Thompson succeeded in creating two characters each .The director cleverly uses in turn color (present) and black and white (past).The finale in the flat where the amnesic girl keeps her surrealist works (a la Dali,like in spellbound ) is grand guignol at its best.That's entertainment! "},{"Title":"An unusual mix that really works","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again is categorized as Mystery / Romance / Thriller and it does very well in all three categories. It begins as a mystery, develops into a romance and ends up very thrilling. It is also Gothic, film noir, sometimes melodramatic and often humorous an unusual mix that really works. The opening credits show 1948 news stories about symphony conductor, Roman Strauss (Kenneth Branagh), who was executed for murdering his wife, Margaret (Emma Thompson). The film was in Black and White. Then the film switches to the present and to colour and we find Emma Thompson in a Catholics boys' home, mute and suffering from nightmares and amnesia. The priest in charge elicits free help from Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh), a private detective who specializes in missing persons and was brought up in that home. Grace (a name that she and Mike use because she does not know her real name) ends up staying with Mike while he tries to sort things out. An advertisement brings Franklyn Madson (Derek Jacobi), who offers to discover her past through hypnotic regression. He ends up regressing her into a past life. At this point, if one does not believe in reincarnation, as Mike Church did not, then one can add Fantasy to the list of the film's categories; it does very well in that category also. As fate would have it, Mike and Grace grow closer and fall in love, an event that is undoubtedly made more convincing by the fact that Branagh and Watson were happily married at the time that the film was made. The style of the modern romance contrasts with the melodrama of the 1940's marriage, in which Roman gives Margaret an anklet and says, The man I bought it from explained to me that when a husband gives this to his wife, they become two halves of the same person. Nothing can separate them, not even death. That idea helped to clarify the most surprising plot twist of all, one that is disclosed visually. The plot is one of the cleverest mystery plots that I have witnessed. One is never sure of what to think. Did Roman kill Margaret? If not then who did? Many look suspicious. What is the relationship between the past lovers, Roman and Margaret, and the present lovers, Mike and Grace? The plot has many twists and turns, all of which appear to be realistic. Clues drop like rain. There are many strong roles and the acting is excellent throughout. Many actors have roles in both stories. "},{"Title":"AN EPIC CLASSIC THRILLER!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dead Again is an absolutely amazing film! To call it anything less would be a complete insult.The film is so multi layered in charachter development, story growth and my god those fantastic twists and some truly winning and believable performances. Where have thrillers and films like this gone. They kept you up at night and got your adrenaline going. You didn't know what was happeneing until exactly the end and the tension building up was gratifying without the brilliant and dead on conclusion. where have they gone? Emma Thompson stars as a beautiful amnesia victim whom awakes in catholic shelter suffering from violent nightmares. Kenneth Brannagh stars as Mike Church a detective who becomes smitten with her and decides to help to find her identity. He enlists the help of a psychic and through those sessions they discover her past life and how she was murdered and how it's now relaying to her recent one. Now it's up to them to discover the facts before history tries to repeat itself. "},{"Title":"Film noir reincarnation/murder story with surprising twists","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is one of the unappreciated jewels of the 1990's, a film done so well that virtually every aspect, from script to direction to performances to music to editing, sweeps you away. Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson (who were then married)each played two roles, one in the past, one in the present, with different clothes, hairstyles and accents, as part of a couple destined to be together forever.Branagh, coming off his rookie directing debut in HENRY V, did a simply beautiful job here, using the same creative team as HV (Patrick Doyle deserves especial kudos for his astounding musical score). Playing both a cynical private eye (I'm not looking for Miss Right; I'm looking for Miss Right Now) and a jealous German composer from the 1940's, he turns in two complete portraits of unusual men, while directing as well.The film didn't stay in theaters long (most likely due to studio politics), but has apparently found a new audience on video. I've loved it since the first time I saw it, in its first run (I admit to seeing it five times in the theater and buying it on video the day it came out) -- so I may be slightly prejudiced -- but from every angle -- thriller, love story, character study -- it's a winner. See it on DVD and hear Branagh's comments on various aspects of the film -- that adds another dimension right there.In fact, see it any way you can. It's just marvelous. "},{"Title":"And again.. and again,, and again.","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Modern Film-Noir murder mystery that covers 42 years,1948-1990, and two lifetimes. Grace, Emma Thompson,has been in this Catholic sanitarium, Saint Audrey's, since she was found wandering aimlessly on the streets of L.A. With the church not being able to keep or care for her any longer due to her deteriorating mental condition the church's administrator Father Thimothy, Richard Easton,calls a former parishioner Private eye Mike Church, Kenneth Branagh. Church is to find out just who this Grace, a name given to her by the church, really is.Putting an ad in the local L.A newspapers Church is immediately contacted by antique dealer Franklin Madson, Derek Jacobi. Madson dabbles in the occult and is experienced in the science of past-life regression; regressing persons back to their past lives through hypnosis. Madson puts Grace into a trance and regresses her back in time. It's then that Grace claims that in her previous existence she was a woman named Margrate Struss back in 1949. It was back then in 1949 that she was murdered by her husband Roman. Roman was a failing Hollywood musical composer and with his money, that he inherited from his first wife back in Germany, gone he was just about to have a nervous breakdown. Romans also suspected that Margaret was cheating on him by having an affair with newspaper reporter Gray Baker, Andy Garcia. One evening Roman just lost it and took out a pair of scissors brutally murdering Margaret. This amazing revelation, by Grace, is later confirmed through old newspapers clippings that also brought out that not only was there a Margaret and Roman Struss, back in L.A in 1948-49, but that she was also brutally murdered by her husband Roman. Mike and his assistant Pete(Wayne Knight), who later in the film makes one of the most jolting as well as unsuspecting guest appearances in motion picture history, get in touch with former psychiatrist and now grocery store owner Cozy Carlisle, Robin Williams, an expert in past-life regression. Cralisle, who was drummed out of his profession for having sex with one of his patients, tells them that past-life regressions do in fact have some truth to them and what Grace has been saying under hypnosis could very well have happened to her in a past life.The movie then takes on an almost supernatural angle to it and as its story slowly starts unfolding it becomes apparent to everyone that Grace is telling the truth but there's only one slight misrepresentation in her story! Grace wasn't Margrate Struss in her previous existence and the person who was wasn't murdered by Roman! There are surprises galore in this movie about murder madness and reincarnation and an ending that will surly blow you, like almost everyone else watching it, away. The movie is so well put together that your never allowed, by it's writer and director, to realize exactly what's going on until almost the very last five or so minutes. It's then where the truth about Grace/Margrate suddenly explodes right in your face leaving you, like it did both Grace & Mike Church, in a state of shock.Crossing different lives and time periods Dead Again in its concluding moments comes to a startling and paranormal rendezvous. It's at that point when the past suddenly catches up with the present and the mind boggling results of that time/space related conjunction become truly astonishing. "},{"Title":"one of his best","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So you know, I own this movie in both VHS and DVD format. I lend out my VHS to anyone I can get to watch this movie.I have seen many of Kenneth's movies, for me this is his best. Many others easily come to mind that are fantastic, but for me the two story lines and the mixing together of the two is incredible.It is different, I was spellbound from the suspense most of the movie. I wanted it to end so I could know if everything works out, but then wanted it to go on and on.If you like suspense, this movie is for you. The language is a little on the strong side at times, but not too much and appropriate to the characters and story. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Branagh Gem","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't catch this one until it hit a discount theatre in Miami Beach, but I'm glad I did. Whatever the status of Branagh and Thompson's relationship at the time, they project a fantastic chemistry as lovers karmically doomed to repeat the same mistakes over and over again, or so we are led to believe. Branagh has a fantastic directorial sense, honed in his years with Shakespearian theatre, and the intertwining of black-and white and colour footage to evoke different time periods works to great effect. Supporting players Derek Jacobi, Robin Williams, and Andy Garcia put in excellent performances, and the serviceable plot is made transcendant by this fine group of actors. Although some of the gore is a bit heavy, it doesn't overwhelm the story, something Branagh learned no doubt from the films of Alfred Hitchcock, and like the works of Hitchcock, even after the mystery is finally sorted out, the film continues to reward with repeat viewings. So, if the last copy of Blair Witch is out, and you're looking for a bit of suspense that isn't all blood and guts, give this one a try. You'll feel enlightened. "},{"Title":"oh, I really like this movie!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching Dead Again for the second time, and I really dig it. It's a well-made thriller, and Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson were always great together. It has an interesting story, a couple of good jump moments, and good supporting performances from Robin Williams and whatshisname who played Newman on Seinfeld. The Hitchcock homage isn't overdone, and there are some nicely-placed visual clues (although one of them is far too obvious, the others are more subtle), as well as little references to other films the actors have been in before. Derek Jacobi is soooo good at being slimy, and the entire end sequence is tense and well-edited. That said, the big twist toward the end of the movie does poke a couple of plot holes, and causes some real loss of tension at the end of the movie- placing the big revelation much closer to the end might have made a big difference in the division of opinions about this movie. Either way, it's pretty  enjoyable- well worth renting on a rainy night. "},{"Title":"Disjointed, messy","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I caught this on HBO the other night. I have to go against the grain here and say that I found the movie good enough to keep me watching once I had invested some time in it, but barely. Of course it has a (now) star-studded cast, and that wasn't really its weakness. SPOILERS FOLLOWI found the plot to be all over the place. It severely tested my suspension of disbelief. Okay, the premise is one of past lives (in which two people are somehow reincarnated into spitting images of their former selves who both live in the same city along with their original antagonists) and hypnotic regression... I can live with that for the sake of the story. But from there the plot continues to test my credulity with increasingly ridiculous, and mostly pointless events and twists- Why would Franklyn risk regressing Grace in Mike's presence, thinking that she is was his former victim (hence the whole reason he approached the two himself)? What if she immediately recalled the events as they actually happened? She might not finger his present self, but she would know the truth, the dots would be easy to connect, and the whole plot would be thrown off.- While there may have been subtle clues dropped as to the actual reincarnation identities beforehand, the whole switcheroo came off to me as a late-breaking addition, and regardless, it ultimately led nowhere. It did not impact the outcome at all and basically seemed to be an excuse to get Robin William's character in another scene. Whoever was who in the past, Franklyn was still the antagonist. And as for the memories, if Grace was actually Roman, then why was she having nightmares of being stabbed in the throat with scissors? Why was she unable to speak at the beginning of the movie, and petrified of letting people into her bedrooms when she slept? Not every dream sequence of hers fell into this category (e.g. only Roman could remember the walk to the electric chair); they're just jumbled up (why would Grace remember rebuking Inga?). To maintain suspension of belief, I need some semblance of internal consistency.- Speaking of Robin William's character, at first Dr. Carlisle implies that these sorts of past lives are rare, or at least, it is rare to uncover them in hypnosis (or was rare for him to anyway). Yet, later on, he seems to be an expert in the matter, explaining how gender swapping reincarnations happen all the time.- Mike brought Grace the anklet he recovered from Franklyn's store, and that became a symbol to her of the truth of their identities. But wouldn't the anklet have more of an emotional impact on Mike, seeing as how he was the one who was actually Margaret?Some lesser plot holes, which are common movie tropes, but (a) I expect better from a director of Branaugh's caliber (even in 1991), and (b) they reach a crescendo right at the climax, making it more of a farce to me than a drama- How is it that Mike was shot, unconscious, non-responsive and near death one moment, and the next he is not only alert, but able to engage in hand-to-hand combat with Franklyn?- Why the hell was Newman delivering a pizza to Grace's apartment in the middle of the night, when earlier it was clear she wasn't expecting anyone? Maybe I missed something there, but that just seemed so random, I didn't know whether to laugh or shout at the screen (I did both).- The climactic, slow-motion, emotional showdown was just silly.All in all, I think if the movie were presented as a dramedy, it could have sold me. But it took itself far too seriously despite the numerous what the?! moments. Somebody should have switched gears in editing. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie with Twists","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was the first movie I saw with Kenneth Branaugh and Emma Thompson and I loved their on-screen chemistry.  LOVED the movie!  If you have not seen it, rent it.  I had never heard of it and rented it.  Lots of plot twists and the love story is unique.  I felt very connected to the characters - good character development.  Fun little mystery, too. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was a wonderfully done movie. Suspenseful, mind bending and entertaining all at once. Branaugh and Thompson work well together, and Andy Garcia added an interesting character. I watch it at lease twice a year, just to get that chill down my spine all over again.  "},{"Title":"Very clever past and present thriller.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kenneth Branagh directed and starred as 1940s Roman Strauss and 1990s detective Mike Church. He is one of the few Brits that can assume a very authentic American accent, which he does for the Mike Church character. His co-star is fellow Brit Emma Thompson who plays the British Margaret Strauss and the American Grace. The story involves a possible connection between a murder in 1949 and present day characters. Grace shows up at an orphanage unable to talk or remember who she is. Pretty entertaining thriller. And Branagh is especially good.SPOILERS. We learn early that Margaret Strauss was murdered and her husband, composer Roman Strauss was convicted and sentenced to death. Gray Baker (Andy Garcia) was the newspaper man who we see Strauss apparently whispering in his ear right before his execution. Near the end we find out that he didn't actually whisper anything, instead he simply kissed Baker on the cheek. We also find that the murderer was a deranged young boy who was the son of the maid. He grew up to be Frankie, an antique dealer. As the story develops we begin to suspect that Mike is the reincarnation of Roman (same actor in both roles) and Grace is the reincarnation of Margaret (same actress). However, in actually the reincarnations are crossed, Mike is actually the reincarnation of Margaret and he gets the revenge of the murdered Margaret by besting Frankie. Of course, Mike and Grace, who were in love in earlier lives, rekindle their love although with cross gender tendencies. Interesting! Robin Williams has a small role as a former shrink. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not much else to say after my one-line summary about this wild ride brought to us by the man who, in 1991 at least, promised to be the next Orson Welles.  And don't tell me he wasn't doing more than a touch of Olivier in _Rebecca (1940)_qv in his black and white scenes - Branagh's sense of humor is just one of the joys of this totally surprising, enthralling, suspenseful and fun film.  I have read some of the other comments and it's a shame that so many have lost their taste for good old-fashioned entertainment, which this surely is.  Not only is the cast top-notch and the acting great, but the film combines mystery, karma and film noir which, Hitchcock fan that I am, kept me GLUED to the set.  _Dead Again (1991)_qv is one of the few films that I own and could watch over and over.  To all the nay-sayers of this film, Sixth Sense, Usual Suspects, etc. etc., I say - let me see you do it better.  Go right ahead. "},{"Title":"Operatic Thriller","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this splendid psychological thriller, a murder from the past haunts a present day woman named Grace, wonderfully played by Emma Thompson. And a cocky private detective named Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) tries to help her make sense of her personal nightmare. It's a murder mystery with twists within twists overlain with a Gothic, operatic tone.Set in Los Angeles, the clever script weaves two separate stories, one from the late 1940s, shown in B&W, and the other from the current day, shown in color. This alternating B&W and color keeps the two strands separate and therefore easy to follow. The film opens with tantalizing newspaper accounts of a 1949 murder; the victim; the probable killer (an opera composer), and related headlines such as Alibi Questioned, Composer's Prints Found On Scissors, Housekeeper Testifies, and so on.Most scenes are jam-packed with information, including exposition and character traits. Clues to the murder are wonderfully subtle. A pair of sharp scissors figures into the outcome. The 1940s segment contains a melodramatic costume party. Humor augments the serious subject matter. The plot is so dense that it can be a tad confusing, which is my only real complaint. Owing to the story's complexity, the ending goes on for some 24 minutes.Visuals are terrific. I especially liked the B&W segments, slightly grainy with noir overhead and side lighting. Prod design and costumes in both periods are elaborate, detailed, and highly believable.Casting is fine, overall; Robin Williams is perfectly cast. Acting ranges from very good to outstanding. Actor Derek Jacobi does a great job as a light, campy hypnotist with a penchant for finding cheap antiques. Consistent with the operatic theme, the music is mostly melodramatic and serious which compounds the story's Gothic intensity.The viewer needs to pay attention, else be lost in confusion. The underlying puzzle can be solved but the solution surprised me. Except for a bit too much complexity, this is a wonderful film. I plan to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, but a flaw at the end","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was able to forgive a few things that didn't make sense and decided to use a different interpretation of them. They didn't spoil the fun. I still cared about the protagonists. However, in the last scene, something happens that really strains the willingness to believe. You can't have a person that is wounded to the point of unconsciousness come quickly back to life, healthy enough to engage in a VERY physical activity, without some explanation to the other character(s),thereby explaining to the audience. Example the character could say it was only a flesh wound or I was faking how serious it was or He/she didn't hit my chest; he/she could show the other character(s)the bulletproof vest....SOMETHING. When I watched the film with voice-over commentary, neither director Kenneth Branagh nor the producer nor the writer addressed this issue, as if we are supposed to accept this without puzzlement and perhaps look at it with humor. This was the only unforgivable flaw in what was otherwise a very entertaining movie, with humor, suspense, and very good acting. I disagree that Branagh does not sound American in the Mike role. He does. Derek Jacobi is wonderful as always. Emma Thompson is an outstanding actress. I am starting to wonder why she doesn't wear eye make up in many of her films. I thought this film called for it. She appears to be wearing only lipstick. That's a small quibble though. "},{"Title":"Movie Will Keep You Guessing!","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is about romance, drama, action, suspense, wit all rolled up into one. As Dead Again has it all! Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson, both married at the time, have dual roles. As Roman and Margaret Strauss a doomed newlywed couple, in the late 1940s and Mike Church, and an amnesiac woman named Grace, he calls her.Roman was executed by electrocution for the murder of his second pianist-wife, as he felt he was a nobody trying to make it in the USA as he was a famous composer in Europe. While her own career was thriving, as that could had lead to both the jealousy and murder. He was only wealthy due to his first wife, who died ill while trying to flee Europe by the Nazis at the time. Along with his housekeeper Inga, and her son. Whom he owed much gratitude. But did he kill her? That is the main theme of the movie.Flip to present day as Grace, an amnesiac mute woman. Found in an orphanage and that is where our hero, Mike Church. An ex-cop turned PI hired to track down deadbeats and missing persons finds her. As he was a former orphan himself. Mike loves to be wisecracking and talkative. But he's also big-hearted and took on Grace's case for nothing. Owing the orphanage that raised him there.Unable to have her there anymore due to her mental state in the orphanage and not nuts about taking her to a mental hospital. Only place Mike can her in his apartment.There a mysterious antiques dealer named Franklyn Madison(Derek Jacobi, a Branagh mentor and friend that appears with Kenneth on stage and films), arrives to help Grace regain her memory. Despite Mike's reluctance at first. Through being hypnotized.But afterwards, she is talking and Mike and she begin a romance as you would expect. But bizarre events try to separate them. As someone expects, that Grace knows more than she should. As the killer isn't someone that you expect it to be.Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson, British do an awesome job with their American accents in the film. As both are a cute couple. Robin Williams in an unbilled role, as a former psychologist turned grocer. Who lost his job while having sex with female patients. Who encourages but warns the couple of what could happen in the present, as it did back in the 1940s. Andy Garcia playing an obnoxious reporter who lusts for Margaret. Derek Jacobi as the eccentric and mysterious antiques dealer-hypnotist who may also played a part in those past and present.The cast and writing are awesome. You will have to sit all the way through to get the movie. And the ideal as to what it means. Saw this first in 1991 with my mom. Really a good mystery movie. With romance, drama, action, and wit! "},{"Title":"I'm not looking for Ms. Right, I'm looking for Ms. Right Now.","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is some question as to whether this is noir or not. Modern noir? Who really cares, as it was a great story by Scott Frank (Out of Sight, get Shorty) and very capable direction by Kenneth Branagh.Branagh also played two characters in a film that was apparently going one direction and completely went somewhere else. It opened with an execution and the thought that a prisoner was going to come back to life somehow. How things went was some metaphysical mumbo jumble that really fascinated.A woman (Emma Thompson) appears and has amnesia. Thompson is always a treat to watch and she was excellent here. A detective (Kenneth Branagh) tries to help her. They are both tied to a couple married in 1948, but in ways that were surprising. Derek Jacobi gives a great performance as the man with evil on his mind, and I always enjoy seeing Wayne Knight, who really gave a touch of humor to the film. Robin Williams was also great as a psychiatrist kicked out for enjoying his work too much.Any more would be spoiling a very interesting story that is well worth the time spent watching. "},{"Title":"Two People Meet & Fall In Love","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kenneth Branagh,(Roman Strauss/Mike Church),Warm Springs,'05 TV, plays the role of a famous pianist who has reached the top of his career and is deeply in love with his wife. Emma Thompson,(Grace/Margaret Strauss),Nanny McPhee,'05, gives a great performance as his wife and everything seems like a normal, happy life together. All of a sudden the picture changes completely to a young lady who has amnesia and is helped by Mike Church, also played by Kenneth Branagh. Andy Garcia,(Gray Baker) plays the role of a reporter who is always eager for any gossip among the elite people in his community and gave a great supporting role. This picture has some spiritual implications, which some people might believe actually happen and maybe they do; this will be up to you when you view this film. "},{"Title":"A treat thriller for those fascinated by the possibility of metempsychosis.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good movie to share with family or friends huddled around a TV on a cold dark night. That's how I saw it in Baguio City during the monsoon season. Emma Thompson, always a fine actress in almost all of her films, easily tugs at viewers' sympathy by subtly projecting the vulnerability of her character.My favorite, however, is Derek Jacobi who very convincingly essays the role of a middle aged but handsome sophisticated and knowledgeable antiquarian.I already said I liked this movie but I didn't go crazy over it. But I knew chicks, gays and generally sentimental people as well as those intrigued by esoteric spirituality would. My prediction turned out to be true. If you've seen it once, there's no sense seeing it again because by then the thrill would be gone. But if you're looking for influences of Hitchcock and other master directors of thrillers, there's fun in repeated viewings.If you like films dealing with possible reincarnation and crime, you should also see Chances Are with Cybill Shepherd in the the lead. Hitchcock's Vertigo also comes to mind. "}{"Title":"Multi-faceted film worth seeing","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a gripping film, multi-layered, with a good script and good performances from its cast.The story is interesting a woman (plagued by a recurring nightmare) lands up, unable to speak, with amnesia, at a local convent. Mike Church (Branagh) must find out who she is. (We 'know', owing to black and white footage (featuring the same actors, but different characters, about 40 years ago, shortly after WW II) Through hypnotherapy, questions of reincarnation and past lives emerge.The film creates, rather than answers, questions. There are a number of twists and turns in the plot to make this film gripping.I was not totally convinced that the ending of the film serves its purpose, but the film is gripping. Do see it. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies that people will still be watching a hundred years from now. This is a thriller operatic in its scope and intensity. Scott Frank's script is incredible( To hear you play,Mrs. Strauss. To hear you play.) Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson have incredible chemistry and absolutely amazing American accents. The story is full of surprises,as well as a sophisticated sense of humor. This is a movie for both casual viewers and cinephiles alike,in that the filmmakers  assume that the members of the audience have brains,and aren't afraid to use them,constantly engaging us with suspense and mystery and romance. Wayne Knight and Robin Williams are also excellent. "},{"Title":"Enjoy the fantasy!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So many people have commented here that the movie was unbelievable.  Well, any movie which has anything to do with reincarnation will surely receive mixed reviews.I am not saying that I believe in reincarnation, but I am saying that it's just a movie, and fantasy is what movies are for! This is one of my all-time favorite movies, and it has been ever since I saw it at the theaters.  The chemistry between the two actors (Branagh & Thompson) and the idea of a love that transcends death makes this movie one of the most romantic I have ever seen- even though it is billed as a thriller.If you want an academically sound movie, this is not for you. If you want a movie that takes you out of yourself and makes you believe in love, then this is the one. "},{"Title":"Clever thriller.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Clever direction, a great cast with an intriguing script make for a classy thriller.  As well as an off-the-wall (unbilled, I think) role from Robin Williams as a former head shrinker.  I love the original concept and the way the past and present was linked together.  A very entertaining film with everything, drama, romance, comedy, suspense and mystery.    "},{"Title":"Dead Again","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are moments in this that are pretty good, and some bits that are a bit confusing, but together this is an okay film. Kenneth Branagh used to be Roman Strauss, and murdered is wife Margaret (Branagh's wife, back then, Emma Thompson). It looks like he's putting on an American accent when he talks to everyone, and he could be planning another murder or something. But towards the end and through the film, you discover that Mike Church (Branagh) really is American, and that he and Grace (Thompson) have somehow swapped bodies after death. Also starring Andy Garcia as Gray Baker, Robin Williams as Doctor Cozy Carlisle, BAFTA nominated Sir Derek Jacobi as Franklyn Madson and Wayne Knight as 'Piccolo' Pete Dugan. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Patrick Doyle. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Gets better with repeated viewing","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There may be SPOILERS ...My first impression after watching Dead Again was that it was a somewhat uneven piece of work. However, it's one of those films where you grasp more with each viewing so after watching it twice I would have to say it's a decent and enjoyable thriller.Being a big Ken Branagh fan - particularly when he's in the director's chair - I was a bit disappointed with his direction here. He dithers between a Hitchcockian noirish style and his own trademark single shot takes, which jar badly within the claustrophobic visuals. He also seems to delight in ending every other scene with a shot of a pair of scissors - by the film's end, you'll be sick of the sight of them. On the other hand, the film's opening dream sequence is highly effective, as is the repeated cutting between both eras at the film's close.Scott Frank's screenplay is horribly hammy in places (Have a nice life) and wickedly funny in others (Thank you!). I guessed the main twist early on, though thankfully the plot has quite a few interesting turns to keep you guessing.Pat Doyle's score, as usual, hits all the right notes in some scenes, then does its level best to dampen the atmosphere in others.And the acting, which is good throughout. Branagh is quite charming as Roman Strauss - love that ridiculously intense conducting - and pretty good as Mike Church. He tackles two accents here, and does well with both. Emma Thompson is her usual magnetic self. Derek Jacobi's performance will leave you with a giant smile plastered across your face - it's easy to see how he was in the final shake-up to play Hannibal Lecter. Andy Garcia doesn't really DO anything, but his scene as the old Gray Baker is very good (smoking - eeeecchhh). Robin Williams is creepy, deadpan and low key, the antithesis to his usual performances. Miriam Margolyes and Campbell Scott make funny cameos.Okay, so the final showdown is a bit ridiculous, and it's a little annoying that Mike and Grace didn't completely freak out when they saw the pictures of Roman and Margaret - but overall, this is enjoyable stuff.7/10. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would've liked this","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  DEAD AGAIN (1991) **** Kenneth Branagh, Emma Thompson, Derek Jacobi, Andy Garcia.  Brit wunderkind Branagh directs and stars with deft style this psychological thriller with him as a contemporary detective in LA trying to solve a case of a woman with amnesia with the results including reincarnation and many plot twists.  Sly, funny and different with shades of Welles and Hitchcock underscoring the plot.  Also starring Campbell Scott and an uncredited Robin Williams.  Garcia's smoking scene should be used as an anti-smoking PSA. "},{"Title":"A superb suspense/thriller","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dead again is a movie about a woman with amnesia who slowly reveals her past when she is put under hypnosis.  Her past life is revealed until some point when the person she is entrusted to pops up in the revelation.  The entrustee is put under hypnosis and something he sees something shocking.  From then on, the plot keeps on twisting by other discoveries and revelations until the end.The pace starts slow, with most of it as a storytelling via hypnosis, and the buildup of the romantic relationship between Branagh/Thompson.  In the midpoint where some things gets revealed, suspense picks up and one is put on the edge of their seat and guessing who did it and why until the end.The only caveat I had was the final way the character died is so over the top, that you don't breathe a sight of relief that you should have.But besides that issue, it is a movie definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Mixed but Emma and Kenneth never looked so good","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Movies that are billed as thrillers do something wrong for me. I just know that I will be played along and that my nerves will snap. I worry that the ending won't justify the hype. On the other hand, a good romance with attractive people hits my sucker button every time.Put these two elements on the balance and you have Dead Again a surprisingly intelligent thriller/romance with incredibly lush, if one can use the word in this sense, Black and White photography that makes you yearn in earnest for the good old days.Though the photographer/friend was obnoxious and Robin Williams was playing, thankfully in a cameo, one of his typically annoying roles, a demented over sexed Patch Adams meets the guy from Good Will Hunting, the rest of the cast was so marvelous and Emma and Kenneth never looked so good. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It astonishes me that this admittedly slightly dated film is so overlooked. 'Dead Again' is up there with my top five favourite films, and with good reason.Kenneth Branagh triumphs (does he ever not?) along with wife Emma Thompson as doomed lovers Roman and Maragret Strauss and also as modern day Mike Church and Grace. The couple have such an amazing chemistry (I've probably mentioned this elsewhere) and the transcendent love oblivious of time or place is conveyed perfectly.The look of this film is beautiful. It's a classy, stylish, noir thriller, with just the right blend of love, drama, terror and revenge. The film's twists and turns will keep you on the edge of your seat as the viewer moves seamlessly through past and present, finally coming to an astonishing and unpredictable ending. The haunting violins and piano music provide the perfect accompaniment to the classical romance and gradual build up of tension.The changing from colour to black and white adds to the 'classic' feel and is reminiscent of an age of film making long gone. All the actors do brilliantly as well as the two leads, Andy Garcia is worth mentioning along with Robin Williams. The characters are deep and well developed, and Branagh shows his prowess at pulling off convincing American and German accents.In short, this film is breathtaking, and like any good wine, improves with age. Track it down at any cost. "}{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's second work as a director is a very lukewarm effort. The main problem lies with the flawed story but the movie has got a rather cheap and dated look, too.The script is full of plot holes, forced mysteries, riddles that are thrown in to keep the viewer puzzled but don't really make any sense at all. It also seems rather goofy how quickly the concept of reincarnation and karma is accepted as a fact by virtually everyone in the movie. The relations of the individual characters are also far fetched and don't really make any sense. Up to the showdown with it's unintentionally funny and over the top slow motion ballyhoo, Dead Again never manages to grip the viewer. The occasional funny elements don't help, either.Is this a comedy, a drama, a romance or a mystery? Dead Again seems more like a parody at times with it's goofy black and white story lines in the past. It's a failed attempt at paying tribute to Hitchcock and the whole film noir genre. Dead Again proved that Branagh might be a master when it comes to bringing Shakespeare to the screen, but he has no idea what mainstream cinema is about. "},{"Title":"Layers in Time","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Branaugh is an intelligent director, and intelligent directors today are concerned with simultaneous visions of resonant levels. The standard layers are the story and the modern reflections on the story. Branaugh handles this expertly by casting the effort in noir and then dancing around the form. But that's not new.What he adds is the simultaneous overlay of time. So he has himself and Emma as filmmakers, them as actors, them as the contemporary characters, and the older characters, each weaving and bobbing in and out of each other. This is the kind of thing that Branaugh does exceedingly well because he can control from both directions, actor pushing multiple characters and director pulling different views and times.My only problem with the film is the underlying purpose. Branaugh makes some films with the serious intent of moving us. Then he spends a bunch of time just having fun experimenting. We don't get much from this film because the boss isn't very interested in sending us much. And it is a little offensive to open our souls and be ignored.Also, one mourns the breakup of this great team. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but not as good as Henry V","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whoa!  I was pretty surprised by the comments on this movie, everyone either LOVED it or HATED it!  I have to confess I fall somewhere in between.  I remember enjoying it when I first saw it at the now-gone Loew's Oriental, a nice old-fashioned theater perfect for such an old fashioned movie.  Although I found it not as impressive as Kenneth Branagh's Henry V, I still enjoyed it.  The acting for the most part seemed a bit over the top, but that seemed to be in keeping with the rather far-fetched story.  I didn't really try to second guess the story, so I didn't figure out the plot twists.  And what it lacked in suspense it made up for with imaginative story elements.  My biggest complaint was that it appeared that the screenwriter had watched Citizen Kane and Spellbound once too often. I have just watched my laser disc version tonight for probably the second time, and although I still enjoyed it, I noticed some rather nit-picky plot points.  Be warned--There may be some SPOILERS ahead!When Mike Church finally meets with Gray Baker, and receives a shocking revelation,  it occurred to me that strangely enough, no one bother to ask earlier whatever happened to the housekeeper and her son!  Also, Roman Strauss the composer finds his money running low, but he refuses to compose for movies, preferring to just write his opera.  I figured him for a smart man and smart enough to know movies are where the money is--couldn't he just write his opera on the side and compose for movies for the money?  It certainly would have put less strain on the marriage. I must confess I enjoyed the performances.   Mr. Branagh seemed to be having fun as both Church and Strauss, and it was refreshing to see a PI who was not a superman like the kind of characters Bruce Willis or Arnold Schwarzenegger usually play.  My feeling is that after the intensity of Henry V, Branagh wanted to play (and direct) something lighter.  Emma Thompson as Margaret and Grace is both fetching and elegant as the former, and demure yet adorable as the latter.  One of the better scenes involves Mike taking Grace on a little date where nothing goes right.  It's one of the few scenes that's not played over the top and comes off rather charming.  I read in one comment that Derek Jacobi was considered for the part of Hannibal Lechter.  I would have loved to see him play that part!  His performance is bouncy and almost comic, yet in an instant he can become coldly sinister.  He certainly fooled me until the end (the first time, anyway).  I and liked how they worked in that little I, Claudius reference.I could have done without the guy from Seinfeld, but I can see how they needed such a character to give the audience story elements.  I did enjoy Robin Williams, whom I usually cannot stand, but here he departs from the kind of annoying I'm better and funnier than everyone else characters I usually see him play.  In keeping with the outlandishness of the rest of the movie, Andy Garcia's reporter does his best to stand out as a Hunter S. Thompson type reporter.  Too bad though we never see him at a typewriter.  His old man scene is another ripoff from Citizen Kane, and he looks too much like an old Henry Winkler than an old Andy Garcia, but his smoking scene is a nice creepy touch.On a technical level, the cinematography is a treat.  It's lush and elegant in the black and white scenes, and, well, light and airy and not too obtrusive in the contemporary scenes.  It's a little too dark and atmospheric in the antique shop, where the hypno-therapy sessions take place, but again it's in keeping with the fantasy element of the reincarnation theme.Also in keeping with the over the top feel of the film is Patrick Doyle's music, exciting at times while other times it sounds too powerful for minor scenes.  It does have a nice feel of excitement to it, and it would have been nice to see him work on the recent Bond films.  So overall, a fairly entertaining bit of fluff, which I at least didn't take too seriously.  I was hoping though that Branagh would move on to more substantial material, but alas, he instead did Peter's Friends and the atrocious Francis Ford Coppola's--I mean Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Good & Bad Of Dead Again","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found a number of both good and bad things about this film, but that's because of my beliefs. Overall, most people, I think, would enjoy this. Here's a few brief comments, which I don't except will be well-received, but.....The GOOD - It's always a treat to see Emma Thompson on the silver screen, especially when she plays her '40s Margaret character in this film. The most interesting character in here, though, is her real-life husband (at that time), Kenneth Branagh. Lots of tension in this movie, too, that keeps your attention.THE BAD - The story centers around a total belief in re-incarnation, doing everything it can to validate those beliefs. Also, there are a few major holes in the story and there's a corny ending, action-wise. "},{"Title":"Worth more than one watch!","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again was the film that really introduced actor/director Kenneth Branagh to mainstream American film, and for a time he and then, wife Emma Thompson were the most celebrated acting couple since Olivier and Leigh. The marriage did not last, but fortunately this film did and I say fortunately, for although it is somewhat forgotten today, Dead Again is an overlooked jewel of a film classy, noir-ish, stylish, and very memorable indeed.Both Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson are fabulous in this film...the chemistry between them is undeniable. The supporting cast is also excellent, with memorable performances by Andy Garcia and Derek Jacobi and a truly exceptional cameo by Robin Williams, who here for the first time demonstrated that his talents went far beyond comedy. There are some decent plot twists at the end, which, if the script could have evolved with more subtlety, would have resulted in an infinitely better suspense film.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A terrific, audacious and underrated thriller","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again slipped under the radar in the early 1990s, and since then its director and star Kenneth Branagh has become somewhat of a controversial figure, primarily for the (over?)ambitious nature of the projects he tackles. This smaller but still audacious early effort is worthy of re-discovery the script is cleverly twisted, tightly constructed and has a sense of humor, the direction is measured and balanced, the casting is expert (has Emma Thomson ever been more gorgeous, and more casual, than in the present-day sections of this movie? Also, Derek Jacobi is perfect and Robin Williams' cameo appearances are hilarious), the music score is lush and extravagant, and the payoff is satisfying. Perhaps you can find small faults here and there, but they don't seem to matter in the larger picture. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Well-made, suspenseful and unpredictable, but it does feel a bit forceful in conveying its beliefs","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A woman known as Grace (Emma Thompson) suffers recurring visions of someone killing a woman. Grace is suffering from amnesia and is in a catatonic state whereby she only speaks when she yells things out in her sleep. Grace is released in to the care of private eye Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) who attempts to try and piece Grace's life back together and attempts to get to the bottom of who Grace is and also why she is having these strange visions. Church gets some unexpected help from antiques dealer and hypnotist Franklyn Madson (Derek Jacobi). Through a series of hypnosis sessions, Grace starts to re-discover her past life, but forming these memories again comes at a cost...Dead Again has a very impressive opening few minutes; the credits showing various tabloid articles and then the opening scene with Roman Strauss (also Kenneth Branagh) and news reporter Gray Baker (Andy Garcia) was quite chilling and it also allowed Branagh to be Hannibal Lecter for a few minutes.Once the impressive opener is out of the way, the film takes a rather slow-burning approach in developing its story. Yes it is a slow film, but it's not a film that I found boring. As with any good mystery film, all the building blocks are put in place and every scene gradually adds another piece to the puzzle. As a whole, the story is engaging, suspenseful and unpredictable and I must admit for the most part I was interested in how the events were unfolding and in which direction the story was going to take. All these elements are what make the film worth watching. However...I have to admit to being taken surprise by the turn of events later in the film specifically with regards to the idea that both Roman and Margaret had been reincarnated. I mean sure there had to be some link back to their past, but this was not what I was expecting. It becomes even more ludicrous when we learn that they've been reincarnated as different genders. It's one of those twists where I praise it because of how much it surprised me, but also one that I want to condemn for being so ludicrous. However, I'm leaning more towards being positive about because it's a rather unique twist and because it did surprise me. The issue I had with this twist is that it felt like screenwriter Scott Frank was trying to force his own beliefs on to his audience. It isn't implied here that they have been reincarnated or even suggested, but we're actually told that they have been reincarnated. To me, forcing such an agenda on people based on a concept which is merely a myth or superstition is arrogant and rather silly. Don't get me wrong I'm all for exploring the concept of reincarnation and I'm all for getting people thinking about it, but to make believe that it is real is misleading to say the least. It's heavy-handedness like this that brings the film down slightly which is a shame because it is very effective in almost every other area.Despite the heavy-handed and questionable reincarnation twist, the film does get a lot of praise from me for having an involving, suspenseful and unpredictable storyline. Many of the performances here help make the picture enjoyable and the likes of Branagh, Jacobi and Thompson were all excellent - although I only found Branagh compelling as Roman Strauss and didn't think he was as good in his role of private eye Mike Church. Garcia is OK in a supporting role, Williams did OK with what he had to work with - his character was interesting, but his role was severely underwritten. Wayne Knight was annoying and for me was an unnecessary and distracting addition to the film.As it is Dead Again is a very good film, but one that could have been even better with a less heavy-handed approach. "},{"Title":"Reincarnation (in color) revisits a 1948 murder case (in black and white)","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again (1991) is a mixture of the supernatural, neo-noir, romance, mystery and a dash of thriller. The romance part, between Kenneth Branagh as detective in the present falling in love with the amnesiac Emma Thompson, almost brings the movie to a halt in Act 2. It runs too long and the on-screen love/chemistry is absent. However, the depiction of their love in the past, in 1948, as two completely different persons, is very good and very passionate. The past flashbacks done in black and white are more entrancing, mysterious and convincing than the present that's filmed in color. Branagh does very good work in the 1948 part of the film. This contrast is an example of the uneven character of the film. Apart from the music and cinematography, much else is uneven. This especially includes the story, Branagh's direction, and his acting.The search for identity is a common neo-noir theme, and this is at the heart of the film because Emma Thompson's character has lost her memory and is having nightmares. This story element's weakness as noir is that its origin seems to lie in the supernatural of a confused reincarnation, and that's rather opposed to or distant from what we might think of as a general condition of mankind or a general noir theme. We are simply not given to understand her predicament or see it as anything more than a one-off strange case.The supernatural here is mumbo-jumbo and confusing mumbo-jumbo at that, not even resolving its own premises and mysteries to a satisfying degree. Loose ends abound. Invoking karma and identity switches does not satisfy the requirements of a really good story. We badly need to understand the motivations of those involved. Noir and the supernatural do not mix easily under the best of circumstances.The mystery is on the simple side when all is said and done, but the attempt here is to dress it up or obscure it or hide it with various diversions. Some of these are simply not well done. Branagh is taking a page from Orson Welles's book, but as director he lacks the visual flair of Welles and falls back upon mundane staging much of the time and overly-flamboyant staging at others. Branagh does have flair at times. The thriller element in the film is minimal. The story develops our curiosity but not in a suspenseful way or a way in which we feel continuing or rising perils to the principals, until we get nearer the end.Branagh's acting is mannered. The two men he plays both beg to be liked. His accent is of course borderline, but this is and always has been true of most British actors who attempt to speak like an American. Emma Thompson in the movie's 1948 past does some excellent work, as in the scene where she meets Andy Garcia. His screen presence is typically interesting, but his enunciation remains questionable. Derek Jacobi is a high point in most movies and no exception here. Robin Williams has an unbilled part wherein he receives many closeups and provides material about reincarnation. He seems to have enjoyed doing it.This movie invokes vastly different and opposite reactions from those who are entranced by its flashiness and the story's mystery and those who see its evident imperfections. I personally found it interesting enough but not really involving and not deep. To me it's something of a curiosity. It needed more work on the story before it could even become a candidate for a great movie. "},{"Title":"Not What I Was Expecting","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An amnesiac (Emma Thompson) and a private eye (Kenneth Branagh) find they might have a past life connection.Somehow this film ended up on my list of horror and thriller films to see. Horror? Not in the slightest. Thriller? Perhaps. Regardless, it does have a bit of the supernatural (past lives) and some great actors involved. Any time Wayne Knight gets to be anyone other than Newman or the villain in Jurassic Park is a good thing.Although I would not recommend to this to anyone looking for a thriller, it is a better than average movie that seems to have slipped through the cracks. I certainly never heard of it before and knew nothing about it until I hit play. "},{"Title":"An absolutely superb thriller","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's second film as a director, this is an absolutely superb thriller which could hardly be more different from Henry V. It is extremely evocative of the films of Orson Welles and Alfred Hitchcock and the film noir classics of the 1940s and 1950s. There is a wonderful reference to Citizen Kane in the scene in which Mike Church visits the elderly Gray Baker in a nursing home for information and he repeatedly asks for tobacco, as the elderly Jed Leland did in that film. The flawless and completely engrossing script was written by Scott Frank, who more recently wrote the decidedly lacklustre The Wolverine. It is full of fantastic twists and marvellous dialogue. The cinematography is beautiful and the long uninterrupted takes, one of Branagh's trademarks, are brilliantly done, the best example being the first hypnosis scene. I have always been very nervous of knives and large scissors - perhaps I had a bad experience with them in a past life too! - so I found those parts of the film, particularly the denouement, extremely frightening. It took a few minutes after the film ended for my heart rate to return to normal.Branagh excels not only as a director but an actor too, playing the dual roles of Roman Strauss and Mike Church to perfection. The same is true of his then wife Emma Thompson as Margaret Strauss and Grace. It's a shame that they got divorced as their on screen chemistry is always electric, never more so than in Much Ado About Nothing. The best performance in the film, however, comes from Derek Jacobi who is spellbinding as Franklyn Madson, particularly towards the end of the film. He was nominated for the BAFTA for Best Supporting Actor and should have received an Oscar nomination for the equivalent award. The film is pretty much dominated by those three actors but it also has strong performances from Wayne Knight, Robin Williams (in one of his first completely serious roles) and Hanna Schygulla. As I said in my review of The Godfather Part III, I don't think that Andy García is a great actor but he was certainly better than in that film as he was given far more interesting material in spite of his far more limited screen time. That brings me to my only real criticism of the film the old age make-up that he wore was rubbish. There is also a lovely and hilarious cameo by an uncredited Miriam Margoyles but Branagh's mascot Richard Briers is conspicuously absent.Overall, this is my second favourite film directed by Branagh after Hamlet and one of the best thrillers that I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Good concept done in by uninspired execution","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again (1991) has the feel of a Hitchcockian thriller and its supernatural-tinged romance more than echoes the master's own Vertigo. However, there's something about it that is just lacking. The acting is well done, though it does take a while to get used to Branagh's phony American accent (he sounds a lot like Raphael on the 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cartoon). The music is lovely and the other technical aspects are fine.It's the story itself. There are so many twists, which make DA ideal for the first viewing, but not so ideal for re-visitation. The character the private eye and his lady love wasn't captivating enough to keep one 100% invested.Good for one watch, but like a roller coaster ride, once is enough for this lifetime or the next. "},{"Title":"A Brave Pairing of Old Hitchcock and New De Palma","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alice fell into a hole the length of a half-marathon and found herself in a land of hookah smoking caterpillars and prompt rabbits. We didn't ask any questions as she sauntered around Wonderland; we let her do the talking, while we, drink in hand, sat back and hoped she would get into enough trouble to provide for a hoot of a story. We couldn't put ourselves in her shoes &#x97; no one has had a tea party with a zany hat enthusiast (except maybe Liza Minnelli or some other unpredictable broad) &#x97; but we were more than willing to act as a sidekick during her so-called journey.Kenneth Branagh, more or less, asks us to do the same thing with Dead Again, a mystery/thriller/fantasy/romance/film noir (yes, it is comprised of that many genres) that spirals into the realms of lustrous cinema, defying explanation. This isn't the kind of movie that hits you over the head with its pragmatism, though; it is, rather, a sweeper in the same category of a Michael Curtiz sudser. You lose yourself in its reverie. Branagh has done something highly original here, even if it does eventually get trapped within the stickiness of its many convulsions. It takes the best components of a 1940s melodrama, the finest ingredients of a neo-noir, and concocts something simultaneously retro and modern. The results travel back and forth between head-scratching and engrossing, but remaining is Branagh's knowing eye for film, and what makes it so magical in the first place.Dead Again introduces itself with a slap and a bang of headlines. Vintage newspapers are slammed in our faces, enthusiastically announcing the murder of Margaret Strauss (Emma Thompson), a prominent concert pianist. The world has decided that her husband, composer Roman Strauss (Branagh), is guilty, and, without missing a beat, grabs him by the hand and leads him to the electric chair. If this isn't a tragic romance, then I don't know what is. The film then transitions into a black-and- white setting, moments before Strauss's death; we think we're about to get a full-blooded noir homage of The Man Who Wasn't There dedication, but not quite.Just as things are about to get interesting, bang! the sensibilities of modern filmmaking techniques fill the screen. The jump from 1948 to 1991 is startling; but even more startling are the characters we come to meet. One is an amnesiac named Grace (Thompson); the other is a private detective, Mike Church (Branagh). And no, these fictional entities are not merely the result of prominent actors playing dual roles. Mike is called by a friend to try to help Grace figure out her true identity &#x97; but things, expectedly, turn out to be much more complicated than ever expected. It seems that Grace can only recall the details of Margaret Strauss's life, and Mike, as realistic as he is, is beginning to experience similar sensations.They enlist the help of an eccentric hypnotist (Derek Jacobi) who doubles as an antique dealer. Throughout their many encounters, it becomes abundantly clear that Mike and Grace may very well be the reincarnations of the doomed Strauss's; and romance, along with danger, are following close behind.Dead Again is borderline ludicrous, but doubts arrive long after the film is over; we're kept too busy to notice a flaw. Unlike Branagh's many other movies, this is not a film only for the intellectual crowd. It is also for those who are (a) looking for a glorious romantic thriller, or (b) are huge fans of classic cinema. It's popcorn entertaining, easy to absorb and hard to dislike. Our brains are buzzing, our hearts pounding with the promise of romance, suspense. Branagh takes a number of risks (how about that unexpected ending?), considering he photographs every Strauss flashback in magnificent black-and-white and fancies the tracking shot techniques of Hitchcock. Most pay off; the twists are what weaken the film, not its cinematic techniques.But I suppose I'm only nitpicking. One shouldn't complain about such things when talking about a movie that places reincarnation at its front- and-center. Fact is, Thompson and Branagh are wonderful together (they were husband and wife during filming, after all), and Dead Again is ingenious in its aesthetic and conception. It doesn't go as deep as one would hope, turning out to be much simpler than originally expected (considering its many complications). But this is grand escapism that ties a cherry knot in our minds and leaves us intrigued. Read more at petersonreviews.com "},{"Title":"The Karma More Twists Than a Pretzel","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is about dual parallel stories occurring in Los Angeles in the late forties and again four decades later in the early nineties. The segments that make up 1948-1949 portion are in black and white flashbacks, and focus on the tragic love affair of music composer and conductor Roman (Kenneth Branagh) and pianist Margaret Strauss (Emma Thompson). The opening montage is made of compiled newspaper headlines and clippings that scream about the murder of Margaret (MURDER . . . TRIAL . . . GUILTY . . .). We quickly learn that Roman was convicted and executed for the scissor-murder of his wife. Roman goes to the electric chair proclaiming his innocence. Margaret had been suspicious that ominous housekeeper Inga (Hanna Schygulla) and her strange and stuttering son Frankie (Gregor Hesse) may have stolen jewelry items from Roman. But Inga had saved Roman from Hitler, so she kept her position. In turn, Roman was unhappy that his wife seemed to have taken an inordinate amount of interest with newspaper writer Gray Baker (Andy Garcia). The early 1990s part involves private investigator Mike Church (Branagh again), who has been asked by Father Timothy (Richard Easton), a priest, to unearth the identity of a woman (Thompson again) who has lost both her voice and her memory. She experiences terrible nightmares. Church had intended to drop off Thompson at the local madhouse, but after seeing conditions there he decided to put her up for a night or two. He gives her a faux-name, Grace. Helpful newspaper man Piccolo Pete (Wayne Knight) puts her photograph in the local rag. Peculiar hypnotist (and antique dealer on the side!), Franklyn Madison (Derek Jacobi) responds quickly. Now Franklyn believes that a trauma from the woman's past is causing mute amnesia. When Franklyn, with permission from Mike Church, places Grace under hypnotism, she begins to have visions from the 1940s, i.e., Roman and Margaret's life (before Grace was born). Grace soon regains her voice, but not her memory. As she begins to grow closer to Mike, she notices the similarities between their lives and the previous ones of Roman and Margaret. As she looks even deeper into her past, she begins to fear Mike, feeling that &#x96; like Roman earlier &#x96; he will eventually kill her (as he is apparently Roman re-incarnated). But did Roman really kill Margaret? At a critical point Church tells Grace, I would never hurt you, MARGARET (Freudian slip), Grace screams right away. Cozy Carlisle (Robin Williams), ex-psychiatrist turned supermarket worker, soon warns Mike that he should indeed kill Grace before she kills him because fate is what it is. There are similarities between past and present lives. Reincarnation also means that one may return in a different gender Grace could be Roman while Mike may be Margaret (heavy stuff here)! After researching, Piccolo Pete tells Grace that her real name is Amanda Sharp, an artist who lost her memory after being mugged. (Note the Salvador Dali copy of his famous painting in her spacious apartment (The Persistence of Memory). After, when Mike agrees to be hypnotized, he uncovers a startling secret. When Mike later locates the aged and decrepit Gray in a wretched condition at a nursing facility, he is told that Inga the housekeeper knew everything that went on in the Strauss household. When asked about her and son Frankie, Gray says They had opened some sort of shop . . . AN-tiques. Mike's utter surprise sets up the denouement. Under Patrick Doyle's rousing musical score, there is a grand operatic clash with slow-motion shots and with cuts between the (black and white) past and (color) present times. It is a bit pretentious, though (but dig those gigantic scissors!).Yes, the story is complicated and relies on coincidence but it is a good tale, and very inventive. Each of the plot twists is given suitable build-up that avoids viewer confusion. One gets so swept away with the yarn and buys into the story that he/she ignores the coincidences (like Mike's meeting with Grace/Amanda in the first place). The character development is at a high level, while the sets and scenes are imaginatively well-done. Acting performances are first-rate. Derek Jacobi (of I, Claudius fame) is excellent as the hypnotist with a sinister agenda. An innovative touch occurs when he puts folks under not just to obtain information about the past, but also to pry from subconscious minds the whereabouts of certain antiques that may somehow fetch him big dollars. Robin Williams, as Cozy Carlisle, believing that the world has thoroughly porked him, leaves no room for anything but the blackest of humor in his top performance. Kenneth Branagh directed, and he and his then wife Emma Thompson shared the lead roles of both eras effectively, with the nod going to the latter. Matthew Leonetti's cinematography is effective at capturing moods. Whether or not you want believe in reincarnation does not matter (this writer does not) as the film's entertainment value is high. But you need to pay close attention to the story! "},{"Title":"And now for something wildly different!","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again doesn't make a whole lotta' sense. There are story gaps you could drive a truck through (or at least a little roadster like the one featured in the movie.)But who cares? Thanks to Kenneth Branagh in a dual role as a classical composer and a Los Angeles private eye, Emma Thompson as a stricken waif (who may be the reincarnation of a murder victim,) Robin Williams as a certifiably insane defrocked psychiatrist currently hauling cartons in a supermarket and Derek Jacobi as an antique dealer cum hypnotist, it's well worth watching. The story spins between a headline-making homicide in 1948 and the present, changing from black-and-white to saturated color as it rolls along. I'd say more but I don't want to risk a spoiler alert by telling who did what to whom and with which -- even if I understood it. But that hardly matters; I certainly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film tells the story of a private detective who enlists the help of a hypnotist to help a woman who suffers from amnesia.The title Dead Again gives the plot away a bit, but there is still a lot of suspense and thrill in the plot. Emma Thompson is great as an amnesic woman, she looks genuinely distressed by her amnesia, while looking completely different when under hypnosis. It is a little confusing to have Emma Thompson in both the past and the present. The presence of Robin Williams is a nice surprise, and reminds me of the other film Shrink in which he also plays a psychiatrist. The ending has another twist which is unpredictable, and keeps the film entertaining. "},{"Title":"Very Original and Enjoyable Film!","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again is one of the best films of the 1990s. It is a psychological thriller that will require your full attention. This includes the opening credits which provide critical background information. In the opening credits, you see old newspaper clippings from 1949 about the shocking death of pianist Margaret Strauss (Emma Thompson). Based on the clippings, we learn that Margaret's husband, conductor-composer Robert Strauss (Kenneth Branagh) claims a thief killed Margaret but he is later arrested for the crime after his fingerprints are found on a pair of scissors. Testimony from witnesses as well as his refusal to testify results in a guilty verdict and Strauss gets the death penalty. Most of the newspaper articles were written by Gray Baker (Andy Garcia) who visits Strauss at his request on the day of his execution. Strauss asks Baker to print that He loved his wife and that he will love her forever while getting his hair sheard with scissors by one of the guards. Baker asks Strauss why he is not afraid of death and Strauss states that he is not because things are far from over. When Baker states, But you still killed her, didn't you?, Strauss gets up and whispers something in his ear. Strauss is then escorted down the hallway to the death chamber. As Baker gets up to leave, he looks at the newspaper that was next to Strauss and notices the scissors that the guard had laid down are missing. We then see the scissors in Strauss's hand as Baker runs down the hallway yelling stop to Strauss. At the end of the hallway is a vision of Margaret Strauss and then we see Robert Strauss reach out and begin to stab her. We're instantly snapped forward into color (from black and white) and a modern day Emma Thompson awakes from her nightmare where she appears to live on the same property as where the Strauss' used to live. Now all of this happens during the first five minutes of the movie and if you're not hooked, then something's really wrong! The film goes back and forth between the past (always shown in black and white) and current day (shown in color). Suspicions abound as we piece together details from past lives and how they relate to the current characters. In doing so, we are left on the edge of our seats as new facts and twists are revealed.This is a thinking person's movie with a load of originality. If you like Hitchcock movies or you find films like the Matrix and Inception to be thrilling because of the twists and/or strong focus you must have while watching, you'll appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"Very good mystery thriller","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Rough California detective Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) takes on the case of a mysterious woman (then wife Emma Thompson) who can't seem to remember who she is. With the help of a doctor (Derek Jacobi) she comes to realize she might be the reincarnation of Margaret Strauss (also Thompson) who was supposedly murdered by her husband (Branagh) back in 1949. As she starts remembering more it seems someone is setting out to kill her--but who and why.Intriguing mystery/thriller with supernatural touches. The script is good and the story has many twists and turns. They do give you clues to who is doing it along the way so you might be able to figure it out. However I couldn't when I first saw it in 1991 and loved it. I STILL love it even though I knew how it was going to end. The acting is great. Branagh (who also directed) completely buries his Irish accent and is lots of fun. Thompson is just fantastic in her role. They were also great in the flashback sequences which are in gorgeous black and white. Jacobi is good too and having fun in his role. Also in small roles are Campbell Scott (blue eyes blazing) and Robin Williams in a rare dramatic role. A fun, intricate movie well worth catching. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Now I don't think Dead Again is a classic or a masterpiece, but I did find it very entertaining. One flaw with the film is that it is a little too long, by about four or so minutes. The other flaw I had was that I felt the ending was overdone, though not as overdone as the remake of The Wicker Man thank goodness. Still Dead Again is stylish, dark and entertaining, with stunning cinematography and film noir and Hitchockian elements, eccentric plotting, the usual twists and turns and a good script.Another strong asset was the score, the opening theme was very bombastic and haunting. The direction is decent, and the acting was fine. Kenneth Branagh acquits himself well in a very difficult dual role, one of the cynical LA private detective and the other of the composer executed for the murder of his wife back in 1949, while Emma Thompson is terrific also in a dual role as an amnesiac woman obsessed with scissors and is suffering from nightmares of somebody else's life and the composer's wife.Andy Garcia, Derek Jacobi, Robin Williams and Wayne Knight are also fine in their supporting roles, Jacobi especially. Overall, this is definitely worth watching even with its flaws. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some movies are so complex that they become a house of cards; any slip up and the movie collapses. Face/Off, Memento, Donnie Darko are among them. Dead Again is like that, although it has nothing in common with any of the movies I've listed. This is a complex movie, and while it stretches credibility to its limits, it is for the most part perfectly coherent, and it does something that most movies are unable to do build suspense.A woman (Emma Thompson) was found trying to break into a convent. She doesn't speak and appears to be harmless, so the nuns let her stay there. But she has violent nightmares every night, and the nuns get a private investigator named Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) to find out who she is. A hypnotist named Franklyn Madson (Derek Jacobi) offers to help, and under hypnosis, she begins revealing an interesting story from the past the high profile murder of Margaret Strauss (Emma Thompson) by her husband, Roman (Kenneth Branagh). Madson thinks it might be memories of a past life, and as the evidence piles up, is Grace (as Mike names her) now in danger?It's a very complex story, and save for one scene, it's well told. Hitchcock lovers would do themselves a favor by checking out this thriller (despite references to a murder with a pair of scissors, this isn't a slasher movie). It's a fascinating story and the suspense builds slowly and surely to the tension-wracked end.The acting is top-notch. Kenneth Branagh has what is arguably the toughest job. He plays two completely different characters, neither of which are in his comfort zone. Branagh would probably be the last person on anyone's list to play a 40's era noir gumshoe, but he acquits himself quite well actually. His portrayal of the musician is just as good. Branagh's then-wife, Emma Thompson, gives an equally terrific performance. She's an amnesiac, but we really grow to like her, and her romances with Mike (as Grace) and Roman (as Margaret) are very effective. What is really surprising is that the romance between Roman and Margaret Strauss is effective, and that gives the film another level that the film wouldn't have had if it was treated as a mere plot device. Derek Jacobi is delicious as Madson, the hypnotist. I don't want to give anything away, but Jacobi plays him in a delightfully (but effectively) off-the-wall manner. Brief, but important appearances by Robin Williams (as a former psychiatrist) and Wayne Knight (as Mike's friend at the newspaper) are also effective. Special mention has to go to Campbell Scott, who despite being in only one scene, is very good (watch his reaction shot at the climax of his scene).Kenneth Branagh is known for bringing Shakespeare to the screen. He has adapted a number of The Bard's plays successfully, including making at masterful, uncut version of Hamlet (also starring Jacobi). But his love letter to film noir is also an suspenseful entry into the genre, and the plot (from a script penned by Scott Frank) is twisted enough to bring back memories of those potboilers.Suspenseful and emotionally effective, Dead Again is forgotten thriller that should be better known than it is. "},{"Title":"Interesting diversion for Branagh and co.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The thrillers of the 1980s were films about dangerous relationships (a stage set by 'Fatal Attraction') - the dominant type of thrillers of the 1990s (probably thanks in no small part to the success of TV show 'The X-Files') was a more supernatural type story. This film released in the very early 1990s has aspects of both. It prefigured the '90s supernatural thriller trend by a few years, but it stands up pretty well against most of the others that followed. And, while the modern scenes are now a little dated (the film has a parallel storyline set in the 1940s), it's still quite enjoyable.Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson, best known for their Shakespeare adaptations, co-star in this 80s style thriller crossed with 40s style film noir. It's highly recommended to fans of both those genres - though like most supernatural thrillers, one must suspend disbelief in the supernatural premise to fully enjoy it.Great supporting cast made up of talented character actors helps move things along, and while there are some lame attempts at humor, they're more quirky than cringe-inducing.The music score is essential to this one, so be sure to have a good stereo set up! "}{"Title":"A Shell Game of Souls","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I ended up enjoying this movie much more than I thought I would. Partly because there are so many switches and surprises. A 40's era murder suddenly makes itself known through present-day people in a switching game of the souls, but don't judge too quickly. While you might think you know what's going on, things switch up near the end of the movie and, with one or two exceptions, you get some fun twists that make you feel as if you haven't wasted your time. That, together with good acting by all involved (though Jacobi does camp it up a bit, especially at the end) makes it a fun movie to watch. And you know the actors are having fun making it as well, which helps. I especially enjoyed the appearances of Robin Williams in his short, but memorable appearances which mixed humor and irony. One of the flaws of the movie was that he could have been used much more in the plot. The fact that he wasn't was another (disappointing) surprise.So if you enjoy surprises, you might enjoy this shell game of souls. Keep your eyes on the characters but don't be shocked...or maybe you should be...when they are not who you thought they were. "},{"Title":"pretty good movie.....unfair to compare it Henry V","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. So much so that I bought the DVD version. I, too, am sorry to see that Brannaugh/Thompson breakup. I loved their work together in this and other films.I was very impressed by Brannaugh's California Accent. If I didn't know that he was a British actor, I would have sworn he was a Californian. The entire cast was great, so I won't go into a long list of kudos.One final comment. Someone earlier said that this was a good movie, but it wasn't Henry V. Of course it wasn't. That's comparing apples to oranges. This was a film noir story ala a Chander, or Hammett. You can't compare the Shakespeare to those writers....as much as I admire their writing. So, to make a long story short, you want to see a good mystery/thriller....get this one and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Buddhist or Hindu?","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Absolutely the best movie I have ever seen on the topic of reincarnation. Just as an aside, I did not know until later that Kenneth and Emma were Brits, since this was the first movie I ever saw them in their American accents were that good. As the plot developed, the first time I saw the movie, I found myself wondering will they follow the Hindu version of reincarnation, in which gender is an unalterable part of the soul, or the Buddhist, in which gender can change from one incarnation to the next? This is only a semi-spoiler I will not reveal which way the movie goes. It is a good one to see time after time, if you really like a good Hitchcockian thriller. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh is a genius!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first Ken Branagh's film I've seen and, well, what can I say - this man is a genius. I'm afraid I don't quite understand the negative reviews - I absolutely loved this movie. Emma Thompson, Andy Garcia, Derek Jacobi and Robin Williams are all brilliant in their roles. This would be a classic in my books, but it seems a lot of people don't agree. I've seen it twice already, but I'd be willing to see it again, and again, and again, even if just to see Ken as Roman Strauss. This gets five stars from me! "},{"Title":"excellent dialogues","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What I find particularly good in the movie are the dialogues. Then, also, the cast is fabulous!  I don't know why this movie wasn't a great success at the box office.  I suppose the plot is a little bit gratuitous and convoluted around a concept in which not all people believe (life after death).  It's a pity that people would not like the movie, simply because they wouldn't believe in karma.  The character Roman Strauss is well acted by Kenneth Brannagh, with great flair.  Emma Thompson acts superbly in both her roles.  Her sense of humor and brilliance gives credibility to the characters. Another actor who has an interesting role is Robin Williams.  It's a tiny role, but it has great lines.  He makes some of my favorite scenes. In short, a beautiful, entertaining, well acted film.  It's worth your time... every time. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time. Brannagh's character is funny, and intense. Thompson is beautiful. Jacobi completes the mix perfectly. Its nice to see these three in something that isn't a classical adaptation. "},{"Title":"true thrill","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the first true thriller i've ever seen. I've actually felt those shivers, especially when Emma Thompson's character accused Mike Church (Ken Branagh) for killing her in their previous life and started living alone. It's always a delight to have Kenneth Branagh as director and actor in the same time, and this movie, as overlooked as it is, is such a good example of his talent in thrillers, too. He's not Bard-only. Kudos to Thompson&Jacobi too, especially Derek Jacobi, who plays his part with a very disturbing calmness which, along with the liveliness of other characters, balances the feel of thrill. But i think the best thing about the movie is, you can hardly identify the killer, or even who anyone is. You'll see what i mean. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Tremendous fun!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just one thing to say I never expected it to be so good and the end was just great! Emma Thompson was great as Margaret/Grace. I liked all the subtle things Kenneth Branagh put into this movie to give some clues about the identities of Grace and Mike. It's not a very well-known movie, but it should be a classic. "},{"Title":"Some of Robin Williams' best work","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw the ad for this movie on TV, I said to my husband That looks like Robin Williams.  I figured my eyes were playing tricks on me, however, because there was absolutely no ballyhoo about the actor in question, and I figured that a big star like him (which he was at the time, and still is) would've gotten a lot of publicity.Then I saw the movie, and it WAS him, and I realized that this was one of those rare times when a star takes a role because it's a wonderful part, not because it's big or showy.  (Think Bill Murray in Tootsie.)  Robin Williams is in perhaps 3 or 4 scenes, yet he holds his own effortlessly against the brilliant Kenneth Branagh.  Why?  Well, despite the fact that some of his lines are funny, he's not playing a funny character.  He's playing a former psychiatrist, disbarred because of unprofessional conduct with his female patients, reduced to working in the meat department in a grocery store.  His eyes are desperate; his face is drawn, tired and unhappy.  You can practically smell the sour smell of flop sweat.  This is not the Robin Williams of Good Morning, Vietnam or Dead Poets' Society, for all that they were serious roles.  (Would Adrian Cronhauer have advocated killing a woman before she can kill you because of the Karma Credit Plan?)  This is a guy who is a complete failure, and he knows it, and he blames the world for making him a failure.  Robin Williams achieved something in this movie that I would have thought impossible - he makes you forget all the hilarious nice guys he's ever played. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had no idea that this movie had been out for so long.  When I saw the cover with K.B. on it I picked it up and read the back.  It seemed pretty interesting and I thought I would take a chance.  I am glad that I did. This movie is absolutely wonderful.  I was enthralled through the whole movie and the ending was a complete surprise.  To those who say that the ending is completely predictable and also to those who criticized the whole thing, who cares, it's just a movie.  Quit trying to over-analyze.  Just enjoy it for what it is...an entertaining couple of hours.  "}{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first (and second) time last night. I had rented it because  I enjoy mysteries and books that have a back-in-time element and it also looked like a movie that I wouldn't mind watching with my husband (in other words, it had no graphic sex scenes).The comments on this site show that you'll either love it or you'll hate it. I liked it . . . yes, it was hokey in parts but it was fun to watch and I'll probably watch it again soon. "},{"Title":"Fun, Witty, romantic and a thriller","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Thoroughly entertaining , I enjoyed the chemistry created on the screen with Branaugh, Thompson.  I was enchanted by the exceptional talent of Derek Jacobi.  This was the first time I had seen Robin Williams in something other than comedy.  This movie has something for everyone... Pop the popcorn and curl up with this movie ... you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!!!","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The storyline is so creative, truly making this an exciting movie to watch. Kenneth Branagh plays a private detective (Mike) who comes across a woman who has amnesia-she can't remember anything(played by Emma Thompson). He names her Grace but her real name is Amanda. She starts having flashbacks about a past life she supposedly lived as Margaret and her husband was Roman Strauss. Mike takes her to a hypnotist so she can reveal more of what she believes was her past life. What unfolds is pure drama,suspense, and a chilling story of what really happened between Margaret and Roman. Outstanding movie. I give this 8/10.   "},{"Title":"How good is this film?","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've been a Branagh fan for a while but until yesterday, had not seen Dead Again. How good is this film?!? I was intrigued the whole way through. The acting was superb, especially the main characters played by Branagh, Thompson and Jacobi and the alternating between the present life and the past (black & white) was a really clever effect.I liked how the film unravelled in its own way, at its own pace, instead of employing cliches to handle difficult parts of the plot. I won't say anything more - you have to see for yourself.What else can I say? Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Sleuth with Romance","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A brilliant movie drama, suspense, comedy and romance.  Remember Sleuth. Similarly, this movie is brilliant, cold, and the suspense is killing. However, this movie is funnier and compassionate.  All the twists of fate are intertwined with the uncertainties of modern life.  The acting is superb.  Each character is well defined and easily remembered.  The story line, however, is complex and each viewing brings more to it.  A movie to buy rather than borrow. "},{"Title":"Watch it Again and Again","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Filmgoer's today are enamored by the film The Sixth Sense.  I would think largely in part to it's twist at the end. Dead Again is a film that offers similar twists and is leagues better.Emma Thompson is simply radiant.  Anyone who has seen this film knows she was destined for greatness. Kenneth Branagh is quite good as Strauss, but a little hard to swallow as Mike.  He is, however, the director of this film and that more than makes up for it. The film also sports some good performances by Wayne Knight (a.k.a. Newman from Seinfeld), Derek Jacobi and everyone's favorite scenery-chewer Robin Williams. The greatest pleasure to be derived from this movie are the wonderful twists.  Unlike The Sixth Sense (which bombarded you with every clue that pointed to the twist), Dead Again makes the viewer remember those.  The movie is just as fun to watch again and again to try and find the clues.This movie was never a big box-office hit, but rent this movie.  It is a great mystery-romance.  You won;t be disapointed. "},{"Title":"Emma Thompson is one of the best","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK I'm giving this 9 stars not only because it's a great film but mainly because Emma Thompson.This woman is a genius and probably the best modern actress out there today.I knew the killer was Frankie in this movie he was SO creepy and yet I have to say a great actor.The acting in this was superb.Question why do the Brit's have much better actors than the Americans?You have to say they always deliver!oh well I'm making this one a short review because I love anything that Emma Thompson is in.I wish she would do a bit more these days but then again there is not much out there for women.As a woman I'm finding this a bit tiresome what's wrong with Hollywood? "},{"Title":"Edge of my seat...","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" All I can say is wow! Kenneth Branagh is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors (not to mention directors)! I've been watching a lot of Branagh's Shakespeare-based movies recently when my sister recommended 'Dead Again'. I hesitated since I've been in that 'Shakespeare' mode, but finally added it to my Netflix queue. When it arrived, I threw it in the player thinking to 'half-watch' while I was doing some work on my laptop. Let's just say it wasn't long before that was set aside and totally ignored! I really got caught up quickly in this movie! The main characters (past and present) were very interesting and engaging, the past-present flow of the story was not distracting, and the plot twists were excellent! I usually guess the twists and endings of movies pretty easily, but didn't guess them all in this one. This DVD is at the top of my Christmas list for this year! (And I'm not returning it to Netflix until I've seen it at least once more!) I want more Branagh! "},{"Title":"I would see it in any future life","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of that movies that you see and never forget. The storyline is fantastic, the thrill remains until the very end, and the reincarnation concept is very well used (unlike some movies that uses this idea in a very simple way). The fine humor sense used in some scenes can even made this movie funny sometimes.Kenneth Brannagh and Emma Thompson have incredible chemistry together, and the script is perfect. I've watched it several times, and I've just bought the DVD to watch it even more.One of the best films I've ever watch. Recommended for anyone that likes a good story.  "},{"Title":"I don't understand the negative views","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS!!This was an excellent movie! Kenneth Branagh is amazing, as a director and actor. Having previously seen him only in Shakespeare roles, it was neat to see him differently. Since I totally missed it when it came out, all I knew was what was on the back of the movie box when I saw it. Therefore, I had no idea what was going to happen. I didn't get that Mike was Margaret, or the rest, until I had enough clues from the movie. I suppose I should mention somewhere in here that simply looking at Branagh was enough for large parts of the movie - as well as being good-looking, he's a good actor, the kind where you can stare at his wonderful face and not have to start laughing because some of his facial expressions look so odd. You can just believe in the role he's playing. The end was so outrageous, but somehow I still managed to get into it. I was watching Dead Again the same night I watched Psycho and The Fall of the House of Usher, on a Friday the 13 movie night, so I was expecting some cheesy horror/thriller film. It was so much better than that comedy, romance, and some thriller elements. I recomend this movie to absolutely anyone, and I'm planning on buying it the next time I'm at a video store. Two thumbs up!!!! "}{"Title":"A modern classic?","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first time I saw this, I had been living out of the country for a long time and didn't really know who Kenneth Branagh or Emma Thompson were. Halfway through the movie, my girlfriend said to me-isn't he great as an American?This is good, old fashioned entertainment-superbly acted. And the L.A. scenes are so affectionately photographed. I love L.A. so it was a delight to see sort of a real L.A.. (Love the scenes at Greystone!) There's wit, mystery, desolation (the Robin Williams role, the scenes in the mental hospital), treachery, loyalty (Mike's to the priest and nun's, the housekeeper to Roman), love, passion, mysticism, art and tenderness. With great acting, an entrancing mystery all set against  beautiful and fascinating scenery! Whew! What a ride! (An 'E' ticket ride!)I sometimes think that the people who like this movie or not can be divided between the people who can suspend disbelief in Karma and Re-incarnation and those who cannot. I found it refreshing to see a film which deals with questions of past life regression, re-incarnation and karma with grace-not as some sort of weirdo underworld populated by crazies and freaks, but as something that's part of the everyday world around us. That person sitting next to you on the couch, watching a movie with you-who was that person before? And who were you?9/10 "},{"Title":"Clever, surprising & witty","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was made back when Branagh still showed promise as a director & actor. There's a good deal of twisting in the plot, and a surprising amount of wit (keep your eyes open for a hilarious turn by Derek Jacobi).Lots of fun, not very serious -- and doesn't try to be. My only complaint is that they could have used someone other than Andy Garcia for the Gray Baker role. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before I tell the people reading this review how good this movie is, I would like to complain a little bit.  Bear with me.  I read some of the reviews of this movie and of The Sixth Sense and some people are forgetting the fun of the surprise ending.  People keep saying how easy it is to spot the plot twists and that the ending is not that surprising.  I agree.  If you are looking for the surprise ending at the expense of actually watching the movie and getting into the characters then you might be able to pick out the surprise endings to this movie as well as others (The Usual Suspects, Sixth Sense, Primal Fear)  but you are robbing yourself of the experience.  Therefore I ask that those who read this see this top notch thriller and enjoy it.  The movie, under the direction of Kenneth Branagh, succeeds on many levels.  It works as a romance because of Branagh and Thompson's incredible chemistry.  It is a wonderful mystery with excellent plot twists.  It also works as a thriller.  Dead Again is also an original idea which is something that Hollywood is far too lacking in.  See this movie and enjoy it, unlike some people who would rather over analyze than actually watch a movie. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare, it ain't","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the follow up to his acclaimed 'Henry V', actor-director Kenneth Branagh trades high culture for low rent thrills, playing an LA detective hired to learn the identity of a mute amnesia victim (Emma Thompson) suffering nightmares of a much publicized murder case from the late 1940s. Is she the reincarnation of the victim? And has her killer also been reincarnated as her detective/lover? The paranormal hook, with the entire cast playing their earlier selves in flashback, adds an entertaining twist to the otherwise cheap but lively whodunit scenario. And Branagh, perhaps wanting to prove himself a real Hollywood filmmaker, doubles the fun by pitching the action and performances to the edge of hysteria. His phony California accent is no more convincing than his broad directorial flourishes (note the use of TV-style close-ups, even in the black and white retro-noir flashbacks), but the film never pretends to be anything more than what it is silly, sub-Hitchcock fluff for a not quite jaded summertime crowd. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After his brilliant début as a director with Henry V, director and actor Kenneth Branagh measures himself with mystery, in a good movie in which the mystery plot is combined with supernatural elements. Everything is particularly well-made the scenographic expedients, the photography (color in the part set in 1988, denatured color in the part set in 1948, in which the amnesiac woman remembers the events of the crime), the unusually sober interpretation of Kenneth Branagh and those intense and plain of Emma Thompson, who was his wife at the time. Also the characterizations of the secondary characters are particularly well-made. This is a movie that's extremely turgid and abounding, not only visually, but also because of the numerous themes it deal with and the intricate plot. In conclusion, it works very well. "},{"Title":"Unsuccessful attempt to create vertigoesque atmosphere","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Desperately tries to create an atmosphere similar to films like Vertigo, but fails completely. The plot seems to be constructed by a 12 year old, Kenneth Brannaghs performance is embarrassingly unconvincing, and Andy Garcia's make up - when he is supposed to look old - looks like someone's puked in his face.     "},{"Title":"Dead at the end","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dead Again is a hammy name for a melodramatic farce.  I never would have rented it, but I saw its trailer on another video and thought it looked interesting.  That it is, but I found myself losing interest and faith in the last half-hour.  (I will not reveal it, for there IS a good plot twist leading up to it.)Dead Again sports many familiar faces Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson (real life husband-and-wife), Wayne Knight (Newman in a reincarnation flick??!), and even Robin Williams (who knew?) Branagh is especially charming as Roman--his meeting with pianist Margaret while madly directing the symphony is memorable. But although Dead Again serves up some very inventive, creative moments, the final scene was hideously overdone and much too melodramatic.  The slow motion sequences never settle well with me, and here they only highlighted the incredulity.However, Roger Ebert gave Dead Again four stars, so many people will enjoy it.  I did, up until that unbelievable finale.  Afterwards I did get to thinking (and I say a movie is only good if it makes you think.)  So if fate really determines who we meet, who we will spend eternity with, and we DO have multiple incarnations, then that creep who followed me around downtown last week will keep coming back, and back....and back.....??? "},{"Title":"Ugh... serious schlock.","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A lousy headline montage brings us up to speed on an old murder under the credits (See Murder on the Orient Express for a superior prologue/montage). Then the story begins; a woman who has stopped talking is shopped around town (L.A.) to learn why, and who she is.How on earth did everyone imagine this was Branagh's take on Hitchcock? He's really toying with Welles (and noir), specifically 'Mr Arkadin' with its masquerade and bearded Orson. But with viewers not knowing their history (about anything) and unable to communicate, you get misconceptions like that. And, it's a whodunit. How many whodunits did Hitch make&#x85; two? Instead Branagh wants to BE Orson Welles, and the camera work is noticeably fluid, but Welles worst movie (pick one, there are lots) has far superior lighting, compositions, tonal range and camera work. Welles was intoxicated by celluloid beauty and B&W helped him find it. Noir uses the screen so much better than this. Color makes peoples eyes lazy, as here. But it's easy to see why this cops out; the story is so surface-deep they may have concluded it couldn't support too much originality in the visuals. However, a frequently roaming camera does provide one remarkable, nice extended shot in the first hypnosis session.Brit Branagh has no feel for L.A., and has created a bizarro L.A. that is peopled mostly by Brits; lipless Branagh, unconventional Thompson and stagebound Jacobi; both men looking doughy. The twist here is interesting but it comes about half an hour before a solution that is beneath everyone. In the end I can't tell you at all how the twist contributes anything to the conclusion. As with most movies, the more explanation that is hurriedly provided in the climax, the worse the movie gets. I can't even imagine what people think these shallow last-minute resolutions do for them. DA reminded me of the lame, forgotten Hitch-ripoffs 'The Morning After' and 'Still of the Night' with Meryl Streep. If you wrote a time machine into 'Hush, Hush Sweet Charlotte' it would probably be like this.It's too long (147). The plot is simply not interesting enough to drag things out half an hour beyond irritation. Already at 106 it feels like it should be winding down. I just wanted it to conclude. Needless developments, a hammy score... and keep your eyes peeled for the worst aging make-up ever seen in a major film. "},{"Title":"Too many secrets for too long","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This sounded like a really good movie for me. A mystery. Reincarnation mixed in. Three really fine actors. What could go wrong? Well, it depends on how one likes a film mystery to progress. There really are 2 styles -- setting out the basics of the mystery early on and then letting the viewer in on the resolution...OR...keep the viewer in the dark, allowing him to see just one clue at a time and then resolve the film in the last few minutes. I'm a fan of the former style, but this film is of the latter style. So it was not until almost 90 minutes into the film -- when we got the key clue -- that I really began to enjoy and appreciate this film. A better film would have sprinkled some of these clues earlier on in the film. And the ending is a humdinger! Kenneth Branagh is good here. Emma Thompson is really good. But, at least for me, Derek Jacobi (as a psychic) really steals the show! So for me, you've got a D film for the first hour, then an A film the last half hour. Comes out to a C (7). "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie for those Avoiding the Norm","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie has a lot of animosity directed at it, much of it undeserved in my opinion. Yes, the plot is a bit hard to follow at times. However, that is most of the thrill of the end of the movie. I don't feel that I should give anything that pertains to the ending away; the very confusion and its resolution are what kept me enraptured for the length of the film. This lesser-known Branagh work, like The Midwinter's Tale, deserves more acclaim. It is certainly better than Love's Labours Lost. Give this movie a chance, but go into watching it realizing that, as Branagh himself said, there were fingerprints of other directors all over the script. This was a difficult script to film, but I felt it was done very well. I can only imagine that this amazing script would have been trashed if Branagh hadn't taken it on. Oh, for any other bard lovers (especially Henry V) fans, notice the number on the sleeve of Branagh's prison uniform in the first scene. It's the date of the battle of Agincourt! "}{"Title":"This basically tells about what I liked and disliked about the film","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With Robin Williams, Emma Thompson, and Kennth Branaugh, how could you possibly go wrong? Well, it does keep one's attention rivited on the screen instead of the popcorn bowl, at least most of the time. Parts of it are shocking (the language Robin William's uses), parts are funny, and parts are genuinely scary. Though at some points it is a bit slow and others it waxes melodramatic, the sheer range of genres it captures makes it good. (Violence, humor, romance, etc.) It keeps you guessing to the last moment and force-feeds you some very interesting philosophical ideas. I recommend it for the movie watcher who is bored with everyday movies and who can appreciate the techniques used in older filmography. I give it a definite 9.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good, worth watching.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie definitely has a very bizarre, supernatural story to it.  I thought it was fairly interesting, but I wouldn't say it was anything terribly great.  It was just ok.  Maybe my hopes were too high or maybe it's just that this sort of movie doesn't appeal to me, I'm not really sure.  If you're into Mystery (and Romance...sort of) then you'll probably like this movie, but keep in mind that this isn't your typical Mystery/Romance movie.As for the cast, I thought they all did a pretty good job.  I've only seen Kenneth Branagh in a few movies here and there, and he seems to be a good actor.  Emma Thompson did a pretty good job too.  The highlight of the film for me was Robin Williams.  I didn't expect to see him in the movie and there he was.  Wayne Knight and Andy Garcia deserve some credit too.Overall, I thought it was a good movie, and pretty well done, just not my type of movie.  I must say though, that there were a one or two scenes that really didn't sit well with me.  The scene in particular that I have in mind is the scene where Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) and Amanda Sharp (Emma Thompson) are looking at the old photos of the people that look exactly like them.  I couldn't stand their reactions, I'd be totally freaking out if I saw a picture of someone that lived years ago that was a spitting image of me.  Wouldn't you?  ...And they just calmly talked as if they didn't even notice.  Well, anyhow, the movie was ok, but nothing great.  I hope you like the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"a classic!","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Have you ever been to a movie where you knew the plot could never happen and had to get into the fantasy to enjoy it, and you did on both counts?Then you have seen Dead Again. I loved this movie when I saw it, and regard it as first-rate. In a nutshell, an amnesiac is interrogated by a detective, and things from the past start popping up all over the place. To reveal much else would be to ruin the movie, and I can't do that.Kenneth Branagh, Emma Thompson, Andy Garcia, and Robin Williams highlight a remarkable cast and a remarkable film. Watch it!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Entrancing and intense karmic thriller","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *SPOILERS Again* A young woman (Emma Thompson), who doesn't remember her own identity because of a trauma, has terrible dreams that seem to be about a terrible murder that happened in 1948.Detective Mike Church (Kenneth Branagh) tries to help her, and as a result finds out he's involved in that story too... and that the man who committed that murder, the one of Margareth Strauss (Emma Thompson), was not her husband Roman (Kenneth Branagh), who was found guilty by a jury and executed, but someone who might still be alive...This thriller/horror movie is a true find, especially coming from somebody so classical, such as Branagh, best known for his many Shakespearean adaptations; it's also a thriller which marries happily tension and brain (have fun finding two characters from 1948 who have a counterpart in the movie's present).As for the acting... everybody does a good job, especially Thompson and Branagh in the double parts, and Derek Jacobi as a hypnotist, Franklyn Madson (hint hint).Branagh's direction is flawless, as are the cinematography, photography and especially the music.In short, a movie not to be missed.Italian Title 'L'Altro Delitto' ('The Other Murder') Dead Again 9/10. "},{"Title":"The Ridiculous part was the reincarnation ruin the suspense-mystery story","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again is suspense mystery about a L.A. Detective (played by Kenneth Branagh also directed) tried to help a amnesia woman (played by than-wife Emma Thompson) to find her memory but she keep having nightmares. He get help by an eccentric antiques dealer and hypnotist (Derek Jacobi) to find out what cause her nightmare and they discover that they reincarnation of a famous composer and his pianist wife whom the husband is accused of murdering her in the 1940s.Dead Again is a slow movie and got dumber and dumber. The movie references to Hitchcock classics such as Rebecca, Vertigo, Spellbound, and Dial M for Murder. The acting was all right with Robin Williams in small role as the once psychiatrist that ended up in the supermarket. Emma Thompson tried to use an American accent but you still hear her English accent. And the film keeps giving away story and had no plot twist, Branagh character was suppose be a smart detective and should figure out the mystery and should've figure out the murderer. Things got stupid when the husband who's jealous and suspicion that his wife being unfaithful and a little boy that is angry that he didn't love his mother take the blame for the wife, stupid. With the unnecessary reincarnation plot that had the antiques dealer thinking it going to happen again and I can't blame Kenneth for that he should said We here to help her get her memory/identity back not a 40-something murder or reincarnation of a couple because she look-like the lady! The ending was stupid too were everybody is in her apartment looking stupid and crazy. I like how Branagh cast other English actors beside him and Emma because he wants America to known them. The story needs rewrites and a waste of good actors in this, this should have been done with amateur actors not them. "},{"Title":"Good idea / Second rate movie...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Both Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson did a nice work splitting in two characters with two personalities each, with two different accents... Quite a lesson on performing.The idea of the movie is not bad reincarnation, karma, paying on this life the sins of previous lives... It could have been a nice thriller if Brannagth wouldn't have made Dead again look like a parody of that kind of stories with all those weird characters... Well maybe that's exactly what he wanted to do, but the resulting film is neither a comedy nor a thriller... It comes to no man's land.*My rate 5/10 "},{"Title":"Almost a great movie","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film had all the ingredients of an excellent movie.  Unfortunately the ingredients weren't mixed together and cooked quite the way they should have been.  The writing -- it was a story with great potential, but all too often the screenplay was just silly but still took itself seriously.  There were a lot of twists indeed, but the writing was just not good enough to carry all the twists in the plot.  It ended up just being incredulous.  The directing -- overall not bad but lacking at times.  The editing -- the pacing just wasn't right.  The music -- it tried to be effective, but all it could do was try.  The acting -- just not quite there.  The atmosphere -- it was never sustained.  This could have been a great movie, but when it falls short in every single aspect, it ends up a notch below mediocre.  4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Too Unbelievable - Great Idea, bad movie","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I agree with the guy a few reviews ago that pointed out all the plot holes (quite a few of which I didn't notice).It's just TOO unbelievable. You try to suspend disbelief just to have fun but couldn't do it.The ending was incredibly silly. The twists seemed pointless. The acting was very good all around, though. It DID hold my attention until the very end, which is a plus. Once it was over I felt like I wasted my time.If you want a good mystery with great twists, watch Wild Things. The first twist in THAT movie was a shock! This movie, the twists were like, yeah, OK, why?? "},{"Title":"Running with scissors.....","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mike Church is a private detective who specialises in finding missing people. He takes on the case of a woman who he calls Grace. She is suffering from amnesia and keeps having nightmares involving the murder of a pianist, Margaret, by her husband Roman Strauss in the late 1940s. Church seeks the help of an antiques dealer with the gift of hypnosis. The hypnosis sessions begin to reveal some surprises that connect Mike and Grace, and reveal the truth about the murder in the 1940s.....Branagh attempts to do a Hitchcock, but with all the red herrings and barmy narrative, it ends up more like a Brian DePalma homage, which isn't a negative, because DePalma is a genius.But Hitchcock was more of a straight director, more or less getting to the point, and never really made you guess of who, why, and where.Here it's very twisty and turny right up until the last moment, and more or less every character introduced into the film is suspect.But it's expertly done, and looks fantastic, and even though Branagh is miscast as Mike, he excels in the directors chair and as Strauss. The black and white scenes are the best thing here, and have a really Kubrickian element to them.All in all, if you like whodunnits, this is a little treat that hasn't really been seen. "},{"Title":"Not a dead-loss, but not dead-good either","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The nineties was a varied decade for cinema, with several trends running concurrently. As such, many films slipped through the net; thus meaning that there's a lot of nineties films that never became big hits, yet were great nonetheless. When I discovered Dead Again in my TV guide, I was hoping that this film may be one of the aforementioned 'hidden gems' - but suffice to say, it wasn't. That's not to say that Kenneth Branagh's film is bad, not by any means; but it has too many problems, which stop it from fulfilling it's potential. The plot is one of those that has every chance of going wrong, given that it takes place across two time periods and features elements such as reincarnation. The plot follows the murder of Margaret Strauss, apparently committed by her husband; composer Roman Strauss. We then cut to the present, where Los Angeles private detective, Mike Church, takes on the case of a mysterious woman suffering from amnesia. In order to help her regain her memories, Church hires a hypnotist; and it soon comes to light that the woman's nightmares of the Strauss murder may be more than what they seem.I love films with original and weird plots, which is what attracted me to this one in the first place. The plot here is good; but it's not handled very well. The way that the film switches back and forward between the two time periods is ham-fisted and doesn't translate to the screen very well. It's also very difficult to really care for any of the characters, as most of the screen time is spent on building up the plot rather than spending time with the characters. The film suffers from a rather dull first half, but it really picks up in the second when the twists start to come into play. My TV guide described the film as Hitchcockian - I wouldn't go that far personally, but the twists do make it enjoyable. The film is, however, very lacking in the substance department. A film with reincarnation at its core really should be making you think; but this one is more of a straight thriller, so don't expect to have your brain taxed. On the whole, I don't recommend missing this film; but I don't recommend going out of your way to see it either. Dead Again is a film to be viewed when it's on TV and you need a film to watch. "}{"Title":"Dead Again... Zombie Hitchcock","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dead Again 5 out of 10 On-screen chemistry is a funny thing. Some couples simply have it. Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan make a cute believable couple; William Powell and Myrna Loy in their fourteen films together are in my mind the silvers screens best pairing.On the other hand, Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson have no on screen chemistry whatsoever. One might say despite the fact they were married, yet I would argue that too often whatever chemistry causes an off-screen couple to hook-up simply does not translate to the movies. In fact in many cases it seems to create a negative chemistry on screen. (Think Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman.) Since Dead Again is at its heart a love story, the lack of chemistry is deadly. Branagh and Thompson play two couples. The first, filmed in beautiful black and white, are an angry World War 2 refugee and opera composer and his murdered wife. He goes to the chair for her murder and we flash forward to Branagh as a missing persons detective and Thompson as a crazy mute lady with amnesia. They may be connected to the previous couple and both stories are told alternately throughout the film.The film itself (in particular the black and white flashbacks) is gorgeous, yet Branagh as a director plays too many tricks for his own good. He cribs so liberally from Hitchcock that the film threatens to turn into High Anxiety 2 rather than an original work.Without the chemistry between the leads we are left with little more than a hundred film school in-jokes and a strange sci-fi mystical story that we simply have no stake in. "},{"Title":"Strike Three for Me","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, I've watched three of Branagh's films, and although I understand he is a talented actor and director, he has to give up trying to play a character born in the United States. He simply tries too hard and is thus overly pretentious in his performances. I don't understand how people can say he gives an excellent performance here. He should let someone else tackle these roles. The rest of the cast, especially Jacobi, was fine. The slow&#150;motion ending was ridiculous, but aside from that, it's an interesting film. I'm sorry to Mr. Branagh because I want to enjoy his work, but I seem to come across his most Broadway&#150;bound productions. Unless done very carefully and with precision (Agnes of God, Dangerous Liasons, etc.), Broadway should be left for the stage and not on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly trite and frothy, and... I watched all of it","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why do so many North Americans (well okay, maybe not Mexicans) fall over themselves claiming to see deep and meaningful accomplishment in even the most overboiled, not-clever-enough-by-half, British tripe?That this sophomoronic, facile tale, chronically teetering under the impossibly heavy demands it makes on our suspension of disbelief, could be seen as anything other than a heavy-handed, overwrought, and exceedingly indulgent plod through ages-old ruminative terrain on the nature of our existence, is discouraging. It just ain't all that well done.Why, then, did I watch it all the way through? First, Branagh's American character is, as a piece of pure acting apart from the 'storyline' in which it is enmeshed, well done. Thompson also does excellent silents, startles, smiles and hysterics. And Jacobi does his typically pursed-lip, narrowed-eye, yucky-silken schtick. All very comfy for habitual moviegoers - even if all the actors' efforts, in the end, are to no fulfilling purpose.And also, there IS a sense of powerful potential in this film; it's just that it's founded on much too insubstantial a premise for that potential to be satisfactorily realized. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Under hypnosis, a woman with amnesia reveals the events of a past life where she may have been killed. It gets off to a fair start but gets worse as it progresses until it reaches a laughably bad finale with ludicrous plot twists. In his second stint behind the camera, Branagh seems to be paying homage to Hitchcock, with references to Vertigo and Psycho. Branagh's directorial incompetence must have had Hitchcock turning in his grave. With his hammy performance, Branagh doesn't fare much better in front of the camera either. He even manages to make the usually watchable Thompson look ineffective - no wonder she divorced him. Garcia's old man makeup is utterly ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Confusing Story of Karmic Revenge.","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well, I guess it's not really karmic revenge. It's just plain revenge behind the murder.Whoever wrote this piece of confusing comic/mystery/melodrama was channeling Madame Blavatsky, who apparently emerges from time to time from behind the veil of Isis.There was a scissors murder in 1948. A composer (Branagh) was executed for the murder of his wife (Thompson). Somehow, a reporter (Garcia) seems to have been involved but he's just a red herring. Forget him.Anyway, it's now forty years later, 1988 that is, and Emma Thompson is an amnesiac taken in by Branagh because she has no identity and nowhere to go. A hypnotist and antique dealer insinuates his way into the relationship that, as the sophisticated viewer will have already guessed, has turned physically demonstrative. The hypnotist age regresses Thompson and she begins reliving the 1948 case in which she was the victim.Branagh, a fundamentally decent guy, consults Robin Williams, an ex shrink who now runs a Carniceria. (This is Los Angeles.) Williams explains all about karma to Branagh and advises him to kill Thompson before she kills him. The two are reliving the 1948 murder only the genders are reversed.But Williams is a red herring too. The whole business about karma is a red herring. And at the end, when the villain tries to murder Thompson with a pair of antique scissors -- hint, hint -- that's a lot of baloney too because Thompson has no connection with the earlier murder, as far as it's possible to tell. She just happens to be a lady who lost her memory and came up with these weird stories under hypnosis.What a fine cast. Kenneth Branagh looks young and innocent but isn't really convincing in this relatively light part. I haven't seen his renditions of Shakespeare. Emma Thompson is a splendid actress and looks very appealing without being in the least sultry and certainly not Hollywood gorgeous. She has the open, wide-eyed, innocent features of a loving pet dog, some kind of miniature. Not a poodle, though. More like a happy-go-lucky terrier, one of those pets that's always wagging its tail and has its tongue hanging out of its mouth, maybe poised and hoping you'll toss a tennis ball. Andy Garcia has sleek features, is an underused performer, and should choose his parts more carefully. All of them live in those pretentious mansions of Southern California except for Jacobi and his dear mother, who are consigned to one of those cluttered little spaces out of Dickens' The Old Curiosity Shop. If anyone can make sense out of this underlighted mish mosh, will he please let me know? I need some hints too, you know. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After hearing all the rave reviews of this movie, I couldn't help but think that I was watching a different movie than everyone else. In a nutshell, the acting was atrocious, the plot was holey and predictable, and the final gun-and-knife showdown at the end was so slapstick it should have had a laugh-track added. Totally a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Impossible to be taken seriously 6/10","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh's Dead Again starts off promising enough with it's film noirsh like premise.  About half way through the film, you realize that the entire film is relying on the premise of reincarnation.  One hopes that this is just going to be the filling until some huge twist happens, but it never happens.  I didn't buy the reincarnation bit of this film, so I didn't buy this film.  Also, as classy as Dead Again is, what is up with the slasher like finale? "},{"Title":"Theatrical Coincidences Too Far Gone","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kenneth Branagh is a good director and can act well to boot. I liked his Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. But Dead Again, while starting off with a good idea, went a bit too far.Branagh plays detective Mike Church. He ends up helping an amnesic woman named Grace (Emma Thompson) try to discover her past. Several flashbacks by Grace show that she and Mike are the reincarnations of two former lovers. When a hypnotherapist appears and offers to help Grace further discover her past and the cause of her nightmares, things begin to get a bit too coincidental and dangerous.Dead Again is anything but a scary film, despite it's title. Branagh uses half the film on flashbacks of the past and other on the present in order to display how Grace and Mike have a romantically tragic history. But despite this clever and poetic tale's attempts, Branagh goes to far in certain respects, where irony becomes gratuitous. I can't go into any details without ruining the film, but suffice it to say that there are a few surprises that come across as more ridiculous than crafty. These unfortunates aside, the film has some good acting by Thompson and Branagh himself. Andy Garcia makes several appearances as journalist Gray Baker. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Out of its misery","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Somehow this film escaped me in the 90's. I am sorry not to still be running from it.There's a lot of talent here, not the least of which is writer Scott Frank. For his first lavishly produced script, it isn't too bad. I'm a sucker for a stylish, tight thriller but halfway through this pretender I had resorted to open mockery.'Dead Again' is utterly preposterous, without humor or connection- what intrigue there is is all artiface to prop up the nonsensical plot. Lumbering along while liberally squandering talent, on the way to a ludicrously violent, incoherent climax, several Falstaff-sized plot holes go ignored, much less explained.The director once again confirms my suspicion, that he is sub-par when without the choicest source material (ie, Shakespeare). Performance-wise, his 'aw-shucks' approach to the PI is at best neglectful, while his direction is mediocrity at its finest (for added cringes, be sure to listen to the DVD commentary).Comparison between double bills of 'Chimes at Midnight' and 'Touch of Evil' with 'Henry V' and 'Dead Again' is revealing. Where Welles showed himself to be a revolutionary interpreter of genre, Branagh just props himself up on the shoulders of giants.'Dead Again' wants to be a noir fantasy, and in trying so hard to meld those genres it's a good example of neither. "},{"Title":"Overly dramatic comedy disguised as a suspense thriller.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this will be a SPOILER, although I'm only half-way into the film.I'm an hour into the film, and the end seems painfully obvious.  Lets see, the facts It's a film about incarnation; it's a film about karma; and the film is unlikely to end obviously.  So my guess is pretty simple yes, incarnation is at play; BUT the incarnated souls are not who they appear to be.  What, then, is the big mystery?  He's actually her, and she's actually him.  Right?  It's so obvious.  If I'm wrong about this, I will post another review boasting about how truly surprising this film is, but I'm willing to wager my own karma that I'm unlikely to be wrong in this case.Well... besides being painfully predictable, and about as suspenseful as an overweight cow during her feeding hour, the film is not an entirely terrible comedy.  The acting is not bad, the reason it looks so unrealistic is because it is extremely overly dramatic, which is not necessarily a sign of acting failure.  It would be perfectly acceptable if this were a comedy, which is exactly what this is.  Granted, it's not a great comedy, but it's not bad...  the humour is not extremely witty, but it's funny never-the-less.So, if you can watch this as a comedy, you probably won't hate it.  But if you want to take it seriously you're probably better off watching something else.Well, back to watching and waiting for the ending that's so utterly obvious to me. "}{"Title":"As promised, here is my followup.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah yeah yeah, SPOILER SPOILER SPOILEROk, so I was not right, but I wasn't wrong.  As I stated in the last preview, the gender-switching reincarnation issue was as obvious as I anticipated.  But that turned out to be just a setup for the real ending.  So... I was wrong on at least that account.  I was also wrong to assume that this was merely an ok comedy, since it turned out to be quite a great one.  The ending is simply hilarious.  This works as a damn great black comedy, but for anyone to think that this was actually suspenseful... well, I frankly don't know what's wrong with you.So... for being a pretty funny comedy, I'll amuse myself and give this film a 10.  If I were taking it seriously, I'd give it a 2 at most, but serious it was not.  There's another Kenneth Branagh film that I will have to reconsider now, that film was Frankenstein, which left me with the impression that Kenneth Branagh is an incompetent fool as a director.  After seeing Dead Again, which employed an equal amount of extremely unrealistic dramatic acting, I realize perhaps I missed the point.  Like the original Frankenstein, that film was probably also meant to be a comedy.  Silly me.  Then again, probably Branagh really is incompetent, but in his incompetence manages to make fun of himself pretty well.  I guess we'll never know.Congratulations, Kenneth, you get my high marks on Dead Again for making me laugh, just don't disappoint me and try to claim that you were dead serious when you were making this movie. "},{"Title":"It is I...Kenneth Branagh! I have created a movie masterpiece of suspense! Watch it and be in awe with my achievements!","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Always an actor/producer/director who relied on theatrical elements in his films, Kenneth Branagh is a man that I can't take seriously. This film, depending on your point-of-view, can be considered a masterpiece of suspense, a camp classic, or the worst film you've ever seen. Since it's so difficult for me to take Branagh seriously, this film is definitely a camp classic to my eyes. Despite some gripping moments here and there, the film contained so many clichés of the genre that the plot was less plausible than a Scooby Doo episode.The film is enjoyable and some plot elements are somewhat atypical of the mystery genre, but Branagh's acting and directing style are so melodramatic that the whole film seems like some sort of parody. Here Branagh relies on a stereotypical American accent and a poor German accent in the dual role of an LA gumshoe of the present and a German composer of the past. His American accent is so exaggerated that he sounds like a Canadian in several scenes! His German accent sounds like an Englishman struggling to do an imitation of Austrian actor Anton Walbrook. And, of course, there's the usual Kenny Branagh facial expressions that are straight out of Saturday morning cartoons&#151;if you've ever wanted to see Ken get kicked in the groin and see the reaction on his face, then this is your chance.The other cast members are equally hilarious despite the display of their talents in other and better films. Emma Thompson grits her teeth and rolls her wide eyes whenever she's in terror as Branagh's love interest. Derek Jacobi delivers a suave performance that's reminiscent of Claude Rains in NOTORIOUS (1946)&#133;but without Rains' subtle acting. And one scene, Andy Garcia appears in old age makeup that's hokey enough to make him resemble a Muppet. And, of course, special mention goes to Robin Williams, who delivers some hilarious one-liners despite his intentionally serious acting in the film.The plot is ludicrous&#133;but I won't spend my time writing it down. And the film's finale is so contrived and silly that you'll be experiencing laughs instead of thrills. Branagh's directing style goes overboard here, delivering some of the hammiest acting I've ever seen in a film that didn't star Bette Davis. Wait until you see what happens to Derek Jacobi! I almost died laughing.However, Patrick Doyle's music score is very good. Since Branagh seemingly attempted to imitate the incomparable directing style of Alfred Hitchcock, Doyle succeeds in delivering a music score that Bernard Herrmann would have been proud of. Special mention should also go to Matthew F. Leonetti's cinematography, which relies on the use of stark black-and-white for the film's flashback sequences.But Branagh is no Hitchcock. This film is even more enjoyable on DVD listen to Kenneth Branagh's stuffy audio commentary and hear how many times he gives a high opinion of this film&#133;and of himself. If you can't take Kenneth Branagh seriously, then the DVD is recommended viewing. Watch, enjoy, and laugh.The film is followed by a sequel, DEAD AGAIN AGAIN. ;-) "},{"Title":"Incredibly far-fetched hokus-pokus","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Expecting a thriller of the film noire genre, I was quite disappointed to see an unbelievably far-fetched story, with suggestions about re-incarnation at its center. The leads, as well as the supporting cast appear instantly at ease with believing in re-incarnation, as well as the power of fate. The character of a former psychiatrist-turned-meat-cutter, played by Robin Willimas, not only instantly buys the life after death hokus pokus, but without hesitation suggests that the main character kill his wife from a former life, to beat her to the punch. Towards the end there is an elaborate multi-layered scene that is rather fascinating. It lasts about 2-3 minutes. The rest of the film is insultingly ridiculous. If you must see this huddled mess of a film, watch for how one of the supporting characters speaks with an exaggerated German accent, decades later the accent is an exaggerated British one. The identical looks of characters who died some 40 years ago (captured by LIFE magazine stories) and the present day counter parts doesn't seem to phase any of the characters. I have never seen Emma Thompson in a lesser film. A 3 out of 10 points Luke-warm thriller. This effort is forgettable. Save yourself the disappointment, I wish I had.  "},{"Title":"Once is more than enough.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really wanted to like this film. It has great credentials a mystery story set in LA, elements of the supernatural, eminent cast. What a disappointment. The plot is convoluted, the acting is overwrought (Branagh and Thompson affecting fake American accents, Andy Garcia trying to be a hardboiled newspaper man with a smoking problem) and the whole thing is tedious and dull, despite attempts by the oppressive soundtrack to keep viewers awake. The plot twists fail to enliven this mess; they only add to the incredulity of it all. Some examples what was the point of Campbell Scott's and Robin Williams' characters? Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Fine film if you are easily pleased","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Why are so many taken in by Branagh? This is another of his hammy, painfully unoriginal, overwrought pastiches. Just because he's well-connected and an accomplished pseudointellectual, nobody seems to be able to tell him how bad his work is. I couldn't sit through this once, let alone the 'again & again' some on IMDb seem to think it worth. To anyone who appreciates decent movie-making, this is like a particularly unfunny satire and a waste of professional technicians in a vanity project. Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid had more integrity than this, and had more mystery and suspense to boot. The accents are pathetic, the direction is pedestrian and the plot is preposterous.Avoid it! At best it's mediocre! "},{"Title":"Sooooooo baaaaaaad","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is so bad it's unbelievable.I can't even bring myself to list all the reasons why.OK here's some.The script is clunky, the acting of Kkkkkkken is so hammy and wooden, he could've played Pinnochio on a pig. The plot supposedly delivers us twists that we've already foreseen and dismissed as too obvious before they've even happened. I'm boring myself so I'm going to stop.Thank goodness the brilliant Emma Thompson escaped the much over-rated Brannagh's influence.After all, we can all point and click the camera at a decent cast, and direct by numbers.As for Kenneth's acting, he was the right face, the right age at the right time. Lucky f****r! "},{"Title":"Once more into the breach","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When your movie is primarily a vehicle for imitating other movies, notably Hitchcock's, it isn't fair to assume that your movies will borrow from their fame.  What's worse, the references remind you that there are indeed other movies you could be watching instead, and in fact could probably leave the theater, rent, watch, and return to the video store before this piece of tripe is concluded.  What a pathetic piece of self-conscious trash -- Crossing Over The Movie.  I would have rated this a 1, but regretfully I have seen Kazam.  Should have stopped with Henry V, Kenneth. "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It was the waste of a lot of excellent talent. Poorly written and poorly cast. The story line was unconvincing. The leads were two British actors struggling to play Americans.  What surprised me most was to see Robin Williams as a supporting actor because he was not listed in the credits. Rent Henry V to see many of these people in a far better movie. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time worst","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Paradoxically manages to be completely improbable yet totally predictable. If you can't figure out who the villain is or what's going to happen with that dangerous piece of artwork, you don't know much about foreshadowing or moviemaking.  To be avoided. "},{"Title":"Curious","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film rated quite highly by viewers and was surprised . I saw this film in a small cinema in St Andrews Scotland i suppose 91/92 where most of the audience were students at the historical university there . It was a late night showing and i didn't really know anything about the film before going to see it .It started out OK but my main memory was from the scene where the hypnotist played by Jacobi meets his end impaled on some scissors i believe. This was met with a spontaneous outburst of laughter from what seemed like everybody in the cinema . It kind of reduced what might have been a reasonable film to one that ended up being a bit of a joke and as far as i remember based on an implausible premise "}{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of THE worst movies I ever had the displeasure to sit through. It was soooo slow in developing that when the 'surprise twist' happens, it is way too little, way too late. The acting was forced (if you are using Brits as leads, why not have the movie take place in the UK?), and the characters fail to bring me in to this laughable plot. SLOW and SAPPY  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How this turgid slop can rate above 6 on IMDb is completely beyond me.This movie has an exceptional cast and looks to have an interesting storyline so one should expect to be entertained.The first warning that things have gone awry comes in the opening scene when you discover that Kenneth Branagh, THE Kenneth Branagh of so many magnificent films, is playing a hokey gumshoe detective and has adopted a terrible American accent.The plot turns out to be entirely predictable and the entire cast seem to simply be going through the motions, perhaps knowing that this movie is not going to count among their finer works.Kenneth Branagh is terrible. Derek Jacobi is terrible. Emma Thompson is terrible. Wayne Knight is terrible. Horrible. Hanna Schygulla doesn't make much of an appearance but when she does is terrible. Andy Garcia isn't terrible but he probably realised early on that he couldn't pull it out of the mire.This film is an embarrassment to all concerned. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Execrable","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most tenuous of plot conceits with the stupidest, most  heavy-handed ending I think I have ever seen in a movie, unredeemed by any significant virtues, in my eyes. (Hey, did  you happen to notice all those scissors?!) I despise this movie  perhaps more than any other, probably because I'm so  disappointed at Branagh and his kin, whose Much Ado and much else is so wonderful.Shame on you "},{"Title":"If you look up crap in the dictionary...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are two kinds of people in the world; those who applaud at the end of a movie they enjoy and those who don't. I fall into the former category. Having said that, I would like to add that, only once, I have stood up and booed at the end of a movie. That movie was Dead Again.I have to say that I was looking forward to seeing this movie, so I may have set my expectations too high.No, scratch that. This is easily the most ham-handed piece of celluloid excrement I have ever seen.As I sat in the theater, I was absolutely stunned, not just that it was  so painful to watch, but that everybody else in the theater seemed to think they were viewing a masterpiece. Or so I thought. One of the group of four people I was with leaned over and said in a horrified whisper, Man. This is TERRIBLE.I don't want to give away too much because I'm sure some of you will see it anyway. I'll just give you two words to play with while you force yourself to remain seated while watching scissors and cancer. You can get back to me later.Every so often you have conversations with friends about the best and worst films you've ever seen. Best is hard for me. There are so many wonderful films that I couldn't possibly pick one. When it comes to the worst, I always say Dead Again. Sure, it's no Plan 9 From Outer Space but at least that has some historical charm. Dead Again has nothing to offer. Not a thing. "},{"Title":"A bad, bad, bad film","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Truly an abysmal film, the bits with Yogi Bear being the only good elements of the film. When they made this film, the writers must have been strung out their tiny minds on crack or similar. What were they thinking? I've seen episodes of Scooby Doo with more plausible plot lines (and hotter leading ladies, that includes Velma too). When they send the cast to hell for making this abomination, then this will playing at the cinema down there. I think the world is a happy place knowing there are no plans for 'Dead Again, Again', or similarly preposterously titled sequel.dedwards2 is the only one that speaks truth on this turkey. "},{"Title":"A truly awful movie","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this film because I had free tickets, and I still came out feeling cheated. There is simply no way of getting back those wasted hours.Godawful plot and crappy acting just add to experience. Why on earth they bothered releasing Dead Again I really don't know, probably as part of some elaborate tax fiddle. This is the worst film I've ever seen at the cinema. Surely it would have been better for all concerned to destroy records that this film even existed.Anyone who is prepared to say they enjoyed this movie is clearly a bellend. They really are. Don't let them tell you otherwise.  "}]