[{"Title":"Do you believe?","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I fell in love. The second time around, I was already in love, watching it with my love who also fell in love and now we're all in love. All because of this movie.Set in New York, the movie deals with loneliness, different ways of coping or letting go, it deals with love, the yearning for it and also the fear of it, this magical feeling you almost don't dare hope for. The simple but genuine approach to these important themes makes the story stand out and makes you want to believe, because deep inside you already do.You can tell the movie is based on a play, primarily because of the special atmosphere created by the careful progression of the story, scene by scene, not to mention the wonderful and individual characters we get acquainted with. Both Michelle Pfeiffer and Al Pacino make outstanding performances and the on screen chemistry between the two is perfect.This is an absolute must see for all you dreamers out there, and if you ever come across the play, you probably should check that out as well. Remember, the elephant must face the window and a VCR will never be a substitute for love. Sit down with this movie, and I promise you, from the first shot of the Greyhound accompanied by Terence Trent D'Arby's wonderful title track, you'll never want it to end. "},{"Title":"real love in the real world","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic movies I have ever seen. It is not one of those movies that shows love in a fantasy world where there are no rules, this is real love in the real world. Michelle Pfeiffer gives one of her best performances on screen. this movie is not only about a cook who falls for a waitress, but it is about the fears and hesitations we all have in starting a new life. The director did a great job in setting the right environment for the movie, which gave it a real realistic touch. Al Pacino gave a good performance, but Michelle Pfeiffer was perfection. There is a line in the movie that says it all , when Pfeiffer and Al Pacino are in the same room, he says  everything I want is in this room. Don't miss seeing real love in the real world. Don't miss seeing Frankie and Johnny. "},{"Title":"Overlooked.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has been overlooked by everyone I know and to me it was one of the best movies of 1991. I didn't think the chemistry between Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer would be any good, but their on-screen romance was very enchanting. Garry Marshall did a great job directing this movie and Terrence McNally translated his play to screen beautifully. All the characters in this movie could have had a film of their own. My favorite character is Nathan Lane's portrayal of the gay neighbor. Lane is very funny and I love the way his character encourages Pfeiffer's character to fall in love. Falling in love can be dangerous, exciting, scary and blissful all in one night. This movie captures love in a way that made me feel really good. "},{"Title":"romance in the Greek Apollo-restaurant","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very pleasant love-story that wouldn't have been this good without the great performances by Pacino and Pfeiffer. Pacino is the cook with the romantic heart who just got out of jail (of course he wasn't a real criminal) starts working in a Greek restaurant and falls in love with Pfeiffer, the waitress, who just wants to watch videos and eat pizza after a few bad love-experiences. Pacino has to do a lot (read Romeo & Juliet, dance like a madman, chop vegetables and be very patient) to win her love and is finally helped by the sound of Debussy's 'Claire de Lune'. "},{"Title":"Realism at it's best","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frankie and Johnny is one of the best love stories in the history of cinema. The scipt is excellent and all the performances are superb. Pacino and Pfeiifer seem to be made for each other, while all the supporting roles are equally impressive.But the most important element of this picture is that it is truly realistic. We can at last identify ourselves in this movie. It's a movie about real people not about cinderella-like characters that once thay find love are happy. Frankie and Johnny fall in love but can't stop being hurt by this love. They are two every day characters that live in today's world and face their lives and problems with realism. With a pessimistic mood Frankie  refuses to fall in love as she is afraid she'll get hurt, while Johnny thinks that the only thing that can give a tone of optimism and satisfaction in his life is Frankie. In short. Frankie and Johnny is a delightful picture that no one should miss. "},{"Title":"Pacino and Pfeiffer ignite the screen again...","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After their brief encounter in SCARFACE, Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer were reunited for FRANKIE AND JOHNNY, a charming romantic comedy about an ex-con hired to work at a restaurant where he falls in love with one of the waitresses there. I absolutely love this move...Pacino has rarely been more sexy and appealing on screen and no matter how much they tried to make her look like a Plain Jane, Michelle Pfeiffer is just beautiful and also gives a very affecting performance as the repressed Frankie, afraid to release the love she has to give due to a troubled romantic past. Pacino and Pfeiffer make the most of a clever script, buoyed by Garry Marshall's sure-footed direction and solid comic support from Nathan Lane, Kate Nelligan (hysterically funny as another waitress at the restaurant) and Marshall's good luck charm, Hector Elizondo, as the restaurant owner. A warm romantic comedy with an unexpectedly quiet denouement. "},{"Title":"A must see; Pfeiffer surprises","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" with an excellent performance as a waitress in a down-at-heel coffee shop in NYC. Sounds unlikely, but she actually adapts to the role. Having seen Dangerous Minds, which was a good film, but somehow she didn't fit that role. Frankie and Johnny is a great film to watch; I happened to watch it after a bad day, and it does take you out of your own problems.Pacino plays a man just released from prison, who lost his wife and child to another man, trying to remake his life; this was based on a play by the same name, Frankie and Johnny in the Claire De Lune and basically addresses loneliness and isolation, even in a city as overcrowded as NY.I wish Pfeiffer had done more of these roles. She was so often used as a decoration, her acting ability was not allowed to standout (Scarface, Witches of Eastwick) etc. She was also very good in White Oleander an excellent film based on the novel by Janet Fitch.Overall this film is particularly good if you are having problems in your life, and happen to watch this basic story of people, how they stay isolated, how they eventually find each other and a commonality in their life. It is also not an over the top romantic comedy, so it has credibility. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Love this film","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watch this movie over and over and never tire of it.  Each time I notice more nuance.  A great exploration of despair and hope, of class consciousness, and true eartly aliveness.  Poignant and honest.Michelle plays a depressed soul, beaten down who has given up completely. And Pacino is a beaten down battered ex-con, who somehow, has held onto the dream. Nathan Lane is great - It's romantic, poignant, funny, sad, ecstatic.  I love the last scene so much.  What more can I say?? Don't miss this film - it's a treat.Nancy Mehegan, Montclair, NJ "},{"Title":"A romantic, popcorn-and-wilted-roses kind of comedy-drama...","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to give the filmmakers credit they did attempt to deglamorize Michelle Pfeiffer to fit into Kathy Bates' off-Broadway role of a waitress with no prospects who finds herself attracted to the new cook at the restaurant. Michelle's innate sparkle manages to shine through the dowdy clothes and plain-Jane appearance, and yet the miraculous thing is, her casting doesn't hurt the movie and her performance is one of the best things about Frankie and Johnny. Pfeiffer and Al Pacino are a good screen match, and if they don't especially resemble the characters they're playing, they at least don't throw the tone out of whack (this is a Garry Marshall movie after all, so it's bound to have a bumpy narrative). Terrence McNally's play was about hard truths and sex on a low income; this is a big, charming commercial comedy-drama, directed with energy but no real flair. Pacino lays on the Prince Charming-pizazz a bit heavily, and Nathan Lane works overtime at being adorable as the proverbial gay best friend, but it certainly isn't a bad movie. It works on a certain level, even if it doesn't resemble reality or the original play. *** from **** "},{"Title":"where there is life, there is love","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love CAN be scary. Especally if you don't expect it. This movie is very good at describing how love can be. Fate can bring two people together. Believe in it. And how perfect the theme song Clair de Lune is. It's worth a listen. Love can happen....only if you believe in it.  "}{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only bought the DVD of Frankie and Johnny recently, and already it is one of my ultimate favourite films. The story is heartwarming and totally believable, and the acting is superb. Michelle Pfeiffer is wonderful as Frankie, a waitress, who is done with dating. Al Pacino is great as Johnny, a chef who falls in love with Frankie. Both lead actors are superb in their parts, and the supporting cast are laugh out loud hilarious Jane Morris is so funny as Nedda, a waitress, and Nathan Lane is so good as Frankie's best friend, Tim. He makes me want a friend like him! Also, the character Frankie reminded me of myself. Frankie and Johnny made me laugh a lot, and it also made me cry when Frankie is sitting on her bed with Johnny, crying over not being able to have kids. Frankie and Johnny is an amazing film, with characters you can really relate to. Watch it and don't miss out! "},{"Title":"Almost a perfect romance movie!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't think I have spoiled the story in comparing the stage play with the movie.This film is almost perfect. Terrence McNally wrote both the stage play and the screen play. Clearly, he wrote the screen play better than the stage play. In the stage play, there are only two actors, Frankie and Johnny, and all the scenes take place in Frankie's apartment. And, in the stage play there is so much indiscriminate banter back and forth between the two that the story line seems to get confused at times.But, in the movie, McNally really develops a smooth story about how both Frankie and Johnny became who they are, and, merges them both together into a possible love duo. By introducing other characters in the restaurant where they both work and in the apartment building where Frankie lives, McNally helps show the life-style being led by Frankie and her vulnerabilities, which Johnny is there to assure her that he will always be there for Frankie.Both Michelle Pheiffer and Al Pacino are the perfect couple to act these roles. Michelle is a dreamboat whom any man could fall in love with. Frankie is defensive and seeks protection from life's bad turns. Michelle's emotional breakdown when she finally shares her past life experiences with Johnny is so well acted that one hangs on her every word.Johnny has fallen head over heals in love with Frankie and is blunt about telling her. Al Pacino is fast paced and typifies a person with a New York way of life. The conflict between the two characters is strong and makes for an interesting movie which will glue the viewer to their seat.I watch this movie whenever it comes on cable and I also have the video and play book. Clearly, I prefer the movie to the play in spite of the great reviews the play receives when it is performed on the stage.The play has much more cursing than the movie. Somehow, I don't think that the soft and subtle character of Frankie is right for her to curse so much in the play. In the movie, her cursing is minimal and gets the point across to Johnny.Garry Marshall captured the romance in directing this outstanding movie. It is destined to hold a place in romance movies parallel with Romeo and Juliet and You've Got Mail. Watch this movie with a date by your side! "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and hopeful","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny is a simple love story - incorrigible romantic Johnny, working as a short order cook in a Greek restaurant following his release from prison, sets his sights on waitress Frankie despite the fact that she is clearly bruised by the experiences of her life. Will his positiveness overcome her negativity? In an effort to be objective, I have to say that I don't find the character of Johnny easy to believe in - you could specify the qualities you want in the bloke to rescue your damaged psyche from the walls you are building for self-protection, and Johnny has all those qualities plus a handful more for good measure. But Al Pacino invests him with such magnetic presence that it is easy to overlook this.Michelle Pfeiffer's Frankie, on the other hand, is all too believable, both in the construction of the character - wounded, hurting, and scared of having those wounds reopened - and in its performance. Pfeiffer is almost too painful to watch.The gentle humour which runs through Frankie And Johnny makes the painful emotional heart easier to bear, but this would ultimately be a bleak piece were it not for the hopeful note upon which it ends.The supporting cast are solid, and the screenplay has been opened up nicely from the source stage play. "},{"Title":"A true and successful romance film + brilliant direction and acting","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is definitely one of my all time favorite movies. It has an amazing positive atmosphere, great romance and a good handful of funny moments. But it also has serious stuff in it that connects to the realism of love. It shows the damage of what love does to people and when the right person comes along to make it better.Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer) has had bad experiences with love in the past and it causes her to retreat when Johnny, (Al Pacino) an ex con newly hired in the restaurant where she works, asks her out. With the help of her friends, she agrees to go on a date with him. But the more their romance blossoms, the more Frankie becomes scared of being hurt again.There are important things to learn from this movie. If you found someone really special, don't let the mistakes of the past ruin it for you. The film itself has a lot of references to songs which makes it even more romantic. Romantic dramas often end in tears, but this one doesn't. It's truthful and simple. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Touching mid-life NY romcom","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A light-touch - soft-touch - but by no means flippant romantic comedy between two middle-aged, working-class New Yorkers. Franky and Johnny also has the considerable clout of some great acting and proved chemistry. Surely this film secured its green light when Pacino and Pfeiffer agreed to come together eight years after their doomed romance in Scarface?Whatever its provenance it's a delight although, like many romcoms the drama fizzles out somewhat when the lovers finally come together. The drama of Franky and Johnny is in the seduction against a background of disappointment and failure. Al Pacino's Johnny is an ex-con; his job as a grill man in a diner might not be the last chance saloon but the table of options for his life has been seriously depleted. Frankie (Pfeiffer) is also heading for a permanent position on the shelf until Johnny gets a crush on her. Cue all sorts of easy-going shenanigans familiar from the likes of When Harry Met Sally and Pretty Woman (also directed by Marshall) and churned up with some super cameo interjections from Nathan Lane as the beard-in-proxy. A great date movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I just got shivers....","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a tale of two people, one looking for love and the other hiding from it and them finding each other. Michelle plays a beat down woman who has taken off her rose coloured glasses about love a long time ago, while Al plays a man with a new lease on life and not wanting to waste any of it. For him it is love at first sight, but will his persistence keep her or drive her away? A tale that is real and raw, it reveals the other side of Love, dealing with past hurts and insecurities. A beautifully written, well directed, excellently acted movie (with a great and perfectly funny supporting cast)of life after love. A must see! "},{"Title":"The Love of Mr and Ms Average","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Alice in Wonderland, Lewis Carroll popularised the word uglification- the act of making something more ugly. I think that this would be a useful word to describe the process whereby some of Hollywood's most beautiful actresses deliberately use make-up to mar their looks in the belief that they will not be taken seriously as actresses unless they do so. Yes, Nicole, I am thinking of you. And you, Charlize.The role of Frankie in Frankie and Johnny might seem to be a candidate for the uglification process, given that the character is supposed to be a plain and drab waitress and that the part went to Michelle Pfeiffer, probably (along with Kim Basinger) the loveliest Hollywood star of the eighties. Fortunately, this temptation was resisted. (I say fortunately because, unlike the Academy which handed out Oscars to the uglified Nicole Kidman and Charlize Theron, I am not impressed by that school of thought which equates beauty with shallowness). There is no attempt to hide Michelle's loveliness, even though Frankie is clearly a woman who makes little effort to enhance her looks, dressing dowdily and wearing little make-up.The film is not based on the well-known popular song about a woman who murders her unfaithful lover, although that song is referred to at several points. It is actually based on a play entitled Frankie and Johnny in the Claire de Lune, shortened to something rather snappier for the film version, even though Debussy's beautiful piano piece still plays an important part. I have never seen the stage version- as far as I know it has never been put on in Britain- but the film, with its concentration on indoor scenes and greater emphasis on dialogue and character development than on physical action, clearly betrays its theatrical origins.Frankie is a waitress in a cheap New York diner; Johnny is the cook who has recently been released after serving a jail term for forgery. He learned to cook in prison (where he also acquired a love for Shakespeare and other classical literature) and has been given the job by Nick, the gruff but kindly owner, who believes in giving a man a second chance. Johnny falls in love with Frankie, and tries to persuade her to go out with him, but she is reluctant. It is clear that her reluctance stems from her having been hurt by some romantic disappointment in her past, although we never learn the full story. Eventually, however, she agrees to a date with him.This does not seem the most promising scenario for a film. Admittedly, Marty, which told a similar romantic story about two ordinary New Yorkers, was a great success in the mid-fifties, but audiences in the nineties generally demanded more in the way of action. Frankie and Johnny works, however, because Pfeiffer and Al Pacino make us believe in their characters. Pacino gets the chance to show that he can shine in films other than crime dramas. Pfeiffer gets the chance to show here (as she was to do later in films like The Age of Innocence What Lies Beneath and White Oleander) that she is a genuinely talented actress, not merely eye candy. They are well supported by some of the others in the cast, especially Hector Elizondo as Nick and Kate Nelligan as Frankie's colleague Cora. I was less taken with Nathan Lane as Frankie's gay friend and confidant, Tim, who seemed to have too much of the limp wrist about him.Director Garry Marshall is noted for his ability to bring out the best in his female stars; Goldie Hawn and Julia Roberts both gave one of their best performances in one of his films, Hawn in Overboard and Roberts in Pretty Woman, and he seems to have done the same for Pfeiffer here. Overboard and Pretty Woman were both (although good examples of the genre), standard Hollywood rom-coms, based around a zany, and frequently implausible, screwball plot. Frankie and Johnnie, although sometimes characterised as a romantic comedy, is a very different type of film, based on more realistic characters and situations and with a greater emphasis on the romantic rather than the comic elements. It shows that it is still possible to make an effective, and often touching, drama about the love of Mr and Ms Average. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Frankie and Johnny","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is quite rare you see Al Pacino in a film that doesn't involve crime or drugs, and this was the second time he and Michelle Pfeiffer had worked with each other, 8 years since Scarface, and from director Garry Marshall (Beaches, Pretty Woman, Runaway Bride). Anyway, basically Johnny (Pacino) has just been released from prison, and after a while he gets a job in a Greek family's restaurant. There he meets waitress Frankie (Golden Globe nominated Pfeiffer), a woman who looks like she isn't happy with all her life. It takes a little while before she agrees to go on a date with him, but after a while it is clear that they are destined to be together. There is a point where Frankie feels lost in her monotony, and I think something to do with Johnny married, or just him unable to convince her of his feelings, but the ending where both of them listen to the radio, while both of them are brushing their teeth, to hear the song Frankie & Johnny (Johnny mentioned the coincidence), and she eventually gives in and the film ends happily. Also starring Hector Elizondo as Nick, Nathan Lane as Tim, BAFTA nominated Kate Nelligan as Cora, Jane Morris as Nedda, Greg Lewis as Tino, Al Fann as Luther, Glenn Plummer as Peter, Sean O'Bryan as Bobby, Fernando López as Jorge, Ele Keats as Artemis, Phil Leeds as Mr. DeLeon, K Callan as Frankie's Mother and Shannon Wilcox as Christine the Hooker. A nice romantic drama, with tiny giggles (probably not intentional) thrown in. Very good! "},{"Title":"Critics missed the boat on this one.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The scene where Al Pacino kisses Michelle Pfeiffer in front of the flower truck is, I think, so romantic it makes me want to lay down and SCREAM. But beyond that, there's a lot in this movie. It makes you think very hard about the negative impact of bringing emotional baggage from the past into your present relationships, and it also makes you ponder the positive impact -- well, the need, really -- to bring healthy new people into your life. I found each character to be interesting, and you find yourself caring about them all -- hey, they're all trying to get by the best they can in a mean world. And what might seem like gratuitous sex in the film (to some), really isn't -- if you're paying attention, you learn something about the characters, and even a little bit about yourself. I'm aware that this film didn't get great critical reviews, and there are the inevitable comparisons to the play (which I have not seen, but which I think I would like, even though it's reportedly much grittier than the film). IMNSHO, I think the critics totally missed the boat on this one. Spoon up with your lover on a rainy Saturday night and watch this one!  "},{"Title":"One of the best love stories I've ever seen","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is simply great. One of the reasons I like it is that here romance is not reduced to some sappy idealistic fable, but is instead shown as realistically as life itself. There are no fantastic events or stretches of plausibility here. Just great performances and a well-written story. In short, this is what real movie-making is all about.  "}{"Title":"It was perfect...and they were perfect!!!","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To call this movie a romantic-drama would be unjust, because it is one of its kind and doesn't fall into any particular genre. Don't take a peanut-sized-brain to watch it, as it is not one of your regular candy-floss rom-coms that are full of superficial characters, who lack the most important dimension (Depth).Instead, what you have in Frankie and Johnny are real people with real problems. Treat them as such.Johnny(Pacino) is a lonely man with a broken life behind him. He makes inconsequential love to inconsequential women -which is his band-aid on loneliness. But deep within him is the desire to make his life more meaningful by finding and settling down with someone he can connect to; not just make love to.When he meets a kindred spirit in Frankie(Pfeiffer), he is attracted to her. Gradually, he notices her all-too-obvious desolation and believes that they could each be an antidote to the other's wounds. But failed traumatic relationships in the past have left Frankie so bitter that even when someone as sweet as Johnny walks into her life she is wary of taking him in (although she is herself beginning to like and love him); wary of being hurt again -physically and mentally.She takes time to realize how earnest and committed he is to this relationship. While Johnny on the other hand wants to hasten the process because In his own words I'm trying to improve my life, Frankie. And I'm running outta time. And I'm so scared...I'm scared that you're going to retreat back.How their relationship grows and starts to heal them is a treat to watch.And so is the tuneful denouement, where morning begins to break in, bringing with it a new day and a new beginning. POETIC!!!.If I get down to talking about all the things that I like about FnJ, I guess, it will never end. But I must mention the beautiful line with which Johnny chokes me up every time, I can't make the bad go away. You're right, I can't. But...when the bad comes again...I will be next to you Now, that's love.Al is -as always- PERFECT. His Best Actor tag is so well-deserved. Michelle surprises. Together they instill their challenging characters with charm and warmth. If someone tells me they were miscast as cook/waitress, lemme tell you, I will not believe it. Not in the least.This is MY Godfather. MY Casablanca. MY Citizen Kane.Infinite stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Love love love this movie","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is there not to love about this movie? It's got Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer (who were so amazing together in Scarface) together again-and believe me, lightning does strike twice with them, great writing, an outstanding supporting cast (wouldn't we all love a neighbor like Nathan Lane? Or a boss like Hector Elizando?), and great direction.The chemistry, so palpable between Pacino and Pfeiffer in Scarface, is abundant here in this film. The love scenes between them are realistic and beautifully done. From beginning to end, this movie is entrancing. The lead characters are so earnest and so good that you just want nothing but happiness for them both. After all the hemming and hawing that Frankie does, they do manage to make that elusive connection that Johnny is seeking-both with each other and with the audience. This is an outstanding, highly underrated movie, and I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Classic Romantic Comedy","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not usually into these sort of films that much but this is one of the best I've seen. I must admit being a huge Al Pacino fan helps in a way but apart from his great performance as Johnny, there is also a great performance from Michelle Pfeiffer playing Frankie his love interest. The support cast is also excellent with Nathan Lane in particular adding memorable comedy moments. This is overall a real feel good movie which deals with some serious issues amidst the humour and has parts in the film we can all relate too. I think the chemistry between AL and Michelle particularly makes this a lot better than most films of this type. I would strongly recommend this film a classic for me. "},{"Title":"an almost good movie","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I am a fan of both lead actors, I think that Al Pacino is not suitable in the role of a lover. He is simply too persuasive and while desperately trying to convince Frankie about his love he anticipates his upcoming brilliant performances as devil's advocate or merchand of Venice. The movies is saved by some humorous scenes and by Michelle Pfeiffer who plays the role of the lonely woman in her late 30's disappointed by love, but still hoping for the miracle in her life. Some of the dialogs seemed very unnatural in the context and the sex scene between those 2 is simply horrible IMHO. I got the feeling all of the time, that Frankie is trying to convince herself that this is it, just because she is out of options at her age, so she ultimately accepts this big mouth guy in her life. I am rating it 5 because of the failed romance due to Al's exhaustive talking and predictable happy end. "},{"Title":"A sweet-natured film with good performances","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer) is a down-on-her-luck waitress in New York City. She lives with a gay roommate (Nathan Lane) who has a partner, but she still can't manage to find anyone.Johnny (Al Pacino) has just been released from prison and lands a job at a small diner in NYC. The same diner where Frankie works.Frankie and Johnny embark on a relationship that is predictable but enjoyable.The film was directed by Garry Marshall, perhaps the king of the sappy romantic comedies, and this one works about as well as any of his movies. Suffice to say if you enjoy romantic films you'll like this - it's sweet-natured, amiable and enjoyable. The performances are a highlight, and as a trivia note, it was Pacino's second pairing with Pfeiffer since the film Scarface almost a decade prior.3/5. "},{"Title":"Pacino and Pfeiffer together again","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After their romance in 'Scarface' they (Pacino and Pfeiffer) decide to have a real romance, and it is a pretty good one. Not that the film is great but in this kind of films all I hope for is a little chemistry, some nice characters and a few laughs. This film has it all.The chemistry between Al Pacino (Johnny) and Michelle Pfeiffer (Frankie) works because in the movie they have to fight for that chemistry. Al Pacino is a great actor but I think Michelle Pfeiffer was better here. Although I loved a couple of particular scenes with Pacino (his Greek-dance-scene is great) I think the character of Michelle Pfeiffer has more depth and she does exactly the right thing for that character. And of course she is a beautiful woman. You must love her.The nice characters, besides Frankie and Johnny, are the gay neighbour (Nathan Lane), the boss of the restaurant where almost the whole cast is working (Hector Elizondo) and Nedda and Cora (Jane Morris and Kate Nelligan), two of the waitresses.The story is simple. Johnny is just released from prison and he starts working in the restaurant where Frankie happens to be a waitress. He falls in love and although she has trouble to admit it she is doing the same thing. Of course there are some (a lot of) complications on the way but you know how it is going to end. A nice feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite love story","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has everything you can expect from a love story, and a little bit more. There is great play between the leading parts, but the subordinate parts are just as well played. Take a look of the lonely older woman, who dies in the movie. That is master performance, or take a look at the owner of the restaurant. There is so much love and understanding in the way all the parts are playing. Great movie "},{"Title":"Broadway hit gets Hollywood whitewash","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A popular Broadway romantic comedy is transformed by star treatment into Grade-A Hollywood fluff well crafted, undemanding, and totally predictable. One requirement of the face lift was the casting of the more fashionably attractive (i.e. more bankable) Michelle Pfeiffer in a role designed originally for Kathy Bates, a move which drew criticism from viewers unfamiliar with Hollywood means and methods. Big movies need big stars, who in turn need to protect their fragile reputations, so the revamped character of Frankie, supposedly slinging hash in a New York City deli, is now a disappointed romantic unaware that Prince Charming (in the unpolished guise of a short-order cook) is about to rescue her. Al Pacino's Johnny is likewise simply too perfect everyone adores him on sight, so it's only a matter of time before Frankie learns to do the same. But, character quibbles aside, the film works very well on its own terms, and writer Terrance McNally has to be commended for opening up his play in a way that effectively conceals its stage origins. "},{"Title":"Michelle's Best","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Michelle Pfeiffer's performance in this movie very much. She creates a believable and sympathetic woman named Frankie.  Garry Marshall keeps it light then dramatic and both parts work well together.  The large supporting cast includes Glenn Plummer, Kate Nelligan, Hector Elizondo (naturally), and the hysterical Nathan Lane. The off-Broadway play was probably better, but this movie is very well done nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good romantic comedy!!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually don't like Michelle Pfeiffer, but her and Al Pacino seemed to have a great chemistry that made this a film that is worth seeing. Pacino plays a man who is just released from prison and gets a job working in the same café as Pheiffer. He develops a crush on her and starts to compulsively talk to her which interrupts her waitressing, but he doesn't give up. Great supporting characters also add to the charm. This was also director Garry Marshall's last great movie before directing a never ending string of poor films. After watching this, I thought that this was actually a romantic comedy that may actually be enjoyed more by men than women!! My rating *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Pfeiffer too gorgeous","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer) is an isolated waitress working at a greasy Manhattan diner with a cast of wacky characters. She's recovering from a bad marriage. Her best friend is gay neighbor Tim (Nathan Lane). Johnny (Al Pacino) recently got out of jail. Diner owner Nick (Héctor Elizondo) gives the ex-con a chance as the fry cook.There is a needed change when a romantic role written for Kathy Bates goes to Michelle Pfeiffer. The switch can be done smartly. Pfeiffer looks like a Hollywood starlet no matter how plain the makeup girls try to make her. The simple fix is every straight male character has to make a pass at her. It would be more believable and it would allow Frankie to reject every one of them. She would be alone by choice which fits her character perfectly. It's really weird when Pfeiffer asks why Pacino wants to go out with her. Get a mirror.If one ignores that problem, this is a pretty good romance with two of the best actors around. They deliver compelling performances. Pacino has a fun bit of prison sex. Pfeiffer's loneliness is palpable but her beauty does need acknowledgment by the movie. "},{"Title":"I'm trying to improve my life, and I'm running out of time.","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised by the number of reviewers stating that this movie is on their Top 10 list; I thought it was an adequate story though it tried really hard to over play the will she/won't she angst of Michelle Pfeiffer's character. For Pacino, this was not in the Michael Corleone league, but his performance was generally up for the task. For a while there I thought Nick's (Hector Elizondo) daughter Pookie was going to have a larger role to play but I can't even find her name in the credits. Too bad, I thought there was something going on there.Usually in older films (and this one's not that old) I find myself making a mental note of things like the cost of merchandise relative to today's prices, so it was a bit of reverse shock to see Frankie (Pfeiffer) anxiously eyeing a VCR machine at the sale price of $199. If you can even find one today, it would be outdone by a DVD player for about thirty bucks. Just goes to show you how the advance of technology has made life better over time.My main disappointment with the film is that they never played the song 'Frankie and Johnny'. Granted, it might have been a downer since after all, Frankie pulled out that forty-four and plugged Johnny with it. But it doesn't sound all that bad when Sam Cooke tells the story. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Romantic Comedy Full Summary","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer star in this wonderful whimsical tale of romance and second chances. However, the underlying glimpse of differing relationships, their complexities, and the varied loneliness can often escape or even mystify some audiences.One such audience was in the early 90's when this film was in theater where exiting Lake Geneva, Wisconsin viewers were shaking their heads and mumbling about the movie being weird, dry, and boring. Whether influenced by values and relationships that went against their personal beliefs or a failure to comprehend the deeper meanings, this audience overwhelmingly found the film distasteful.Gary Marshal provides a wonderful layering of coincidences that one imagines wasn't in the original stage-play. The opening of the movie has Frankie off to a baptism in her hometown were we glimpse the deepness of her tragic sorrow filled life. The title song playing in the background upbeat sets the tone of possibilities to come as Frankie's train passes the very prison Johnny is being released from at that moment.Al Pacino plays the part of Johnny who is released from prison who heads to New York to find a job and start anew. Frankie, played by Michelle Pfeiffer, is waiting on various customers providing clearer focus on her sometimes-playful side while occasionally drifting into thought as the camera focuses past her and to Johnny in the street approaching the cafe for a job. He lands the job and immediately notices Frankie. Johnny fumbles about a few relationships with other women as Frankie is cool as a celery stick at first and the film unravels the layers of the two main and several supporting cast of characters lives.You have the owner of the Apollo Cafe, an old world Grecian who loves his family and soccer, the sluttish waitress with a good heart and bad luck in men, the loner waitress who lives alone with her pets, the young studly busboy who can't keep off the phone. At home Frankie has a gay neighbor who is constantly having as much problems in relationships as she is and has been a close friend for years. Frankie's crisis over her feelings for Johnny allows dialog to provide retro-glances of her and her gay neighbors past relationships while revealing the intricacies of their current ones.Johnny is vivacious and people can't help but like him. Through the death of a long-time waitress Frankie becomes intrigued with the compassion of Johnny who never knew her. Even so it takes tenacity and a bit of comical confusion before Frankie ends up on a date with him that she's not sure she agreed to in the first place. Johnny finally thaws Frankie's heart with a dance on that date at a going away party where she refuses to dance a traditional Greek square dance. He dances with another waitress but during a solo in the circle they can't keep their eyes off each other as he dances flirtatiously for her.Nearly ever type of relationship is seen in the film. Frankie watches neighbors from her window revealing yet more relationships from an old couple obviously married for years and in the same old routine to a couple where the woman is being abused. The scenes from Frankie's apartment are truly shot as windows into the lives of others and are accompanied by a lonely melody that turns sour at the moment of the neighbor being abused by her husband then back down as the night fades forward.It is the beaten woman that provides Frankie with the potential to grapple with her own inner demons as she seeks out the lady to try to help in some way. These demons nearly destroy what she and Johnny could have but&#x85;you'll have to watch to see how it turned out. I will let you know that the film hooks you like a fish then taunts you, reeling you in and just when you think Johnny is going to land Frankie's heart, she makes a run for it.Timing is wonderful in the film. From the comedy, the tragedy, the romance, and the intrigue of how or will it turn out. The set is wonderfully conceived and appropriate for the events to be believable, even the coincidences are cunningly staged to make it a wonderful feel good film and intellectually complementary too.Music is used to focus the mood from lighthearted, almost without hope acoustic music for transitional scenes, to the use of hard-rap to fortify the downtrodden area in which Frankie lives. Lighthearted Grecian melody augments some of the lighter moments. Throughout the film a jazzy composition that highlights some of Claude Debusy's Clare De Lune (their song later in the film) periodically is used during the growth of their courtship. At least four renditions of the song Frankie and Johnny pepper the films romance and comedy.Key to the film's success is the actors' ability to effectively portray their characters every nuance and character as flawlessly as they did. Facial expressions permeate the film to communicate subtly and often overtly to augment the dialog of the scene. Most of the characters of the film find themselves in a rut they call their lives and seem mostly oblivious to it. This helps drive home the deepness of the loneliness of many of the characters and helps to accentuate Johnny's positive never say die attitude.Gary Marshal successfully directs the film and the audience along a roller coaster of emotion. Sometimes angry, sometimes sad, often laughing, and a dash of puzzlement accent the warm and fuzzy that sneaks in. The story may be less popular due to the movie staying true to life in that not all things end as we hope, but shows that hope is worth not giving up on. 1991 must have been a busy year for this wonderful film to lack the awards well deserved by the cast and supporting crew. "},{"Title":"Al And Michelle Makes Frankie And Johnny Great","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny is a film directed by Garry Marshall.It features Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer together with Hector Elizondo, Nathan Lane and Kate Nelligan.The screenplay was adapted by Terrence McNally from his own off-Broadway play Frankie and Johnny.While serving an 18-month sentence on a forgery charge, Johnny discovers the joys of cooking and classical literature. Upon his release, he is hired by gruff but good-hearted New York diner owner Nick. Also working for Nick is a waitress named Frankie. When Johnny expresses interest in Frankie, she keeps him at arm's length, her mistrust of men stemming from an unmentioned but obviously traumatic experience in her past. Eventually, however, Frankie and Johnny do get together, their curious relationship setting the stage for a dramatic denouement wherein both lovers bare their souls.The movie version of Terrence McNally's play is a sweet-tempered romantic comedy whose main characters are a New York coffee-shop waitress and a short-order cook. Pacino brings out the comedy and the ambiguity of a middle-aged man's sense of emotional rebirth he's exuberant, touching, and a little scary. And Pfeiffer is extraordinary; her Frankie is a superbly detailed rendering of a woman with a fanatically conservative heart. The strength of the play was its simplicity and its directness; the movie preserves those qualities by telling the story in the ordinary, straightforward Hollywood manner. This is an absolutely delightful and tender romantic comedy as it succeeds so well because of the great, very real performances by the two leads and the smart and often hilarious dialogue. "},{"Title":"How friends and love can conquer your fears.","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Twenty years on &#x96; and Frankie and Johnny has arguably improved with age. This is because it deals with the rawest human emotions and vulnerabilities and shows that when life is tough the need for community is greatest. Even if, maybe especially if, the members of that community are as dysfunctional and scarred as we are. For many of the characters in this movie life has been very tough indeed. The restaurant where Johnny gets a job, and where Frankie works, is at the centre of the lives of many of its regulars. It does not have Community Centre on a sign above the door &#x96; but this is, in effect, what it is. The tolerant proprietor, Nick, sympathetically portrayed by Hector Elizondo, has built that community and he is as protective of his customers as he is of his staff. Nick is a Greek-American and it is subtly suggested that the customers and employees at his little restaurant are a sort of extended Greek family - although in fact they are as ethnically diverse as New York can be.Frankie and Johnny is above all about loneliness. Frankie has a real family &#x96; we see them at the beginning at a christening &#x96; but it is clear that they have their own lives and that Frankie, partly out of choice, is not really part of that world. As the film develops we start to realise that Frankie's introspection and the barriers she erects around herself are attributable to a couple of failed relationships in the past. In one her partner left her for her best friend and in the other she was physically abused to the extent that she cannot have children. Johnny is equally damaged. We see him released from prison but it is not until quite late in the film that it is revealed that his crime, whilst serious, was a one-off fraud and that he is no serial offender. In prison he learnt to cook and that is now more than just a job to him &#x96; it has become a passion. Johnny was married but his wife left him and took their two children into a new relationship. There is a brief poignant vignette when Johnny watches his children with their mother and new father in an American dream suburban family scene &#x96; complete with white picket fence. He leaves without revealing his presence.From early in the movie it is clear that Frankie and Johnny are made for each other. Despite the wounds they carry (actual physical wounds to her head in Frankie's case) they are good caring people &#x96; albeit that like Nick they do this without wearing a Social Worker badge. Frankie has a moving relationship with a Gay neighbour, Tim (Nathan Lane) that manages to avoid being patronising or clichéd. Similarly her bonding with her fellow workers is natural and important to them all &#x96; not least Cora the archetypal strong, no-nonsense New York woman who, deep down, is as lonely as she is. Like all the characters Cora is deeper than, and different to, her veneer. When a woman heavily pregnant with twins comes to the restaurant she touches her belly and says People think I'm a tough b*tch, but it ain't true. Sh*t like this chokes me up. That Frankie and Johnny will eventually end up happily together seems obvious form the start, but that doesn't always happen in the movies does it? Along the way they battle, largely out of fear on Frankie's side. Johnny ardour is declared early on and we don't doubt that it is genuine. Frankie is more circumspect &#x96; unsurprisingly given the extent that she has been damaged by her last relationships. So whilst the romance is strong a happy ending is not certain and when it happens we are grateful because it is uplifting to think that even if the barriers are high they can sometimes be removed in the interests of true love.The casting of Frankie and Johnny is very good and all the minor characters, however crazy they may be are utterly credible because they are so well played. As for the leads both Pacino and Pfeiffer give sensitive and credible performances although both of them are so devastatingly good looking that they do seem a bit out of place amongst the ordinary New Yorkers who are very West Side in appearance rather than Upper East. Not many of them shop on Fifth Avenue whereas Frankie and Johnny do look a bit like people who habitually do this, except on dress-down day. Nevertheless although they are younger and lovelier than the characters in the original stage play (Frankie and Johnny in the Clair De Lune) this works fine and doesn't detract from the heart and the humanity of the story.A year or so after Frankie and Johnny was released the long running TV series Friends premiered. One of the central characters in Friends was, of course, Rachel Green (Jennifer Aniston) who was initially a waitress in a Coffee House with a history of complex and damaging relationships behind her. Rachel Green is not Frankie &#x96; but there is a strong parallel not least because it is friends in both cases who provide the support when it's needed. Frankie says at one point I'm afraid. I'm afraid to be alone, I'm afraid not to be alone. I'm afraid of what I am, what I'm not, what I might become, what I might never become. I don't want to stay at my job for the rest of my life but I'm afraid to leave. And I'm just tired, you know, I'm just so tired of being afraid. The message of Frankie and Johnny is that friends can reduce that fear. Love can take it away. "},{"Title":"Adorable lightness","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, i do love romantic comedies and i'm not ashamed of it. And this one is really, really lovely. It's a little bitter but with a nice sense of houmour as well. Michelle Pfeiffer is delicate as always and Al Pacino... well... everything he does is so great!!! Even if he plays a role in an unpretentious comedy like this one. It sounds a bit strange for me the fact i like Pacino so much, 'cause he's the most academic actor we have nowadays (together with De Niro, off course), but he's got such a charisma that makes me forget that man is the Actor's Studio itself. Anyway if you want to spend a lighthearted evening, Frankie & Johnny is the right movie. "},{"Title":"Marshall Does His Version of Gritty","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Garry Marshall is something of an anomaly in the film business his movies tend to eschew the extreme, quien-es-mas-macho bravado found in the works of many of his peers (Martin Scorsese and David Mamet, to name a few), and in turn they embrace the type of sentimental maudlin that sums up the term chick-flick with pride. And he's clearly getting away with it -- the only other high-profile directors to sculpt their entire careers on the plight of the female sex have been Pedro Almodovar, Douglas Sirk, and George Cukor, all in their distinctive directing styles. All the rest have occasionally dabbed in high-powered drama, but never as soapy and drenched in Lifetime television glitter as Garry Marshall has.Garry Marshall again continues to focus on the theme of the relationship between people from opposite sides of life in his adaptation of Terrence McNally's two-character play Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune with stark, yet beautiful results. Johnny (Al Pacino) has been released from prison and is now working in a diner owned by Nick (Hector Elizondo, who appears in Garry Marshall's films), where he meets Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer), a waitress with a crusty personality who wants little to do with him despite his interest in her. In the meantime, Johnny has a fling with another waitress (played by Kate Nelligan) as he approaches Frankie from a very tentative, oblique angle.Without revealing too much of what happens next -- because this is one of the few romantic comedies Marshall has directed that has a denouement involving the two leads, one that may be crucial for their relationship to work -- it's enough to say that this is a completely engaging movie with actors playing against type fully inhabiting their roles. Michelle Pfeiffer in particular is a standout as Frankie due to the fact her otherworldly beauty would have been a hindrance here -- the role was originated by the decidedly unglamorous Kathy Bates on Boradway and reports point at that Bates scoffed at the idea Pfeiffer would play the lead) --, however, she displays a remarkable range in conveying Frankie's resolve, inner strength, and overwhelming vulnerability. Pacino stands out for a different reason he's not playing the loud character, but a man who wants to set things right and lead a normal life with this woman he's chosen. Nathan Lane and Kate Nelligan are pretty good in their smaller roles. "},{"Title":"Sweet, but never sappy","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an almost perfect romantic movie. Al Paccino shines as Johnny, a man who was just released from prison. He finds work as a cook in a small dinner and meets Frankie (Michelle Pfiffer) a bitter, lonely waitress. He falls in love with her immediately.Unfortunately, Frankie finds it hard to get over her past and it takes a bit longer to fall for the charms of Johnny.Paccino shows, yet again, what a versatile actor he is. And not to mention sexy. His delivery is spot on, and could steal every scene he's in. His true brilliance is knowing when to pull back and give his Pfiffer a chance to shine.Speaking of Pfiffer, this, to me is her best roll to date. She portrays Frankie with dignity, even in the midst of emotional breakdown. When you find out about her past, all the abuse and pain, she makes you want to cry. I do, however feel she could have pulled back just a little with the emoting.I don't want people to get the wrong impression, even though I would consider this movie a drama, it's a funny drama. The comedic touch is expertly added by the supporting cast, including the incomparable Nathan Lane. He is the king of sarcastic comebacks and, as usual, his timing is brilliant.And then there is Hector Alonzo, who seems to be the king of bit parts. His roles may be small in many of his movies, but he is talented. He adds class and character in ways that many actors who get more screen time than him ever will. "},{"Title":"A great tale about loneliness","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is, in my humble opinion, very underestimated.Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer) is suffering from depression and works at a place she knows she's not suppose to work at (sounds familiar?). Something went wrong, and you can feel it, you can see it in her eyes.Johnny (Al Pacino) just got out of jail and is feeling the clock ticking. He wants to better his life, before it's too late. He picked up a few things in jail, and even thought he might be a little clumsy when it comes to women, he knows what he wants, and (for our viewing pleasure) doesn't always know HOW to get it.The chemistry between the two actors is undeniable.This film is filled with romantic cliché, but separates itself from your common RELATIONSHIP movie by including a lot of realism to the characters by making them contradictory and spontaneous.Sometimes a movie strikes a chord, it gets to you and you can't quite put your finger on it, FRANKIE AND JOHNNY is exactly that kind of movie. It not perfect, it could've been better, but then again, life feels like that more often then we'd like it to. "},{"Title":"I wish every lonely woman met her Johnny","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny movie gives hope that there exist men who gain woman's love,make her feel safe and loved. In Russia you can mostly come across men who do nothing but wait until woman do the first step forward to start relationship, then propose first, and then lead him in the family life... This is sad and very often women feel not safe, not loved. They are just happy there's some male next to them, as many of them have no any, having to raise children alone...Al Pacino's hero is a real man who is able to love, who is able to make his beloved woman happy.Michelle Pfeiffer is really great in her part. Her character is so real step by step getting over her previous tough life experience. And this happens due to Johnny's great love to her. "}{"Title":"lovely","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i just watched this movie and i think it was just a perfect romantic comedy/chick flick, it does its job it made me feel all warm and fuzzy now its over and thats never a bad thing. Both Michelle Pfhiffer (? spelling) and Al Pacino were sweet and despite both looking gorgeous they pulled off their lonely hearts club story. Another plus of it is that its not so predictable as chick flicks are now, not as cheesy and soppy and girlie, its a cute little story that would melt even the coldest hearts. i'm not much of a movie critic but this was just a lovely, sweet love story that made me smile so i would recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Pretty good update of the Broadway play.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Frankie and Johnny on Broadway a lot of years back when it was called Frankie and Johnny at the Clare la loom. Kathy Bates was in that production, and it was a fine play to see back then. I just recently saw the movie adaptation by Gary Marshall and was pretty taken with it. Michelle Pfeiffer was pretty good in the role of Johnny, and Al Pacino was also good playing Frankle. While not all movie adaptations of Broadway plays are as good as there original productions,  this was an exception. Kudos to Hector Elizondo for a good supporting role and you have a really good film to watch when you need to feel good about something.  "},{"Title":"The only Al Pacino film where he's NOT the best actor.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a rare film indeed, as we see Michelle Pfeiffer in perhaps one of her best roles. The script does help, admittedly, as she is cast as a miserable and somewhat broken woman with an inner wariness for all men. Al Pacino, one of the best male actors around, is unexpectedly adequate as the guy who loves her. The pairing of the two is quite an expected success, and the storyline builds to a tear-ful ending as more and more is revealed about each character. It is true that I haven't seen the play and can draw no comparisons, but as a movie this rates as a great love story that may require the odd tissue.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully sweet and goodhearted movie!!!!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very refreshing to see Al Pacino in a romantic comedy role. He is superb!!!! Al Pacino is one of my favourite actors and being used to see him in intense and controlled roles. It is a nice change to see this different side of him in an acting role. Mr. Pacino handles it adeptly with wit and charm. The on-screen chemistry between Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer is marvelous! They work well together and their roles and actions are very believable in the film.It is a nice change of pace to see two regular people falling in love and not having all the answers. Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer play their roles beautifully. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was probably the world's cheapest great movie ever. It helps that Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeifer are two of my favorite actors, but it isn't only that. Basically, this movie is a very neat package, with all the ingredients for success a great story, fabulous actors, beautiful music and a director that just manages the crews and sets. "},{"Title":"One of the few great lovestories","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually not being one for tearfilled stories of love and grief, I must say that this is one of the few films in this genre that really touched me. Great story, great actors and last, but not least, a great themesong in Clair de lune. All makes for a fantastic mood in this movie. Given that I gave this a 9 out of 10 rating, I think this is a must see movie.In my eyes, this is only overdone by movies such as Shawshank Redemption. "},{"Title":"It hits the spot of any romantic.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where are all the Johnnys out there? Thank goodness for movies. Pacino is sexy and loving, and so is Pfieffer.  For any romantics at heart, this movie will moooooove you! I loved the way Johnny never gives up on Frankie. By the end of the film, you will not give up on love either! Rent it! "},{"Title":"The Movie is Brilliant about Love","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really brilliant with two fabolus actors Michelle Pfieffer and Al Pacino . They really show us the good things with love as well as the bad things , and i think that Al Pacino was very good and i understood his character completely . Michelle Pfieffer had a harder role to play but she did it very well indeed when i see this movie i fall in love with Michelle Pfieffer and end this comment with a quote from Al Pacinos character Johnny Everything i want is in this room and by that i mean Michelle Pfieffer See this movie enjoy  "},{"Title":"The most heart-warming,unique and inspirational love story.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frankie & Johnny is the best love story ever made. Al Pacino and Michelle Pfieffer are absolutey wonderful actors who not only succeed in making the characters believable, but they make you wish they were real. They bring you into their world and if you've ever been in love, afraid to love, or afraid to not have love-- then you'll understand. The writer came up with a brilliant and unique idea. The director did a marvelous job creating this movie. You will definitely enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"More than a song...","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sweet lovely movie carried by two excellent actors all time...Johnny (played by an always charming aging Al Pacino) is just released from jail and found a job as a cook in a small Greek restaurant in New York City. During his cooking he tries to attract Frankie's attention (wonderful played by Michelle Pfeiffer without make-up and greasy hair). Frankie is a hard working waitress in the same restaurant,she's not fancied by Johnny's advances. Eventually she falls for his charming personality and starts dating him. Johnny is so much in love with her he wants to start a family immediately..Frankie is not in a hurry so to say and is getting a bit claustrophobic by his moves. Johnny finally realizes why Frankie isn't in a hurry to get into a relationship when he finds out more of her past... Charming picture..and ugly Nedda is a great laugh!!!   "}{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny (1991) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Overly dramatic love story about a sad cook (Al Pacino) and a sad waitress (Michelle Pfeiffer) trying to get together. I could probably go on for paragraphs talking about all the negative things this film has to offers. There's no doubt this is a flawed film but at the same time these flaws just add to some joy due to the great performances by the two leads. This is certainly no where near Pacino's best performance but I might call it his most underrated and most fun. After two decades of hard, dramatic roles it just seems like Pacino is having the time of his life doing fun stuff compared to various roles that I've been rewatching this month. The film is sweet and touching, even though the director goes overboard with some of the stuff, and the laughs are great as well. Not a great film by any means but one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Somehow, it just didn't always convince me of its quality","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main reason why I watched this movie was because Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer were in it. Nothing could go wrong with these two actors in it, this would be a masterpiece like I had never seen before, no? Well, no. I'm not saying it is a bad movie, but it just wasn't as great as I hoped it would be.It tells the story of Johnny (Al Pacino), a lonely middle-aged man who just got out of prison and who gets a job as a cook in a restaurant owned by a Greek family. In this restaurant he meets Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer), who's a waitress in the restaurant. She is a bit of a loner who doesn't seem like she needs a man in her life. But that's not what Johnny thinks. He has fallen in love with her head over heels and he won't take no for an answer. He'll keep asking her out until she finally admits...As I said, this isn't a bad movie, but it just didn't always convince me of its quality. Somehow I missed something in this movie or perhaps it was the fact that Johnny worked on my nerves with his eternal begging for a moment of Frankie's attention. Anyway, the performances were OK, but the story could have been a lot better (although I liked the surprising ending). I give this movie a 7/10. It's worth a watch, but it isn't great cinema. "},{"Title":"2 words I love Michelle Pfieffer","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a real big fan of love stories (though I really liked Natural Born Killers) but I do love Michelle Pfeiffer and Al Pacino is one of the greatest. I thought this was a great movie, good chemistry with the two and ALL of the supporting actors were good, especially Kate Nelligan and Elizondo. Garry Marshall is brilliant8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Watching movies should always be like this.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie again for the (I don't know how many)th time, and I continue to be surprised that this movie did not receive more critical acclaim. The dialogue and the performances are riveting. The script offers many humorous moments. I was equally transfixed both by Frankie (Michelle P.) and Johnny (Al P.). It is a testament to the acting ability of both to turn in such stunning performances and yet not overshadow the other. It remains one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Too Many Cooks","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just caught up with this via a national newspaper freebie and I didn't find it a chore to watch in spite of the fact I could have written it myself after the first reel. Thing is I actually like these Broadway rom-coms interchangeable though they may be - here, for example, we were watching a variation on The Owl And The Pussycat, the twist - if you can call it that - being that the guy is in love with the gal from the get-go instead of being beaten into submission by her kookiness. Frankie isn't exactly an almost-hooker but she is a waitress and Johnny isn't exactly a wannabee writer but he does have the better education albeit self-taught. Add strong support in the shape of Kate Nelligan and Nathan Lane and what's not to like. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, usually I hate romantic comedies. HATE Them. But for some reason I absolutely love this movie! I usually can't watch it with anyone else because I'm crying my eyes out by the end (when johnny calls the radio station in frankie's apartment). All the other minor characters are fun and the love story (to me) isn't hokey or unbelievable (probably why I usually hate Romantic comedies). Other than Pretty Woman, this is my favorite romantic comedy of all time. I highly recommend this movie. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I never heard of this movie when it came out, but now own it","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has good romance, good humor, good acting. It's been a long time since I took it out to watch; there are parts that just bother me, such as Michelle Pfeiffer brushing her teeth just goes on and on and on. The passionless sex scene with the gold shoes is painful! I do like the NYC scenes and references, probably because I don't live there anymore. Unlike many readers quoted here, I never found the acting to be great; their chemistry is satisfying, but it's not a timeless performance. I did love them together until I saw Pfeiffer with George Clooney. While I wouldn't give this movie any awards, I recommend it as one of those new-fangled, low-energy romances (e.g.Sleepless in Seattle, Pretty Woman, Notting Hill,) which is great for an evening at home alone or with a friend, a pizza, and some beers. I'm not a fan of Nathan Lane, but really like Hector Elizondo, who is just right in this part.  "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't want to like this movie. I'd heard so many mixed reviews, and overwhelmingly negative comments about Al Pacino's performance. However, Michelle Pfeiffer was fantastic, well outside her typical glamorous fare, as a tired, cynical, wronged waitress who hopes for nothing more than some ease. Even Pacino's performance wasn't bad as an ex-con, short-order cook, although nothing to brag about in comparison to Pfeiffer.  "},{"Title":"Why do you wanna kill yourself sometimes speech","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just signed up to this wonderful site today. These are my first comments.Another fine film which doesnt try to be too flashy and is just a study of the lives of two normal people. Pacino delivers his usual performance has to be one of the finest actors ever. Anyone can you tell me where to find the script for this movie on the Internet also Scent of a woman and Carlitos Way!!!  "},{"Title":"Valentine to 'star-crossed' lovers everywhere","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  FRANKIE & JOHNNY (1991) ***1/2 Al Pacino, Michelle Pfeiffer, Hector Elizondo, Kate Nelligan, Nathan Lane, Jane Morris.  Great adaptation by Terrance McNally of his acclaimed play Frankie and Johnny in the Clair De Lune with romance blossoming between misfits short-order cook and waitress who both harbor painful pasts.  Wonderfully directed by Garry Marshall who manages to create a memorable world in a New York City diner. "}{"Title":"a beautiful romance for everyday people","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe the relationship between a man and a woman could not be described better that it is in this movie. I adored it. I think that whoever voted for less than 7 does not really know what love is how everything is so simple and so complex at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Superb...period","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was interesting to see an actor such as Pacino to take a role of this nature and pull it off with great ease, adding realism and humour, compared to his previous works, (Scarface/Godfather). An actor (Pacino) who can change his acting from one side of the spectrum (mean, aggressive,cunning) to the other (funny and bubbly) must be recognized and commended for.Being a light hearted romantic comedy it did make me laugh on various occasions, (Pacino's hilarious dance at the party, running up the stairs and completely out of breath) where scenes that I had to watch over and over.Although I am not a regular viewer of Phieffer's movies, she did suprise me with a high powered performance, a role which I don't think  would have suited anyone else.Frankie & Johnny is a film worth purchasing for the small screen and a movie that could mirror ones' own love life.  "},{"Title":"Frankie and Johnny","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pacino tries to play romantic...and he's more believable in his persona of Johnny than Pfieffer is off Frankie. While Pfieffer the actress is quite durable in the characterization, one cannot shake the fact that, This is Michelle Pfieffer... She's not fat! She's not ugly! She couldn't possibly have trouble landing a guy! No matter how hard she tries to dirty herself up, it still isn't believable. This script is actually much better than McNally's original stage script. With his stage script, you felt that the characters were confined, isolated, suffered from cabin fever. At least in this version, also adapted from McNally, you get a sense of how these two characters meet. What draws them together? Is there a kinship? A link? There is great support from the always perfect Hector Elizondo, Kate Nelligan and Nathan Lane, as Pfieffer's homosexual neighbor. He actually has all of the best comic dialogue, but it's Nelligan who steals your heart in the wonderful scene her and Pacino have after a not so satisfying sexual encounter. Garry Marshall adds some flavor to the piece, without making it too mushy and sentimental. Debusey's Clair De Lune, contrary to popular opinion, is wonderful music... "},{"Title":"A Nice Date Movie","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer star as two crossed star lovers. He, a cook. Her, a waitress. Together they make an interesting dish. Both characters remember to have certain flaws which make them more enjoyable. Both have had broken hearts from previous relationships. As the story progresses, we learn that neither one is perfect. Still, together, everything makes sense. Pacino is his typical self, terrific. Pfeiffer once again is beautiful but at the same time incomplete without a strong supporting male actor to share the scene with. Both make the movie what it is, a delight. Gary Marshall offends no one in his films. This is a modern day, although a vcr costs $200, romantic movie. "},{"Title":"Too Serious","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Garry Marshall (Pretty Woman) has changed tone with Frankie and Johnny, going from sentiment to drama, and in the process he has seriously weighed down what could have been a fun, light-hearted romantic comedy.Early on Frankie and Johnny is very funny and quite enjoyable, but as the film moves on and affairs of the heart unfold, it becomes too dramatically serious and depressing. Pacino and Pfeiffer are only average, in a film whose comedy is the only thing worth watching for. PS Why is it that in modern relationships, sex comes first, and the feelings after? I hate that.Friday, February 14, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill "},{"Title":"I was expecting more from Pacino...","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was let down after viewing this movie recently. I know that romance movies aren't usually Al Pacino's area and in my opinion, it shows in this movie. He (Pacino) and Frankie have absolutely no chemistry at all. It was like they were forced into these roles and had no joy in doing them at all. Michelle Pfiefer is on auto-pilot as she drags like molasses throughout the entire flick. I've never been a big fan of her films and this is definitely NOT one of them. Come on, Al, you're a darn fine actor! What on god's green earth were you thinking when you agreed to sign on for this movie. $$$$ is the real answer, of course. I'm sure I don't blame him, but I just don't buy into his character at all. He's not convincing at all. Stick to mafia movies, Al, it's what you do best. Carlito's Way, Godfather, Scarface, Dog Day Afternoon, Donnie Brasco, all movies MUCH better than this one was. Even Scent of a Woman, Simone, The Recruit were much better. Pacino is one of my all time favorite actors, but this movie is crap. This is my opinion and I'm sticking to it like a feather on Big Bird's big #$*)ing back! 1/2 * out of 4 *'s "},{"Title":"Oafish & Nevrotic (dvd)","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, this movie is a real sadness because it's unfortunate that the only comedy / romance of Al is not a masterpiece.Yet, It begins very well the 80's, NYC, Al, the fine Michelle. Their flirting is rather funny and tender between those two lost souls. It's all the more moving than they are both blue-collar they earn little, live in tiny flat.But, the final last hour, the movie just dies no more locations, they are stuck in Michelle's studio. They keep talking and arguing and it's really boring As in Closer, the director forgets it's a film he has to make and not a recording of the play. It's stiff, static and in addition, the characters aren't so well handled Al / Johnny is too oafish sure, he's in love but it's not clear why he fell for her. Michelle / Frankie is really scary because for a lover, she cries and shoots more than she kisses! Finally, it's nearly a drama !! "},{"Title":"A film about love","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While I was browsing for films, in a shop, I found Frankie and Johnny, and I got pretty excited when I saw Al and Michelle together on the cover. Yes,it must be something good, I thought. Then,I bought it immediately and watched it as soon as possible. The plot contains interesting characters, such as; the boy, who never gives up talking to his girlfriend on the phone, a woman, who goes crazy about men, a weird woman, who likes talking to her pet etc. I must admit that I get really impressed when Johnny (Al) tells love words, triying to explain his feelings to Frankie (Michelle). But she's too afraid to start a new relationship, all because of her bad experiences. She's afraid of being all alone, at the same time. She's crying a river almost every scene of the film -- it's a little bit boring. And, she seems to be rarely in the good mood to talk to. They sleep together, the man loves her so much(it's obvious) yet, somehow she treats him like a bad dog. (Just because her ex-boyfriend treated her like an animal?) Finally, I recommend it to some, who loves watching films about love, and some, who want to see how Michelle throws something at Al's head. "},{"Title":"Michelle Pheiffer is more beautiful in person than on screen.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the film was great and I have always felt that it was under-rated by the critical powers at be...  I liked the chemistry between Mr. P and Ms. P. I enjoyed and found very refreshing the realness of the characters and how Mr. Marshall captured and juxtaposed them filmicly.I liked feeling frustrated that they were not having the easiest time getting together. I mean you knew it was inevitable and yet Mr. Marshall kept it from being obvious as to how it would happen, and I feel he told the story well. And there were plenty of moments he made me laugh out loud.I had the fortunate luck of being an extra in this film and I can tell you it was really cool to be sitting behind Michelle P. on that arduous bus ride around Sacramento. Funny thing was I had to endure several hours before that, riding around in a follow van with a BIG WHITE SHAGGY DOG SITTING ON ME before I made it on to the bus. That's a long story (I guess it adopted itself to the shoot somewhere during production) I remember Garry Marshall walking by the window and staring in at me... He kind of shot me a strange look... Like, who's the dumb smuck with the big white shaggy dog sitting on him?  As luck would not have it the Dog probably would become discovered as the next rising star before struggling actor I would. Dammit!!  I was ready to be the next Mork. Oh well...  ) Despite the fleas... I really enjoyed the film. I would recommend it to anyone.JC "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever *SPOILER*","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frankie and Johnny prove that great actors + great performance does not = good movie.The entire film is centered around Johnny (Al Pacino) courting Frankie (Michelle Pfeiffer)after having met while working in a diner together. Johnny is recently out of prison, and takes the job as a short order cook while Frankie is an established waitress at the diner. From the very beginning Johnny comes on strong to Frankie, and she rejects him constantly throughout the entire film.I could see how this may seem romantic to some; a criminal trying to start a new life and is willing to jump through hoops to please the pretty woman while she plays hard to get. But this film fails to deliver. The constant rejection grows tiresome, as the majority of the film is centered around Pacino giving long-winded explanations as to why the two should be together, with Pfeiffer summarily dismissing his onslaught of justifications and excuses. Every scene is almost identical; Johnny makes Frankie smile, they do something together, Frankie rejects Johnny, they break up, and then Johnny goes back to trying to win the girl over... again and again ad naseum. Once you've seen this first cycle happen, then you know exactly what will happen 3 or 4 times that will become the filler for the rest of the film.The performance of the actors is excellent. They deliver their lines well and do a good job portraying ordinary every day people. However, I fault the writing as the film is very contradictory. For example, I don't find it to be romantic that they're going to have sex on the first date, and then have a big blowup because he didn't have any condoms and instead they opt for a sandwich. I don't find it romantic that from almost the very beginning Johnny is talking about how they were always destined to be together, and talks about love, marriage, and kids before the two really know each other. It's just flat out creepy.Furthermore, it seems ridiculous that Frankie would be intolerant towards Johnny showing up at her bowling league night, yet passively accepting that Johnny sleeps with one of their co-workers.The film isn't romantic because it's a one-sided relationship up until the very end, well, supposedly. The end of the film has Frankie passively accepting Johnny into her life, but she already did this three or four times earlier in the movie and then backed out later on. This film isn't about two people being in love or finding one another, rather it resembles one person being in love and convincing the other through sheer repetition to submit.The film shouldn't be considered an art film either because it lacks creativity, has horrible writing, and furthermore obviously tries to sell itself by employing big name actors to deliver small time characters.The lives of the characters are unremarkable, there are no real events or twists to the movie, and there is no real comedy. What we're left with is two boring people; one trying to convince the other one to commit, the other continually rejecting him throughout the entire film. Furthermore, there was little chemistry between the actors, possibly because Pfeiffer did so well at acting almost completely disinterested in Pacino for most of the film.This is by far the worst movie I've ever seen, and I'm surprised that the film makers would be willing to spend top dollar on top actors all the while presenting us with a miserable excuse for a love story that should have never been in film, print, or any other media to begin with. "}{"Title":"Sweet Romance - Hardly!","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You want a summary of this film in one sentence? Okay, here it isThis is sleaze and nothing more, just glossed over with a couple of big-name actors and wonderful-sounding label of romantic comedy. Awww, doesn't that sound sweet? Maybe, but sweet it ain't. Giving a secular-progressive plug for a liberal culture in which about anything goes, it is. For instance, if the viewer is in any way discriminating , he-she will discover that once again the following is considered acceptable behavior....according to Hollywood. 1 - profane characters; 2 - the couple having sexual intercourse right after the first date; 3 - being a physically tough female; 4 - being a foul-mouthed female (Pfeiffer seems to play a lot of those roles); 5- having gays all happily living together and promoting them as all wonderful, funny. sensitive and likable people.All these liberalaltiies  and more, that Hollywood condones as normally healthy and good-for-you behavior, are espoused here. This is classic Hollywood thinking of today and it's only the early '90s. Wait it the next generation of kids liberalizes these current low standards.All this movie is supposed to be is a simple romantic story.....so why is rated R?' That tells you a lot right there. "}]