[{"Title":"A gripping movie, and often misunderstood","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After all I heard and read about this movie, I think this one of the most commonly misunderstood movies ever. It is not a comedy (although sometimes bizarre). It is NOT a glorification of violence. It is not about S/M or Bondage (which occurs between consenting parties). It's message is NOT that if you tie up and beat a woman, she will love you in return.This is a movie about two people who are unable to master life on their own. This has led Ricky to the mental ward and Marina to being a drug-addicted porn star, who just happens to have a streak of luck because a movie director is completely obsessed with her. In the end, the two have found each other and it looks as if together, they can find the happiness and home they always were looking for. Beautiful...Yes, Ricky's method of convincing Marina to love him is horrible and unacceptable. His attitude toward women and life in general is seriously twisted, and he just cannot think of any other way to get what he needs to fulfill his desire of living what he considers an ordinary life. Why does Marina fall for it? Probably because he's the first person who ever seemed to care about her. He fights to get her, he fights to help her. Even if his interest in her is ruthless and possessive, it is a genuine, deep interest and that is what she has been missing all her life.I found Atame to be a fascinating and remarkable movie. Watch it open-minded and try to look beneath the pure surface of the plot, and you will be moved and captivated by its beauty.  "},{"Title":"What not to like about this movie?","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just loved every aspect of this movie... The acting by both Victoria Abril and Antonio Banderas is superb. Even the sister delivers a very convincing performance. The director, Pedro Almodóvar, is the same one who brought us masterpieces like Talk to her and All about my mother. Although you wouldn't figure it out from the plot lines of the three movies, Tie me up, Tie me down is much lighter and less involved than the other two.The pace (as with all Almodóvar's movies) is just the right one, not too fast or slow. I did not like the character of the director in the movie and did not like his acting that much... Probably the only weak couple of scenes are those depicting his infatuation with Marina.The ending may seem predictable and lame, but I liked it&#133;. It is one of those feel good endings.Although there is a hot sexy scene in this movie, I question the NC-17 US rating for that scene. I saw so many R-rated movies that were much more explicit... My point is; if you get this movie thinking it was one of those European soft porn flicks, you will be disappointed.My vote 9/10. "},{"Title":"people don't get the irony","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm amazed that people don't get the irony underlying this film. If you've seen other, earlier Almodovar films, you'll know that he explores sexual situations that come emanate from all sorts of crazy situations (think of Law of Desire (1987), for example, in which Banderas plays a man exploring his homosexuality). But what makes this film so great is that, unlike Almodovar's other films, it attempts to explore the nature of the conventional, heterosexual matrix which, through Almodovar's eyes, becomes completely nonsensical. Indeed, the relationship between Marina and Ricky is meant, ultimately, to be a parody of how such relationships work, as if heterosexuality (and its consequence, marriage) are almost inevitably equivalent in character to the infamous Stockholm syndrome. The final twist of the film, mistakenly hated for its apparently patriarchal overtones, is in fact a humorous subversion of conventional sexual politics. `You're crazy! Love a man who kidnaps you and ties you up? Is that normal?' exclaims Marina's sister. Well, actually, yes, according to Almodovar, it's completely normal. When viewed with irony (most viewers seem to have a bad case of literal disease when it comes to this film), this movie is a devastating critique of modern heterosexuality. Note that the trio sing the Spanish version of I will survive at the very end, when everything has supposedly worked out, in Candide fashion, for the best... "},{"Title":"A Bizarre Love Story `À La Almodòvar'","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Marina Osorio (Victoria Abril) is a soft-porno star kidnapped in her own apartment by Ricky (Antonio Banderas), a guy who has just left a mental institution. He wants to get married with her. The storyline in this weird love story recalls `The Collector', i.e., a man kidnaps a woman because he is in love with her. But on the contrary of the William Wyler's drama in a cold and isolate farm in an English countryside, the situations in Almodóvar's colorful movie in the center of Madrid are very erotic and funny. For example, the scene when Marina is having a bath in her bathtub is hilarious. This cult movie is certainly not one of the best in Almodóvar´s filmography, but it is mandatory for those who are his fan. My vote is seven. "},{"Title":"Ricky has to find a way to reach the love of his life even if he has to tie her down to do it.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As far as I am concerned this is Almodóvar's most erotic comedic film ever made.  I don't know how much has to do with the chemistry between Victoria Abril and Antonio Bandaras or if they are just excellent actors. !Atame! or Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down in English has all of Almodovars' usual suspects and the story is told with the proper amount of impish humor and believable drama. Antonio Banadaras is 'comeble' as Ricky the orphaned, juvenal delinquent now grown and with a sexual talent to be admired.  And Victoria Abril plays well the unknowing stalked film actress, who tries to use her wits to outsmart Ricky until he slowly wins her over. This is played for comedic satire and it works. One who doesn't appreciate this film obviously misses the subtleness of seduction.  Oh yes, you must watch the subtitled version to pick up the intonations of the original voices and language. !Ay que calor!  "},{"Title":"Both heads functioning at full capacity","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to wonder why anyone who would give this movie a low rating felt the need to see it in the first place.  Did you think you were gonna get a 90 minute subtitled skin flick? Tsk, tsk.The characters are incredibly well-defined and the writing is ingenious.  The scene in the apartment when Banderas first breaks in and confronts Abril is writing at perfection-- this man has forced his way in, but you go from liking him, to hating him, to liking him again in just this short little scene.  The history between these characters is truly warped, and that makes this a really enjoyable film to watch, and I'm not just saying that because of the nudity.Almodovar may have his obsessions, but that doesn't mean the rest of the movie isn't worth watching.  It is, and will make you think, which I know a lot of American film-watchers don't like to do.I had never seen an Almodovar film before, but I am so glad I did.  Makes me want to find out just what else has been out there.Artsy little film, with both heads functioning at full capacity.  9/10. "},{"Title":"A very sexy film- a MANS chick flick. This is a bit twisted and fun.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Our hero is a mentally ill man who can't stop thinking about a girl who rocked his world back in the past. He is released from the institution and goes ahead with the paint by numbers obsession masquerading as love routine. This is the kind of love where you beat the living $hit out of your girlfriend because you love her so much and then complain to her afterward.. look what you made me do- it's all your fault you whore because I love you so much.While this is a completely sick and abusive way to run a relationship, apparently some women like domination and the intense attention they get from a psychopath. This explains a lot of seemingly unlikely pairings in the world- deep down inside, a real girl likes to be submitted by the alpha male.If you understand this, you can understand this movie and how it plays out- otherwise you will be screaming at the movie yeah right - could never happen- but the FUNNY thing about this movie is it could and does happen. Bad girls need lots of attention.The script is rich with turns and twists which bounces off the fact that our leading lady, a former porn star and heroin addict trying to kick has just finished up a regular movie and they want to call her back for post-prod.-Problem is.. she's tied up at the moment with her new boyfriend...This is a romantic comedy with good old Spanish humor which revolves around fiery romance and doing the dumbest thing possible in a situation, --it mirrors what the testosterone told you to do.I was reminded of Jamon Jamon with the lead character-who is of course.. Antonio Banderas. Before seeing the film-I thought Banderas was a negative for the film, but he actually does this character quite well! "},{"Title":"One of Almodovar's Best","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Atame! is my favorite Almodovar film. A lot of people don't think it is incredibly great, but I have to disagree.Although Talk to Her is probably his most accomplished & strongest film to date, Atame has a light comedic air without the tragic overtones of his latest films. The movie provides some insight into the film-making process a la Fellini. It also deals with psychological imprisonment, release, and how some forms of entrapment are preferable to others.Both leads are great, and it's easy to see how Banderas' charisma led him to be such a well known actor in later years.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of his better movies but often misunderstood","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although Tie me up, tie me down doesn't reach the levels of greatness that Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown did, this is none the less a hilarious movie.First thing that you should remember is that this is a FARCE. It isn't intended to reflect a real situation or inspire people to imitate it. As a matter of fact, I'd be hard pressed to believe that anyone watching this movie would come away thinking they should kidnap someone to make them fall in love. That would be the difference between a movie and reality.That being said the movie does have a lot to say about what people will do for love and how love and lust tie us to other people. It also makes the great point that love doesn't change who we are, but it does change how we perceive those we are in love with.And in case I forgot to mention it, the movie is funny. Antonio Banderas and Victoria Abril both are very good but Loles León steals the movie as the air-headed sister. "},{"Title":"A Romantic, Kinky Comedy","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Atame! (Or Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! in English), is the last collaboration between Pedro Almodovar and Antonio Banderas, and they give us something to remember.Banderas plays Ricky, an orphan that has spent a great deal of his life in a mental institution. He is released back into society and already has plans for his future.During one of his escape attempts, he met Marina (Victoria Abril)in a bar and had a one night stand. Even after all this time, he still wants to get back with her. Marina, who is a former porn star and recovering addict, is in the middle of doing a horror film directed by Maximo (Francisco Rabal). Her sister Lola (Loles Leon) works behind the scenes. Ricky sneaks onto the set in an attempt to speak to her. However, it seems that Marina doesn't know who he is. Determined to get her to remember him, Ricky holds her hostage in her apartment. Not too happy with this development (especially when he hits her), she refuses to give in to his wishes, so Ricky keeps her tied up in order for her to be his.The film becomes a battle of wills Ricky wants to marry Marina and have kids with her, but Marina doesn't want anything to do with her kidnapper. Will love, with all of its twists and turns, conquer all?The film was one of the catalysts for the NC 17 rating (Its sex scene was deemed an X rating), and you can sort of understand why. It is VERY steamy.Sex scene aside, you are so caught up in this story that you sort of forget how creepy the situation is after all, he is pretty much a stalker that kidnaps a woman to force her to fall for him.I won't give away the ending, because you can pretty much guess how it will turn out anyway. An interesting entry in Almodovar's filmography. "}{"Title":"Sexy subtitled black comedy.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    I  have enjoyed this movie since college. This Spainsh film is subtitled so it may take time to understand the dialogue. The plot is defintely unusual, a former mental patient kidnaps and bonds a B-movie actress. Yet somehow the plot shows that romance can emerge in the most unusal circumstances.Spoiler...   Other reviewers have mentioned that there was a history  (pre-plot) between  the former mental patient and the actress not mentioned in the movie. Appartently the former mental patient (kidnapper) had a one night stand with the B-movie actress when she was on illegal drugs. And during the time mental patient was incaretated all he could do was become obessed with the actress. "},{"Title":"Lively, colorful, and twistedly funny.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! is a film to see with an open mind. I found nothing offensive or sexist about this film, which deals with two unusual and sexually-liberated people of extremes. Ricky (Antonio Banderas) is a mental patient who had just been released from the sanitarium. Marina is an ex-porn star now doing a low-budget, horror movie. Marina is also a drug user. Ricky is obsessed with Marina, & we later learn they were once sexual together. Ricky proceeds with his obsession and plans of romance and the future, and kidnaps Marina. The kidnapping was not meant to be violent, but events turn out to be somewhat violent. Ricky tells Marina she will fall in love with him, and they will get married and have a family. Marina resists. Ricky feels such a need for Marina, so much that he must tie her up and keep her quiet when he is sleeping, or out of the apartment. He believes she will eventually fall in love with him, but Marina's actions are discouraging. He tries to get her to like him when they are not in uncomfortable situations, and he tries to be a good provider. He even becomes angry over Marina's drug abuse. Marina seems to adjust to her kidnapping, & becomes more social with Ricky. He goes to lengths to provide Marina with the things she needs, and ends up getting beaten up in the process. SPOILERS Marina suddenly finds herself feeling emotions for Ricky when he arrives beaten and bruised. She begins to kiss him, & tries to make him feel better. They make love/have sex; lively and verbally. Ricky decides it is time to leave Madrid, Spain, and go elsewhere. Marina agrees. He steals a car, but in the meantime Marina's colorful sister, Lola (Loles Leon) discovers Marina. They take to escape as Ricky comes back to find he is now alone. Lola finds Marina's story disturbing, and Marina's love for Ricky to be kinky. However, Lola will help Marina find Ricky if Marina feels that strongly for him. Ricky & Marina are reunited with Lola's help, and in the end Ricky and Lola discuss his new status as a family member within Marina and Lola's family. This is not a film about violence or sex as a lot of people seem to believe, and the violence that occurs is part of the plot. The sex is easily because of the love between the two main characters, and we know people in love like to make love. It is true the plot of a man kidnapping a woman to get her to fall in love with him is extreme, but remember Ricky is a character of extremes. He is a man obsessed with Marina. He is a man with the idea that he will get her to love him no matter what it takes. Antonio Banderas plays Ricky extemely well. Victoria Abril plays Marina excellently. The rest of the cast is a colorful collection of Spanish actors and actresses. Several have been in other films by Pedro Almodovar. Loles Leon stands out as Marina's sister. This film contains nudity; including frontal nudity, profanity, sexual situations, violence (the violence in the film is nothing of an unusually violent nature) and drug use. It is rated NC-17, but probably not for the sex scene. It more likely received this rating for the bathtub scene in which a wind-up toy swims its way between Marina's legs and is shown penetrating her. Almodovar can create very colorful characters and situations, and the film is full of different emotions. His use of humor is interjected wonderfully, and is a good break for the film's more serious scenes. Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! is very good in every way (acting, writing, music, direction, technical, etc.), and everyone I have shown this film to has enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"A delightful movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antonio Banderas was truly in his form and height of career when he was cast in Almovodar's Spanish movies.  Banderas portrayed innocence and simplicity of character in these early movies that Hollywood always seems to make large and gloss over any sort of character development. There is something that Hollywood seems to drain away and leave behind in the character of people, yet Banderas/Almovodar capture so perfectly the average man/woman and portray them in interesting ways. Atame (Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down) is a delicious little movie about a crook who falls in love with an actress.  To get her attention, he kidnaps her and the fun begins. Almovodar's movies are always filled with quirky characters, funny dialogue and plot twists.  To see Antonio Banderas at his finest playing a simple man who falls in love but has some issues..Atame is a cute, touching movie to rent.  "},{"Title":"You can't make anyone fall in love with you...can you?","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ¡Átame! is a charming film. It is emotional and full of small twists and turns. The film is about a man who just got released from a mental institution. He knows exactly what he wants, and goes to great lenghts to get it. He hunts down an actress he once had sex with - he wants to settle down with her and have babies together. When he finds her, he kidnaps her and holds her hostage in the apartment she lives in to make her like him.The film is very interesting, and another way to portray a love story. It's a about two people who have nothing to lose - him, no family and mentally unstable, whilst her, a seemingly unhappy actress with a drug addiction. With him having power over her and keeping her prisoner, he tries to keep her happy by buying more comfortable rope and tape to tie her down with. So it's quite interesting in the end when her sister finds and befrees her - she admits she is in love with him, even though she is very scared. It sends the message that people do develop some kind of relationship, even if it isn't wanted or even intended in the first place.I did like the film as it had a new, more realistic take on how love works. Love is blind, love is free, love is whatever you make it to be is what I believe love is, and fits this film's message well. "},{"Title":"two-thirds of a fantastic dark comedy on the nature of sexual insanity, though not as successful as later Almodovar","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's safe to say that even in a film by Pedro Almodovar that is only marginally successful within the margins there are some good, steamy, questionable times to be had. I can just imagine Pedro sitting in front of his notebook just figuring out ways to mix sex, film-making, kidnapping, and other lewd exercises into some kind of cohesive single film. What makes a very good chunk of Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down exciting satirically is that Almodovar never gives in to making anything TOO serious. Which is perhaps what ends up transitioning the situation Ricky (Antonio Banderas) and Marina (Victoria Abril) are in from the absurd and flirtingly masochistic to the (ironically) conventional and quasi-sweetness that is obviously deep in Almodovar. Perhaps the tying up and re-tying becomes part of a metaphor on the filmmaker's part, that despite it being something very dangerous and totally provocative it's also inviting in ways that would be elusive otherwise. Then again, that the material does (mostly) work, by being so disturbing in the bluntness and perpetually deranged mind-set of Ricky, but then in the human connections that are enhanced all the more. If only the motivations- even in such loose and wacky-Almodovar circumstances- were a little more convincing. Nevertheless, I liked a lot about Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down up until it goes off the rails with its logic turning into knots (simply, I just don't buy that Marina falls for Ricky just like that, even if she was an ex-junkie porn star, and Ricky's advances are like that of a uppity, headstrong but shy 13 year old, a slight reminder of A Life Less Ordinary's bizarrely innocuous kidnapping turned romance). Chiefly, the performances and the usually arty-yet-trashy style from Almodovar and his crew. Banderas is, by the way, in one of his best and funniest performances here, a near emblem of the male ideal for a life with a woman, and a with an innocent yet fervent attraction to bondage, with that perfect look in his eyes detailing all even in brief moments. Yet there was something about his stay in the mental home all those years that did something to his ideas towards sex and what it is to live, and Banderas captures this mix of intense sadism crossed with the heart of an old Hollywood-studio leading man who will do anything to brush the leading lady off of her feet. Abril is always believable too, even when Almodovar gives her character a turn around into something more akin to an exploitation film, however sweet it tries to be. While she decides to underplay her immediate fear of her kidnapper, it works to add a level of comic timing to Ricky's own odd-ball ways. They make a great pair, really, especially when it comes to that 'turning point', where Almodovar uses his unique style to get five ceiling-mirrored shot of a pivotal scene.There's also a fantastic role of the director of the film Marina is starring in at the start of the film, the aged Maximo Espejo (Francisco Rabal, who's been in countless films including the Eclipse and Belle de Jour), who has the ideas burning and changing around at a beat as to what his ending will be for his actress- death, being saved, something else? His moments on screen display a richness that lies often in Almodovar's script, where the surreal pressures of shooting the movie for Maximo somewhat carry over- and sort of dissipate as the characters become vulnerable- into that realm where reality and un-reality cross paths. This is heightened, and made a little additionally conventional, by the musical score, which like many of Almodovar's work is a tip of the hat to Herrmann compositions and old Hollywood romantic classics. There's even an emotional upheaval when Ricky and Marina meet again on that balcony overlooking the vista. The wildest thing about the picture is that one does become absorbed in the push and pull relationship between 'kidnapper' and 'kidnapee' (I quote that for its a little redundant to use those terms as the film goes on), and that these f***ed up people are practically the most average couple you'd ever meet. There's sensational comedy stacked in there too, in Ricky's behavior (moustache), the film within the film being shot (that strongman character is amazing), the random TV commercial about Spanish retirees, and just the consistent absurdity in the repetitive, ritual-side of the tying up and down. But there's something missing in Almodovar's third act to live up to the better parts early on, and he chickens out on really making this a much better, more challenging effort. I'll probably watch it someday again though, if only for Banderas and Rabals' performances. "},{"Title":"Male/female interaction","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I agree with the above. I also think that it has to be viewed in a social context, as most of Almodovar's movies should be. I believe that it makes a beautiful statement about the construction of gender, in that both Ricky and Marina show typically male and typically female attributes. That's a pretty serious undertaking in a country where women only got the right to vote 30 years ago and divorce is still a huge deal. In response to Ricky's and Marina's finding a home within each other, one they could not find elsewhere, I think that runs an interesting parallel to the entire Spanish society. I found this film a lot more intriguing once I learned about the history of Spain, especially the cultural history between men and women. Very, very cool. "},{"Title":"Daring and Different","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* Freaky, but engrossing story about a mental patient (played by Antonio Banderas, in his pre-ZORRO days), who kidnaps the girl of his dreams. The girl (played by Victoria Abril) is a retired porn star, turned drug addict. He is constantly tying her to the bed which, after the story develops, frees herself of bad habits and grows a new dependency on the ropes. Submission turns into an odd respect for her captor, and fulminates into very strong feelings. Macabre, dark humor interspersed with a genuinely compelling story. See TIE ME UP! TIE ME DOWN! with an open mind or prepare yourself for the consequences. This seems to be the case, with most of the celebrated Almodovar's films. "},{"Title":"Brings out the aching need of a handicapped person for love and respect","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a riotous feast of black comedy made in bold vibrant colours by the highly regarded Spanish director Pedro Almodovar.  Viewers will either love it or hate it, I side firmly with the first group. Nevertheless to really enjoy it, the viewer needs to feel some empathy with the characters played by the two romantic leads. This requires recognition that the film is intended to be pure farce, and that some allowance should be made for anti-social behaviour since both leads are psychologically damaged characters.	Despite the comedy, the film is a serious work which features a very unusual love affair between two mentally handicapped people. This does nothing to explain what I found to be its very real charm, but to say much more would normally constitute an unfortunate spoiler. However, the very unfortunate English language title under which this film was released in North America (Tie me Up, Tie me Down) not only provides this spoiler but is also potentially misleading; and it will probably be helpful to add that the film has nothing to do with S & M practices. The bondage is designed to prevent an unwilling prospective bride from running away, but merely increases her determination to eventually do so. The incident which finally changes her mind about her suitor constitutes the heart of the film and is a perceptive look at what really makes many people tick. The aching need of a handicapped person for love and respect comes through very clearly, and makes this film very well worth watching. For this reason I rate it at eight out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Great movie from Almodóvar","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" To describe a film using the words Almodóvar and great is unnecessarily redundant. As I've characterized before, he is, to Spain, what Altman, Allen, Mamet, Lynch, Levinson, Scorsese, Stone, et al, are to the U. S., all rolled into one. I've had the opportunity to spend a lot of time in Spain, traveling throughout, not just on vacation, but for extended periods on business, where you get to know the places, culture and people even better. Madrid is the most magnificent place one can imagine, and from Ibiza and Gran Canaria, to the Costa del Sol, there is no part of this country which is not fascinating and interesting, in terms of beauty, history and the people. Even if Almodóvar possessed no more talent than Ed Wood, his films would be worth viewing for the locales and scenery. But that isn't the case - you get the whole package every time. In this story, most of his usual ensemble of actors appears, providing outstanding performances, without exception. Despite the often bizarre personas depicted by Almodóvar's characters, and situations which are equally so, they nonetheless end up seeming more engaging, likable and normal than the more mundane. Antonio Banderas and Victoria Abríl, and their characters, Ricky and Marina, are handsome, off-beat (to say the least), and incredibly sensual - both individually and as a couple. But, you know what? All of this works, and you love them, and have no problem believing that as the picture ends, they will be happier, more faithful, better parents, and enjoy more fulfilling lives henceforth than, say, the Cleavers, Bradys, or the Father Knows Best or Cosby clans. In my opinion, directorial geniuses, such as Almodóvar, Allen and Levinson have an innate ability to present stories and characters in a manner where metaphor and reality somehow fuse and join, to entertain and provide a profound message - in harmony - and without either facet detracting from the other. When you go to rent a DVD or tape, or scan the movie section in your newspaper, always keep a lookout for Almodóvar's latest. "},{"Title":"A mad person's affair with a porn star is such a unique story.","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After watching Almodovar's Atame i stood a little bit and had some thoughts about what i saw(something that happens almost every Almodovar film).The way that Almodovar tells he story is brilliant.Banderas's role makes the viewer that the plot will be evolve into a triller rather than a romance comedy.Almodovar once again chooses a female for the lead and once more he succeeds serving the action around his characters.The plot is such a unique story about a psychological ill man who loves madly an ex-porn star and kidnaps her,tying her down in her own apartment.He wants her to love him,but his sometimes violent methods seem that he won't complete his goal,but then there's the plot twist.Almodovar,whose movies are a mean of shocking the after Franco Spain,does indeed shock again.People in the time that the movie was realized didn't have used to live in a free Spain so the ignored some of their personal rights.Almodovar helps them to know their rights and respect the different.In this movie you get to know about real feelings,love and how it can be grown in the most odd places,in the oddest situations.Ricky evolves from an violent former mental patient into a love subject.Marina evolves from a ex porn star now on her zenith of fame into an understanding lovely woman who after many pleasures gets to know true love.Another funny element is Almodovar's alter ego the director of the movie Marina stars in.It is said from the director himself that he is a director of women so does Almodovar.Although it might not be Almodovar's best it is certainly a have to watch.I personally had a great time watching the movie.I don't believe that only Almodovar's fans watch this film as it is not his most shocking of his career(not like La mala Educacion,The Skin I Live In).A beautiful movie whose happy ending leaves you a sweet taste for tomorrow. "}{"Title":"Gloriously Beautiful","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" An unbalanced but alluring former mental patient (Antonio Banderas) takes a porn star (Victoria Abril) prisoner in the hopes of convincing her to marry him.How can anyone deny the beautiful, almost dreamlike use of color in this film? Trying to find anything comparable is a challenge. The musicals of Jacques Demy? No, not even those.Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! comes from a strong pedigree, as it follows in the myth of Beauty and the Beast and the notion that the savagery of the Beast is, in the presence of Beauty, tamed by gentler feelings. This has been a recurrent theme in films like King Kong, Frankenstein and Tarzan the Ape Man. Some have even drawn parallels to Seven Brides For Seven Brothers in that kidnapping can lead to romance.The soundtrack was composed by Ennio Morricone in the style of a thriller and is reminiscent of Bernard Herrmann's score for Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. This music changes the whole tone. Some consider the film a dark romantic comedy and others even say there is a hint of horror in there. Much of the mood relies on the music -- with a lighter tone, this could just be an offbeat romantic comedy and not a dark one -- there is very little about the film that is dark besides the music. "},{"Title":"Are We All Tied Up?","Date":"11 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodóvar creates an interesting film to add to the romantic comedy category. One is led to believe that this film is not a comedy until various plot devices reveal just how far Ricky (Antonio Banderas) is willing to go to capture the heart of Marina (Victoria Abril). Different perhaps from other films from Almodóvar, is the female centered plot. This time it is shared between both male and female. Ricky is released from a mental institute with various handyman skills that prove useful in his pursuit of Marina. Marina is a former porn star and drug addict. These two have met once before the story's events. After a short trip to the set in which Marina works, Ricky witnesses what should have been the end of the film being shot. It can then be inferred that Ricky is not the only one with an obsession with Marina, but also the director of the film being shot in the movie. Quickly after, Ricky quickly sets out to work on getting Marina to love him by giving her the chance to understand him. He makes his way into her apartment and ties her up. While Marina is relatively helpless against Ricky, being physically tied up, she has also tied Ricky up emotionally as he can think of nothing else but her. Perhaps not heartwarming in the soft sense, but his dedication and determination is something to be noted. "},{"Title":"Great film, but not Almodovar's best","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Atame is beautifully filmed, funny, and compelling. In true Almodovar style it is controversial, as the story implies a woman can be forced to love a man, and because the audience begins to identify with and root for the captor and abuser, rather than the victim. The acting is great and Antonio Banderas plays the role surprisingly well. The sexual tension between Abril and Banderas is played wonderfully. Despite the film's rating, the sexual scenes are not unnecessarily graphic. Atame is a great film that deals with a controversial topic, however it is not nearly as thought provoking or moving as many of Almodovar's other films including Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown and Talk to her. "},{"Title":"A movie to be tied to the bed","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ¡Atame! or the English title Tie me up! Tie me Down! is one of the best works that i have seen of Almodovar. Is a funny, fresh and daring comedy. With beautiful music, ¡Atame! is the clever story of Ricky, a crazy man who needs true love. He is obsessed with Marina, a porn star. And now he decides to kidnapped her and make anything and she can love him.This movie is an amusing and maybe different of all that Almodovar do. Of course has the touch of his movies, but this one it stands out of the little number that i see of him. With Antonio Banderas like the crazy man and Victoria Abril, that i see last time in Tacones Lejanos, ¡Atame! is a story of wishes and desire. A story of how the an human been can meet another human been. You can say I will never belong to that person and the next day you can be in love of that person. And i hope that don't misinterpret me... i mean, kidnap a person is a bad thing, and i don't support him. But, of course we sometimes reject persons that could be our person. ¡Atame! has too an interesting perspective of the direction of a film. The movie talks about the end of a movie maker. A movie maker that just want do his last work good, before dies. Maybe is a fright or is an aspiration that directors has, because they don't want that the work be bad, they want a perfect movie, just like this character. A fright that all of we must give to face, no matter our aspirations or work.¡Atame! is a great comedy that we must take like fun and of course like a teaching.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any "},{"Title":"Wild, energetic, sexually-charged comic-fantasy; great fun!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodóvar creates a hit, following up the frenetic & entertaining Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown with an erotic comic-fantasy. Átame (English title, Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down!) is a wealth of sexual comedy presented in a unique way that can only be ascribed to this inventive director.  Many women may try to over-intellectualise the plot, or criticize the actions the main characters as inane.  This is not a love story, it's a quirky love story-turned sexual fantasy.  The story is delightfully funny, the actors build and deliver sexual tension quite well.  This is a definite must-see (though you can't be too prude or offended by sexually explicit material). "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While the topic of this work is rather wacky,  I enjoyed it immensely and had little trouble following the plot (his stuff is known to be just a bit hard to follow, especially for non-Spanish speakers).  I also felt the performances of Abril and Banderas were better than usual.There has been some talk of the NC-17 rating and I recall that this was awarded more because of the topic of a woman falling in love with her attacker than the sex, per se.  I might be wrong about this, though.  "},{"Title":"my favorite almodovar film","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's Almodovar's best film that I've seen.  Complex, raw, provocative and very funny.  Most of the initial press/comments on this film seemed to be fairly ignorant.  It's not sexist at all; it's quite a vicious critique of the roles and expectations women are faced with and how they compromise themselves and their desires to face them.I thought it was astounding, hilarious and thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"A Blissful Blend Of Twisted Humour, Erotic Tension and Low-Brow Sexual Dilemmas","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodóvar is certainly a controversial director and at first glance a lot of people consider him a man who exploits sex. In fact he does the complete opposite; he studies sexual relationships, sexual tension, sexual desires, lust and love. I've always considered him a remarkable director with the likes of his tightly knitted masterpiece Live Flesh and the evocative drama Talk to Her. Though not always appealing to the mass audience (being one of the directors with the dreaded NC-17 inappropriately labelling his films) he has succeeded in attracting critics, movie buffs and other directors to his films. With all the labels and controversy that Almodóvar has had shafted upon himself you'd be surprised at how differently you may interpret his films.Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! Follows the exploits of a man called Ricky (played by Antonio Banderas) who gets let out an asylum and stalks an actress/porn star named Marina who he once had sex with. He decides to kidnap her and tie her up, while still feeling guilty at his behaviour he hopes Marina will fall in love with him. The story moves at a very exhilarating pace as the viewer becomes introduced to a series of generally bizarre characters. The film manages to perfectly show the two polar opposites of both Marina and Ricky, yet including the similarities of them both. Ricky is definitely not what you'd call likable and yet of the surface Marina has a vibrant, amiable personality around her. Then once you come to know Marina you'll become uncertain of her innocent personality.The film's offbeat sexy style is certainly one that will provoke the viewer, but at times the sexiness is taken away by the character's actions which are important for showing what kind of people they're. Almodóvar's visual style is one that excites and differs between claustrophobia and then opening the wide world the characters are surrounded by to the viewer. I've always considered Almodóvar to use a distinct style that feels as if its theatre, a lot of the scenes feels very staged which I personally adore. The intelligent use of vivacious colour to show the isolating pop culture is one that exhilarates the general feel of the film.The script manages itself so creatively around the characters, as you watch a character suddenly change personality you'll come to realise the script writing helps the scenes burst with charisma and charm. Even with all the charm and wit you'll still find yourself overwhelmed by a sense of outlandish creepiness that undertones the film. The passionate romance seems so unreal and only kicks in for the main characters as the film progresses. For a film that revolves around very little set pieces and characters you'll find yourself involved with the eccentric prowess. The film's superb use of music creates the tones with excellence.The film is certainly not one that is realistic and rather relies on the extreme character's fantasies to decide a resolution of your own. Technically dazzling and structured with such ease there's nothing quite like an Almodóvar work of art. Comic virtuosity enables the film the enchanting versatility and for that you're bound to love it. Downright brilliant, Spanish cinema with an extensive cult appeal and one that manages to captivate and enthral at all times. Not a film for everyone, but I'd say it's one that you should definitely attempt if you're interested in art house cinema. "},{"Title":"Unconventional love story that just misses its mark.","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ** Some Spoilery ** Once upon a time there was a straightforward story. Boy meets girl. Boy likes girl. Girl likes boy. Boy and girl share time, experiences and feelings. Boy still likes girl. Girl likes boy even more. Boy and girl live together happily ever after. Normally those shared experiences include some light comedy, a few moments of embarrassment, occasions of sadness and anger, and if we're lucky, those rare moments of true connection when heart meets heart and they beat together brightly while the world goes on around them. 'Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!' ( I would use 'Atame!' but I can't do upside-down exclamation marks), is such a love story and has all of the above present and correct. Two innocents meet by chance off-screen, and their paths to the future are set. Or at least that's what they boy thinks.This film dares to use a controversial narrative to get the girl, and for that it deserves full marks. Its setting is childishly colourful and bright which is fitting considering the two leads are really teenagers in adult bodies. The mood is generally light. Even in the darker moments with the director's allusions to Hitchcockian suspense and horror, the suspense never materialises, soon bursting in a confection of whimsical threatlessness. The portrayal of a naive and obsessive love is wonderful. The fact that it celebrates this without criticism or cynicism is more wonderful still. There are no moral qualms about sex, sexuality, or nudity which might be dismissed (wrongly) as being 'European' in some quarters. This is as refreshing as it is rare. Both leads are having fun entirely appropriate to their roles.However, I feel that the story here falls short of where it wants to be. Marina's emergence from her status as victim, becoming one of the lovers is rapid and not convincing. Her feelings revolve around toothache and pain relief. Her fear of her kidnapper is never that genuine. I'm glad there's no Stockholm syndrome in play, but there do need to be some moments where she loses the fear she should have and gains a trust she's never had before. Their absence lets down the film. The film also shies away from the fetishistic aspects of bondage. Though not a part of the story, they're certainly integral to the way the camera pans up the body of Marina when she's tied to the bed. Worse still, the film seems to support the view that power exchange within a relationship is not a healthy thing, and that 24/7 equality is to be striven for. A very safe viewpoint for such an 'edgy' film.There is more good than bad here, but as a whole, it disappoints. Perhaps the main legacy of this film is that it was (allegedly) the first film to be rated NC-17 in the US, although the importance of this is probably overstated. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully zany","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is some more inspired insanity from Pedro Almodóvar, and so far, it is certainly my favourite Almodóvar film.  There are many scenes in this film that are pure gold, and these more than make up for the occasional slow stretch, although these slow spots do keep the movie from being truly great. Abril and Banderas both give great performances as the leads, but really, the whole cast is effective.  I just found this movie to have a wonderful mix of good storytelling with more than a little madness, and so I was left thoroughly satisfied. "}{"Title":"A fairytale romance","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say too much about this film without giving it away.  Antonio Banderas and Victoria Abril give good performances as their characters have such depth to them.  Pedro Almodovar directs this film beautifully as he can't seem to make a bad film nowadays.  For some strange reason I could identify with Ricky and his obsession with taking care of a woman who has many addictions.  One thing I remember from the film is the music, I loved it.  The final scene involves music and it was my favorite.  This should not have been rated NC-17.  A good film for mature adults.  6/10 Good "},{"Title":"Almodovar's masterpiece to date","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And the best romantic comedy of the decade.  Almodovar may err on the side of exploitation, but he always hasgenuine compassion for his characters.  His situations are alwaysinteresting, but his films can at times be uneven.  He's perfectlyfocused in this film.Antonio Banderes plays a released mental patient who tracksdown a one time porno actress/ one time junkie who currentlystars in a series of slasher films.  He follows her home and tiesher up.  He does not rape, rob, or hurt her.  He instead insists thatthey had an affair before, and that they said that they'd get marriedshould Banderes be released.  At first, she naturally thinks he'snuts.  But the more he keeps her captive, the more she begins tosuccumb to his charms.A wonderful film, full of color, humor, romance, and one of the bestsex scenes I've ver seen. "},{"Title":"","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favourite Almodovar movie and probably one of his masterpieces.I have to confess that I have a weakness for this Spanish director because he really knows what passion is and you can see it from his movies. This movie has everything you may want fun, drama, romance and even a couple of 'hot' scenes. Antonio Banderas is at his best and Victoria Abril is great. My vote for ¡Átame! is 10. "},{"Title":"Light and Likable but slightly disappointing.","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen 'Tie me up, Tie me down' yesterday night with my wife. We both came up with a feeling that it was quite average, and we both were quite disappointed relatively to the good rating it has, and the majority of positive reviews. In fact when I lay in bed, yesterday night, I was thinking of why didn't I enjoy more? Great cast, fantastic camera work, interesting moments and on occasion it contains hilarious jokes. Yet the movie seemed to drag and bore instead of entertain or touch feelings. This morning I think I have the answer.I didn't really buy what the director tried to sell. Marina didn't look like a heroin junkie or a porn actress. Her place was quite neat and she didn't have any sign of addiction or weakness towards drugs. She didn't look like the one who needed to be saved from herself. So I was told one thing but saw another and subconsciously it didn't fit. All the story was a bit silly and childish. Also, because it felt a bit childish and silly the explicit nudity and sex scenes seemed unnecessary.To sum it up, 'Tie me up, tie me down' is light, has funny moments and without perversions prevailing in Almadovar's films on one hand. But on the other hand, it doesn't involve any strong feelings and it's not funny enough to hold for the whole movie and to be considered a good comedy. "},{"Title":"Works as a critique of heteronormativity!","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Knowing the director Pedro Almodóvar is gay is an important piece of context for understanding this film. Once you know this, it's impossible not to read it as a critique of heteronormativity. The ending will only frustrate you without knowing this!The plot is powered by Ricky's (Antonio Banderas) desire to marry, have kids, and thus kidnap his dream woman, a porn star Marina Osorio (played by Victoria Abril) to make this happen. Both performances are strong and the characters (and actors) definitely have the chemistry needed for a satire like this to work. Some other things that stood out for me; the distinctive colours throughout were just right. The reds, greens, blues, yellows and the striking costumes reflected the forcefully overbearing emotional exchanges between the straight 'partnership' (if you can even call it that!) especially from Ricky. As a straight person, I did find 'Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!' difficult to watch at some points, because I know that frustratingly, aspects of Baderas' performance indeed do reflect elements of straight males misogyny and in turn, some women are akin to Abril's reaction to this.Overall, although not a 'laugh out loud' comedy, the satitical elements are strong enough to lend themselves to an interesting and powerful parody of straight relationships. "},{"Title":"atame","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" one great movie. The best of almodovar till the date. The performances of banderas and abril are incredible as the script and direction of this crazy, sweet and incredible film of this extravagant Spanish genius. The most amazing thing of this movie is that it makes you wish the villain could win by the end of the movie and you're always rooting for the character of banderas even when you know what hes doing is wrong and that there are better ways to seduce a woman. You can understand him and later on even abril character ends up falling in love with him in own of the sweetest, smoothest and most romantic and passionate sex scenes in the movie history. "},{"Title":"there is no irony, only a morally-offensive picture","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm no prude, not even close. And I have little time for most of the hysterical cries of modern middle-class feminism. But I believe violence-against-women to be one of the worlds' most profound (and common) problems and as such must be handled with care & respect in artistic mediums. There are many dumb movies which feature such violence but are justly ignored by the discerning viewer. Once Were Warriors & Nil By Mouth are two films which deal with this issue in an admirable way.Almodóvar is someone who's raved about by the intellectual film community, and as such there is a responsibility for the film critic to question his values where appropriate. His films glorifies the woman-as-victim image or rather the woman-as-plaything (see also La piel que habito). Tie Me Up champions this value, glamourises it, and worst of all, romanticises it. It's the male-chauvinist fantasy those mad fems have been warning us about all along, except they probably don't recognise it themselves as it's Almodóvar.If you understand the psychology of women in abusive relationships, it's the feeling of being trapped and of being fooled by the perceived romanticism of it which prevents many from protecting themselves. It's a genuine problem, with lots of potential in the film medium as a dramatic premise. This film does the very opposite of shining a light on this issue, it merely encourages it. Those that claim detractors miss the point, or don't understand the irony are missing the point themselves there is no irony. It is what it is, and it is morally-irresponsible.Still, the film-buff in me doesn't want to rate it quite a 1/10 the acting from both leads is very good, and the film's technicolour is appealing.Recommended for those who want to decide for themselves.Not recommended if the negative reviews here have convinced you. "},{"Title":"A lot of tying in an oddity of a popular foreign title, nothing to write home about","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie I must say, really didn't do much for me, or have me, if only for the two leads and some nice loud sets. TMUTMD is a very different love story indeed, with an offbeat and odd scenario, if for the characters themselves. An early star in the making, Banderas really gives a good performance, as a hunky troubled patient, Ricky, with some violent tendencies, who's just been released from the nuthouse. He's been doing the older matron there too. Obsessing about an old flame, and B porn actress, Martika (sexy April) he tracks her down, intent on making a life with her, to much her disapproval, first not even remembering him. Antonio dons a few disguises and his unstable self, were at moments, unsettling (those patients who can flip switches, calm, one moment, crazy the next. Resorting to kidnapping her, Ricky's determined to break her down while sharing some sexual interludes with her, while keeping her tied up, a few ways over a couple of days, where a movie set is missing a lead actress. April's character was very intriguing and captivating, where there are times she becomes compassionate and understanding to her captor, where other moments, she absolutely hates him. She was a hard nut to figure. You can't deny this great foreign actress has a sexy and magical presence. Yes, there are some saucy sex scenes, but it's not up to your average quota in these adult titles, foreign or otherwise. One scene, funny as, has her fantasizing in the bath, with only a wind up aquaman, below, keeping her asexual company, swimming along the surface and ending up at the honey pot of hers, between her legs. The movie is worth watching for the actors, especially if a fan of Banderas, years before he packed that guitar case of hard armorment. It's cute and happy ending is another oddity, if also unsatisfying, in one of the oddest love stories you'll see, that won't grow on you, and least likely forget, in the weeks that pass. "},{"Title":"Provocative power-play; Almodóvar's most unconventional romance to date","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A love story with strings attached; Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! (1990) is without question Almodóvar's most unconventional romance to date, expressing a number of themes that seem to continually contradict one another, while still managing to offer the usual ideas of meta-fiction and narrative self-reflexivity that Almodóvar's work is noted for. The film is also worth seeing for the subtle way in which the director develops and extends upon recognisable elements from his previous films, Matador (1987) and The Law of Desire (1987) - both of which focus on the ideas of obsession and domination within the context of an unconventional relationship - but extends upon these issues with a kind of manic, melodramatic kitsch that can be seen in the directly preceding Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (1988) and the subsequent Kika (1993). Like Kika, the film would become one of Almodóvar's most derisive and controversial projects - particularly in the US - and although the presentation is often tamer than one might expect, the film nonetheless attempts to provoke the audience through a continual contrast of violence and tender sensuality, and the various other issues that the characters convey.When your story revolves around a recently released mental patient kidnapping a recovering junkie porn actress in an attempt to make her fall in love with him through a combination of physical force and psychological manipulation, we know that certain elements are going to push the audience further than we might normally expect. However, in light of this, it is surprising how natural Almodóvar manages to make this bizarre relationship, creating a tone, both visually and thematically, that works in establishing this skewed, off-kilter world and the multifaceted complexities of his characters. If you keep in mind that the film is intended as farce - with the bold stylisations, larger-than-life characters and Almodóvar's great sense of musicality when it comes to the pitch, tone and energy of his performances - then you should be able to appreciate the film for what it is and what it is trying to achieve. On the one hand it is an incredibly entertaining film, with the great sparring between the two central protagonists and a veritable ensemble of larger than life supporting characters, including the legendary Francisco Rabal as a lascivious, wheelchair-bound film director focusing his creative energies into a final masterpiece, a sleazy epic about dangerous desires, lust and obsession (sound familiar?), but it is also an extremely thought-provoking and compelling piece of work that is open to deeper interpretations.The dynamics within the relationship are nicely structured, with the character of Ricky initially standing out as a two-dimensional crazy person who is compelled to form a relationship with Marina after the couple shared a passionate one night stand almost a year before. The fact that Marina is able to cope with the situation, eventually taking the position of power, ultimately says a great deal about both of these characters, their lives and their back stories, and how the ending of the film could hold some kind of dramatic weight, even in light of its central abstractions. It helps that the performances from Banderas and Abril are as spirited and committed as they are; with both characters capturing that sense of confidence and strength punctuated by loneliness and a subtle fragility. Seeing work like Women on the Verge..., Kika and the film in question, you wonder why Almodóvar never made a full blown musical (what with those great big, theatrical sets, overwhelming Technicolor and sweeping crane shots). You can see these influences in much of his work, but instead of allowing the elements to explode into a wild collage of opulent self-indulgence (like the first half of Kika), the director manages to instead anchor the film to the personalities of his characters, their dynamics and relationship, and the complex interplay that will eventually develop between them.Long time viewers of Almodóvar's work will immediately recognise the self-referential nature of the story, with the film-within-a-film aspect apparent right from the very start, with that continual Almodóvar-like framing devise, wherein the story within the film becomes a comment on the story itself. Alongside this central design we also have the character as a performer, an actress in this case, and a secondary character who is both an artist and delusional. As a result, we never quite know who to trust as the film progresses from one wild extreme to the next; with Almodóvar's always interesting directorial quirks and eccentricities creating an odd tone that can be seen as part crime thriller, part kinky sex comedy. Again, this style is well suited to the director's work and can be seen in everything from Matador, The Law of Desire and the acclaimed Live Flesh (1997). Though it has clearly proved to be problematic for many viewers (judging from the plethora of negative reviews listed online), I'd have to argue in its defence. For me, Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! is a great deal of fun; provocative certainly, with the continual contrast between violence and sensuality, humour and terror, but also filled with the usual wit, flair, depth and imagination that we've come to expect from the director and his work. "},{"Title":"finally seen it it 2002","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i gave this film a nine, it's not every day you see a film about a stalker that you start to root for.  but hats off to almodovar for pulling this off.as far as the acting, to see banderas, the raw banderas, the unhollywood one to go from love to anger in one scene was to see how hollywood is at times missing the boat.as far as abril, at time she steals the scene by just blinking them in terror or by pulled in two directions.i loved this film. "}{"Title":"If you're starting with Almodóvar, start somewhere else.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's best not to know what happens.  If you haven't seen the film you shouldn't read my remarks.  Be wary of reading other peoples', too.I could have lived with a woman falling in love with her kidnapper.  No doubt it happens.  Even if it doesn't happen, there's no reason why it shouldn't serves as the basis of a good story.  It sounds like the basis of an excellent story.One thing to make clear - although it's an obvious enough point - the film has no message, let alone the message If you really love a woman, and want her to love you, kidnap her.  That's in the form of an imperative, and Almodóvar's film, whatever else it is, is not in imperatival; form.  (This is not trivial; some films ARE imperatival.)Even if there were a message of some kind, it would not be easy to work out what it is, since it's next to impossible to work out what relevant truths hold in the world of the fiction.  Is the love that develops between Marina and Ricky ultimately a healthy love, or not?  Do Ricky's extreme tactics work in general, or do they only work on people whose lives are like Marina's?  Or do they only work in this particular case?  Are Ricky's actions meant to be justified - in the world of the fiction - or are they unjustified even there?  All of these are hard to tell.  I'm not sure if this is a bad thing.What I am sure is a bad thing is that the heroine, Marina, is too passive.  (I mean too passive in its literal sense; I'm not using it as code for not feminist enough.)  She should have made a genuine effort to escape - just once.  Or she should have been more cunning - at least on occasion.  Or she should have spoken out more.  Or, just once, she should have snapped.  She comes close to doing all of these things, but she always draws back.  It's frustrating.I've realised - just as I was typing the previous paragraph - that she DOES make one concerted effort to escape; it's when Ricky is out getting beaten up by thugs.  And to be fair, it IS dramatically apt that this attempt occur just before she finds she's fallen in love with him - otherwise the story would be the even more unsatisfying one of how Ricky gradually wore her down.  Still, it would have been better if she had been a more active character, in SOME respect, earlier on.-Okay, so maybe I'm wrong about the too passive thing, but my other two complaints still stand.  Firstly, and less importantly, Ricky never pays any price either for his actions or for the prize he eventually wins.  He never has to experience guilt; he never loses any battle, on any front, with Marina.  (He gets beaten up, of course, but that doesn't count it's for the unrelated crime of pinching drugs.)  Secondly, the kidnapping story is all the more unsatisfying because it's basically all we get.  The other two Almodóvar films I've seen both have a rich undergrowth of supporting character and sub-plot, which this one lacks.  While not all films need such an undergrowth, this one does.  -It's not that there are no other characters.  Take the lecherous old director, for instance.  He steps on stage to spark off part of the story, but thereafter Almodóvar does NOTHING with him.  Yet we continue to see him every so often.  Why?  I suspect because Almodóvar wanted to cut away every so often, and needed something to cut away to.Tie me up, etc. has many typical Almodóvar strengths - glorious colours, fascinating characters, strong narrative grip - but it's all a bit flat.  The director has done better at least twice.  I suspect he usually does better. "},{"Title":"atame","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" one great movie. The best of almodovar till the date. The performances of banderas and abril are incredible as the script and direction of this crazy, sweet and incredible film of this extravagant Spanish genius. The most amazing thing of this movie is that it makes you wish the villain could win by the end of the movie and you're always rooting for the character of banderas even when you know what hes doing is wrong and that there are better ways to seduce a woman. You can understand him and later on even abril character ends up falling in love with him in own of the sweetest, smoothest and most romantic and passionate sex scenes in the movie history. "},{"Title":"Almodovar takes us down some dark alley-ways with this one ...","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Minor Almodovar it may be but this early, black comedy-thriller still takes no prisoners with it's relentless tale of obsession, (obsession is something Almodovar seems to be obsessed with). The Hitchcockian motifs are still there, as are his (too) obvious love of cinema and a totally exaggerated riot of colour which, in this case, completely transcends camp.Antonio Banderas is the young 'hero' recently released from a mental institution who kidnaps junkie and porn-star Victoria Abril in the hope that if she gets to know him up close and personal she may even fall in love with him. It's a bit like The Collector with the gloves off. There is something faintly Neanderthal-like in Banderas' assumption that slapping a woman around and tying her up is going to make her fall for him and Almodovar tickles our sensibilities by going down a few dark streets other directors wouldn't dream off.Both Banderas and, in particular, Abril are terrific. When they finally do get down and dirty and do the business there is a genuinely erotic charge in their acting and there is just enough ambiguity in the ending to give the film that extra edge. "},{"Title":"We had a nice time watching this!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I see more and more of Almodovar, I understand that what I thought it was his usual madness (especially in his earlier films, like say, Labyrith of passion) is not present in every film he has made. I already regard myself an Almodovar completist, as I have seen most of his films, excluding HIGH HEELS, LAW OF DESIRE, LIVE FLESH and BAD EDUCATION. And, needless to say I like them all. Most of them, I love! This one, unlike many others which go on around many different characters and absurdities, has two basic lead actors and a single story. His trademark weird, absurd humour/dialogs is still here, in a few bits, but that's not the thing here. ATAME is not a bad beginning for someone who hasn't seen Almodovar at all. The ending scene, when this beautiful song is sung is wonderfully executed, and it's a magnificent song!  "},{"Title":"a loving admirer kidnaps porn actress","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a delightful romp full of humor, wit, and plot full of surprises; only the Italians could come up with something so fun and sexy! It is for adults, however, but few films are able to spin sex and psychology into pure comedy and childish delight. The film begins slowly, and once the kidnap begins, the viewer is at first fearful the film will become violent; but the surprise is that the film actually contains good taste and compassion in characters from whom that is the least expected. I do not understand, from a previous reviewer, how a school teacher could show this to students, but I could watch this with my parents and not get embarrassed. This is not for children, it would be for adult children and their parents! I saw this movie twice, and could watch it every few years. It is original, fun, yet tasteful. "},{"Title":"How can you love a kidnapper who ties you up to the bed?","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have a VHS copy of this that I have never opened. I don't know why, but it is one of the very few Almodovar films that I have not seen.Antonio Banderas already had a couple of Almodovar films to his credit, and he was just 30 in this film.The object of his desire is Victoria Abril, another Almodovar protégé, who appeared with Banderas in The Law of Desire.The bathtub scene with the scuba diver is to die for.Banderas kidnaps Abril and tries to get her to love him. Holy Stockholm Syndrome! Believe it or not, there is only one love scene in the movie, but it was spectacular. "},{"Title":"Review of Atame","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After watching Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down I have came to realize how mainstream society believes irrational, criminal and bad behavior is actually good behavior. I became quite disturbed from this movie. While this movie was shot very well and the script was very well written, the acting was superb, the basis of the story was off mark. After reading other reviews stating this movie is misunderstood, blah blah this movie is not misunderstood. I don't see how anyone could rationalize the behavior of Ricky in this movie. Here is this guy that gets out of a mental hospital and proceeds to stalk this girl, break into her apartment, knock her out and eventually tie her up all in the name of love. What's really sickening is the fact that Marina starts to like him. I don't know if this is due to a case of Stockholm Syndrome or what but this movie did not sit well with me. We constantly hear about how guys treat girls so poorly in society but after watching this movie it's no wonder why guys treat girls so bad after watching such distasteful movies such as this one. This movie pretty much states that if you want a girl to like you, you need to physically harm her, treat her like crap and tie her up against her will. I do not recommend this film to anyone that has somewhat of a morale compass. "},{"Title":"irredeemably macho","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although very beautifully filmed, the film's message that a woman can be made to love a man, by force if necessary, is painful to watch.  This theme rivals the hooker with the heart of gold myth for the title of Worst Moviemaker's Delusion.  Maybe the moviemaker is very self-aware (after all, there is the character of the old director wrestling with his female fantasies) but Almodovar seems to learn nothing from his characters.  It's too bad--I like Almodovar--but this movie is inexcusable. "},{"Title":"The Filmmaker, his Mental Patient, his Porno Star and her Lover","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.As with all Pedro Almodóvar's films, we have a flat, weakly humorous exploration of some sexual situation. And as with all his films, it misses being interesting or charming. That is, unless you do a little work to punch it up. My own method is to fabulate around the Spanish tradition within which he certainly belongs. (I really liked the Spanish reflexiveness in `Lucía y el sexo.')The raw material for the reflection is deliberately put there it is a film about a film, where the merging of the two isn't obvious.Marina is a strawberry blond porno actress with a sister-manager, Lola, and a drug problem. She is lovers with Pepe who lives in a grandly furnished apartment, adjacent to the smaller place he provides for her.  Lola and Pepe are pimps of a sort for show business and arrange for her to play in a film. It will be the last film of Máximo. All three are involved in the film Máximo directs, Lola is the writer, Pepe is the art director, you the audience are the cinematographer. All are infatuated with her.What we see is the movie that results from the various tugs from each of these. It starts out (well into the film after the madman is invented) with the `reality' prefilming the final sequence. Máximo is being interviewed and the reporter sees an actor, Osvaldo, from real life a fat guy. We later see him in the `movie' as a really well built guy. Marina is directed to act like the reporter when she sees her man. This is the first obvious indication that the film and the film within are to be merged.`Midnight Phantom' is the movie being made, putting one's heart and genitals on the line. Marina and the phantom tussle with Marina left hanging. Then the real merger of film realities get shuffled. The mental patient, her drug problems (disguised as `toothache'), her unfulfilled sexual desires, and the needs of her film `managers' result in her being tied up/down, which rescues her from her rut.Its driven home by the mental patient's talent as an artist who `draws' the film -- a drawing of his comes to life to start the movie.There is a particularly nice shot after Rocky gets out of the  nuthouse/sexual prison, he is on the sidewalk in a long shot that flattens space like one of his animated drawings. A pretty redhead girl skating back and forth is rather poetic.The self-reference is nearly out of reach as the film masquerades as a sexual comedy. I only know `All About My Mother,' of his other films, but that's exactly the case there as well. This one has redheads.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Soap on a rope.","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tie Me Up. Tie Me Down. tells of a sexy actress with a checkered past who is kidnapped by a sexy guy with a checkered past and held hostage until she falls in love with him. At least that's -his- plan. A romantic comedy by renown Spanish director Almodovar, ¡Átame!  makes for a fun watch though it is fraught with goofs, plot holes, and nonsequiturs of the level which can be easily overlooked in a comedy. With good art and technicals and solid performances by the principals, ¡Átame! doesn't quite make the desired emotional connection in spite of a very good love making scene and a feel good conclusion. Probably not a worthwhile watch for the average Hollywoodphile, ¡Átame! should play well with foreign film freaks and Spanish speaking romantics. (B-) "}{"Title":"Not really a comedy...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sorry for the other writer, but Atame is not really a comedy.Of course, if for you, all has to be funny, don't watch this movie. It's about a soft-SM relationship, between a TV star and her mad-admirer. One of the Almodovar's movie not to excessively Almodovar "},{"Title":"An utter and complete waste of time.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING  Some of what I write may be considered a spoiler--but I can't imagine wanting to watch this drek in the first place.When my then-boyfriend sat me down and forced me to watch this piece of garbage, I should have dumped his sorry posterior then and there (and a few months later, for other reasons, I did).  Forget about being offensive; the premise that a woman would fall in love with a man who brutalizes her is just plain INSANE!!!!!  It does not happen that way, folks, it just doesn't.  I don't care how boyish and vulnerable the guy is.This flick soured me on Almodovar for life.  Only the performance by Victoria Abril, who deserves considerably better material than she gets in this bomb, keeps it from being relegated into the completely wretched category. "},{"Title":"very interesting, well done movie.","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i think this movie is great.  i really liked talk to her too.  tie me up tie me down isn't quite as nice as talk to her.  but i like this one better than all about my mother, which is supposed to be better.  this movie was very interesting to me.  i really got into it.  antonio banderas isn't amazing or anything, but he does a pretty good job.  it's a strange movie and i think it's very well done.  i don't really know what to say about it, but i like this director a lot now. "},{"Title":"NC-17, why?","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'm not real sure why this was rated NC-17, it probably has something to do with the tub scene but I think that's really stupid.Kind of like this movie. The tub scene is the perfect example of what this movie is. It's a bunch of a worthless stuff made into an hour and 50 min long movie. Victoria Abril & Antonio Banderas are good as the leads and the overall direction and such is decent.But the movie is boring. A guy screws a porn star and then he goes mental. Now he's out of the nuthouse and he is going to force the porn star to be his wife via kidnapping. This is nothing more than your basic inane romantic comedy, just with more nudity.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Revolting, sexist film","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *** SPOILERS -- ENTIRE PLOT REVEALED ***There have been people here who have called this film sexist with a dangerous message, and others who insist this is a figment of the imagination.These are the facts of what this film expects us to believeA woman is forcibly kidnapped at her home.  She is threatened with a knife, and when she screams, she is given a brutal headbutt, knocking out one of her teeth, swelling up her cheek, leaving her face gashed and bleeding.  She loses consciousness.  When she regains consciousness, she is continually tied up with rope to her bed, and her mouth is always kept shut with tape.  Her abductor claims he has the right to kidnap her because they had sexual relations within the previous year.  He is physically and verbally abusive to her.  He instructs her to call her mother, and then threatens that he will slit both their throats if she tries to tell her mother she is kidnapped.  She is treated like an animal in a cage.  Her abductor insists, though, that he simply wants her to get to know him and that once she knows him, she will see how adorable he is and fall in love with him.  He also tells her he's spent his entire life in mental hospitals, but she apparently takes little note of this fact.  However, she tells him she will never love him and that he is wasting his time.  Yet he persists, taking every rebuff and rejection as a sign to pursue even further, to never give up.Miraculously, our abductor's plan works!  After a couple days, he returns to her after he was beaten to a pulp and robbed on the street.  (Of course, this was in retaliation to a robbery at knifepoint committed by him previously.)  While she is tending his open sores, she begins to complain openly about the animals which did this to him.  She starts to caress his body while she tends his wounds, and before long she is kissing his open sores, and not long after that she's telling him don't come and don't pull it out yet while she screams in ecstatic pleasure to his pounding.  After they have sex, she tells him, Ah, yes.  NOW I remember you.  Remember, boys, THAT'S the way to get a woman to remember you.  After all, a woman NEVER forgets a good f**king.  After the woman is rescued and finds herself safe among family and friends, what does she do?  Call the police?  Press charges?  Start her way through a painful emotional process?  NO!  The first thing she does is go out and find her Cary Grant so she can bring him back to meet the family!  Cary Grant gets the girl!  They all drive off into a sunset (REALLY!) and live happily ever after.  THE frigging END.These are just the facts of the film.  It's a nice story.  I'll let you come to your own conclusions.Having known women friends who have been physically and verbally abused, stalked for months, and harassed while dating, this film was anything but funny.  While no one in their right mind will walk away with the impression that kidnapping and assault will win a woman's heart, the impression will be formed in the subconscious (especially upon the young and impressionable) that yeah, she really does want it rough; yeah, she really does want you to force her around; yeah, they all like the bad boys after all; and yeah, no really means yes, they just don't realize it.  People mention S&M in regard to this movie.  Irrelevant -- people who practice S&M do so based on trust and loving relationships; kidnapping is based on fear, mistrust, and violent force.  The two are polar opposites of each other.Even the scenes of sex and nudity are unnecessary and distracting.  Wow, women masturbate.  How shocking.  Wow, people sweat and moan during sex.  How exciting.  None of it advances the plot much.  The scenes only seem to be there to get that artsy-fartsy NC-17 rating, which supposedly adds a touch of class and respectability to an otherwise boring and tedious film. "},{"Title":"Except for Banderas, not much to see here","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tie me up! Tie me down! is a film that is curiously tasteless and somewhat un-PC that I'm just curious whether Aldomovar was trying to up his shock level with his film. An ex-psycho-inmate kidnaps a second-rate actress to make her fall in love with him. Pretty soon, all of this bondage and submissiveness gets to the actress, and soon she falls for him. If this was filmed by any other director, this would have been totally exploitational, but since this is done by Pedro Aldomovar, who is known to push boundaries, we're left to assume that all of this is just another taboo-tip-toeing fantasy. Although this really didn't appeal to me that much, it's always a hoot to see Antonio Banderas as the bad-ass he was when he was in the Spanish film-making experience before he became the world's most famous English speaking Latin B-Actor. Victoria Abril is great too, but the film's content left much to be desired by me, and therefore I wouldn't be seeing this film again anytime soon.. "},{"Title":"Geeze was it dumb or silly?","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Both I guess.  This movie reminded me of Buffalo 66 but at least that one seemed a bit real.  This was a b-genre import at best.  The acting was OK but the story was way dumb and too many implausible moments to count. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Almodovar really lost it with this movie. Attempting to achieve the greatness of his other films with commercial audacity, Almodovar loses control and deliver us a boring film with nothing new to be shocked about. "},{"Title":"Unfunny Spanish comedy/romance/thriller","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Antonio Banderas plays Ricky, a young saucy ex-convict who gets out and kidnaps B movie actress Victoria Abril.  The result is a dumb, unfunny little spanish film.The NC-17 rating is unnecessary.  It was used for a steamy scene between Banderas and Abril, and a scene where a toy scuba diver dives into Abril's err... underwater cave in the tub.Not funny, dumb.  Two-Stars  "},{"Title":"Unfunny Spanish Film","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ¡Átame! aka Tie me up! Tie me down! is a very unfunny Spanish comedy/drama/romance which seems like a longer version of a pornographic film.  If I didn't know Antonio Banderas was going on his way to become a huge hollywood movie star, I'd think that he is pretty lame.  But now, he's been in several good American films so all is forgiven.For hardcore bondage fans who seem to get the thrill of seeing women tied up.2 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A sexist piece of garbage","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING--SPOILERS AHEAD!  Some previous posters have said this film is a masterpiece and not sexist.  Oh really?  The woman (Abril) is shown doing a really embarrassing thing with an underwater toy, is tied up repeatedly, threatened with a knife, gagged, hit (quite brutally) by Banderas and is constantly being verbally abused by him.  But she ends up falling in love with him???????!!!!!  What the hell was that?  A woman has to be abused by a man to fall in love with him?  That's not sexist?  It's disgusting!  To make matters worse Abril and Banderas give such good performances (easily Banderas' best) that it all looks believable.  It all leads to a really stupid ending that made me want to throw something heavy at the screen.  I see lots of movies and I've never been more offended than I was by this one. A sick, degrading, sexist piece of crap.  Almodovar should be ashamed of himself. "}]