[{"Title":"Stunning performances all round","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"56 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family are one of the more recognisable families in TV history. With that in mind, let's skip the introductions and get straight to the chase.The performances in this movie are superb. It's a black, black comedy, and as such, it requires a certain kind of actor. The kind who has the right look, the perfect comedic timing, and the ability to deliver lines so deadpan it almost hurts.Raul Julia, Anjelica Huston, and a young Christina Ricci somehow ALL manage to deliver. They're truly a delight to watch, delivering the most macabre lines without even coming close to cracking a smile, yet having me in stitches every time. Even Christopher Lloyd, playing a far more energetic character, manages to bring in a maniacal edge to the performance. I don't think there's an actor in the movie who doesn't understand the role they play.The script is great material for them to work with too, extremely witty, rarely if ever falling on it's face, and complemented with some fantastic sets. And let's not forget the music. From the legendary theme tune, to the harpsichord jingles accompanying the visual gags, to the booming organs during the heavier moments, it's spot-on. The whole movie works as one to capture *THE* Addams atmosphere, macabre as it's ever been.Sure, there's a plot too, but while it drives the movie on, you'd watch this movie for the wonderful theme, not for an intriguing plotline.It's a classic, and you're doing yourself a disservice if you haven't seen it, or if you think you're too sensible for this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"An amusing film from the popular TV series The Addams Family","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Adams Family is a very funny film that is very under rated. With a great all star cast you get just what you expect, a great comedy. The TV show was already funny enough, and then the movie came and I was on the floor laughing. It's fun to see a happy dysfunctional family. No, I'm not talking about The Osbornes. All the characters are great and you really get into it. If you can tell me that you honestly did not get one laugh from this film, there is something very wrong with you. Because it is a very funny film. I would recommend this to anyone. It's a good watch on any day.8/10 "},{"Title":"They're funny and they're zany...","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" So here it is a feature look into the lives of the ghoulish family that bears the name of their creator. In this case, Morticia (Anjelica Huston) and Gomez (Raul Julia) are raising their family, when long lost Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) rejoins the family. But there may be other people who want the Addams' house.Most people don't seem to realize that The Addams Family actually had some social commentary everyone outside the Addams house considers them weird because they live differently, but they're actually a very loving family. As it was, The Addams Family was always better than The Munsters (cleverer and not as silly). But anyway, this is the feature, and it's one of the few TV-to-movie adaptations that got it right. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant but consistently amusing, well performed and solid enough to stand as its own beast","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams family are far from being normal but they are rich and as such are their attorney's only chance of getting rich. Tully has debts up the yazoo and the only thing that stops his knees being violently replaced with fresh air is the fact that Abigail Craven's son Gordon looks eerily like Gomez's missing brother Fester. Shaving his head, Gordon enters the Addams home as Fester and tries to use his spare time to get into the family vault. However Gomez's joy at his return is gradually marred by a sneaking feeling that Fester is not himself &#150; meanwhile Wednesday has no such doubts at all and is out to expose the impostor.One of the few remakes that actually works, The Addams Family takes the Gothic humour of the TV series and makes it feel fresh and entertaining. The story is essentially a nail for us to hang our coats on so we can watch the gags come but even with this it is actually pretty good. Making one of the family a new character is a clever way of adding to the formula without having to bring in new characters to lead the film and it does work. Within this frame the twisted comedy is rather entertaining and, although rarely laugh out loud funny, it is still consistently amusing and enjoyable.The cast are roundly good. Julia is a perfect Gomez and Huston is a great Morticia despite the latter being a fairly one-note affair. Lloyd is enjoyable in the lead and manages to do well to carry the new character aspect of Fester without disrupting the dynamic of the family. Ricci is excellent and the only downside is that the film doesn't give her enough to do; Workman is also good and has good chemistry with her. Hedaya, Wilson, Ivey and others are strong in support and generally do well to shore up the story.Overall a kooky affair that is enjoyable in you are in the mood for its particular brand of dark silliness. The plot is more than enough to act as a frame, the jokes maybe don't hit many real highs but they do consistently get very close to the target and the fact that the actors all buy into the joke makes it that little bit better. An enjoyable remake that succeeds because it has the strength to stand as its own beast. "},{"Title":"Gothic Kookiness","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Charles Addams' dark characters get the film treatment in Barry Sonnenfeld's THE ADDAMS FAMILY, which is something of a cross between the actual New Yorker comics and the 1960s television show. Not trying to lean too far to either, the movie stays at a safe plane, even incorporating a vague plot involving two grifters, Gordon and Abigail Craven, posing as Uncle Fester and a renowned psychiatrist (Christopher Lloyd and Elizabeth Wilson) who are in cahoots to rob the Addams of their fortune and house. The problem arises when Craven seems to go against his take-the-money-and-run attitude and when the Addams themselves appear to enjoy every minute that they're being taken advantage of. It suits the dark humor well, because since the Addams live in an alternative universe of their own creation in which dark is light, repugnant is beautiful, pain equals pleasure, death is life, and chaos equals order, it leaves the door open for many of their Gothic eccentricities to pull the rug over Lloyd and Wilson over and over again. It's clever, although its only problem is the needing to introduce the characters we all know setup which like in all movies based on comics or television shows, looks obvious.But despite this, everyone is uniformly excellent. Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston lend their looks to embody their cartoon counterparts and are the romantics at the heart of this decidedly perverse story. Christopher Lloyd is also great in his representation of Uncle Fester. But hands down the one who walks away with the entire movie is Christina Ricci who plays Wednesday as if she were living the role day by day. There's a sadistic gleam in her eyes and her voice that not many child actors have and I think that any other actor of the time that this film was made would have been unable to fit into this difficult part. Other than that, the tone of the movie is perfect as dark as it wants to be, but never letting its Gothic setting drown it in an inescapable mire. On the contrary, we're constantly aware that this is a typical American family who lives upside down and who are happy in being so even when we gawk and cringe at their oddities. "},{"Title":"'Fun' Is The Best Adjective","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Generally, speaking this a pretty fun movie for most people, kids and adults. I think fun is the adjective most people would use in describing this film.As one who remembered the television series, I thought I would check this out, too. Angelica Huston certainly didn't match Carolyn Jones' beauty but she, along with Raul Julia, Christopher Lloyd and Christinia Ricci all were entertaining to watch.There certainly were no end to the colorful imagines, unique scenes and dialog, special-effects and - for those with a surround system, good sound. It all made for an entertaining and fast-moving film.I didn't find a lot of laugh-out-loud moments but it did bring a lot of smiles to my face. A lot of this is dark humor, so it helps to appreciate that type of comedy. "},{"Title":"Snap, snap","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A good, nay great, movie version to the classic 60s series. Raul Julia is great as Gomez, as is Christopher Lloyd as Fester. The story is sound, pretty much better than the sequel. This is a comedy with slightly dark themes, but that doesn't mean the family can not enjoy it. Barry Sonnenfeld is a genius. "},{"Title":"A morbid joy","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Extremely enjoyable update to the old t.v. show retains the eccentric spookiness and oddball humor of old, then proceeds to update the warped family familiarity with a rousing sense of decadent glee. The unexpectedly classy affair benefits greatly from the amazing casting that went into choosing all the Addams clan. What is nothing short of ensemble perfection, a sense of fun had by all on set during production remains undeniably infectious throughout, lending the amusing proceedings a distinct level of class.Directed by easily digestible Barry Sonnenfeld, The Addams Family may be a bit intense for young kids but should stay a delight to all others. A wonderful, gentle perversity that hangs over the entire family might have pushed things a little too far to justify this family film to the younger set, but will stay surprisingly balanced with an outpouring of heart and morality,simply flipped inside out here, for comedic intent.Wonderful set and prop design mixed with it's politely warped sense of humor would have been enough to make Addams Family the success it became, although it was the brilliant casting which continues to uphold a credibility for this film. Led by the outstanding (and sadly missed) Raul Julia, nearly every single family member wears their role with an unreal amount of dignity, making the fairly standard plot completely memorable. "},{"Title":"This Is How It Should Be Done","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family has had a death... Fester Addams. But lo and behold, their lawyer knows a man who resembles Fester and if he passes the impostor off, could gain access to the family vault, full of treasures untold. But can the fake Fester survive the family's maniacal games? I don't have much experience with older incarnations of the Addams Family. So, I can't make an educated comparison. However, this film excels in every way macabre, humorous and just plain eccentrically absurd. The casting is also amazing... Raul Julia in the performance of his career, and Christopher Lloyd in a very offebeat role even for him.This was a breakout performance for Christina Ricci (playing Wednesday Addams). Sure, it possibly typecast her into weird roles (Casper, Sleepy Hollow, Pumpkin) but this is, beyond a doubt, where she fits. She can do drama (Monster, Black Snake Moan) but will always be America's goth girl.This film's dark humor is family appropriate -- cartoon violence, no nudity and marginal language. They simply do not make films like this anymore. Full credit must be given to the writer and director for bringing this family to life in a way that just cannot be repeated. Well, aside from the sequel. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is very good.The late,great Raul Julia,Anjelica Huston,and Christopher Lloyd performed well.Even though there is a sequel this film is one of a kind.In My opinion this is a good dark comedy for everybody! "}{"Title":"The Addams Family","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Based on the popular TV series (which there were a few of) and New Yorker cartoons - from the characters created by Charles Addams - comes this live action feature film about the kooky, spooky, eccentric and darkly comical humorous family, from director Barry Sonnenfeld (Men in Black). Basically The Addams Family are the strange scary movie stereotypes filled clan, with wife/mother Morticia (Anjelica Huston), husband/father Gomez (Raul Julia), the witch-like Granny (Judith Malina), Frankenstein's monster like butler Lurch (Carel Struycken), and the kids, Wednesday (young Christina Ricci) and Pugsley (Jimmy Workman). Notice anyone missing, yes, Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) disappeared 25 years ago after a fight with brother Gomez, and Abigail Craven (Elizabeth Wilson) wants to try and get the Addams' fortune, by using her son Gordon (Lloyd again), who has a striking resemblance to Fester, to con his way into the family, and find the fortune. As time goes by though, Gordon slowly finds himself settling very nicely as if he really was Fester, oh, and by the end, you realise it is really him, Craven found him with amnesia. Also starring Dan Hedaya as Tully Alford, Dana Ivey as Margaret Alford and Paul Benedict as Judge Womack. The dark comedy is wonderfully strange, the performances from Julia, Huston and Lloyd are marvellous, young Ricci also shines with her moments as the daughter, just a very good dark comedy film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Costume Design, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Make Up Artist and Best Production Design. Very good! "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First off ... my most important tweek on this movie is that I would have not used Angelica for the part of Morticia. Though she was quite good in the role, I believe, as much as the original role screamed for Carolyn Jones, the movie role screamed for CHER! As I said, Angelica did a fabulous job, but Cher was more suited to the role! Measuring up to John Astin in the role of Gomez was not an easy task, but Raul Julia was more than adequate in the role. However, the people that stole the show were Christopher Lloyd and Christina Ricci, especially the latter! I would agree with others that Christina needed more center time in the film, and the chemistry between her and Jimmy Workman was exceptional. Getting back to Chris Lloyd ... he was able to fill the shoes of veteran actor Jackie Coogan was no easy task, but he conquered the role and expanded it magnificently. However, when it comes to the role of Lurch ... Ted Cassidy still reigns supreme.As a footnote ... I love that Thing was turned into the Bionic Hand ... that really made my night! Well, if you're looking for a few giggles, with nothing taxing your brain ... The Addams Family movie hits the spot! BUT ... I still wish Cher had played the part of Morticia! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams FamilyThe paradox of being in a family is that you can give other family members advice, but since you're family they won't listen to it.That happens to be the case in this comedy about an estranged uncle's homecoming.Decades after his brother Fester (Christopher Lloyd) departed over a disagreement, Gomez (Raúl Juliá) is overjoyed to have his brother back in his, his wife Morticia's (Anjelica Huston) and their children's, Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) and Wednesday's (Christina Ricci), lives.While a dead ringer of the long-lost brother-in-law, Fester is in fact part of a plan orchestrated by the Addams' lawyer (Dan Hedaya) to fleece the well-heeled weirdos of their riches.Based on the television series inspired by the comic strip, The Addams Family is aptly adapted in terms of kooky characters, ooky milieu and spooky humour.However, living with any uncle means having your address on the National Sex Offender Registry. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite grasp the right tone","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I get that making a two-hour episode of a great but still somewhat flawed 60s sitcom doesn't exactly fill a lot of seats, but this movie adaptation seems to go too far the other way. Even though it's clear from the start that you aren't supposed to take it seriously, it doesn't really play out like a comedy either. It looks more like a Gothic Tim Burton movie, which makes sense because he was in talks to direct the thing. Of course there's nothing wrong with a bit of (faux-)Burton magic in a movie, but it all seems pretty different from the original TV show. There's humour as well of course, but it's all pretty repetitive and mediocre. There one saving grace to the movie though the actors, who really do a splendid job of reviving all these characters. Obviously you can't do much wrong if you get Christopher Lloyd, but still, great casting job. They all give it their own little twist, without being unrecognizable. Overall though I was pretty disappointed with the movie, doesn't hold up to the series for me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful dark and clever rendition of the old comic strip.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This wonderful adaptation of the comic strip takes us out of the venue of camp and into that of darkly clever wit which soars above the TV series! This wonderful attempt takes us out of the venue of camp and into that of startlingly clever wit. Excellent job, Sonnenfeld!Raul Julia is the personification Gomez Addams. I'm writing this after his death, and unfortunately, for me, there will never BE another Gomez Addams. Julia contributed a lust for life, a dark and twisted animalistic (and, indeed, cultured Barbaristic) sexuality, and the Gothic overtones attempted in the comic strip, but which were miserably overlooked in the awful campy TV series. He was brilliant as Gomez, and in my opinion, when he died, so did the franchise. (Though Jimmy Smits would make a passable Gomez, now that he's older and more mature.)Also, Anjelica Huston is the perfect Morticia. Actually, this whole cast is about the most perfectly chosen cast for any movie franchise I've ever seen. Christina Ricci perfectly personifies Wednesday Addams, Christopher Lloyd is the absolute epitome of Fester, Jimmy Workman was the perfect shadow of Pugsley, and so on.The direction was dark and Gothic, just as it should be. The sets and designs were breathtakingly stark, wonderfully Gothic, and beautifully designed. The wardrobe of each character was lovingly created with a great care devoted to each piece, and the story was beautifully written; crafted with a real pride in the work.The end result is far greater than the sum of its wonderful parts.This movie is sheer perfection. There is not a moment of wasted film, not one performance which was out of step, not one scene which should have been deleted.It rates a 9.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Handsome Goth production, often meager returns...","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" From the Charles Addams comic-strip about ghoulish yet fun-loving family, here taking in a long lost relative who is in reality a gold-digging impostor. Well-cast and acted, smartly paced and designed comedy is an improvement on the material over the popular television series of the mid-1960s. Still, this screenplay is full of repetitive jokes and groaners; the picture looks better than it plays, with an incredible art direction, costumes and make-up. One is likely to watch and enjoy it, yet wishing it were funnier, crazier. The gags don't spin off into orbit, and eventually the whole thing evaporates from memory. Followed by a sequel, Addams Family Values, in 1993. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Void of substance","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family (1991) has a well put together stylish look to it, but the script, the dialogue, and the storyline are all void of any substance whatsoever. The cast does a pretty good job and look their roles, but the script they were given to work with just doesn't measure up. Their really isn't much of a storyline, so it might be hard for some to really care that much about this TV show adaptation. The costume design was pretty well put together, and the affection and chemistry between Gomez and Morticia worked well. That was one thing I did enjoy, the on screen chemistry between all the characters really meshed well. But like I said, the plot is just boring and bland and the film gets to where it is hard to pay attention to what's going on because the plot is just so lacking. So overall, a 3/10 for The Addams Family, I will say though that the sequel is much better! "},{"Title":"Brash, noisy nonsense","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching THE ADDAMS FAMILY as a kid and not being overly impressed with it even then I preferred the more subtle ghoulish humour of the original '60s TV series. Watching the film again as an adult, I can see that time has not been kind to this outing, with the endless dated early '90s effects work and quickly tiring madcap pace.It's as if the writers have taken the family members from the original show and plonked them into the middle of a quick-fire comedy. Everything is noisy, brash and over-the-top, and the likes of Raul Julia are frankly quite embarrassing with their endless scenery chewing which grates on the viewer before long. Only Christopher Lloyd and Christina Ricci prove a real fit for their parts, and funnily enough they get all the best gags and one-liners.Although the overly complicated script has to take its share of responsibility, I think Barry Sonnenfeld's tiresome direction is to blame; remember that this guy is the king of FX-heavy comedies (he later made MEN IN BLACK). Had things been dialled down and delivered in a more mannered and focused way I probably would have enjoyed this a great deal more. "},{"Title":"Creepy characters you can't help but love in spite of their dark side.","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Certainly there are going to be those who take this comic variation on Tales From the Darkside as something that was influenced by the devil with its irreverent take on family structure and focus on characters who obviously seem to take great pleasure in following some seemingly morbid characteristics. Yes, they are indeed absolutely ookie, with gorgeous mom Morticia (that's Anjelica Huston, not Cher...), extremely sexy dad Gomez (a very dreamy Raul Julia), the witch-like Grandma (Judith Malina), portly Pugsly (Jimmy Workman) and the very dour Wednesday (a delightful Christina Ricci) not the Brady Bunch, not the Cunninghams, not the Cleavers, and very far even from the Munsters. Gomez has been mourning the disappearance of his brother Fester (which means to rot) for years, and every year like clockwork on the anniversary of his disappearance, they do a séance to try and find out where he is. Thanks to some con-artist clients of the family attorney (Dan Heydara), Fester does show up during the séance, actually the son of a hard-hearted con-artist (a very funny Elizabeth Wilson). She pretends to be his psychiatrist, having discovered him in the midst of the Bermuda triangle. Cynical Wednesday is suspicious, and this eventually leads to the Addams being removed from their own home so Fester and mommie dearest can find out where the family fortune is being hidden.Lavishly filmed with fun special effects and gorgeously morbid art direction, the film version of the famous comic strip and 1960's T.V. series is perfectly cast. It seems that nobody could replaced Carolyn Jones as the luscious Morticia, but Ms. Huston does a phenomenal job and is obviously having a ton of fun, especially after being haggard as an evil witch just a few years earlier. Raul Julia is not as tongue-in-cheek as John Astin was, but his Gomez is certainly unforgettable with an undeniable sex appeal. Anjelica and Raul have amazing chemistry, making it clear that this morbidly old married couple are very much in love. Those who saw Raul in the original Broadway cast of Nine will agree that after playing that role, nobody else could have done this role justice.Some people are going to confuse Dana Ivey, the talented stage actress who plays Heydara's neglected wife Margaret Alford, with the legendary Maggie Smith as they do have similar facial features. Lots of old friends truly thought Ivey's character in The Color Purple was Maggie Smith until I pointed out her name in the credits. What happens to her character here is truly bizarre, but in a magnificently funny way. Carel Struycken is an amusing Lurch, but unfortunately never gets to say Ted Cassidy's famous line, You Rang?, only being silent with the exception of a few grunts when things don't seem right to him. Take the satanic references with a grain of salt or you might find yourself as crazy and ookie as the bizarre characters (both dead and alive) here. The film also features a magnificent party sequence which utilizes a classic movie tradition of switching from two characters dancing alone to the switch to the party in full swing. When Julia and Lloyd break into The Mamushka, the film becomes absolutely delightful. There's really nothing offensive in the things the Addams family does. It's just all silly fun, and if you watch it with that in mind, you won't need to cleanse yourself afterwords with a hot shower. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but boring.  Humorous but not funny.","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" TV show was so much more *funny* than this, with slapstick jokes and sound effects. This movie loses the plot and tries to create a world different from the one which was created as an idea for a single panel comic and in a different time where the novelty has worn off.The comic and the TV show were both products of a day when people were learning to break out of the conformity of the 50's and early 60's. Goth hadn't become an industry yet which stores in the mall catered to.The TV show was *funny*. It wasn't subtle. You didn't have to listen closely to the TV show to get it.For example, there was a weekly sequence seeing regular people left running out of the house frightened for their lives, often using under cranked film (fast motion). (not unlike the stock joke of the Casper cartoons) In this movie, however, the house guests are about as weird as the Addams. There was no contrast.On TV, Jackie Coogan's Fester provided pure over the top belly laughs with a vaudeville like cadence. With his light bulb and self-destructive, one-man-three-stooges tricks (his regular headache cure gag), adding the sound effects made us all laugh out loud on a weekly basis.And let's not forget the fact that the original TV show actors defined those roles, esp Carolyn Jones and the guy (pardon me) who played Lurch. In this, however, Lurch dropped into the background. Thing had a much bigger role (thanks to CGI, we completely lost the box which was kind of the joke). To be sure, Angelica Houston was very good, but I thought they played up the sex/romance a half-note too much for what was really a kids show.Lastly, as a point of art, the TV show was in black and white, which was fitting for the macabre theme. This movie, however, was a lush production and the attention to detail was fantastic.But furniture doesn't make me *laugh*. (although I remember the laugh track on the TV show tried to make us laugh at it) Often, movie adaptations of TV shows will take some lingering question from the TV show and actually address it. Like, where did Gomez and Morticia meet? What exactly is Thing? (who is way overdone in the movie, thanks to CGI) So many missed opportunities.Instead, they create an story about Fester which was never part of the TV show, introducing a main character (the lawyer) which wasn't part of the original show, and again, focus on a very well done set design (yawn) to weave a story (the vault) which only takes you farther away from the characters you fell in love with or any real jokes.Perhaps it's because we have so many more choices today that humorous doesn't cut it any more.Interesting and pretty but outside of the pre-title sequence gag, simply not funny. "}{"Title":"When movies were still good","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It seems like the film industry today is using the teenage goth subculture to make fast cash, producing bad films such as Hotel Transylvania (2012), Frankenweenie remake (2012) etc. but I still prefer movies like The Addams Family, where rather than trying to make a quick buck they think more about the quality of the movie. The acting is amazing, the movie is creepy yet comedic at the same time, the soundtrack is excellent and overall this is a very enjoyable film to watch.The Addams Family is a clan of bizarre, Gothic people, from circus freaks to punks to murderers to crazy people, and the film revolves around Gomez Addams and his strange family. They live in a mansion next to a toxic waste dump on a hill secluded from the conforming suburbs of the city. Gomez has his beloved wife Morticia, his trustworthy butler Lurch, his two children Wednesday and Pugsley, Granny (Morticia's mom), and their pet human hand, Thing. Although they are extremely creepy they are kind to everyone and avoid harming people for the most part, and are happy to live together in their home.When a long-lost relative, believed to be dead, shows up at the door, Gomez is thrilled. He'd been searching for his brother Fester, a fat bald man in a trench coat, for years, while everyone assume Fester was dead. What Gomez fails to realize is that Fester is actually Gordon, a man living with his loan shark mom and they've set up a scheme, along with the Addams' sleazy lawyer Tully, to take away everything from the Addams Family.I loved The Addams Family as a kid, and I still watch it every year. I highly recommend it, along with its 1993 sequel and the television show. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Hilarious adaptation of Charles Addams' New Yorker cartoons that plays out more like the plot of a television episode (perhaps intentional as an homage to the 1960s show?) than a feature film, with Gomez (Juliá) and his family being reunited with his estranged brother (Lloyd), except the man who they believe is Uncle Fester is really an impostor out to steal the family's riches that is hidden in a vault. Goth and humor meshes together well in this outing, never leading to punch-lines that you can easily poke holes in (unlike the sequel); but you never fully feel like you're watching the Addams Family until you find out what really happened to Fester.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Eccentric hard not to like film","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" All though the Addams family are extremely weird you end up liking them. The performance is good and very believable and the effects are good for it's time especially with 'thing' the hand. The film takes you for a ride on a side of life I don't think many people have been on. It's funny how strange it all is and how you begin to like this family abit even when in some ways they come across so evil. In one scene Wednesday is trying to kill her brother in the electric chair, her mother disturbs this by accident and then let's it happen and they both find this amusing all though I know this shows how strange the family is I didn't think it was a necessary scene it almost made me dislike Wednesday for being so sinister. All thought I did enjoy the film I didn't understand the ending, was he Uncle Fester all along? I felt it wasn't explained enough. "},{"Title":"Why is this movie so much better than it should have been?","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It is a rare rapture for me, watching Raul Julia in the Addams Family. The Addams Family 1990's movies are so special for so many reasons Christopher Lloyd, Anjelica Houston; Cristina Ricci; Carel Struycken (Lurch); Thing, Cousin It, the score, the set design; the puns - but I have to say the reason I am in love with these movies and watch them over and over again is Raul Julia as Gomez Addams. He is simply priceless. Never have I seen a man of his talent buy into a performance so ridiculous, over the top, morose and just plane weird with such vigor, passion, intelligence, creativity, nuance, joy and humor. He makes the inaccessible not only accessible, but irrepressibly attractive. I will always yearn for more, and miss him even though I never I knew him. He truly was a tour de force. "},{"Title":"Superb cast can't paper over cracks","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Raul Julia is perfectly cast as Gomez Addams (it's a shame this and it's sequel were some of his last roles before his death) As is Angelica Houston as Morticia. Christopher Lloyd is an absolute hoot as Uncle Festa.Jimmy Wokman as Pugsley (in his first role) is a amusing and following on from her role in 'Mermaids' a young Christina Ricci is superb as Wednesday Adams, showing her future potential. And finally Dan Hedaya is is watchable as he always is. Despite perfect casting and some cool special effects, The Addams Family is a massive disappointment. It is mildly entertaining, but just seems like a wasted opportunity!! With the exception if the school play, there were not many laugh out loud moments.Given that this was one of the biggest hits of 1991, off a Budget of $38 million dollars, it's Box Office returns where a whopping $191,502,246 so I expected more. If it was not for the cast being so good, I would not has made it all the way through "},{"Title":"Black Magic","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Comedy rarely comes blacker than this nor as magical. We open with a great sight gag which is lifted directly from one of Addams' New Yorker cartoons. As carollers sing their hearts out at the front door of the celebrated Addams house we slowly pan up to the roof where, en masse, the family tilt a large cauldron of boiling oil toward the carollers. We cut away before the oil actually leaves the cauldron because the story is not about this, it merely serves to establish the kind of family we're dealing with and, in the case of Addams veterans/devotees, to provide a bonus via animating one of the classic cartoons. There's a plot of sorts but it's not allowed to get in the way of the blend of sight gags and one liners that are deftly placed and explode like cherry bombs throughout the running time. The acting is uniformly good to excellent and it will, I am sure, sustain a second viewing. "},{"Title":"The Addams Groove....","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For 25 years uncle Fester has been missing. An evil doctor finds out and introduces a fake Fester in an attempt to get the Addams Family's money. Daughter Wednesday has some doubts as to the sincerity of the her uncle Fester. The fake uncle adapts very well to the family, but can the doctor carry out her evil plans and take over the Addams Family's fortune......It's a remake of a TV show, and just like most TV to movie adaptations, it's just a series of clumsy sketches weakly held together by a flimsy plot.Luckily then, the cast put their all into it, and make somewhat more watchable than it should be.Sonnenfeld has made a sumptuous looking film, and one thinks he must have been watching Batman and Beetlejuice on loop whilst making this, because it's very Burtonesque, which isn't a bad thing.But it's one of those movies that you will forget about no sooner than when you switch it off.Fun, but very hollow.Like a cheap Easter egg. "},{"Title":"Creepy and kooky.","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you like the classic TV show, you're going to enjoy this movie adaptation of the Addams Family, featuring Gomez, Morticia, Uncle Fester, Granny, Wednesday, Pugsley, Lurch and Cousin Itt. It has the same craziness and kookiness as the TV show, but with more serious and darker tones - in this movie, Uncle Fester has been missing for 25 years, leading to an evil doctor to introduce a fake Fester to the family in an attempt to get their money.The make-up was superb in bringing the Addams Family to life and the house was dark, eerie and mysterious, a perfect Halloween-like setting. The acting is spot-on and the overall story is amusing - a good movie for some laughs and a light scare.Grade B "},{"Title":"The perfect cast stuck with hit-and-miss material in this jet black comedy","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Dressed to the nines, in almost deco 1930s clothing, Raul Julia clearly relishes his role as wealthy, model train-wrecking Gomez Addams. Loving father, devoted and passionate husband, madly in love with his erotic, sensual wife, Morticia, played by Anjelica Huston, the most romantic and sensual Morticia Addams possible. There was unbelievable chemistry between these two.Christina Ricci *is* Wednesday Addams- her face pale, blank, and emotionless, as she so cheerfully tries to switch on the electric chair Pugsley is sitting in, or dump a cauldron of boiling oil on unsuspecting door knockers, in a well done reference to Charles Addams' original comic strip.Carel Struyken is another wonderfully, comically, creepy, seven-foot-tall Lurch, quite possibly the most loyal and dedicated butler on Earth.Christopher Lloyd is also a wonderfully nutty Uncle Fester (or is he an impostor?) But the material is sometimes forced in the original television series, the Addams' just did whatever normal (to them) macabre things they felt like, but here, the screenwriters seemed to go out of their way, on occasion, to make the family seem macabre and outlandish. The cast of the original television series were all very good, but this cast is even better, brilliant, and that alone makes this film worthwhile, allowing me to overlook some occasional lulls in the screenplay. "},{"Title":"Almost on par with the original show","Date":"28 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...I'm not even kidding when I say that. Now granted the original show definitely had the best props as well as some very fun yet fresh situations even if it all boiled down to one joke. This movie is almost exactly the same as it's sequel, except this time they let the plot take a back seat and just focus on the antics of the family (thank god!).So if you don't know the sequel's plot it's that a close relative figure of Fester's wants the Addams' family fortune and stops at almost nothing to get it. Instead of someone marrying Fester, here an impostor who is put up to it by his mother takes the family fortune.As I said I do have a few complaints, One of them is that an antagonist like Fester's mother doesn't gel well with the tone of the family themselves. I wouldn't have minded if the risk was the family becoming normal or something like that where the family goes out of their comfort zone and risks something like that. That would be the perfect homage to the original show.If there is anything else it would have to be the ending. Fester/Gordon gels more with The Addams family than he does his own (which is understandable considering the scenes he shares with both) and he protects their family fortune, again it's understandable. Then he unleashes a supernatural book that isn't really explained (although this is picked up from The family's library, I'll believe anything you throw at me) and unleashes a hurricane that strikes Fester with lightning. Then we find out that he really was Fester only he had amnesia.Aside from that everything is almost up to standard with the original show. Raul Julia is an awesome Gomez, Christina Ricci does good as Wednesday too and Christopher Lloyd does good as Fester too. Everyone does a good job trying to recreate the spirit and tone of the original show. If you can get past plot points not really adding up particularly well and antagonists that don't really gel well, then check it out. The end result is worth it for any Addams family fans. "}{"Title":"I'm a homicidal maniac, they look just like everyone else.","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family TV show is actually one of my favourite TV shows and of course, when I heard about this I decided to take a look because unlike some people, I am open to remakes and reimagining's unless they're done right. This one, I'd say is done okay.First off, the plot is weak. I saw The Addams Family movies in the order of Addams Family Reunion (I'll save you the trouble, its crap) and then Addams Family Values (which I thought was pretty funny) and it seems that the ones with Raul Julia as Gomez and Anjelica Houston as Morticia have the same kind of plot, Uncle Fester is forced by his fake mother to steal the Addams family fortune. In this one the villain is a mother figure, in the sequel its a girlfriend. The problem is that in the show Gomez would throw money at just about anything, even a doctor who treated Uncle Fester after he came out of the Bermuda Triangle and found in a fishnet (thats the story the mother uses to be around the house, and Fester, to blend in).Okay, I've explained my problems with the plot which is actually (unlike the sequel) the one and only focus. What about it is salvageable? This film is dumb fun. Many of the jokes are in character and its all round an entertaining film. The costumes are incredibly well designed (almost matching the show's to a tee) and the sets are amazingly well done.The casting is actually some of the best I've seen for a remake. The best one is surprisingly Raul Julia. In this he does kind of overplay his part but that just makes him all the more charismatic and enjoyable as Gomez Addams. Others I like are Christina Ricci as Wednesday (although, take my word for it, her time to shine was the sequel), Christopher Lloyd as Fester, Jimmy Workman as Pugsley and in this film, I actually felt myself warm up more for Anjelica Houston as Morticia. I love Carolyn Jones in the part but Anjelica Houston does stand firmly enough as Morticia.In terms of what I thought could be improved, the plot for one thing. The normal people in the show DID go into that house for more reasons than they wanted money out of Gomez's pocket. I also would've loved to have seen more of them interacting with normal people. In this film I can only count one scene where they were with people who WEREN'T THE VILLAIN'S and thats Wednesday and Pugsley's play (some of the funniest stuff in the movie).Overall I'd say this film is okay. Its not absolutely fantastic but even on its own merits, this film is well put together. Do I recommend it? Yes however don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Sonnenfeld understood the Addams, not the Audience ...","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the end of the film, in Halloween, when the Addams go excitedly to the cemetery to play Wake the Dead, the newcomer in the family Margaret (Dana Ivey) innocently asks the Granny (Judith Malina)  I've never played that, how does it go? to which the old coot retorts with a demonic smile Did you bring the shovel?.This brief exchange will help me to illustrate the two problems of The Addams Family. First of all, the movie needed more bits of dark and hilarious dialogs like that one, not only it is hilarious but it subtly sets the eternal gap between the off-the-wall Addams Family and the common people, no matter how eager they are to discover their 'traditions'. That moment echoes another scene where Wednesday (Cristina Ricci) asked a Scout girl if the biscuits were made of real children that kind of humor was severely lacking in The Addams Family and the more I think about it, the more I realize it was the only one the film could provide besides the obligatory children-oriented slapstick.The second problem is that they still felt the need to ruin to that shovel quote by actually showing them 'waking up the dead' and that kind of on-the-nose humor is a blatant example of the way they ruined the very effect the film could have as a comedy. I really didn't need to see what the game consisted on, I needed to laugh and the did you bring the shovel was enough a punch-line. So why did they had to show everyone having fun in the cemetery since it is the audience that is supposed to have fun? Barry Sonnenfeld's adaptation of the iconic cartoon made me realize one thing he certainly understood the Addams Family and whatever they 'stood for(', but he did not understand the audience.But let's give Sonnenfeld the credit he deserves, his film is marvelously looking, it carries that scary Gothic look where I suspect many trainees made their bones before working later on the Harry Potter' franchise. The photography, the costume design and naturally, the casting contribute to set the basis of a great cartoon adaptation. Raul Julia makes a perfectly suave and seductive Gomez Adams, and Anjelica Huston has never been so frighteningly sensual, and more than that, both had that unique chemistry going, if I ever think of a dad and mom who love each other to death, well, I guess Gomez and Morticia come to my mind first.Cristina Ricci is more than convincing as Wednesday, whose main occupation consists on tormenting her cooperative brother Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) with many instruments, from a knife to an electric chair. And when she passes by Morticia, carrying a big knife for her brother, Morticia takes it from her, to give her a larger one, how motherly of her! The moment is funny but not as the biscuits and shovel quotes, for the simple reason that they occur within the family, it is supposed to be normal, and as soon as we get used the family's weirdness, we stop looking at their eccentricity with surprised eyes. There has to be an outsider.The outsider issue could have served the plot, either someone normal goes to the Addams Family, or the Addams Family goes to the normal world. The first idea is abandoned when the intruder is a man who bears a striking resemblance with lost uncle Fester (remarkably played by Christopher Lloyd) and is used by his tyrannical mother (Elizabeth Wilson) as a decoy in order to throw the family away with the help of a corrupted lawyer (Dan Hedaya). The first acts celebrates the reunion between Fester and his brother but it is victim of the same problem, it spends so much time in that inner circle we stop looking at it as weird.The consequence is that the moments supposed to provide the biggest laughs don't work well, nothing comes much from the Addams party except for Cousin It's scene-stealing appearance and a fantastic 'Mamuchka' knife-dance. What lacks again is the presence of a straight person to convey the reaction of the normal word, it works for all comedies, the effectiveness of gags relies on their impact on a character who'd hate what happens to him. When Wednesday tortures her brother, it's not funny anymore because he enjoys it, how about she plays hide-and-seek with a 'normal' boy and we'll see what the outcome will be.The Addams Family isn't totally unfunny, the film makes you smile and is visually entertaining but there were so much room for great laughs, it's a pity the film didn't exploit these eccentricities. The third act where the family 'discovered' the real world could have originated so many great gags, starting with good old Thing working in Fedex express. That's the stuff we expect, not a long and continuous exposition leading to a superficial conflict, the only 'conflict' possible is between the 'Addams' and normality, as during a funny school play sequence with an unexpected outburst of blood splattering the audience.The film should have been like its last five minutes, from the way they get rid of the two villains by pushing them in a coffin, are they dead? asks Pugsley does it matter? replies Wednesday. There is also good old Lurch (Carel Struycken) welcoming kids playing 'tricks or treats' with a tender smile, their reaction, no matter how predictable is, would make anyone laugh. And again, have you noticed, it featured 'normal' people. As I said, either the normal world comes to Addams, or they come to it, the first comes too rarely, the second too late.The film is still a good Family comedy with cute one-liners, but it really could've been a laugh-riot. And they still had to ruin the ending by preventing us from the famous Addams score at the end, what were they thinking with that dreadfully-90's Addams groove thing?! "},{"Title":"Great macabre family","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams are an unique wealthy macabre family. Their corrupted lawyer Tully Alford (Dan Hedaya) owns money to a loan shark. Together they plot to inject a fake Uncle Fester Addams (Christopher Lloyd) into the family so he could search for the family treasure of gold Doubloons.Barry Sonnenfeld has created a well made Gothic Addams world. The family is played by Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, and Christina Ricci as young Wednesday Addams. This is mostly amusing especially what Wednesday keep doing to Pugsley. All the performers are wonderful. They have all the fun creating these amazing characters. The whole setup is incredibly inventive. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun!","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Of course you really don't have to get the humor of the cheesy 1960's sitcoms to enjoy this movie. The film is much darker than the actual television series itself, but I enjoyed it. It was funny... a silly kind of funny, and that is exactly how the Addams family is.I really liked the casting of this film. Raul Julia made a very suave Gomez. Anjelica Houston was beautiful, and she came off as sweet yet wonderfully macabre, just as Morticia should be! And let's not forget Christopher Lloyd's Uncle Fester. You could really tell he had fun portraying him. Christina Ricci as Wednesday was also enjoyable. I find most child actors annoying, but she was quiet and kept character very well. The plot was interesting but a bit predictable. The music was good, nothing special, but it fit the movie quiet well. If you're a fan of dark humor you would enjoy this film. I love to watch it around Halloween. And even if it is a bit cheesy, (yes I'll admit) I found it enjoyable, entertaining and overall fun. "},{"Title":"Harmless Family Entertainment,","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family is a decent movie with an enjoyable story and a cast that match their characters well.Its definitely a very childish film that children will enjoy much more than the parents will,but there are still plenty of jokes that will make an older audience laugh.My favourite part of the movie is without a doubt Christopher Llyod's performance,I really like him as an actor in family films as he is usually the funniest character in the movie (Back to the Future being a perfect example) and he is without a doubt the character that made me laugh the most.My biggest problems with this movie is that they didn't use some of the other Addams Family characters (Lurch,Thing,Cousin It,etc) as much as they should have,and the final act of the movie is definitely the weakest as the humor gets way too childish and a lot less that will entertain adults.The Addams Family isn't the perfect family film,but it is enjoyable and I would definitely recommend it to a younger audience.Mortica (Angelica Huston) and Gomez (Raul Julia) Addams welcome long lost Uncle Fester to live in their home after as he returns from the Bermuda Triangle,but he isn't all he seems. "},{"Title":"thoroughly entertaining","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- The Addams Family, 1991. When long-lost Uncle Fester reappears after 25 years lost in the Bermuda Triangle, Gomez and Morticia plan a celebration. But the two kids suspect wrongdoing for his uncharacteristically 'normal' behavior. Could this be a fake family member trying to steal the family gold? It could happen.*Special Stars- Raul Julia, Anjelica Huston, Christopher Lloyd, Joan Cusack, Carole Kane, Christina Ricci.*Theme- United families are the best hedge against the cruel world.*Trivia/location/goofs- Most of the set wooden materials were of expensive oak, mahogany, and other rich and rare woods. Many parts of this film's sets were stored and reused for the film's sequel 'Addams Family Values' due to the box office success.*Emotion- A thoroughly entertaining and loyal to the comic strip film that put the lead characters in some funny situations. The richness of the sets, costumes, and acting makes this film one for the video library.*Based On- Charles Addams comic strip. "},{"Title":"It's very funny horror movie!","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a horror and comedy movie. The Addams Family step out of Charles Addams' cartoons. This family is all ghosts. They live with all of the trappings of frightening and are very wealthy. A main person, Gomez has been tormented by guilt to Fester who is Gomez's brother. Fester has been missing for 25 years. Then, an evil doctor finds out and introduces a fake Fester in an attempt to get the Addams Family's money. The fake Fester open his mind to the strange family. Can the doctor succeed his evil plan and take over Addams Family's fortune?I have loved this film since I was a child. Though this is a horror, you can watch it while you have a fun, because it's included comedy tastes. So, if you hate horror movies, you can watch this film. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams family values is a pretty fun and funny movie. The people in it are perfectly casted. Anjelica Huston and Raoul Julia star as Morticia and Gomez Addams, the freaky couple based on the original show that only lasted for two years.The film revolves around a couple who is scheming The Addams family. Their plan is to use a double of their uncle Fester(Played by Christopher Lloyd)who apparently disappeared in The Burmuda Triangle. They are using the double so then he can break into the house and steal the family's fortune.The Addams family isn't a great movie definitely. But I think that it is entertaining and neat to look at. I give the movie a thumbs up because it is a funny movie. It isn't director Barry Sonnenfeld's best film, but it is better than Wild, wild, west. That movie was dumb, this movie is not. The Addams family***/**** "},{"Title":"Childhood memories.","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this when it came out in theaters back in 1991. I had a really good time with it mainly because of the extremely good acting and the dark but at the same time, colorful art direction and cinematography.To be honest, when I watched it, it was because I was very young and didn't notice the overall witty humor and great technical values.Nowadays, as a grown up and objective reviewer, I can say that the movie is smartly character driven and is supported by great technical values and aspects like funny situations, groovy clothing, the classical situations we all love, and best of all, a fun factor that ranks very high.Raul Julia owned the movie every time he was on scree and I remember being in love/lust with Christina Ricci with her pony tails, mini dress and everything. Oh, I love women and this girl was just pretty.This is a movie that children should watch immediately after the original sitcom. "},{"Title":"One of the more successful TV to film adaptations","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family was one of the more subversive sitcoms on TV screens back in the 1960s. Along with The Munsters, which came out at almost the exact same time, it offered up a cheerfully morbid account of a spooky, bizarre family living in the heart of suburban normalcy. Although it only lasted two seasons, The Addams Family has gone on to become an iconic sitcom, with no signs of it ever losing its popularity.In 1990, Paramount put up the funds for a Hollywood feature film of The Addams Family. Something that had never really been attempted before. Where all of the old familiar characters are played by new actors, and the series is redressed for the big screen. After the film was a big hit, many others jumped on the bandwagon, turning well-remembered TV shows into features. But many of them have wound up dismal failures. Perhaps because what works on the small screen doesn't always work so well when stretched to fill out a big one.Also, when The Addams Family was made, the whole idea of seeing a time-honoured show as a film was a fresh idea and not the tired cliché it seems today. And happily The Addams Family is one of the few that succeeds. Largely through Barry Sonnenfeld's confident direction and a perfectly chosen cast. When it comes to actresses playing Morticia, there are few suited to the role like Anjelica Huston. Covered in a striking white makeup job, shocking red lips and black spider dress, she couldn't be more perfect. She carries herself through the film with a real regal authority, and although she looks like a walking corpse, she's just as sensual as Carolyn Jones ever was.The late Raul Julia makes Gomez into more of a swashbuckler then John Astin did, but he's also an excellent choice. He throws himself into the role with perfect reckless abandon. He also has great chemistry with Huston, making their morbid love for one another that all the more fun to watch. Christopher Lloyd makes it a hat-trick as Uncle Fester. Virtually buried beneath a fat suit and tons of makeup, he's an astonishing dead ringer for Jackie Coogan. He's even got a similar high voice. Charles Addams would have been proud. The success of the film lies as much in the hands of the casting department as it does in the hands of Barry Sonnenfeld.The Addams Family was Barry Sonnenfeld's debut as director after working as a cinematographer for several years. Usually on Coen films. And working for the Coen Brothers has clearly rubbed off on Sonnenfeld. He seems most at home in the world of black comedy. Something Coen films are renowned for. Which is what makes him such a perfect choice to direct an Addams Family picture. He captures the blackly comical life of the Addams Family perfectly. He never takes the story too far over the top (not until Wild Wild West anyway), and he keeps things ticking along at a sprightly pace.As his later films would prove, Barry Sonnenfeld is only as good as the script he's been given. And scriptwriters Caroline Thompson and Larry Wilson do a good job of providing him with one. Some of the gags are a bit obvious (I'll sell you a box of Girl Scout Cookies. Are they made from real Girl Scouts?), but where the film shines is watching the Addams Family reacting to the strange with perfect acceptance. They cut the heads off roses. Come after one another with butcher knives. Even the rack is pleasant to them.But even funnier is the second half where after the Addams' have been ousted from their home, we watch them trying to fit in to normal society. Living in a trailer park. Morticia making the witch in Hansel & Gretel into a tragic figure when reading the story to a class of kindergärtners. Thing working as a courier. I especially liked Gomez calling into Sally Jessy Raphael, the topic of the show being witch doctors, and he hoping she can put him in touch with some.The only real fault with the film is that the plotting is strictly average. Fester may actually be an imposter after the Addams Family fortune. That's a type of plot line that belongs more in a sitcom, and it doesn't make for the most interesting film plot. But the film is still enormously entertaining. The fun everyone is having is very infectious. The ghoulish set designs are great. And so is the music too. Good fun all around. Especially from the enormously talented Christina Ricci, who makes a splendidly sinister Wednesday, and far outshines the entire cast. Her icy stare alone is enough of a reason to see this film! "}{"Title":"Pretty fair quality movie","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Creepy, cooky eary and spooky... This is the description fits the movie quite well.The Addams Family movie centers on Fester returning from being lost after a fight with his brother Gomez and his re-adapting to the household. Many dangerous times ensue as he is really an impostor trying to take hold of the addams bank account...Well plot wise this movie is not very original but it is the characters and background that truly makes a movie and the Addams Family is a very strange but interesting background to give to a regular overused plot.The family is perhaps more twisted in the movie version than in the TV version. Wednesday especially has become a very much darker character. They still play the movie that even though this family has very twisted and evil values they still come across as the good guys and have their very own charm.All of the parts are acted out very well, especially the part of Gomez who is played with a flamboyance that even the TV show couldn't touch. You have to give them credit where credit is due in that regard.Despite all the twisted nature of the movie the film is still not one of the greats but is a very fun film to watch. If you haven't gotten to see this movie before then It would be good to try and enjoy. "},{"Title":"dark and creative fantasy","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Gordon Craven (Lloyd) pretends to be the long lost brother of Gomez Addams (Julia) in hope of gaining access to the family's money.This 1991 comedy from Barry Sonnenfeld (Get Shorty) is one of those rare gems that will never be praised enough.The Addams Family brings a dark and dismal tale to a vibrant colourful light with its superb choices of characters and settings, not to mention a great use of slapstick comedy.The narrative revolves around a man who has obeyed his mother and gone into the home of the craziest people in the village. The imposition and slight conventional ideology may have you raising an eyebrow as the scheme starts to take place but bear with it as the crazy ideologies and dark imagery will take over and create an ultimate enjoyable fantasy with sensational acting and characters.Raul Julia gives an unusual performance as Gomez Addams, a crazed and vibrant man with a sharp confidence and dominance. When we see him teeing off on top of his roof we know this character is something very different and the writing is so sharp and exquisite that Gomez has become an icon in the comedy horror genre. Every performance in this film is especially sweet but Julia steals the show with an utterly astounding act.Huston (Prizzi's honour) creates another memorable protagonist in Morticia, Gomez's wife. Her delicate and light heartedness somehow fit in the dark and gruesome tale and her on screen moments with Gomez are those of a dark fairytale. Not discounting Lloyd (One flew over the cuckoo's nest) who is always impressive in whatever film he stars in takes himself to an even higher level with his role as Gordon.All characters truly look the part with Oscar nominated costume design. The black clothes and the white make up create a ghostly feeling, a sombre motion in a darkly lit tale, which really adds that extra belief and realism to its own vintage context.The setting of the Addam's mansion is beautifully executed by Sonnenfeld. The dark imagery and specialist field help make the Addam's crazier, such as casual sword fights, bizarre food choices and books that come to life.The use of two worlds is an extra bonus as we see many puns on day to day life. Having this style of comedy revolving around everyday life can be associated with audiences of all ages and adds another dimension to the fantasy. The slapstick comedy is also delicious, original and thankfully not repetitive.Though there is a slight convention in the plot, the dark imagination juxtaposed with the crazy characters makes the Addams Family a refreshingly interesting comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest kids movie of all time...","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family are a quirky and weird bunch who reside in their haunted house, based on the comic strip; the film comes to life and brings the Gothic darkness with it.Uncle Fester has been missing for 25 years and finally returns with 'amnesia', welcomed with open arms Fester tries to rob the Addams for his so called mother/Psychiatrist. But first he must survive with the Addams.Raul Julia is a delight to watch on screen, he was truly a great actor; a versatile actor capable of taking on any role that was given; Angelica Huston gives a great performance and is amazing to watch, she oozes seduction....Christopher Lloyd is very funny and carries the maniac role from Back to the Future and has his fun with it, Christina Ricci and Jimmy Workman give fantastic performances as the kids that scare the living daylights out of babysitters... Lurch was brilliant just standing around....Although he could have been given a little more screen time.This is one film that I always have time for, it is brilliant directed and gives me the goosebumps the moment the titles roll; the Gothic setting only adds to the attraction, the film is very funny and has a brilliant script with some great bonding between Fester and Gomez.One of the greatest kids movie of all time.... "},{"Title":"Where's Uncle Fester?","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For twenty-five years, Gomez has waited for his long lost brother Fester to return and twenty-five years later, there he is! But the mystery of whole movie is if he is an impostor! I liked the dancing in the movie and I also loved the passion between Gomez and Morticia. The acting was great and this dark comedy brings on a lot of funny jokes.My favorite part was the scene at the lemonade stand. The look that Pugsley gave Wednesday was hilarious. Another hilarious scene was when the golf ball lands in the cereal and the Judge's face gets drenched with milk. I was laughing so hard that my side ached.The path to vault was awesome because of all of the twists and turns in it. So if you can find your way through the path, enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Mamushka!","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater and don't remember liking it much, but I just watched it again today and I have to say it was very enjoyable. Raule Julia as Gomez was incredible (gone too soon!!!!) and Anjelica Houston was amazing as Morticia. Total deadpan. When she read Hansel and Gretyl to the children and the witch was the hero and she said when the witch went into the oven she was writhing in pain. So funny! Christina Ricci as the Gothic Wednesday. She nailed that character. It was just a really fun movie all together.My only gripe was uncle fester. I remember fester as goofy, of course bald and creepy looking, but with that high pitched voice, very sarcastic, almost Paul Linde like on Hollywood squares. Lloyds uncle fester had the very gruff voice and terribly insecure. I realize that lent itself to the plot, but I just didn't like this character much.Other than that; very fun story. Very well done. "},{"Title":"Superior film adaptation of a classic TV show with excellent performances","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" THE ADDAMS FAMILY, in my opinion, is a superior film adaptation of a classic TV show with excellent performances. Also, even though everyone gave a superior performance, I liked Wednesday's (Christina Ricci) the best. If you ask me, Gomez (Raul Julia) and Morticia (Anjelica Huston) were absolutely kooky parents. I thought that the Girl Scout (Mercedes McNab) was an absolute b****. In conclusion, I highly recommend this superior film adaptation of a classic TV show with excellent performances to any fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Excellent attempt.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" All star cast and unbelievable remake of the original TV series, Addams Family is an excellent dark comedy movie. While there's not too much for plot, the real beauty of the Addams Family is, of course, the Addamses themselves and how they view the world and vice versa. Their backyard is their driving range, whether the neighbors hate it or not. They view school plays not with the plastered smiles we have but with the real despair we feel. And the family lives for chaos. The world is not complete without them.The Addamses' lawyer is deep in debt and when one shark comes to collect, she finds bigger fish to fry in his spooky clients.The TV series is honored in one of its more beautiful ballroom scenes, where those in the past get an updated, hip, 90s treatment. Who knew Raul Julia would throw himself so completely in his role? While most of the movie tries to carry around what thinks is a plot, characters like Thing and Lurch keep the audience in it. The opening and closing ten minutes are in my view the best part, but please enjoy the whole movie and if you like it, may I recommend the sequel as well? "},{"Title":"Family Campiness - Just like the series!","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Of course there's an audience, Fool!This is ALWAYS fun to bring out at Halloween time. The kids adore it and grown-ups remember the series they grew up with. Just like the series, there's not a thing in this movie that is actually scary. And, just like the series, there's just a ton of quirky, off-handed humor.The late great Raul Julia and Angelica Houston were perfectly cast as Gomez and Morticia Addams. Christopher Lloyd makes a pretty fine Uncle Fester as well. Camp. Pure camp. Ya gotta love it!My family also enjoys the sequel, Addams Family Values. Same core cast and even more quirky humor. "},{"Title":"thoroughly enjoyable...","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family(1991) Starring Anjelica Houston, Christina Ricci, Christopher Lloyd and Raul Julia. In this dark adaptation of the TV series, a man(Lloyd) who pretends to be their long lost Uncle Fester in order to try to retrieve money that The Addams Family has.I rented this because I read the reviews on this site, and most were positive. I can see why. This is very enjoyable. It's very funny, the make-up and costumes, good gags, great acting, everything was wonderful!***1/2 outta ****PG-13 contains mild language and some crude innuendo. Should have been PG... "},{"Title":"mysterious and spooky!","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  bringing the t.v. show back in the movies was a great decision. i enjoyed watching this movie, seeing that i enjoyed the original series when i see the reruns on hallmark. raul julia is the perfect addam cast, he really appears to be the original guy back in the younger days. angelica huston is also the perfect opposite casting role, as morticia, since with the black wig, really had the perfect idea of the creepy woman as well. i might as well have started by saying that the whole cast was awesome. i couldnt really picture anyone else doing those roles, but the judge was really weird and didnt really fit around the storyline at all. but everything else was ok,(**SPOILER**) and the idea of tully's wife and cousin itt getting together was funny and sweet. behind all that hair, he could be a really nice person. so get cooky, mysterious and spooky, and be altogether ooky with the addams family! *SNAP SNAP**  (A A-) "}{"Title":"General Comments, I know awful title","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I must have seen this film plenty of times, and it never bores me. Also for extra creepiness the tracking has gone on my copy(video)so the music is slightly out of tune, but disturbingly this appears to enhance it. I was unaware of the inspiration for creating the TV show then later the film, but that hasn't detracted from my enjoyment.Since I wrote this in 2003 the tracking on my copy has fixed itself and there is no squeaking. In a way I kind of miss it as the music doesn't sound the same without it in the beginning. This I think is the most prominent feature of it and sets mood and tone for the Addams' point of view and for everyone else.Raul Julia, Angelica Huston, Christina Ricci and Christopher Lloyd are excellent and Cousin It is just fabulous (wonder what shampoo he uses?) If you want something a little weird with some very black comedy one evening then if you haven't already I suggest you give it a whirl.Sleep tight "},{"Title":"Surreal gothic...","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie. It's fun, cool, and if you're under ten, its almost scary. The incomparable talent of Raul Julia penetrates the screen with his charm, audacity, and wit. Christina Ricci is the unusual daughter, with a sadistic fondness of torturing others. Christopher Lloyd also has that enigmatic radiance that helps compose this film into a surreal, gothic adventure. "},{"Title":"See Gordon, Ich bin psychologue.","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams family is one of the most popular parts of American pop culture, and it is a pity it is not as famous here in France. I had hardly ever heard about the Addams family when the first movie was released in France. The main reason I went and see it was the great, hotter-than-hot, incredibly talented Anjelica Huston. And I must say I was not disappointed, all the more as she was starring along the late Raul Julia and formed with him such a delightful, perfectly elegant couple which in my opinion ridicules any current young couple -Peter Parker and Mary Jane, for example, or Daredevil and Electra... The movie was a carnival of puns, riddles and gorgeously macabre situations, and it was a treat! Anyway in the first movie I was also very dazzled by the performance of Elizabeth Wilson as Abigail Craven, the family's fiercest foe. Wilson embodied a self-confident swindler whose most exciting moments came when she introduced herself as Dr. Greta Pinder-Schloss, a so-called German psychologist. From a rude, merciless, harsh hag, Wilson became a suave, scheming, mesmerizing doctor who endeavoured in not awaking suspicion. If you have not seen this movie, do, and you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Way better than the original","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The t.v. show was boring but this movie is hilarious.  I think it could have used a lil gore and some more gross images but since it's basically a kid's movie it's still funny.  The sequel was pretty good too.  Raul Julia and Christopher Lloyd are great in it. "},{"Title":"Welcome To The Addams Family!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a dark comedy for everybody. I used to enjoy it as a kid and I still do. When Gordon(Christopher Lloyd) pretends to be Gomez's(Raul Julia) missing brother Fester to get to his wealth, it might ruin the addams family fortune forever. This was such a enjoyable movie, it took me a while to get into it, but when i did, i couldn't stop watching it. It's filled with hilarious dark humor and the whole movie will put you into a halloween mood. I would give The Addams Family 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Addams Family 7/10","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family is directed by first time director Barry Sonnenfeld, who was cinematographer for movies such as When Harry Met Sally&#133; and Big. It's an impressive debut that is finely timed, with the morbid bits thrown in correctly.It's based on the characters by Charles Addams. The macabre family enjoys maiming, although most is talked about instead of acted. It includes Gomez (Raul Julia), who is a dashing and dapper man, Morticia (Anjelica Huston), Gomez's morbid wife, Wednesday (Christina Ricci), a monotoned and pale daughter, and Pugsley (Jimmy Workman), probably the least darkest and pudgiest of them all. Well, the `plot' includes Abigail Craven (Elizabeth Wilson) and Gordon (Christopher Lloyd). Their employee Tully (Dan Hedaya) is an insurance guy for the Addamses. He plans to get the Addams fortune by having Gordon act like the long-lost Uncle Fester, with Craven acting like Dr. Pinder-Schloss, the person who found Fester.Funny, well acted, and delightfully morbid, The Addams Family fires on all cylinders. It has some good special effects, and manages to please everyone who wants to be pleased by this movie. If you aren't in the perfect dark mood, it's hard to enjoy. But if you sit back, enjoy, and let this wild ride go, you'll be pleased.Before I get any further, I'd like to say that I haven't seen the T.V. series, so I can't base this on that. I did think that Julia (who passed away in 1994) acted terrifically. Huston, whom I always enjoy in movies, put on a good show and seemed to be enjoying herself doing this role that actually kind of makes her type-cast with me. Ricci and Lloyd are the standouts. Ricci is stone-faced and hilarious. When asked what game they were playing by Pugsley as she was strapping him into an electric chair, she replies, `Is there a God?' Lloyd was perfect, marking his number of great performances up one for me.As fans of the series will know, the Addams have a disemboweled hand named `Thing', who always lends a hand. Along with the sequel, the cousin Itt isn't shown as much as it should. Itt's a giant bundle of hair, who comes out with a surprising wife at the end of the movie. If you enjoy dark comedies, you'll love The Addams Family.My rating 7/10Rated PG-13 for morbid humor and mild language. "},{"Title":"sarcastic fun","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  wow. now this is amazing casting, everybody is just perfect for their role! you laugh through out the entire film, so did I anyway. Ricci is wonderful as a very very mean and sarcastic wednesday. and the lighting on Anjelica Houston! that her eyes are always soft spotlighted with square of light! it´s a wonderful film and I must have seen it 5 times but it just keeps getting better! see it! "},{"Title":"Humorous Adaption Of The Original Series","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When talking about films adapted from classic TV shows, I do not think there is a film in the world that can totally translate well to the big screen. However, The Addams Family does that well.What really helped this movie was the great cast in which everyone was suited to the character they played. Raul Julia, Anjelica Huston, Christina Ricci and Christopher Lloyd excel in their roles.The story is good as well and involves the long lost relative Uncle Fester (an ugly looking creep) coming to the Addams mansion to claim a large sum of money which he believes belongs to him. What follows is plenty of madcap action and laughs.The Addams Family are eccentric but the great thing is that despite being a weird looking bunch, they actually care about each other and stick by each other through thick and thin. We could all learn from them.If you've ever read the Addams Family comic strip and seen the 1960's TV series, you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"consistently funny","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Snappy, good-natured, ghoulishly funny comedy based on the popular television series about a macabre family who lives to revel in darkness, worship the bizarre, and glorify the dead. The focus of the story is their attempt to track down and make amends with a long lost uncle. Director Sonnenfeld creates an imaginatively dark but disarming world filled with nifty visual effects, witty and sly humor, and a terrific cast that's clearly having fun with the material. Huston is magnificent as Morticia, Lloyd and Julia are simply wonderful as estranged brothers Fester and Gomez, and their dance number is a joy to watch. *** "},{"Title":"This film was my CHILDHOOD!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I mean, good lord. This film really had something special going for it. When was the last time, if ever, that one could laugh so hysterically at a deathly-pale schoolgirl standing onstage in a pirate costume with fountains of fake blood spewing from open wounds in her body and soaking the audience as she shrieked, Sweet oblivion, open your arms! and collapsed onto the floor after a few seconds of hacking noises? THEN (and this is the clincher), as the gathered parents and friends sit in stunned silence, their clothes stained with scarlet liquid and ominous Shakespearean music drifting overhead, HER family leap to their feet and applaud, brimming with obvious pride.Wednesday, as played by Christina Ricci, was what made this movie one of my fondest childhood memories. The cast all give stupendous performances but the idea of this Gothic-type kid who dressed in black and electrocuted her brother and carted a headless baby doll around with her was what suckered in this viewer at the tender age of seven. It's only now that I even understand some of the jokes. Also, I was fascinated by her 'eye thing'. This was the name I gave to the look she could adopt that could transform her from harmless raven-haired child to twisted maniac- only using her eyes. She'd sort of widen them and they'd glitter. I spent weeks at a time trying to do the eye thing and looking like a maniac on more than one level.The set of the Addams estate was brilliant- dark and dusty, a total haunted house. One almost expected a flock of bats to swarm from a cupboard as soon as Grandmama opened it, shrouding the unperturbed crone as she reached in to grab some ghastly relic no doubt intended for the family lunch. Of course, I doubt they would have stooped to such an immature low.Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston (sp?) were positively dynamite as debonair Gomez and his sultry wife Morticia. Jimmy Workman (that was the kid who played Pugsley, RIGHT? I'm experiencing a mental block!) is rather amusing, and Christopher Lloyd (check him out in 'The Real Blonde', everyone, 'cause he's funny in that too) makes an incredible Uncle Fester. Granny and Lurch aren't bloody bad either.Brilliant! And before you say that times have changed and surely even I must have tired of the dark comedies, keep in mind that my favourite film is now 'The Virgin Suicides'... "}{"Title":"The Creepy, Kooky, Mysterious and Spooky Clan in Their First Movie!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        The Addams Family comes to the screen like you've never seen them before! We all remember this kooky clan from the 1960's TV series and cartoons. Their movie opens with Gomez grieving the loss of Uncle Fester. He isn't dead, but he disappeared 25 years ago. He and Gomez had a big fight and Fester just up and left. For 25 years they tried seance after seance to contact him and for 25 years, nothing.        The Addams Family attorney, a little weasel named Tully Alfford and his wife Margaret, who only married him because he said yes, came to see Gomez with a proposal a program honoring Fester Addams. All he needed was around a million dollars. Gomez claimed they shant discuss it until next quarter, which made Tully mad. Upon returning to his office, Tully is confronted by Abigail Craven, a woman he owes a great sum of money to and didn't yet have it. Abigail introduces her son, Gordon, who was big and menacing. Upon getting a closer look at Gordon, Tully saw he looked remarkably like Uncle Fester! Gordon was in fact Fester. Abigail had found him 25 years ago with amnesia. She took him in as her son. Tully decides pass Gordon off as Fester to get at the Addams' vast fortune hidden in a secret vault. So at the 25th seance that night, Fester came to the house. Gomez was thrilled. Wife Morticia had doubts. Next day, Fester and Gomez tour the vault! They watch home movies from when they were kids and were at Camp Custard with dynamite. Wednesday and Pugsley played a game called Is There A God?; Gomez began to have his doubts about Fester, because at breakfast Fester had claimed he slept like the dead when the real Fester couldn't sleep a wink. Gomez doubted even further when Fester didn't remember the vault combination and the secret password from their childhood. Abigail Craven disguises herself as Dr. Pinder-Schloss, the human relations doctor who had found Fester. She lays the whole thing out for Gomez and is convinced it's Fester. Gomez and Morticia throw a big party and invite the entire Addams clan. Lumpy the hunchback game, so did the Amor twins Flora and Fauna (old flames of Fester's) and Cousin Itt who fell in love with Margaret. Wednesday found out Fester was a phony and disappeared. When the family went out to find her, Tully filed a restraining order against them, due to Fester was the eldest brother and was entitled to everything. So the Addams' check in to a hotel. Gomez spent his time watching daytime TV while Wednesday and Pugsley set up a lemonade stand. A girl scout inquired as to whether or not the lemonade was made from real lemons, and when asked to buy a box of girl scout cookies, Wednesday inquired as to whether or not they were made from real girl scouts.         Morticia ventures back to the house and is captured and tortured by Tully and Abigail who constantly badgered poor Fester. Gomez to the rescue! Actually, it was Fester to the rescue when he grabbed a book from the shelf entitled Hurricane Irene and blew them all to kingdom come. Tully and Abigail flew outside and into two empty graves. It didn't matter if they were dead or not. Lightning struck Fester restoring his memory. Seven months later, Cousin Itt and Margaret came over for Halloween. Fester and Gomez made up for all time then they wall went out into the graveyard to wake the dead. It's tradition.        A pretty good movie! Anjelica Huston is Morticia. Raul Julia is Gomez. Christopher Lloyd is Uncle Fester. Christina Ricci is Wednesday, Dan Hedaya is Tully. Paul Benedict from The Jeffersons plays the judge who falls victim to Gomez's golf balls. So in conclusion, I recommend this movie! It's directed by Barry Sonnenfeld who also directed Men in Black I and II!- "},{"Title":"Thing and Cousin Itt steal the show","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Paramount takes a stab at adapting a popular comic strip and TV series into a film. In the end, they work something close to a miracle. Most of the cast is great and often hilarious in their roles but it is the hand, Thing and the big lump of hair, Cousin Itt (both of whom don't even have any lines) who provide most of the best comic moments in the film.  "},{"Title":"Hasn't aged well...","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The original ADDAMS FAMILY tv series was never this dark. It was really funny; this film goes waaaay overboard with the gruesome stuff(my God, I thought I'd NEVER say that!) Despite some brilliant one-liners andexcellent performances(Christina Ricci!)I'm going to have to give this one a severed thumb generally pointing downwards,especially because of the end credits,which features MC Hammer's Addams Groove, which is excruciating. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie as much as the second one. It's a shame that Raul died so they couldn't make anymore decent Addams Family. My favorite parts were when the kids were in the play and they had blood shooting all over the audience.  Classic. I also loved the parts with the safe, and how they had to go down a tube real fast and how the bad guys couldn't figure out which cord to pull so they kept going in the wrong tunnel. I also loved the end when they open the book like the hurricane book and out comes a hurricane making the bad guys spin around the room and out the window. And last but not least, the game they play at the very end Wake The Dead. That is to funny. "},{"Title":"All Together Spooky","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was never as big a fan of the Addams as I was for the Munsters, but i really like this picture. Raul Julia isn't as over the top as John Astin was, but the movie does have the Gothic tone the series was missing. Thing is a lot more than just a hand in a box, but Carolyn Jones made the better Morticia. Christopher Lloyd gives Fester more dimensions than Jackie Coogan ever did, but the one character that steals every scene is Christina Ricci as Wednesday Addams. Already showing the smoldering sexuality that would be her trademark, she shines with her facial expressions and one-liners. She does comedy very well; I just wish she could do another Gothic comedy if not another Addams movie.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good Update of the Classic TV Series","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Surprisingly good update of the classic TV series has our favorite weird family in a series of fun misadventures. The sets are outstanding as is the cinematography. Anjelica Huston and Raul Julia stand out as the forever morbid couple Gomez and Morticia Addams as does Christina Ricci in a scene stealing role as Wednesday Addams. Nice directorial debut by Barry Sonnenfeld. "},{"Title":"Silly and funny...","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After watching this movie again after a number of years, I now learn what I must have felt was unusual fear. I remember seeing this when I was about 8-10 years old, and for some reason the movie was creepy. But now, its fine and funny. Raul Julia is a very emphatic actor, with a rich performance and delectable wit. This is also one of the stepping stone films for the career of a young actress- Christina Ricci. She plays the slightly demonic, sadistic daughter of the family. What also amused me is that Christopher Hart (Thing) was also the hand in Idle Hands. Christopher Lloyd has always been funny as heck and gave one smackdown of a performance. A funny film with great performances and silliness. "},{"Title":"Go watch!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Heeeellouh! Go watch the movies. They are quite funny. Again, if you have watched the movies when you were young, don't bother to see them again- it would be quite disappointing. Unfortunately, Raul died and that makes me unhappy. That man was a one-of-a-kind! The only thing he wouldn't do any good in imaginable- would be poker. I'd love to visit his grave sometime. That would be enough. I also want to meet Christina Ricci- cutey! But she's 21 now. Aww crap, i mean crud. If I were able to, I would buy all three movies that is about The Addams Family... I have only watched The Family Reunion. It rocked for five years ago, but now it is kind of... boring. I also want to watch the TV-show, but crud... There is no Norwegian OR unamerican channel that shows the Addams Family show.... As far as I know. Christina Ricci... Come visit me!And for all of you yahooers out there You leave now Y' hear me? "},{"Title":"The best scary comedy!","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this movie for the first time years ago, but even now when I see it on television I watch it with pleasure. It's because this is probably the best scary comedy that I've seen. And being a big fan of Anjelica Huston I have to comment on her performance. She was great in her role as the graceful Morticia Addams, but no surprises there. Of all the Morticias that I've seen, she is the best. You can also see great costumes, makeup and scenography. The acting is not exaggerated like in some comedies. Combined with great on-screen chemistry between the actors, this makes the perfect 10 I my book. If you haven't seen it yet&#133;Well I don't know what you're waiting for!  "},{"Title":"Absolute Fun!","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I taped The Addams Family off of tv A LONG time ago(years ago), and it just gets better every time you watch it. I won't get into the plot like I usually do, but let me just tell you it's a great movie to be enjoyed with popcorn, and some soda. Also after this try checking out the Addams Family Values, it's almost as good as this one. 3 1/2 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Bazaar production designs that blend with a grotesquely humorous script...","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A `dark' comedy based on the Charles Addams' cartoon and famed television series with bazaar production designs that blend with a grotesquely humorous script.  The plot deals with a shyster lawyer who develops a sinister scheme to con money out of the wealthy Gomez and Morticia by presenting an impostor whom claims he is their real Uncle Fester.  This well cast cultural phenomenon has several bright moments but the entire project left me with an unsatisfied feeling.  Impressive production values make way for this average comedy.  Directorial debut for cinematographer Barry Sonnenfeld.I give The Addams Family **1/2(C+). "},{"Title":"doesn't hold up","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you enjoyed the Addams Family growing up then there is no point in watching it again because you will be disappointed. The movie revolves around the weird Addams clan and a scheming banker who wants the Addams fortune. The banker's scheme involves passing a goonish thug off as the long lost Uncle Fester. I had the hots for Christina Ricci and still do. Everything about this is goofy and I dont think it holds up well with time at all. ** "},{"Title":"An incredible dark sarcastic comedy!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family is one of the most hilarious scarefests I have ever seen. It's a really good film and has one of the best ensemble casts ever. Bravo to the casting director for casting such great talents as the late Raul Julia (Gomez), Anjelica Huston (Morticia) and Christina Ricca (Wednesday)! The set/art direction was also amazing, like the dark and gloomy Addams family mansion. The costume designs were great. This movie did do a great job in all the technical areas of making a movie. The screenplay was great because it *does* leave a lasting impression for the sarcastic quotes that came from this film (see the memorable quotes section and you'll see what I mean). The film, based on Charles Addams' beloved cartoon and hit TV series, The Addams Family is a visual fun house, packed with plenty of treats, tricks and turns by director Barry Sonnenfeld and I highly recommend you see it if you haven't already. The Addams Family did spawn a sequel, called Addams Family Values, that didn't do as well at the box office, but in my humble opinion was just as good of a film as the first.My Verdict 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good effort.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Decent stab at bringing the antics of the Addams family to a 90's audience.  Casting is perfect right across the board, the performances are all excellent too.  Inventive production design and solid direction, let down only by a too complex plot.  The tone of the movie is just about right - darkly funny.  The sequel, Addams Family Values, is better though. "},{"Title":"FUNNY!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  For people who love Charles Addams' cartoons, you will LOVE this movie! A lot of the scenes were taken right out of those cartoons. The actors do a wonderful job with the parts (I can't imagine anyone but Christopher Lloyd playing Fester).If you need a good laugh, this movie will get you out of your darkest depression! "},{"Title":"A great sarcastic comedy!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family is one of the best sarcastic comedies I have ever seen. It's a really good film and has one of the best ensemble casts ever. Bravo to the casting director for casting such great talents as Raul Julia (Gomez), Angelica Huston (Morticia) and Christina Ricca (Wednesday)! The set was also amazing, like the Addams family mansion. It does leave a lasting impression for the quotes that came from this film (see the memorable quotes section and you'll see what I mean). The Addams Family did spawn a sequel, called Addams Family Values, that didn't do as well at the box office, but in my humble opinion it was just as good of a film as the first if not better. "},{"Title":"Delightful dark humor","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Probably my favorite comedy of all time. This is dark humor at his best. What makes a winner of this movie, and the next one, is how they take distance from the original 60s series and sticks more, in a darker way, to the comic strip. Its a mature and intelligent movie, with delicious lines and a wonderful stylish soundtrack. This gem set the way for two sequels and another tv series. Sadly the death of Raul Julia, who incarnates Gomez in a delightful way, marked also the end of a good time for the Addams Family incarnation. Because with the third movie and the recent tv series it came back to cheesy 60s slapstick humor with bright colors. Still, we have two wonderfully crafted movies left, with great performances and a chemistry between the actors that makes this movie a true, and dark, masterpiece. "},{"Title":"They're ooky and their spooky..","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams family, that ghoulish comedy from tv golden days, comes to the silver screen with mixed results.. Christopher Lloyd stars claiming to be the family's long lost (in the Bermuda Triangle) Uncle Fester. But is he really? Comparisons to the TV show are of course expected and while the movie is just as much dark fun..Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston are perfect as Gomez and Morticia and the rest of the cast fit well..especially Ricci and Wednesday..The plot leaves something to be desired...But the movie is good fun and is definitely recommended..on a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"Too much studio-driven flash in search of a story.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The best lines in the film, which ended up in the ads, like the Halloween costume line, I'm dressed like a serial killer.  They look like everyone else.  were added during production by script doctor Paul Rudnick.  Sadly, he could only tack it onto the unnecessary story about how the family was reunited with Uncle Fester.  Luckily, the powers that be smartened up and let Rudnick write the sequel Addams Family Values on his own so it feels much more unified and pointed than the flimsy original.  By the way, you definitely do not have to see this first one to enjoy and understand the second.  Addams Family Values, with its great title, should have been the only one.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Even Better Song","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best black-comedies EVER! The cast is having fun and I'll bet that it must have been a blast to work on this movie. The sets, acting, special effects, and darkness makes the movie awesome. And even better, MC Hammer, one of the best rappers ever, made the theme song! If you haven't seen it yet, I recommend that you do. ***1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There are four elements that truly make this film and its sequel, Addams Family Values. The first is the gorgeous set - the Addams mansion is splendidly Gothic and full of dark atmosphere. The second is Raul Julia in the role of Gomez Addams - his manic intensity and dashing good looks make the role live without treading at all on Charles Astin's interpretation from the black-and-white television show. The third is the lovely and talented Christina Ricci - her deadpan and deadly Wednesday Addams is a joy to behold, and it's the role I think that best gives a clue to the way her work as a child actor would evolve as she grew older. The fourth is the rest of the cast, particularly Christopher Lloyd as Uncle Fester and the gorgeous Anjelica Huston as Morticia. The entire film really is a triumph, best watched in conjunction with the sequel. "},{"Title":"Kooky and Weird.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family is kooky, spooky, weird and wacky ...........and they are a very entertaining family!! The Addams Family are hilarious!This is a very cool film with memorable characters and a funny plot that I seriously can't explain.I have 5 words for you I recommend you see this!My rating  8 and a half/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and cheerful black humor","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  For years movies about families, whether they were comedies or anything else, were namby-pamby and unrealistic. Then they became gritty, dysfunctional, and depressing. Married people with children are almost uniformly portrayed as tired or bored. The Addams Family breaks out of this mold, depicting a completely weird group of people who obviously love and care for one another, while enjoying and celebrating their weirdness.  Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston's over-the-top romance is a perfect delight to watch.  "},{"Title":"Superb throughout.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie that first introduced a new generation to the disturbingly dark, and disturbingly funny world, of The Addams Family.Although not as good as its successor, The Addams Family is a well made movie from start to finish. The casting is superb, giving strength to all the characters. Huston and Ricci are superb as always, Lloyd plays his traditional oddball misfit, and the late Raul Julia gives a performance so full of energy and enthusiasm, that you can tell how much fun he had making the movie.The set design is suitably macabre, however Sonnenfeld's directing does take until the sequel to find the right balance for the movies, and release the full potential of the script. But this does not detract from your enjoyment of this truly family movie. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first watched this movie when I was 8 years old and loved it then .I am now 15 and i love it now . Some scenes are just priceless, like the children's play. I'd recommend this movie for people of all ages.It was definately one of my favourite movies when i was younger and i would give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"Raul Julia & Angelica Huston shine in Charles Addams tribute","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best of the 90's comedy flicks. Raul Julia stands out as Gomez in a rare (for Julia) comedy role, and Angelica Huston's subtle smirks and dark romantic flair is remarkable even for her, Christopher Lloyd is a great Uncle Fester in a role that seems tailor-made for him, and watch for Christina Ricci, though only 11 in this film she may well become one of the most prolific and talented stars of the next decade. From the opening scenes I flashed back to the Charles Addams cartoons (which I seem to be the only person in my generation to remember.) while remaining recognizable from the tv series it transcends it. If you somehow have managed not to have seen this film yet, or haven't seen it in quite a while, do yourself a favor and stop at your local library and browse though Charles Addams Addams Family comics, then rent and truly enjoy the movie from a heightened perspective.   8v "},{"Title":"So it's not really a comedy, it's still glorious.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A rather wonderful film, undervalued on release, probably because people were expecting a comedy.  Well, to be fair, this IS a comedy, but its strongest suit is a certain melancholic lyricism, well caught in Marc Shaiman's fine music score.  It's basically a rather meditative anatomy of healthy and unhealthy ways of being completely warped.  That said, a few more good gags mightn't have come amiss; Caroline Thompson (here as in Tim Burton's 'The Nightmare Before Christmas') is stronger on the feel than the actual words.The story is perfectly strong enough - better in some ways than the sequel's, because it doesn't dissipate its energies between different plotlines - and of the actors, only Christina Ricci was to improve on her performance here.  Raul Julia, quite wonderful as a dashingly romantic, athletic, terribly vulnerable Gomez, and Christopher Lloyd in surprisinglycontrolled form as Fester, give performances here that are understated compared with their work in the (more sharply-written) sequel, and much the better for it; Angelica Huston's Morticia has just the same chiselled perfection.  As for Ricci, she already has that intense screen presence that means when she's on screen it's hard to look at anyone else, and she earns the right to a starring role in the sequel (He's just a child is her standout line, he being brother Pugsley - says it all, really).  Also excellent is Elizabeth Wilson as the phony doctor and and equally phony mother Alison Craven (aka Dr Pinder-Schloss, the name she eventually takes to her grave in the Addams family, as in all classic American fantasies, you can become who you want to be).Perhaps having Dan Hedaya's oddly sympathetic lawyer villain lose his wife to the, umm, hirsute Cousin It is a bit too much icing on the cake, but it must be said that this film is a lot bolder than its sequel in evoking an unexpected degree of sympathy for all weirdos, good-for-nothings and all-round bad sorts, even lawyers.  Not girl scouts, of course, but there's a limit to everyone's tolerance.  (Speaking of which, yes, that is the same actress who plays the ghastly girl scout in this movie and the ghastly Amanda at the summer camp in Addams Family Values.  There's someone who has the market cornered in ghastly!) "},{"Title":"Watch it over and over again!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love the way this, and its sequel, work on two levels. My niece loved it when she was 8 and I love it's more adult innuendoes. The bubbling lust between Gomez and Morticia is excellent, the ridiculous plot a bonus, and the jokes, both visual and verbal, are delicious. The one-liners are hilarious. Watch it over and over to catch all the layers of humour. Real unclean fun. There is nothing to complain about here! "},{"Title":"An opposite, but equally valid interpretation.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family was based on the original cartoons drawn by Charles Addams for the New Yorker - and Chaz would have been proud.  Many of the scenes are taken straight from his work, and the whole movie maintains an unmistakably Addamsesque feel.  ABC's classic 1960's television series was also based on these cartoons, and the movie is often criticized for not following the precedents set by the television show, but the fact remains that the movie has nothing to do with the show.  They were both inspired by Addams, and the characters were obviously drawn up from his outlines for the TV show, but the similarity ends there.  The movie captured just as much of Charles Addams' spirit as the show, but in a very different way.  "},{"Title":"A visual joyride thru the dark.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie to look at and also very funny. I enjoyed The Addams Family movie very much. The movie is perfectly cast and the direction is solid. The set design was also very impressive. A great piece of entertainment. "}{"Title":"I Found It A Bit Of A Drag","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I suppose you have to have been a fan of the 60's TV series to really get this - and I confess that I never was a fan of that series - even as a kid (I was always more of a Munsters kid personally.) I'll readily concede that the general consensus of fans of the series seems to be that this was a pretty good resurrection of the series (which makes it better than a lot of the movies based on the 60's series) and I also agree (from the little I've seen of the series) that the various characters in the movie all seemed to be consistent with their precursors, and that all the cast seemed to do a pretty good job with them. But - again - I guess you really have to have been an Addams Family fan to appreciate this, because, quite frankly, I found the movie something of a drag.The story revolves around the return of the long lost Uncle Fester to the Addams family bosom, and an attempt by the family's lawyer to swindle Gomez out of the family fortune. But is it really Fester? And will the plot succeed? It's all tongue in cheek, of course, and there's the usual wordplay going on in this type of movie (such as when Gomez tells Thing to lend a hand.) Fans of the series obviously enjoy this. Those who weren't fans probably won't get much out of it. I definitely didn't. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the TV show","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams lawyer knows that the missing Festor Addams is the eldest and the house and all it's fortunes belong to him, so he gets a fake Festor to come in and pretend. Festors mother claims to be a doctor who found the missing boy in the Bermuda Triangle. The Addams buy it and are ultimately kicked out of their house as Festor and his mother and the crooked Lawyer try to find the hidden money. Soon the truth is discovered and the scheme is over and you find that the impostor really is Festor after all.I used to love this TV show and also the cartoon, and this movie doesn't in anyway do it justice. Characters are changed and it just doesn't have the same appeal as the show. The fact it changed and not exactly like the show had almost no reasoning in my decision to rate it so low, I just simply didn't find it funny or amusing. The actors here all did excellent jobs portraying their version of the original cast. This movie just lacked any kind of heart. It was over the top childish at times too. This is another good example of bad choice in music because its huge at the time. MC Hammer was big in 91 and now he is a laughing stock. The over all score of the movie left so much to be desired too.Barry Sonnefeld directed this and it was his first movie. Tim Burton was set to direct but didn't for some reason and Barry tried so hard too direct like Tim, In fact for many years Barry continued to try and direct in the style of Burton.Actors here were just great for the most part. Angelica Houston as Morticia and she did a great job, Cher wanted the role and I am curious as to how she would have played it. Raul Julia tried to fill John Astins shoes and did a bad job, Raul is the worst actor on this film. Christina Ricci in an early role was perhaps the best star of this film, she truly made Wednesday her very own and just rocked it. Christopher Llyod is magnificent and donned a fat suit here for Festor. Dan Hedaya, Elizabeth Wilson and Dana Ivey did great jobs too.I don't think this film as as good as the show, it lacked heart, it had flaws (like public acceptance of Thing, for one). The score was bad the direction was not up to par and it was lazy...I did like many actors and it gave me a couple laughs 2/10 stars "},{"Title":"Somewhat funny, but nothing to special.","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film adaptation of the Addam's Family has its moments and is watchable, but there are just certain things about it that do not work that cause it to be a sort of all right comedy rather than a really good one. Part of the problem is the casting, but then the casting is good as well. Raul Julie is perfectly cast as Gomez and is a very bright spot in this film. A shame Addam's Family Values was not his last movie instead of the horrid Street Fighter movie. Christopher Lloyd plays Fester, and while he is not my first choice the man can play any role from Fester, to Judge Doom, and even a Klingon. Anjelica Houston on the other hand had the look of Morticia, but her voice was at times barely audible. I did not care for grandma either as that person would thankfully be played by Karol Cane in the sequel and she did a much better job even though that role was largely ignored in both films. The story here is rather different, as we have a person trying to pass off this dude whose mother is like some loan shark or something as the long lost Uncle Fester. So we have a guy trying to make heads or tails of the strange family while trying to get the family fortune. There are some funny scenes and long dead sections to the movie as well. The kids Wednesday and Pugsley provide the biggest laugh for me though during there school play. All in all it was not a bad film, just needed a bit of work. I actually feel the sequel is a more complete film than this one, but not by much. "},{"Title":"I'm your Mother, you only owe me your entire existence on this planet. Pretty good fun.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family has the Addams family debt laden almost bankrupt lawyer Tully Alford (Dan Hedaya) & his wife Margaret (Dana Ivey) being invited to an annual séance held by the Addams family to remember Gomez Addams (Raul Julia) Brother, Fester who mysteriously disappeared 25 years ago. Back at his office Alford is threatened by loan shark Abigail Craven (Elizabeth Wilson) & her brute of a son Gordon (Christopher Lloyd) who want their money. Alford says he has no money but knows where there is a vault full of treasure & that her son Gordon looks exactly like Fester who disappeared 25 years ago & that with his help they can rob the Addams family of all their money. Later that night at the séance Gomez his wife Morticia (Anjelica Huston), Grandma (Judith Malina) & the two children Wednesday (Christina Ricci) & Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) are all astounded & delighted when Fester suddenly & rather unexpectedly turns up having supposedly been trapped in the Bermuda Triangle... Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld I thought The Addams Family was a fine film that provides solid entertainment but at the same time is maybe a little simplistic & not quite funny enough. The Addams Family first appeared as a series of cartoons by Charles Addams in 1935, then the character's were given their own TV series The Addams Family (1964 - 1966) which ran for 64 episodes, then Hanna-Barbera turned the concept into a short-lived cartoon series that ran for 16 episodes in 1973 & there was one spin-off TV special called Halloween with the Addams Family (1977) with most of the original cast which then brings us to this big budget film version. The script by Caroline Thompson & Larry Wilson with Paul Rudnick doing the rewrites moves along at a nice pace & isn't demanding, it has the sort of macabre black humour you would expect & is good fun. I have to admit that I personally didn't really laugh at any point, I certainly smiled & found it amusing but there weren't any big laugh-out-loud moments for me & anyone who doesn't guess the 'surprise' ending within the first ten minutes is either dead or just plain stupid. All the Addams Family character's are there including Lurch (Carel Struycken) the ridiculously tall butler & Thing the dismembered hand. The cast help the film enormously, Julia as Gomez is perfect as is Huston as Morticia while a young Christinia Ricci is very effective as Wednesday. With a supposed budget of $38,000,000 back in '91 The Addams Family is technically a very good looking & polished film with the Addamses' Gothic mansion standing out & almost being a character in it's own right. The special effects vary as one would expect from a film from '91, the special effects on Thing are surprisingly good while the wind & electricity effects at the end are awful by todays standards. The recognisable Addams Family theme tune is only used during the opening credits. Director Sonnenfeld keeps things moving with plenty of visual gags & slapstick comedy, although I felt the sequence where Wednesday cuts Pugsley's arm off in a school play & in return he slits her throat with fountains of spurting blood spraying from the wounds was somewhat disturbing & felt out of place as in the context of the film I think they did it for 'real'. I liked it, I'm not sure I would want to watch it again anytime soon. Definitetly worth a watch especially as you can probably find it cheap these days or catch it on TV for free, like I did in fact! "},{"Title":"Inferior to its sequel, but great entertainment nonetheless","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't seen the original Addams Family series, I've only seen the three movies and the cartoon series, and I have to say that this is far better than the cartoon series. Every single character is perfectly casted in this film; Raul Julia does a great Gomez, Anjelica Huston is perfect as the dangerously slim, french-loving Morticia, Christoper Lloyd is flawless a Fester, Christina Ricci does a chillingly good Wednesday, which is quite impressive at that age(she was 10 or 11 when they made this), and Jimmy Workman is also great as Pugsley. Carel Struycken and Christopher Hart also do good jobs, portraying Lurch and Thing respectively, but since one of them is a giant who never speaks, and the other is a disembodied hand, I wouldn't really classify it as acting, though they're great at what they do. The script and plot seems a little awkward and reeks of lack of good ideas. It seems like they couldn't figure out how to introduce the characters, without the age-old plot of having a new character be introduced to something that is completely different to him and the audience, while it seems perfectly normal to the characters that it's trying to introduce. It just seems tired and borderline cliché-like. I would have preferred to, at the very least, see some completely new character show up and be introduced, both to us and to the Addams family, rather than having someone who appears to be Fester show up with amnesia. Apart from that, the film is great. The plot does seem a bit tiresome, but it never really gets dull; I guess this film is actually more eventful than the next in the series, but I'll have to compare after I see it again. It has a good pace throughout, and continues to entertain through most of the film, with good gags and jokes for every single scene. The acting was, like I mentioned earlier, pretty much flawless, at least by all of the leads and the most important supporting characters. Every single member of the Addams family was just about perfect. The one complaint is Huston as Morticia, who, as my fiancée pointed out, hasn't got the walk down. Actually, that's kind of the problem... she does walk. She should kind of float, with the tight dress. The characters are well-written and sufficiently bizarre and grotesque, as is the great black humor. The make-up has some flaws... Julia and Lloyd aren't quite pale enough, though last-mentioned goes back and forth some(personally, I attribute that to the character... you'll understand once you've seen the entire film), and Anjelica... well, with the white face, the blue eyeshadow and the bright red lipstick, she looks like a clown or a mime. You kept wondering when she was going to make a balloon animal... or at least, my fiancée did. And on thinking back, I have to agree with her. Still, the whole film is a worthy watch for any fan of any of the actors and probably of the Addams family as well. I recommend it to fans of any of the actors(as all of them give some of their best performances) and fans of black comedy. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Star rating 3 out of 5","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family begins with a hearty chuckle, as a group of nauseatingly cheery carol singers are treated to a dose of Addams hospitality.  The film is of course a 1990s revamp of the 1960s television series with the catchy refrain They're creepy and they're kooky, mysterious and spooky, they're altogether ooky.  However, the film lacks the delicate balance between finesse and crudity that marked the original; perhaps this is the result when a cult show is turned into movie fodder for the masses.      The Addams' live in a decaying mansion that boasts such attractions as a graveyard, a swamp and a vault full of money.  It is this last which attracts the attention of a crooked accountant and his unscrupulous client Mrs. Craven.  Their plan is to install Mrs. Craven's son Gordon in the house as 'long-lost' Uncle Fester Addams, with the purpose of gaining access to the vault.  Initially Gordon is all for this plan, but once he gets to know and like the family, he undergoes a crisis of confidence and must decide where his loyalties lie.       The plot may be depressingly formulaic, but fortunately it is in the Addams' nature to be quirky.  The humour is generally quite fresh and clever - who would have picked the villain's ultra-conventional wife pairing off with hirsute (and definitely unconventional) Cousin Itt?  But along with the hits, there are some equally spectacular misses, including almost everything involving Grandma Addams.  The other female Addams' are excellent, especially young Christina Ricci as the perpetually sullen Wednesday.  Ultimately though, you have to wonder if the mysterious and macabre charm of the Addams has lost something in its modernisation, and if perhaps they should have been left to rest in peace.  "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Good As the Television Series.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family on television was never excellent, but it has always been an enjoyable 30 minutes away from reality. However, the concept just does not work well on the silver screen. The titled characters are creepy, spooky and just plain crazy for the most part, but they have more money than anyone around so they are just eccentric. Everyone else hates them of course and an elaborate scheme develops to run the Addams' off from their odd-looking mansion and find the fortune which sits there. Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston are adequate as the heads of the household, but Christopher Lloyd steals every scene as a crook who poses as the long-vanished Uncle Fester. Dan Hedaya and a very young Christina Ricci complete the cast. The film is just fair at best. Watching three episodes of the original series together would be more entertaining and fulfilling. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Family Time is King","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Well now. 900 reviews down and I thought it would be special to go back to the beginning.Picture it Phoenix. 1991. I saw the movie version of The Addams Family with the intent of reviewing it for The Demon Dispatch, my High School newspaper and it would become not only my very first review I ever wrote, but my first realm into being published.I still have a copy of that review, so I will include to the bottom of this recap (on my website only.) But, until I finish writing this new take on a movie I just recently watched for the first time in at least 15 years, I won't revisit that so that this will be pure.Pure. That is a great word. The movie's now over 21 years old and damn, it's held up and still pure today.The movie follows a wacky family and bases itself more on the comic than the TV series of the 1960s, though, it really resembles that sitcom. I even grew up on the show &#x96; reruns, damnit, I am not a child of the 1960s, for pete's sake &#x96; and I still loved this reincarnation of the strange house and family.Now, the conflict of the story &#x96; person pretending to be someone that's long-lost and he may actually be that person &#x96; isn't really new, even in 1991, but the events, the comedy, the dialogue, the sets and graphics and above all, the acting make up for the lack of originality tenfold. I could list every single actor in here, from the great performance of Anjelica Huston and awesome Raul Julia and the excellent Christina Ricci to the newcomer and impressive Jimmy Workman and never end this review on how everyone played their part to the tee and excelled in making their characters truly alive.To this day, again, more than two decades following release, I find myself marveling in this movie, laughing and appreciating all the efforts made to make this an instant classic (back then and today.) "},{"Title":"Closer in Spirit to the TV Series than the 2nd Film","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As discussed in other reviews, I think Tim Burton should direct a new sequel. (Johnny Depp would be great as Gomez with Christina Ricci as Mortica. Howie Mandel could play Uncle Fester.) Burton would do justice to all the characters because he is also too weird. Having seen both films, (the 3rd film and various sequels don't count) I can honestly say that although the 2nd film flows better, the first one is more like the TV series. The Addams Mansion is a character unto itself, and without it the family's charisma is diminished. When the family is evicted and moves to the cheap motel, they don't seem as creepy or perverted. A great comedic opportunity was lost here. The motel should have been more run-down, with rats. It could have been haunted or sinister like the Bates Motel, with real magic fingers on the bed. Even better, the family could have moved into an abandon house or a crypt near their own private graveyard. Instead of selling lemonade, I think they should have sold genuine hot dogs (made from real dogs). The Girl Scout cookie line would have still have worked.The Fester amnesia plot only works to-a-point and then it drags down the action of the film. It goes on far too long. (Why is Fester the center of both movies?) However, the mansion sets are far better in this film, than in the sequel the treasure room, dungeon play room and vault, library-study and the flushing exits are wonderful. Also, the trains and carnivorous Cleopatra are all here, as is the growling bear rug. It seems moreAddamsy than the sequel. A very-good but not a great first movie,made better by a perfect cast of characters, except that Christopher Lloyd doesn't seem to fit here at first. He does, however, grow into the role, once he realizes he is a true Addams. The family reunion party is also a great sequence, with all of the Addams clan and the great fighting Russian knife dance. The Addams rap ending title music (by MC Hammer) doesn't fit at all. A harpsichord version of the TV theme would have been far better. "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining!","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching the black and white TV show when I was a young kid. I loved that show. Only now did I get a chance to see the motion picture version of the classic TV series. I was impressed. I thought this movie would ruin the TV series, but it did not thankfully.The movie is about when Uncle Fester returns to the family after 25 years. He and his so-called mother have a plan to rob the Addam's of all their value.Raul Julia is just the perfect guy to play Gomez. It's sad he passed away. Anjelica Huston is the perfect Morticia and the young Christina Ricci is just outstanding.Overall, this is a fun movie to watch. There is plenty of dark humor and this movie also reminds me of Tim Burton. I rate this film 8/10. "}{"Title":"perfectly cast version of  creepy kooky classic","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I am sure that when it was announced that they were making a movie of the Addams Family that a lot of fans of the show were concerned that it would not play well on the screen. This movie proves otherwise because for one, it is perfectly cast. Anjelica Huston makes a perfect Morticia with her jet black hair and Raul Julia a perfect Gomez bombastic and classy with a thing for his 'Tish speaking French. The rest of the cast is well done too. Christopher Lloyd shows again why he is one of the best actors out there..From Taxi to Back to the Future to Who Framed Roger Rabbit, the guy can play almost any role. Christina Ricci plays a wonderfully dour Wednesday. The plot, about how a couple of con artists try to swindle the Addams fortune, is simple and gives the cast a chance to shine. It has its slow points along with its classic bits (the famous girl scouts line has a billboard of Tombstone pizza in the background). It holds up very well to multiple viewings which is always a sign of a good film "},{"Title":"a pikamix of light and light dark humour... Sweet.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addam's Family is a well made film for families. Everything about the film screams Value, and I don't mean cheap. The Film will shallow you whole with its very complete make-up ,thats scenes, soundtrack and plot, which is both compelling and nested in good morals. this film may not be suitable to people with strong Christian views due to the themes. The Film flows effortlessly and could even keep the attention of young children i suspect. The Film is fairly spooky in parts but in ways your children won't understand. This film stands the test of time, and will probably be good for another 20 years. Its a must see. like i say the sets, costumes and feel is really well executed. "},{"Title":"Dark and fun","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've not seen the television version of The Addams Family so I can't say how this film compares; I can say it was a lot of fun though. As the film starts Gomez Addams is still lamenting the loss of his older brother Fester twenty-five years ago. He is soon visited by a lawyer who is hoping the get his hands on the Addams' family fortune so he can pay off his debts; his initial scheme fails but when he meets the son of the woman he owes money to he seems a striking resemblance to Fester. Soon the look-alike is trying to get into the family and most of them believe he is indeed the long lost Fester; young Wednesday is more suspicious though. As he stays with them trying to find a way into the vault he finds himself growing to like them and Wednesday starts to trust him too.This film is a lot of fun, Raul Julia and Angelica Huston were great as Gomez and his wife Morticia and Christopher Lloyd was a lot of fun as Fester; however young Christina Ricci managed to steal every scene she was in; playing Wednesday Addams she managed to only smile once&#x85; and when she did it was a very creepy smile, it is just a shame she didn't have a larger role. While this is suitable for most ages some scenes may be a bit scary for younger viewers; one scene where Wednesday and her brother perform at school might be a little to gory for some as gallons of obviously fake blood are sprayed about! "},{"Title":"Great fun from the Addams Family!","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Well, I finally managed to write a review on this, and I have to say, I like this a lot. I do think Values is marginally better, but both are solid entertainment, two good examples of films, driven by character not plot(though there was a very good one in both films). Like Values, the rating is too low, why? My only criticism, is that I don't like the rap song over the end credits at all. Apart from that, it had spirited direction, great incidental music, great performances, and a gem of a black humour filled script.The plot is simple but grabs the attention of adults, as young children might not understand it. The script is witty, dark and very funny, something that Reunion forgot to add to the proceedings. Barry Sonnenfield directs with spirit and enthusiasm, but it's the performances that I was most impressed with.Raul Julia and Angelica Huston were perfect as Gomez and Morticia, and I was sure that Tim Curry and Daryl Hannah would have been, had they a half-decent script and director to work with.(alas!) Christopher Lloyd was great fun as Fester, but the performance of Christina Ricci steals the film. Everyone else deserves a mention.In conclusion, a well-done and inventive film, with a 9/10 from me! Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Blast From The Past!","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'm pretty sure the last time I saw this film I must have been less than 6 years old, and now over 13 years later, I caught this film on TV and decided to re-visit the family that, I have been told, as a kid I not only adored watching on film but on the cartoon TV series too. Well, what can I say - I'm sure this stuff must have had some sort of diverse effect on my mental well-being as a child, and I can say honestly had an effect on my sense of humour - I find this kind of stuff hilarious.Don't get me wrong, this film isn't great by any stretch of the imagination. The plot is horrifically predictable, the film just isn't very exciting, never seeming to go anywhere, never raising my excitement or getting me personally involved. But it is funny - full of dark, Gothic humour, and each actor embodies the famous characters to perfection - Uncle Fester is JUST as I remember him, Wednesday is the sharp and cynical older sister I always thought was oh-so cool (except, whilst I used to look up at her as being so old and mature when I was 5/6 years old, I now realise that she was only a child), cousin IT was the memorable mound of walking hair, Thing the detached hand. It brought back loads of childhood memories, and brought many smiles to my lips, but still, the film isn't great, and it would be wrong for me to give it any more stars than 3 just because of nostalgia or sentimental value.I gotta say, something I had never paid attention to as a kid was the acting, but now I'm old enough to actually realise that the characters don't exist and are played by actors, I have to congratulate Raul Julia on his performance as Gomez. I only discovered today that Julia passed away in 1994, and though this unexpected news makes me sad, at least he left behind performances of which he could honestly be proud. The second is Elizabeth Wilson as Abigail Cravern - her ability to switch between accents is incredible (and especially admired by me, who can't even master a single accent correctly).Overall, this film is good, but not great. I'm surprised that this is classed as a children's film, and amazed by how much I used to love it as a kid, but I'm obviously not in touch with my inner child as I once was. A funny film, but not incredible. "},{"Title":"Still Creepy... Still Kooky... Still Mysterious... Much Spookier Than Ever","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The only strange things about the Addams family in the classic 1964-66 television sitcom are the things they do. However, in this movie, they act very different from the rest of the world, like true Goths who find real embarrassment in appearing normal. In other words, the performances of this film cannot fairly be weighed against those of, say, Carolyn Jones and John Astin. What can be said is that this remake is witty and intelligent, re-inventing the Addamses for a time when (unlike the early '60s) it is normal to be abnormal, a time when weirdness is not simply enough. In that and in most other regards, they succeed beautifully. Anjelica Huston and Raul Julia are great. Christina Ricci is fantastically frightful. The other cast members (Jimmy Workman, Judith Malina, Dana Ivey, etc.) are great except Christopher Lloyd as Uncle Fester-- in retrospect, his characterization is a little disappointing for fans of the show, mainly in the fact that the Addams family heredity is totally messed up in regards to Fester (he's supposed to be Gomez's uncle, not his brother) and the eerie but poker-faced dementia with which he plays the character.In other words, die-hard fans will expect more, but I didn't want much more. And while this is in no way a substitute or equal, it's still a movie that can be thoroughly enjoyed on its own. Just get ready to snap, and brace yourself for some appalling M.C. Hammer raps. "},{"Title":"T.V. show still the best","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family, while being entertaining, is hardly very or extremely so. Casting is clever, and cast members are fun to watch, especially Christopher Lloyd as 'Uncle Fester'. Also starred Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, Elizabeth Wilson, Christina Ricci, Dan Hedeya and Dana Ivey.Unfortunately it is only the eye-catching make-up, special effects (look out for 'Thing') and sets, along with a little good humour, that keeps one interested in the misadventures of The Addams Family. The plot concerns an attempt to steal their family fortune. Wait for it on video.Friday, December 27, 1991 - Hoyts ChadstoneFriday, January 10, 1992 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Snappy","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Though I think the sequel is funnier, The Addams Family, another sitcom-turned-movie, stays fresher in the mind. In the Addams' film debut, some no-good greedy villains devise a seemingly flawless plan to illegally inherit the treasures within the family's secret vault plant their own gruesome goon (Christopher Lloyd, hamming up another kid-friendly flick) in the eerie mansion, and pass him off as their long-lost Uncle Fester. Of course, unfamiliar memories and a snoopy Wednesday (an unknown Christina Ricci) muddy things up for the impostor. Ricci makes quite a debut, but the film belongs to the late, great Raul Julia, playing an eccentric, romantic, and dead-on (sorry for the pun) Gomez, Fester's clueless brother and man of the household. Julia adds a little Latino spice to Gomez's lusty behavior, which doesn't hurt the character at all. My favorite scene is somewhat of a montage of each Addams trying to adapt to the outside life after losing their home, including Thing (the pet hand) working for FedEx and Morticia (Anjelica Huston) switching the perspectives of Hansel and Gretel for a kindergarten class. The montage is sort of a glimpse of things to come with the sequel. The plot is predictable, the MC Hammer soundtrack overload really dates it, and the humor gets a bit monotonous, but strong performances and style wake the dead moments. This sitcom transformation works. "},{"Title":"The return of macabre!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" They're Creepy and they're kooky. Mysterious and spooky, they're altogether ooky, The Addams Family. The masters of macabre have returned to the big screen. And this version makes the original look cheap. Gomez(Raul Juila,1940-94), Morticia(Anjelica Huston,John's daughter), Fester(Christopher Lloyd) and all the other cast from the show are here. Wednesday(Christina Ricci) is really morbid, and the TV version was a little sweeter. When the family misses Fester, they plan for his return. However, two schemers use an imposter to get the fortune from the Addams'. I liked the part where the sword misses Tully Alford. Awww! Missed! groans Gomez. There's the Mamushka dance, really fun! Then saving the family from misfortune is really good. Not very Addamsly, when the family is in danger, the do it Addams style, they bury the rotten! It's a good thing that it was Fester, who lost his memory during his trip to the Triangle. And the best part was the music by Hammer. The Addams' Groove was a great song, and I really danced my heart out when I was at the Gator Bowl. Great cast, and the plot was good. The Best TV remake comedy I've ever saw. Rating 5 stars. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember this movie, This was made in 1992. The Addams Family is a fantastic movie to watch. It's about a family's life, they all live in a big house and outside their house there are gravestones. It's like the house of hell to me. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A good laugh, oddly enough for the common family.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a good overall flick.  It's truly a kid/teen movie but I wouldnt die if I had to watch it again.  The directing and concept is pretty general and basic, but the compilation of actors made this to be a funny and much brighter family than they are supposed to be.  Rent it for the family. The opening scene sums it up. Rating5 "},{"Title":"Nothing Much To Say","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is stupid. This movie is hysterical. This movie is a classic. There isn't really much you can say about the Addams Family except dumb as it is it rocks and you have to see it. The second is even better. Great performances all around, particularly by adorable young Christina Ricci. See it! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than the television show!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I like THE ADDAMS FAMILY television show, but I love THE ADDAMS FAMILY movie. It's full of dark humor and morbid gags. I've seen this movie so many times that I have memorized half of the dialogue in the movie. It's absolutely hilarious. The cast is terrific. It's well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Better than the Series...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Gomez, Morticia and their brood attempt to keep the family fortune away from some really odd characters while trying to figure out if Uncle Fester is indeed himself. Julia and Huston are magic as Gomez and Morticia. Ricci is also quite devilish as Wednesday. Lloyd is hammy as Fester, but it's a good role for him. Followed by a sequel.   "},{"Title":"One of the best television adaptations ever","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Barry Sonnenfeld made his directorial debut  with this film, and made a great little film in  the process. With the exception of MIB and  the Addam's family movies, these movies  have proven to be the exception of his career.  Raul Julia was excellent in his most endearing  role, perfect in his role as Gomez along with  Angelica Huston, who was perfect as Moticia.  While I liked the original series, these two  were better than the original Gomez and  Morticia from the television series. Along  with the likes of Christopher Lloyd and  Christina Ricci, this was one of those rare  films based on an old TV show that actually  shined. Well put together and deliciously fast  paced, this is one of those odd films that  keep me smiling every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Black > blackest > THE ADDAMS FAMILY!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Sadly, I never actively witnessed the legendary TV-series starring John Astin as the original Gomez Addams. I'm from a younger generation so I only heard about its brilliancy by the massive cult-followings. I am a big fan of the concept of sarcastic black comedy, however, and therefore I was very much looking forward to Sonnenfeld's film. The daily rituals of this family are just great! Mom and dad and their macabre passion for each other, siblings constantly thinking up deadly games and a bodiless hand racing around the massive castle! It's all very black and depressingly portrayed, but the humor is hilarious and ultra-effective. The characters remain serious no matter what madness they proclaim and even the driest forms of vulgarity are considered to be the most normal things in the world&#133; The scenery and locations are simply brilliant and all the side-characters that pass by &#150; way too many to list &#150; carry a special place in my heart. The main storyline in `The Addams Family' actually is of minor importance&#133; A long lost uncle returns to the family, but he's brainwashed by greedy lawyers in order to steal the Addams &#145; fortune. Look closely to this film&#133;the amount of jokes and funny, little details there to discover is endless and terrifically worked out. This may very well be one of the funniest comedies I ever saw, but I can imagine it's not for everyone's tastes. Sensitive topics such as death, masochism and torture are constantly being mocked!I just have to mention the cast! I hope they paid good money to whoever was in charge of the casting&#133; Every character in the family is just delightfully chosen and &#150; as a viewer &#150; you'll always associate them with the roles they played here. Anjelica Huston as the gorgeous witch, Raul Julia (R.I.P) as the poetic madman, Carl Struyken as Lurch!! Not to mention Christina Ricci, who truly bewitched me in all possible ways. She's the same age as I am and when I first saw this film at the theater (aged 10)&#133;I head over heels fell in love with her! It's amazing how she gives image to Wednesday Addams! She doesn't move a muscle when she speaks and her appearance is sexy and spooky at the same time! `The Addams Family' is highly recommended entertainment and easily one of those few comedies you'll never grow tired off. The entire cast and crew returned for a sequel in 1993&#133;One that is marvelous as well, by the way!   "},{"Title":"The Addams Family","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Entertaining film version of the 60's television series with Julia and Huston beautifully in sync as Gomez and Morticia, while Lloyd is a hammy riot as Uncle Fester. Art direction is impressive and the direction of Barry Sonnefeld is solid throughout. Followed by ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES in 1993.  "},{"Title":"Millions of bucks and they couldn't hire a researcher?","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As any afficiando of the REAL Addams Family (the TV series)knows, Uncle Fester is NOT an Addams -- he's called Unclebecause he is Morticia's uncle, not Gomez's brother and thechildren's uncle; he was the go-between who arranged themarriage -- a major plot point of the TV series.  Nevertheless,the studio went ahead and based the movie on the premise that heis Gomez's brother, throwing away ANY credibility the film hadas a part of the Addams Family canon (or is it cannon?!).  Thankgoodness the cast was better than the script! "},{"Title":"Not So Good","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family had a very dull plot but I thought the special effects and make-up was great. 4/10. See the sequel it's funnier! "},{"Title":"Poor Casting ruins a Good Show","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While all the actors of this movie version (of the much charming TV show The Addams Family) are excellent only Christopher Lloyd manages to do justice to his character, Uncle Fester. None of the others selected for this romp were up to the task of mimicking the original charm, wit, and rhythm of this very fun show.Just today (10/26/02) Channel 11 in NYC had a marathon of The Addams Family for Halloween. I watched a couple of them because I couldn't keep my eyes off of the most charming, gentile, and best character - Morticia Addams played marvelously by Carolyn Jones. And the show still has its humor intact. It was pure unspoiled fun.But the movie leaves much to be desired. It is pale in comparison and I feel it is due solely to the casting people. Here's a run down of how I see this poor flickIn the role of Morticia Addams << Anjelica Houston >>A skilled actress, but a miserable substitute for the role of the sweet and gentile Carolyn Jones. Ms. Jones glided - never walked - across the set. Her hands were as gentile waves on the sea shore playing a transparent harpsichord to one of Mozart's Sonata's.In the role of Gomez Addams << Raul Julia >>I like everything Raul Julia does - unfortunately the casting was not up to the task of filling John Astin's wittiness and charm. Raul was a plausible choice, but that's all.In the role of Uncle Fester << Christopher Lloyd >>Perfect. Mr. Lloyd's roles are always full of life. Unfortunately his role wasn't key to this movie (Morticia is) and so his presence wasn't enough to carry the whole cast.In the role of Lurch << Ted Cassidy >>While he did look the part that isn't enough to make a good character come to life. (Compare, from the Star Trek shows Leonard Nimoy's Spock and Jerry Ryan's 7 of 9 to Tim Russ' Tuvok and Jolene Blalock's T'Pol - Nimoy/Ryan make their characters come to life, while the other two are very wooden and stiff, respectively.)That's about it. Not worth seeing at any time - watch commercials before you see this one.- Zafoid "}{"Title":"unfortunately not the tv series","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Total crap - the worst kind of TV to cinema transfer. The plot is incomprehensible and totally awful. Some of the acting is quite good. Thing is a travesty of the original. "},{"Title":"I thought this slop would never end","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Who wrote this? I demand to know! This person should be ashamed. What a boring, pathetic mess. Lame jokes? They abounded. Silly dialogue? Plenty. This was simply a bad piece of filmwork. There must be an audience for this drivel, because it seems to be selling. What a world.  "}]