[{"Title":"Storytelling at Its Best","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"94 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie immensely.  This is one of the best examples of storytelling that I have seen.  The structure of the movie - alternating between the past and present, with multiple intertwining plots - keeps the viewer hooked on how the story will unfold.  It unfolds gracefully and is enjoyable throughout.The acting is exceptional.  Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louise Parker  carry the bulk of the acting load.  They are fantastic.  The relationship between these very different young women is complex and satisfying.Since the movie is about women and the female roles are so strong, this movie has been dubbed a chick flick, but that pejorative is unfair.  This is good film making and those who like plot-driven cinema will enjoy this immensely.  This one is in my DVD collection.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"95 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is truly a beautiful film.Well written and superbly acted it tugs at the heartstrings harder than almost any other movie. The way it sets up an obvious story line and then like a gentle roller-coaster suddenly takes you in another direction is unequalled in this type of film.There are so many points of genuine sadness and whenever you think you have guessed the story you suddenly turn to find an outcome more surprising than you thought.Major characters die, major characters do not fall in love and major characters are not allowed to cop-out; it is as a film should be.Remarkable well written, produced with care and acted with understatement and love - it is a beautiful film.Watch it. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Story Within A Story","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"92 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must admit. When I first heard of this movie many years ago, the title didn't sound that appealing and the few scenes that I saw didn't look very interesting. But what can I say? I was little then and didn't know what I was missing. My mother kept telling me how good of a movie this was, but I was just too stubborn and didn't pay attention. It was only a few months ago that I decided to watch it when it appeared on TV and boy was I surprised!!This movie is beyond anything that I have ever viewed in my entire life. Usually, this sort of movie isn't the kind that I look at, but I fell in love with the story and the characters, as well as the wonderful actresses (Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Mary-Louise Parker) who did an outstanding job portraying their characters in a unique and unforgettable way.Since I don't want to spoil anything for those who haven't seen it, let me just say that it's an astounding tale of a special friendship that goes way beyond what we would call a regular one. It will make you thankful for the friends you have and even give women a sense to stand up for their own rights. All in all, I give this movie a 10 out of 10. If you haven't seen it, what are you doing reading this?! Go out and rent it!  "},{"Title":"Consummate story-telling, served well by superlative performances","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"63 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fannie Flagg's novel of immense complexity (huge cast and innumerable separate stories) could have been impossible to film. However, it is made possible, in large part, by the performances of Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louise Parker in what should have been billed as the lead roles. They play the two southern women who's joint story this movie revolves around. Jessica Tandy's role is to relate the story to a lost and longing Kathy Bates (in modern times). Director Jon Avnet ties the two together nicely at times, awkwardly at times, but always (except the end) without doing damage to either. He (and the production crew) bring to life a 'peaceful' southern town very nicely.The two Marys manage to convey the fullness of a complex relationship with apparent ease. There on-screen chemistry is nothing short of dazzling, and one is left wondering when and how these two actresses carved out such detailed characters without giving voice to their motivations and feelings. While it is rare that dialogue directly addresses the heart and nature of their relationship, what that is becomes clear quickly and transcends the plot of the story to become the real unifying element in this movie. That neither was recognized (in the conventional way) for their performances is unfortunate (which is an understatement).  "},{"Title":"The Story Stays With You Long After the Movie Ends","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my top five films of all time.  I was somewhat skeptical the first time I saw it because I adored the book and I knew there were some changes, but I found the essence of Fannie Flagg's fabulous novel in tact.  This is a story that burrows into your heart and mind and stays there.  It is absolutely magical storytelling with a stellar cast and beautifully written characters that never fade from memory.A time and place in America, filled with the best and the worst of our life and history, is impeccably captured.  The flashbacks take us to the time of an Alabama whistle stop town that was a bustling hub when the railroad was the center of all movement.  This was the era of hobos and simple pleasures.  The scenes from the past become more powerful by the juxtaposition to modern times, where the story begins and returns at intervals.Kathy Bates plays Evelyn Couch, an unhappy middle-aged housewife who stumbles on Ninny Threadgoode (the superb Jessica Tandy) one day by accident at the nursing home where she is visiting one of her husband's relatives.  The two have an instant chemistry and a deep friendship begins.  Ninny proceeds to tell Evelyn the story of Idgie and Ruth, two young women who shared an amazing friendship and love 50 years earlier. This movie has to be experienced, as mere descriptions might sound like another southern-flavored movie about women or a weepy nostalgic tale.  It is much more than that, and more than the most glowing review can ever convey.  If you are reading this and haven't seen it, please make a point to.  The actors are nothing short of magical.  All four actresses (Jessica Tandy, Kathy Bates, Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker) are at the top of their craft.I will borrow a line from Ninny Threadgoode to describe how I always feel after seeing this film.  I may be sitting here in this nursing home but in my mind I'm over at the Whistle Stop Cafe having a plate of Fried Green Tomatoes.I may be sitting here finishing this comment but in my mind I'm at the Whistle Stop Cafe.  That's how powerful this story is for me. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"56 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is such an awesome movie.  I remember watching it as a girl, and when I found it in a clearance bin a few months ago, I jumped on it. I watched it then, and now, having watched it again...  Mary Stuart Masterson is AMAZING.  Tears fall unwittingly down my cheeks during her performance.  I was also enchanted by Mary-Louise Parker, and I always always LOVE Kathy Bates.  Jessica Tandy is also her usual fit self, and Cecily Tyson was great (Shoo!  I ain't scared of you!) and I could go on for ages about all of them.I will admit that this is the Ultimate Chick Flick.  That title, however, does not detract from its overall quality.  The men are more than just caricatures, and the nostalgia and love of the book made its way into the movie.  I have to commend Avnet for his efforts.And now that I am out of intelligent things to say, THIS MOVIE ROCKS MY SOCKS! It's re-watchability and great everything make this the movie (along with Love and Basketball and my Buffy DVDs) that I take with me to college and suggest we watch at every opportunity. "},{"Title":"Sweet, Bittersweet, and Intense","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a film you are bound to fall in love with. All of its characters feel real, intense, reaching out to touch with their passion and the film's nostalgic feel.It contains some of my favorite performances of all time Masterson, Parker, Tandy, and Bates give their very best, bringing two life fictional women who feel real, strong, and powerful. The film is very emotional, never maudlin, never disrespecting any of its components or the audience. It allows us to feel we are part of a world that might not exist anymore. What I like most about the film is how it embraces a passion for living.There is much to be admired about the technical aspects of the film as well. It travels back and forth in time, with a structure that is hard to describe but a joy to watch as it shows how the main relationships were born, developed, and eventually were transformed into something more spiritual. The music is haunting and quite suitable to the delicate relationships, and the photography makes everyone and everything lovely, dreamlike at times.The film will live on and will eventually be regarded as a classic. It deserves it so. "},{"Title":"A warm, well acted film with sexual overtones","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"53 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I love this film, and have seen it a dozen times at least, the maturing of my mind since the first time I saw it as a teen in 1991, have made me take a second look at this stunningly acted film about love, friendship, devotion and racial issues in a multiple decade look at women's roles in society.Anyone who went to college where I did would see that Idgy from her childhood is the sterotypical Lesbian.  She does not like to wear dresses and prefers a man's dress even as a youngster.  As she ages, and as Ruth befriends her, she is tantalized by a kiss Ruth gives her on the cheek at the swimming hole and so devastated by Ruth's wedding that she does not even attend but instead drives hours to Valdosta, Georgia to look on hurtfully from the woods at Ruth carried in her new home in her wedding dress.As the film progresses and Ruth is rescued from her abusive relationship the two start a cafe called Whistle Stop Cafe in Whistle Stop, Alabama.  If one watches carefully they'll see that the two live together in a house near the cafe.  In one poignant moment, the two women are talking over coffee late at night in the cafe when Ruth says that she feels bad that Idgy may feel she needs to stay and care for Ruth and Buddy Threadgoode Jr. (Buddy is Ruth's son but has Idgy's last name?!)  Ruth says that if it weren't for she and Buddy, Idgy may settle down Idgy dramatically replies I am as settled as I am ever going to be and I don't want you to move out  The clincher was the image they showed shortly after that scene of Ruth in a feminine dress and Idgy in shorts and a shirt and tie, holding each other and smiling.  Idgy never married or dated and Ruth never remarried.Everyone must come to their own conclusion but mine is two women in the 1930's who enjoy a healthy, loving lesbian relationship with the disguise of business partners in a time and place when different anything race, religion or creed, was just not tolerated or accepted. "},{"Title":"As good as it gets.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie might easily pass you by. It's quirky, long-winded title suggests something arty or perhaps comical in a needlessly pretentious way. Well; it is arty, and it is often funny, but there isn't a particle of pretentiousness. I got to see it only because my newspaper included it as a free DVD in the weekend issue. But for that, I might still be in ignorance now.It seems incredible that something so wonderful can be had for nothing.Kathy Bates plays the role of a mature but still comparatively young woman who has a marriage going nowhere. Her husband has reached the point where he just doesn't seem to care any more. Actually, it's not that he doesn't care; he just hasn't noticed how bad things have got. Like so many couples, they have just let themselves slip into a rut.However; she has noticed, and means to do something about it. When hints, make-overs and candlelit dinners prove inadequate, she finds unexpected inspiration in a feisty old woman called Ninny Threadgoode.This woman - played by Jessica Tandy - dilates upon her past, and in particular, a friendship between two young women called Idgie and Ruth (Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louise Parker). The movie then shifts between the present-day circumstances of an increasingly emancipated wife, and the flashback reminiscences of her inspiration.Some have rather misguidedly referred to this movie as a 'chick-flick' as if it were dedicated to a female audience or in some way espoused the cause of feminism. Such opinions do a disservice. To see it in this light, because the principal parts are female, is like dismissing 'The Shawshank Redemption' as a male 'buddy' movie. Both are about two people who's enduring friendship unites them against adversity. Lesbian love is barely hinted at.Director, Jon Aunet has created a spellbinding work. It has a wonderful, lyrical fidelity, like a Renoir painting, whereby the few moments of comedy appear as small, flagrant brush-strokes in an otherwise pastel completeness. There are moments of heartbreaking and tender subtlety when Thomas Newman's music score expresses human feeling more fluently than the spoken word.Sound-engineers seldom receive the recognition they deserve. All too easily we take the ambiance of the moment completely for granted. Viewers should pay particular attention to the authenticity of this movie, and marvel. The dreary interior of an unhappy home or the mildness of a sunlit summer-evening carry such authentic presence that one can almost feel the chill of anger, the sweetness of the season.Some have found fault with this movie somewhere. I confess to being too lachrymose to see anything other than the director's intentions. Excellent script, flawless acting, impeccably chosen music and ambiance to reach out and touch.This is a truly redeeming experience. Amongst the spoil-heaps of formulaic Hollywood wretchedness, gems like this help remind us that humanity is still worth caring about.The detail of life is what really gives us meaning. "},{"Title":"What An Authentic Flavor This Film Has","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The twenty year friendship between two young women in the early twentieth century American South is the focus of this 1991 film from director Jon Avnet. Told in flashbacks, the story adopts a modern POV, with social empowerment being the theme. As such, the story is both unusual and unexpected, given its historical time frame. Viewers will be disappointed if they expect a more traditional Southern story ... about some dark, sinister secret emotionally repressed, and set among the lazy willows and old Magnolia trees.Empowerment can be a wonderful thing. But, if it is taken to extremes, as it is in two subplots, one involving Frank Bennett, and the other involving Evelyn Couch, then it can be a cause for concern. And that's my main problem with this film. The subplots tend to lack credibility, although they do not detract from the overall character study of Idgie and Ruth.What was most impressive to me was the film's atmospheric flavor. Production design, set decoration, and costumes all sparkle with such vitality and detail, that you really feel like you're back in the rural South of the 1920's.Most modern films pander to youth. To its everlasting credit, Fried Green Tomatoes features the wisdom of an elderly character, played by Jessica Tandy, in a nursing home. An added bonus of the film is Kathy Bates, whose acting is always first-rate. "}{"Title":"A point of view from Europe","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All the emotions are in this movie, brought up by a magnificent cast, a strong and a subtle story, a brilliant editing, perfectly balanced between past/present, funny/sad scenes, and a beautiful photography highlighted by a superb and appropriate music.Those who despised FGT with their unkind and unfair comments are probably the ones who make a success of action-special FX galore-poor script blockbusters that invade us worldwide. American movies can be also different (open your mind please!). You have the right not to like it, but be respectful to the talent of both the director and the actors/actresses, it is mostly excessive to use words such trash or worst movie ever.Though a little less strong than The color purple (one of my favorite in the genre) on the racism issue and less cliché than Beaches (another of my top 10 movies)on the friendship subject, FGT is a gem of a movie to make you that there are more important things than money, as long you have friends, love, and confidence in you. **spoiler*** Why bother about the end? Make your own opinion with your imagination (I prefer to think Ninny WAS Idgie; look at her malicious smile just before Evelyne asks Idgie? (Ninny's nodding)Idgie's alive?). And please give up with discussing on the friendship type between the 2 girls, can't you imagine just love without sex for a minute? (and I AM French!!)  "},{"Title":" A very good and enjoyable drama!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes has a good story that hooks you on from beginning to end. This movie is funny, but very dramatic sometimes. The film has a good cast Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary-Stuart Materson. This movie delivers a fresh ,sometimes funny, and dramatic story. This film is very good, and I enjoyed it. I liked it's sense of humor, but it is kind of sad at times in the movie. The directing is well done, and the story is very good. (the story came from the book by Fannie Flagg) This movie is recommended! It is very good. I give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"An authentic classic","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have just seen this wonderful film for the third time, after many years, and it is such a classic, and has not lost any of its interest or appeal. Indeed, it is more relevant now than it ever was, considering that it is about the plight of women and how they cope with their various life situations. It is based on a novel, and has a screenplay by, Fannie Flagg. It is set in Alabama where she comes from, and the story presumably has some basis in truth. Not many people know that Fannie Flagg used to be a brilliant comedienne. I knew her in the mid 1960s when she was a stand-up comic, and she was hilarious. She used to perform at a marvellous comedy cabaret night club in Manhattan, now long gone, which had two floors. The upstairs was called Upstairs at the Downstairs, and the downstairs was called Downstairs at the Upstairs. It was at 37 West 56th Street and was run by an amusing and eccentric woman whose name I have forgotten, alas. Fannie played there at the same time as Madeline ('Maddy') Kahn, who was also wildly funny. Fannie told me she had wanted to perform under her own real name of Patricia Neal, but was told by her agent or manager, I believe, that she could not do that because there was a famous film actress of that name already, so she invented the name Fannie Flagg for herself. It was only years later that she wrote this marvellous heart-felt novel, which was rejected by many publishers, but which finally came out and then resulted in this film. And it is this which really made Fannie Flag famous. The film was shot in Georgia, which is next door to Alabama. But the story is mostly set in Alabama in a little town called Whistle Stop. That name arose because it was a settlement situated beside the railroad. Many small Southern towns fell into desuetude (i.e. withered away) when the railroads started collapsing, after the construction of the interstate highway system, which shifted so much travel and freight transport onto roads and destroyed the rail industry, from the 1950s onwards. In this film which takes place at two different times, during the pre-War period which constitutes the earlier story, the two young women, Idgie and Ruth, open a railside café called The Whistle Stop Café. In those years, it thrived and became the heart of the town, where everyone went to eat real home cooking, which included the favourite local delicacy, fried green tomatoes, which were sliced and fried in batter in what in the South is called a skillet, which is an old 17th century English word for a frying pan, the word surviving only in the American South and nowhere else. (I still fry my eggs and bacon in an old iron family skillet which was cast in the family forge at Taunton, Massachusetts, in the 17th or 18th century. We have been using that skillet for many generations. Just imagine how many bacon fat molecules survive in the crystalline interstices of the cast iron after those centuries of use every morning. The outside of the skillet looks like something dug up by an archaeologist, but the inside is shiny and ready for anything. But this question arises can bacon fat go rancid after a century or two? It does seem to improve the flavour anyway. However, I am ashamed to say that I have never fried any green tomatoes, which is doubtless a great personal failing of mine. The skillet has thus been deprived of what Ruth and Idgie would perhaps consider to be its main function, to deal with those green tomatoes.) Idgie, who is a hopeless cook, cannot prepare them, so Ruth has to do it. Throughout the film people keep tasting them to see if they are up to standard. The modern story of the film consists of tales told by an old lady in a retirement home to a much younger woman, and the effect this has on transforming her life. That younger woman is played by Kathy Bates, whose performance is breathtaking in its sensitivity and brilliance. But then, Kathy Bates has always been one of everybody's favourite and most endearing actresses, and we all know what a genius she is. The old woman is played equally brilliantly by the famous Jessica Tandy, veteran of a lifetime of superlative achievements in both stage and screen. Before TV wiped all the brains of the public as clean as a virgin hard disc, people used to tell stories, and there was such a thing as verbal communication. (And people didn't even have to use their thumbs to communicate, like today's simian-thumbed and simian-brained text messagers.) This film is all about the power of stories to stir the imagination and transform lives. Even as late as the 1960s, some old women still survived in the South who could tell stories for hours on end. They are all gone now, and it is like what happened after the time of Homer, when the last of the bards died. The best rendering in fiction of the 'power of stories' is probably the novella by Mircea Eliade entitled THE OLD MAN AND THE BUREAUCRATS. (Eliade wrote the story of Coppola's film YOUTH WITHOUT YOUTH, 2007, though that film was very disappointing and a poor adaptation.) The stories told by Jessica Tandy are about Idgie and Ruth. In those lengthy flashback sequences, the two young women are brilliantly portrayed by the two Mary's, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Mary-Louise Parker. Certainly this is one of the greatest 'sisterhood' films ever made. Their story is full of love, pain, pathos, loss, tragedy, and joy. Not unlike life. If you can see this without shedding a tear, then there is no hope for you. Good old Fannie, may she long keep flying her Flagg. "},{"Title":"This film is what movies should be about...!","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have viewed this marvelous film at least 2 dozen times. As with all great movies, you will always catch something new with each watching.If you want to be charmed, enchanted, moved, and find yourself wishing.... This is a film you will cherish.I won't belabor more than others have written so well. It is a film that resides in my permanent library on my top shelf. When I watch it again, I find myself wishing that I knew the characters personally and somehow find that I do.This film is one of the only that I esteem. It adds to your life. It hugs the heart and enriches who you are.I want to thank all the marvelous actors. If they ever wondered why they chose their profession, this film is why.200 years from now it will be loved and valued. The test of time is guaranteed with Fried Green Tomatoes! "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gentle movie that doesn't pretend to be more than it is.It's storytelling time and this time through the eyes of an optimistic, pepper old lady in a home to her younger friend going through a midlife crisis in the 80's. The movie uses this setup to interrupt the main story and inject a bit of humor.After the loss of a respectively boyfriend/brother two girls overcome their grieve and become intimate friends. From here on, the story handles topics like wife-beating and racism, friendship/love and family-life in equal measures. The plots trots along well and although it doesn't avoid drama, it never drowns itself in it. The end-result is that when almost at the end drama really hits hard, it makes a lot more impact. But even after that point, the movie seems to flow on gently.For everyone that was young in the 80/90's the actresses aren't unfamiliar and it's rather a shame they haven't been used more.Don't expect anything epic or world-shattering, however a movie that runs for 2 hours and never gets dull or too silly or needs sledgehammer plot twists, is a gem in my book. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie, and it prompted me to visit Juliette, GA, the actual town used as the set for the filming. It's still there today, almost exactly as seen in the movie, and the Whistle Stop Cafe there has fried green tomatoes that far outshine the ones in Irondale, AL's Whistle Stop Cafe. Tours of the town take you to the spot where Frank's truck was pulled from the Ocmulgee River, to visit the grave of Buddy's arm, and to the infamous barbecue pit out back of the cafe. If you love the movie, you'll want to see the town. Each October, there's a Green Tomato Festival, and you can absolutely sense the presence of Idgie and Ruth, and Big George and his mama as you sit in the cafe and feel the rumble of the passing trains on the tracks just outside the windows. I would highly recommend you watch the film, go visit the town, then go home and watch it again to see how many places you can recognize. THere's a website for the town, www.juliettega.com. "},{"Title":"Girl Power in the Deep South","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A heartwarming female bonding movie that has all the elements of a good ol' Southern yarn.It was a good thing that Kathy Bates made this movie so soon after Misery. She had made such an impression as a psycho in the earlier film that she might have had trouble getting herself out from under the mantle of Annie Wilkes. But she plays a completely different character here, a dowdy, bored housewife who befriends a little old lady forgotten in a retirement home (Jessica Tandy). Tandy begins to tell her the story of a female relative, Idgie Threadgoode, and her deep friendship with Ruth, which is played out in flashback by Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker. The story is one of those melodramatic, life-affirming ones, but it's acted extremely well by the four women, and the film mostly avoids the treacle that threatens to come pouring in around the edges.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Intelligent, heart-warming, poignant, uplifting and gratifying...","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am running out of words to describe how good Fried Green Tomatoes was. It may be two or three minutes too long, but other than that, there is very little wrong with this film. The film is amazing to look at, with gorgeous scenery and cinematography, and the score was beautiful. Fried Green Tomatoes also has an intelligent and heart-warming story, strong direction and some charming, funny and touching dialogue as well. The ending was suitably uplifting, but I admit I did shed a tear, mostly because I was so impressed by how beautiful the film was.Also superb is the acting. Jessica Tandy is absolutely brilliant in this film, and quite rightly received an Oscar nomination. She plays an old-timer in the American South, who tells stories of the bigotry she encountered during her youth in the 1930s. Kathy Bates is a sheer delight as Evelyn, a modern-day housewife who visits Tandy in the nursing home and finds inspiration in memories from her past. Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker are terrific as well as Ingrid and Ruth.Overall, Fried Green Tomatoes is a lovely little film, wonderfully acted and just very relaxing to watch. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"You'll Totally Love This Movie!","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green Tomatoes is one of my ALL TIME favorite movies. I am a huge fan of Kathy Bates, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Mary Louise Parker. They do SO well in the movie, and Jessica Tandy and Cicely Tyson, among others, also make the film a classic! It makes you want to live in Whistle Stop and check out the menu at the Whistle Stop Cafe! I have the book AND the movie, and I have watched it over and over and over. No matter how many times I watch it, I still feel just as nostalgic and I get caught up in life in Whistle Stop with Idgie and Ruth. Kathy Bates does a great job playing Evelyn Couch, and no one could do better with Idgie's character than Mary Stuart Masterson. The town of Whistle Stop is so believable that you almost want to see if you can really find it on a map! Fannie Flagg does a superb job with this one, and the film is most enjoyable. Some people may call this a chick flick, but I bet just as many men enjoy this movie just like I do. If you haven't ever watched it before, you won't want to miss this classic! It is SUPERB! "},{"Title":"An Old Friend of  a Movie","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are films that linger in memory for the warmth they exude and the impression they leave. So it is with the now 15 year old film FRIED GREEN TOMATOES based on the novel 'Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe' by Fannie Flagg and arranged for the screen by that author. This is a film that explores racism, feminism, respect for the elderly, women's rights, and so very much more in a manner that is infectious to watch repeatedly and defies forgetting.Told on two levels, the film is narrated by the elderly Ninny Threadgoode (a luminous Jessica Tandy) who idles away her hours in her nursing home with stories about her childhood she shares with the sad, obese, emotionally fragile Evelyn (Kathy Bates) whose life of misery is slowly corrected by Ninny's tales of how two women in the past overcame impossible odds. The story she tells dates back to Alabama in the 1930s when a young upstart Idgie Threadgoode (Mary Stuart Masterson) is calmed by a frightened but solid Ruth Jamison (Mary-Louise Parker) and how their partnering results in a series of events that involve murder, racism, and some very strange events.The cast is superb, the script is delicious (!), and Jon Avnet directs with aplomb not only the fresh talent mentioned above, but also such fine actors as Cicely Tyson, Chris O'Donnell, Stan Shaw, Lois Smith and a large cast of supporting actors. The re-creation of the Old South is palpably well focused as is the hilarious and touching stance from the contemporary standpoint of the nursing home and house of the chameleon Evelyn. It is a choice bit of film-making and one that deserves a place in every film lover's library. Grady Harp "}{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green Tomatoes is a movie with 2 stories Idgie and Ruth, and Evelyn and Ninnie. It is about friendship and love and how friendship and love can sustain women through hard times and crises. Idgie gives Ruth strength and Ruth gives Idgie redemption. Without Idgie's strength, Ruth would have buried and broken by her violent husband. Without Ruth's love, Idgie's wildness would have destroyed her in the end. They became more than the sum of their parts. Ninnie's early life had been so full of love, from Idgie & Ruth, from her husband and son, that it still illuminates her present life, even though she old and in a nursing home. Ninnie gave some of that love and strength to Evelyn and helped Evelyn survive her journey to self enlightenment. I love this movie. I made me laugh (Evenlyn's husband asking her how she could accidentally hit another car a dozen times) and it made me cry. It is a wonderful tribute to the sustenance that can be derived from true friendship. "},{"Title":"Touching if flawed tale of Southern women's friendships","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is definitely an engaging, amusing, and moving film...a tribute to the power of friendship, viewed through two sets of relationships between women. One is the friendship that develops between a middle aged woman and an elderly lady in a nursing home. The other is the strong bond between two younger women from a bygone era. I appreciated the Southern setting, with its verandahed home, al fresco wedding reception, and so forth. However, I do have a few complaints to be discussed later.The film relates a story within a story, both set in Alabama. It begins with an unhappily married, insecure, overweight middle aged woman, Evelyn Couch, who is generally trodden upon by others and deals with her problems by eating compulsively. While visiting her husband's aunt in a facility for seniors, she befriends an octogenarian resident named Ninny Threadgoode. Over the course of several months, Ninny gradually relates a tale which causes an amazing transformation in Evelyn. This 'inner story' involves two young women from the 1930's, Idgie Threadgoode and Ruth Jamison, who become friends after a dramatic event in Idgie's childhood involving her brother, Buddy, Ruth's beau. The sharing of this experience leads to a warm friendship between the pair. Idgie later rescues Ruth from an abusive relationship with her despicable husband, Frank, and the women set up & operate a diner called the Whistle Stop Cafe, whose specialty is fried green tomatoes.The actresses are brilliant in their roles. The incredible Jessica Tandy plays Ninny, with Kathy Bates in the role of the unhappy housewife, Evelyn. Marie-Louise Parker is totally endearing as Ruth, the sweet, strait laced, and gentle victim of spousal abuse. Mary Stuart Masterson perfectly captures the wild, feisty, poker playing, no nonsense Idgie. My compliments also to Chris O'Donnell (Buddy), Stan Shaw (Big George), and Cecily Tyson (his mother, Sipsey). The wonderful child actress who portrays the tomboyish younger Idgie bears an uncanny resemblance to the adult version. Both friendship stories are well captured. Evelyn's newfound older friend, Ninny, has in a relatively short period of time a profound effect on Evelyn's life, causing her to improve her diet & exercise habits and become more assertive in her relationships. Consequently this elicits a tremendous sense of gratitude, such that her loyalty to Ninny might be viewed as surpassing her commitment to her husband (not particularly the best message). As for Idgie and Ruth, they experience a profoundly moving friendship & deep loyalty, sharing laughs (the food fight!) as well as trials and pain. A lesbian relationship is not specified, but I personally detected sexual undertones in Idgie's attitude. Their relationship is ambiguous and it would have been a more effective tribute to the power of friendship if the platonic nature had been made crystal clear. Much as I like Jessica Tandy, I found Evelyn's tale all a wee bit foolish & stereotypical and would just have soon had only ONE story, the 1930's characters.From my own (female) perspective, my complaints lie mainly with its feminist philosophies. Why must movies about strong relationships between women invariably have the male roles either oppressive monsters or absolute jerks? Here Frank is a horrendous wife beater and Evelyn's husband, Ed, the stereotypical unappreciative, uncaring idiot obsessed with TV sports and beer. I have a bit of news for screenwriters...women happily married to reasonable husbands can have strong friendships, too. Also, it's the classic scenario of portraying the housewife (Evelyn) as unfulfilled without a job outside the home. The parking lot scene is amusing but frankly, I found her Women's Awareness Group utterly ridiculous and an insult to the intelligence of all women. Aside from the feminist issues, the film also gives (predictably) a rather negative portrayal of the Reverend. In any case, this movie should be required viewing for spousal abusers! Others have compared it to Steel Magnolias, which also revolves around friendships between Southern women. Fried Green Tomatoes explores these relationships in greater depth (especially the one between Ruth & Idgie) but personally, I preferred Steel Magnolias, which focuses on the mother-daughter bond. However, Fried Green Tomatoes is definitely a captivating tale with some unforgettable and heart wrenching moments as well as amusing scenarios, including certain aspects of the ending, which I won't divulge but are something of a hoot! "},{"Title":"A hearty slice of American history and feminism.","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To say that Fried Green Tomatoes is the best chick flick ever made would be true, but at the same time it would be a huge misrepresentation of a great story with serious messages for everyone.The best thing about this movie is the way it captures the essence of the American south, for better or worse. Small town people were confused and beautiful at once in the 1940's and no film I've seen besides maybe In The Heat of the Night paints that picture a well as Fried Green Tomatoes. I think the lesbian undertones here are shown very realistically and tastefully unlike many other films where lesbians are portrayed as man-bashing brutes, this film shows the tender side of the friendships that often spawn relationships beyond friendship. The two main characters are caught in a time and place where that is impossible to display but they manage to be happy.The story weaves together traditional Southern values with modern American women's issues and guess what? A modern woman would learn a whole lot about what it means to be strong and independent from the lessons of an old southern belle.Absolutely essential viewing that is too often overlooked, if you're looking for a chick flick to watch with your girlfriend or wife that won't put you to sleep or make you need a shot of Jack Daniels afterwards to feel like a man again, Fried Green Tomatoes is your best bet.9 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Fried Green Tomatoes in Forever Tasty ****","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wonderful motion picture with a stellar cast.Kathy Bates, as Mrs. Couch, along with her husband, go to a nursing home repeatedly to visit his cantankerous aunt. While they get thrown out of her room repeatedly, Bates soon strikes up a friendship with one of the residents who tells her an unbelievable story of love, tragedy, redemption in the south following World War 1.The older woman is marvelously played by the late Jessica Tandy, who received a best supporting Oscar nomination for her performance.There are wonderful performances by Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louise Parker who form a life's friendship following the tragic death of one's brother while trying to retrieve a hat lost by the other woman along railroad tracks.This is a story of a brutal marriage subjected to one of the girls. It is well told along the backdrop of the 1930s and the Ku Klux Klan operating in both Alabama and Georgia.The picture works well because it treats a murder of the abusive husband in a comical way and there is a triumph of the human spirit along the way.This film was vastly under-rated. "},{"Title":"Watch it With Some Delicious Fried Green Tomatoes","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jon Avnet's 'Fried Green Tomatoes' is a deliciously delightful film that tells dual stories of four women. The story of Evelyn and Ninny deals with various themes such as age, loneliness, feeling useless and unappreciated and love while Ruth and Idgie's story is that presents themes like devotion, compassion, courage, racism and love. However, at heart, 'Fried Green Tomatoes' is about friendship.Fannie Flagg adapts the screenplay from her very own novel and gives it a poetic feel. Needless to say, the writing is terrific. Director Jon Avnet flourishes in his profession as he tells the story of four incredibly strong women with grace and sincerity. The memorable soundtrack and vivacious cinematography are subtly used but with maximum effect.'Fried Green Tomatoes' showcases four marvelous performances. The late Jessica Tandy (as the vivacious and friendly Ninny) who is always a delight to watch on screen, Kathy Bates (as the shy pushover who transforms into the strong independent Evelyn), Mary Louise-Parker (as the vulnerable yet courageous Ruth) and Mary Stuart Masterson (as the free-spirited kind-hearted tomboy Idgy) are first rate. Thanks to them the connection and love between the characters shine on screen. Cicely Tyson deserves special mention in a wonderful supporting role.'Fried Green Tomatoes' is a movie that pleasantly surprised me. I was expecting a good film but ended up watching something magnificent. 'Fried Green Tomatoes' is about, having a best friend, being a best friend. "},{"Title":"One words can't describe this movie....","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't even know how many times I have seen this movie. I am 15 years old and I started watching it about 8. I have even been to where they filmed this movie & ate in the cafe! That was the most greatest gift ever, thanks to my sister! This movie reminds me of how important it is to have friends. Without friends, life isn't life. Yes, husbands are close, but friends are closer. Keep people you love and care for closest to you...that is what this movie taught me. When I was little I use to go along with the movie and repeat what they said. Such as....Towanda!! I don't know how you spell her name. I hope that if you haven't seen this movie, that you do! It's great. It is kind of sad, but just like life, everyone has their sad moments. I wish Buddy would have been in the movie more, but oh well. Thanks a bunch, make sure you go rent this movie!!  "},{"Title":"Emotionally Good- Beautifully Filmed","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first thing I want to stress about this movie is the incredible acting. Each actor, from the lead to the minors were just great. They fit so well to the composition and texture of the movie that whenever a new actor appeared I couldn't help myself from being awed.Apart from the acting, the way the film was captured in union with the setting was very successful. The natural beauty of southern American landscapes stood out in the movie. Each scene felt like a new experience and really made me wonder what's going to happen next. These are essential factors in the success of a movie and this movie definitely used these factors well. The only negative part about this movie could be that it is a bit too sentimental and therefore, might not be everyone's cup of tea. Other than that it is undoubtedly a success and I definitely recommend film buffs to watch it. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt to the Core","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched this film for the 3rd or 4th time and each time it touches me to the very depth of my heart. It is a perfectly made film, flawlessly acted, brilliantly written and directed. More of the actors, and the director, should have received Oscar nominations. This is a film about life and all of its elements family, tragedy, loss, racism, physical abuse, emotional abuse, abuse of power, marriage, spirituality, but most of all the spirit of love and deep, abiding friendship that both conflicts and resonates deeply through all of the conjoined characters, their lives, and their purpose. Few films will touch you as deeply as Fried Green Tomatoes, its profound message one you will carry with you every day of your life, with everyone you know. This is one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"as i walk this land of broken dreams...i  have visions of many things...happiness is just an illusion, filled with sadness and confusion","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" first off before i begin i just want to clarify something...i kept on getting the feeling that Ninny was actually Idgie while watching the movie and i know that a lot of fans of this movie were wondering the same thing. to clarify that up, in the book Ninny and Idgie are actually sister-in-laws and the movie never really says anything about that and kept a lot of people wondering if they didn't actually read the book. i never wanted to watch this movie even though i knew that this was a great movie...i thought it was too  chick flicky ??? . well, i finally got to watch this movie and what a treasure i found! i got to watch the extended blu-ray edition, no less! if you're watching this movie for the first time like me, i recommend for guys and girls to get some tissue ready. now i'm not saying that you're going to need it...but for me personally and i don't really shed tears at movies, my eyes got moist about fifteen minutes into the movie and that has never happened before...and i've watched a gazillion movies.ultimately this movie is about the power of friendship and love and how that can overcome just about anything that you can throw at it. the story starts off in contemporary times and the first friendship starts there, between Ninny and Evelyn who is stuck in a suffocating marriage...from there we flash back and forth in time and we get to the other story of friendship and love between two women. sounds like a chick flick?...well don't worry you guys out there, stick with it and in there is the reward.i'm surprised that no one won an Oscar for acting in this movie, you had 3 strong best supporting actress awards in Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy and Cicely Tyson. then either Mary Masterson or Mary Parker could and should have won an Oscar for best actress. its a shame really that this movie isn't more recognized and is solely known to be a good chick flick.this movie goes into my top 100 movies easily and will now be watched many more times over the coming years. an absolute American treasure and it gets me mad when people bash it. i've looked around and it seems women are the ones who are bashing this movie. they must be some fu*ked- up people. it's sad and i guess they've never loved or lost that deeply...oh well, i guess they're automatons with no emotion.people who've never watched this movie before, if you are a fan of movies and good ones in particular, please watch this movie, its an American masterpiece well deserving its place in great American cinematography and i believe its an all-time classic already. we should all have some fried green tomatoes... "},{"Title":"A truly great film.","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was first introduced to this movie by flipping through the channels and I believe it was on HBO. It was about twenty minutes into the movie and I thought to give it a chance and my mouth was open in awe by the end of the movie. I've seen the movie many many times since that first time and I love it more and more every time. It has amazing acting, especially from Kathy Bates. This movie truly show's off her amazing acting abilities. There is not one single scene with bad acting in it and that is very hard to find in any movie ever. I love the evolution of all the characters. Evelyn going from being the housewife trying to fix her marriage, to fixing her life herself. Ruth going from the poor abused house wife to being stronger and fighting for her baby against her husband. Idgie never really changed but it's amazing to see how she influences every one else's life in extraordinary ways. This movie is the ultimate in story telling. Not just for Evelyn but for the viewers watching the film. A true classic. "}{"Title":"Story of friendship","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is based on a novel that takes place in Alabama.The modern story has timid housewife Evelyn Couch (Kathy Bates) who befriends an old woman Ninny Threadgoode (Jessica Tandy) at a retirement home. She recounts an old story from depression era.She tells the story of Idgie Threadgoode (Mary Stuart Masterson) and her friendship with Ruth Jamison (Mary-Louise Parker). Their lives are forever linked by the death of Idgie's brother who was Ruth's boyfriend.The modern story doesn't have quite the punch. The old time story exceeds it in almost every way. It may have been an important part of the novel, but I don't know if the modern story necessarily added anything to the movie. Both Marys are outstanding in their roles. Their characters are truly the center of this movie. "},{"Title":"Secret's in the sauce!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Forget the endless tide of quick-fix Chicken Soup books; this is REAL soul food.  In fact, I always put on a few pounds just from the cinematography! Jessica Tandy was one of the all-time greats (several years after her death she is still sorely missed), and as usual, Parker and Masterson are perfectly poured, measure for measure, into their beautifully real characters.  Bates' performance here really put her among the ranks, too. Backed up by a rich soundtrack and other aesthetic semi-tangibles, this kind of delicious dish is appreciable in every respect, even for a picky vegetarian like myself. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sweet modern classic","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was at times hysterical and at other times tugged at your heart strings. The film was based on a book. The film looked great and was well written and had wonderful actors portraying some great characters that you could really get attached to.I was a little disappointed that the film watered down the relationship of the two female characters. I realize that it would have never made it to main-stream America if the filmmakers hadn't. It was still very clear that there is a relationship in the film if you are paying attention for the simple little clues. Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker did an amazing job capturing the chemistry between these two female characters. It's always amazing to watch Jessica Tandy act as she brings such heart to any character she portrays. Kathy Bates plays Evelyn and makes her so truthful and funny. The film is marketed as a feel good film and it does contain those moments, but it leans more toward drama side than the comedy side. Don't let anything stop you from watching this brilliant sweet modern classic. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"22 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think I have seen the movie at least 5 or more times. I love it. You see something each time you watch it that you missed the first time. My friend and I also went to the Whistle Cafe Stop Cafe in Juliette, Ga and had lunch. It was terrific. We had Peach Cobbler for desert and we could have gone back for more. I bought candy and soap in the Honeycomb Store and today I ordered some more. The soap is so nice you can smell it all over my house. The candy is awesome. Take time to see the movie. Be sure to visit the Whistle Stop Cafe in Juliette, Ga and to also stop in at the Honeycomb and what ever other stores are open. I love places like this that are still there for others to see. It makes the movie seem even more real. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Story of Friendship","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw Fried Green Tomatoes, I didn't like it too much (I was 8, so I didn't understand it) Now seeing years later, it has become one of my favorite movies.Fried Green Tomatoes is great film of friendship. A woman meets an elderly woman at a nursing home, she tells her a beautiful story of friendship between two woman.Now you can imagine, as an 8 year old, my mother telling me what its about, I found it quite boring.But now, I saw it recently, and fell in love with it. The story itself was fantastic. The acting was pitch perfect. I loved every little thing about it.Fried Green Tomatoes is wonderful film that all people should see.I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fried Green Tomatoes (At The Whistle Stop Cafe)!","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My mother, sister, and I love this movie. The characters, Evelyn (Kathy Bates), Ninny (Jessica Tandy), Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson), and Ruth (Mary-Louise Parker) are awesome. Even though Fried Green Tomatoes was actually filmed somewhere in Georgia, it is actually supposed to be set in Alabama (my home state!!!). There really is (or was) a Whistle Stop Cafe in Irondale, Alabama, and someday I would like to eat there. This movie rocks! And, those of you who say Fried Green Tomatoes is a gay movie and that Idgie is a lesbian-Stop saying that! My mom, sister, dad, and I have seen this movie several times, and there's no gay going on in it. Plus, Idgie is *not* a lesbian; she's just a tomboy. If you have not seen this movie, go out and rent it! This is a must-see for anybody who is proud of living in the South! "},{"Title":"great movie about friend ship","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hi,I read some comments about the movie and the lesbian comments,I personally think you narrow minded people get your minds out off the gutter!!!! the movie is wonderful and you people have blown me away with your comments.Please tell me why everything has to contain or be about sex. I believe the story is innocent and shows young people how a real friendship should be.and I'm not gay!!!and i don't believe people look for that in every movie,it is an honest and down to earth movie. so grow up people!!!!!!!!!My husband and i let our girls watch the movie to show them what friendship is all about.I hope my girls have a friends like Idgie and Ruth are.Life is to short to worry about if people r straight or gay.The writer is a great story teller.i think some people who have watched the movie like i have will see that life is great when you have friends and family around to support you,as Idgie and her family and the town supported Ruth and her baby.so please when watching a movie listen for the message and keep your minds on the story and not on sex maybe you can enjoy a movie and get the plot off it.please try to watch it without the awful judgment. "},{"Title":"Feet on the ground","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unlike a lot of Hollywood trash, this movie presents more human characters complete with trials, tribulations and very warm 3 dimensional peoples-people.Kathy Bates is - as always - outstanding and the acting in general is very high standard, high impact stuff but with its roots deep in genuine human psyche.There is enough going on in the movie to satisfy the adrenaline-dependant, but not enough to detract from the storyline or the overall feeling. The continuity between past and present flows evenly and serves to enhance, rather than hinder.Nice to see that proper film-making hasn't died! This isn't a chick-flick, its a people flick and deserves its place in our DVD library. It has its feet well and truly on the ground. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My favorite movie of all time. I have seen it more time than I care to admit. The only thing I can add to the above comments, is that you should watch the movie again, then read the book and watch it once more. You will enjoy the movie far more after that. The book describes the relationship between Idgie and Ruth in a heartwarming and loving way. The acceptance of Ruth by Idgie's parents and other family members is remarkably described with love and delicacy of their relationship. While their relationship is definitely lesbian, even the most homophobic person on earth would enjoy the book, and could not fault Fanny Flagg in the book's handling of their love for each other, especially in that era. "},{"Title":"Still Love It After 16 years","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Just watched Fried Green Tomatoes again with my 13 year old daughter. I told her and a friend that if after 10 minutes they didn't like it, they could switch to something else. They were hooked. It was so great watching it again through the laughter and tears. The character of Idgie is such an inspiration to young women. She dares to be different, embracing her uniqueness when still a little oyster. The portrayal of Eveyln by Kathryn Bates was priceless as well. Being 45 myself and having those hormonal upheavals, I appreciated her struggles as a women even more this time around. This movie gives me the strength to be confident in myself as a unique individual who isn't so much in the pretty package anymore. "}{"Title":"Bittersweet Masterpiece In An Authentic Southern Setting.","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Born and raised in lower Alabama, I found this work thoroughly enchanting. It truly depicts the life in thousands of little nowhere towns peppering the deep southern US from Georgia through Alabama, Mississippi, and select areas of Louisiana. But beyond that, this movie does more than enchant you with its whimsical Southern tones, and Georgia notes. It weaves a spell about you and transports you to 1930's Alabama, where it holds you in thrall until the bittersweet end.This is not a feel-good movie. It is not there for mere entertainment. It sits, and waits, for those who need its powers to heal the inner self, or who need guidance in the quest for a higher self.If you're able to understand its lessons, you will love this work as much as I do.It rates a 9.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Wonderfully evocative","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that I take down from the shelf periodically and watch again. Mainly for the atmosphere it exudes. A time when railroads running through a town in North America made it come alive both financially and socially. So many themes are interwoven in this movie which takes place in the south of the Ku Klux Klan and delicate southern women. Here all is turned sideways and we emerge from the movie with a different and understanding perspective.The book on which this film is based (Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe by Fannie Flagg - she of Candid Camera fame for the older bunch out there)is far more complex in its telling with more story lines but here it is simplified for the film and understandably.The story is told in the present, with frequent flashbacks and narrated by the amazing Jessica Tandy in the role of Ms. Threadgoode, an older lady in a nursing home befriended by Evelyn Couch, played by the wonderful Kathy Bates. Evelyn becomes enthralled with the story and through hearing it starts to make positive changes in her own sad life.The back-story is of the 1930s in Alabama where two young women overcome adversity and partner in the running of a successful café. Through murder, racism, and an understated lesbian theme, Idgie Threadgoode (Mary Stuart Masterson) forms a solid and enduring bond with Ruth Jamison (Mary-Louise Parker).The supporting cast, which includes Cicely Tyson and a charming Chris O'Donnell work a magic that is quite mesmerizing. A few dropped threads (Buddy Junior, Idgie's marriage which didn't change her name in that era, a dangling ending) that were slightly unsatisfying but they did not spoil the overall feel for this classic. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Good Film","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green tomatoes has a good story, some fantastic performances, good direction, and a good screenplay. The story weaves between two stories, one of idgie Threadgood, a wild woman who with her best friend opens a small café called The Whistle Stop Cafe, that is known particularly for its Friend Green Tomatoes. We learn early on that Idgie will be accused of murder and put to trail, but we are not told whether she did it or not. The other story is told by Ninny Threadgood an elderly woman in a hospital who has become friends with a depressed you woman played by Kathy Bates and tels her the above story. Ninny appears to have been there, but she is never given a character to fit with, and in case your wondering this is for a good reason. This is a very good look at southern life, and a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Honey I hit a car accidentally four times","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a Hollywood cutesy movie. When Buddy is caught on the tracks you kind of relax because you know he will free himself at the last second. Wrong! Is this a movie reflecting real life? Yes it is. I'm not real sure I enjoyed this movie because I guess I like cutesy better. If you want realistic this is your movie. I really felt I was watching real life. Now the good things. The food throwing in the kitchen was great especially funny when Idgie spread chocolate frosting on Grady. When the minister Scroggins testified that Ingie was at a three day revival when Bennit disappeared I couldn't believe it until I was told the book was Moby Dick and not the bible. Pretty funny the way they cooked up Bennit and served him to the law man. The actual murder scene was quite anti-climatic as everything had been settled by then. Worth seeing? Yes. Do I want to see it again? Maybe, someday. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes begins as Evelyn Couch (Kathy Bates) an emotionally repressed housewife with a habit of drowning her sorrows eating many candy bars. Her husband Ed (Gailard Sartain) barely acknowledges her existence, and while he visits his aunt at a nursing home every week, Evelyn is not permitted to come into the room because the old women doesn't like her. One visit, while waiting out Ed's visit, Evelyn meets Ninny Threadgoode (Jessica Tandy), a frail but feisty old woman who lives at the same nursing home and loves to tell stories. Over the span of several weeks, she spins a whopper about one of her relatives, Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson). Back in the 1920s, Idgie was a sweet but fiercely independent woman with her own way of doing things who ran the town diner in Whistle Stop, Alabama. Idgie was very close to her brother Buddy (Chris O'Donnell), and when he died, she wouldn't talk to anyone except Buddy's girl, Ruth Jamison (Mary-Louise Parker). Idgie gave Ruth a job at the cafe after she left her abusive husband, Frank Bennett (Nick Searcy). Between her habit of standing up for herself, standing up to Frank, and serving food to Black people out the back of the diner, Idgie raised the ire of the less tolerant citizens of Whistle Stop, and when Frank mysteriously disappeared, many locals suspected that Idgie, Ruth, and their friends may have been responsible. Evelyn finds herself looking forward to her weekly visits with Ninny, and is inspired by her story to take a new pride in herself and assert her independence from Ed. Evelyn changes her lifestyle eating right, exercising, and not taking crap from anyone. I loved the part where Bates rams the younger girls car, that was funny. The great actresses Kathy Bates and Jessica Tandy are just stellar in this wonderful tale. Fried Green Tomatoes is a good story that shouldn't be missed especially if you grew up in the South. "},{"Title":"great story about southern women","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  fine story about many southern women and their stereotypical and non stereotypical behavior. bellwether for new southern liberation movement for southern women. kathy bates is a natural fine, devoted actress, and jessica tandy performs flawlessly in this interesting story of southern women and their existance. and many evil men they encounter in their lives.stan shaw as big george is a finished actor,who can carry a dramatic serious part to a genuine believable conclusion.cicely tyson as sipsey also performs impeccably. "},{"Title":"A blind rental selection that tops my chart","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can count on two fingers how many movies I have consciously chosen to see more than once (Blues Brothers being the other). This jewel has consistently been my response to What is your favorite all-time movie? In this day and age where sex, violence, drugs, and profanity are a must for a movie to attain high ratings, this one offers a wholesome and entertaining story (with admittedly subtle overtones regarding relationships)that can be viewed by the whole family without having to mute or fast forward every five minutes. I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who tires of the gratuitously offensive offerings of today's fare.  "},{"Title":"Very much worthwile watching!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The expanded Signature Collection LaserDisc version is extremely enjoyable. The characters have so much depth and are truly believable. This movie is hard to describe to someone who hasn't seen it, but I guess if you like Robert Duvall and Robert DeNiro you gonna like this one, too. It's about friendship and self esteem I suppose. Side 4 of the LaserDisc has the wonderul music score isolated on the analog tracks. "},{"Title":"A good and warmhearted movie","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is one of my favorites. Kathy Bates plays a kind lady, Evelyn, who has problems with her husband. She meets the very kind old woman Ninny at the hospital and they starts to talk and Ninny tell Evelyn the memories from her past. In the End of the movie they have a very good relation to each other. But it's not only good and positive things in the story...watch the film now and you will have to dry off some tears of your cheek...  "},{"Title":"And to think I didn't want to see it!!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Back when this film was first released, I saw a clip from it on a film-review programme. I wasn't impressed. One evening, I went round to a friend's house and as was the custom, a video had been hired for our weekly rendezvous. When I picked up the box, I was appalled. How could I stand two hours of this???? Needless to say, I was very wrong! This superb film is now one of my all time favourites and one to which I return with regular affection. Funny, sad, moving - you name it, the emotions are in there. A woman's movie ? - maybe so, but one that can be enjoyed by anyone with a heart - male or female (I am a male). Do yourself a favour and see this under-rated gem. If this don't make you laugh and cry, you ain't alive! By the way, two other films that I was dragged to see and was determined to hate but that became two of my favourites - Grease and One flew over the cucckoo's nest. Watch them all and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very memorable movie, with its two distinct storylines, one in the present day and one in the past.  Very entertaining drama and explores some interesting subplots, leaving quite a bit to the imagination.   "},{"Title":"Ranks as a greatest of All-Time!!!!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is an excellent, must-see!  I think the acting is wonderful and the plot is superb!!!!  As usual, Kathy Bates pulled off another great acting job and the late Jessica Tandy is as great as ever!Even my young nieces and nephews enjoyed the movie -- especially the food fight between Idgie and Ruth at the Whistle Stop Cafe!It is a heart-warming, clean movie about one of the most cherished gifts ever  friends!  Ninny Threadgood even stated that at the end of the movie!Larry S. "},{"Title":"Warm Loving Story","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't want to say much, but if you like a good warm story, lovable characters and a nice movie, this is the one.Each character and casts contribute much for this movie and it's like adding their part in warming up and cooking the green tomatoes.The story is good, the casts are excellent, even the soundtracks are nice.It's a perfect movie for your holiday. Come and see it! "},{"Title":"This film is wonderful, heartwarming, engaging, funny, sad, melancholy......in short, stupendous!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here is a perfect movie. The actors (Kathy Bates, Mary Stuart Masterson, Mary-Louise Parker, and Jessica Tandy in particular) are credible, rounded, warm, funny, absolutely perfect. The plot is (in its way) epic, involving a long time span, with significant developments in both past and present. It is a total must-see!This film too offers tons of memorable moments. It will also supply those quotes to use when one tires of the usual Gone With the Wind or Wizzard of Oz items. You will NOT forget Towanda, or The Secret's in the Sauce in any near future.This movie is a masterpiece, and a masterful presentation of some most significant lives, and of a way of life which should have survived. "},{"Title":"Leaving a message...","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's no other way to put it; there are films that just make you feel good. These films are reasonably called 'feel good' movies; you may watch them and have a good time and a week later forget everything about them In Good Company comes to mind. Other films also make you feel good but also leave an impression, because of the memorable characters they contain and you want to keep close to your heart Barbershop is the perfect example. But there are also 'feel good' movies that break their own rule, scratch the surface looking for something more and they find it leaving a message. Jon Avnet's Fried Green Tomatoes tells a straight story, the one David Lynch waited so many years to tell. Based on a book by Fannie Flagg, the movie introduces us to Evelyn Couch (a sensational Kathy Bates), a woman who's having a mid-life crisis and who's visiting his husband Ed's (Gailard Sartain) aunt at a nursing home. But this aunt doesn't like her, throws things at her and she has to sit outside and wait. And there comes an 83-year-old lady who seems so full of life that we envy her. This is Ninny Threadgoode, played by Jessica Tandy as the most caring, comprehensive, friendly, lovable woman you could meet. It's from her that we learn the main story, in a movie that contains many stories. Because everyone has a story, and sometimes two people share the same story, and nobody can imagine them in different contexts, like Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson) and Ruth (Mary-Louise Parker). In two fantastic performances that depend on each other, Masterson plays Idgie as a rebellious girl who slowly understands what true love and being mature means; while Parker's work represents exactly the opposite. At first, we see Ruth as a quiet lady (always a lady) who follows the Bible's rules by heart and, over the years, she seems to let go, and while never forgetting her values, starts to live a little more freely and holding on to the ones who love her the most.These aren't stereotypes, but basic descriptions, sketches, of two characters that will helplessly grow on you as they grow on each other with time; and of their story, which I want to let you discover. Making use of a classic resource as narration, Avnet lets Tandy's character take us back in time to Ruth and Idgie's world. It's a beautiful world, a beautiful little town and a beautiful Café where these women serve fried green tomatoes that Avnet also displays and shoots classically. The music, by Thomas Newman, is also classic, non- intrusive in a sense.So there's no risk in what we see on screen, and no risk in the story either; the tale is predictable and the 'intrigue' plot-line it contains could have been resolved differently. But Avnet risks everything in one aspect, and that's where his movie succeeds. He utterly trusts his main actors (his four main actresses, more accurately) in the creation of the characters I told you about; and they respond, making every word sound true. That's why we don't question that characters tell the same story three times and nothing feels clichéd, that's why the connection that Evelyn has with two people she never met is intensely real. You may wonder, after all this, what the message I'm talking about is. It's quite simple actually that friendship conquers all, friendship beats all odds; the friends we meet along the way make us who we are. There are so many films that struggle so hard to get that simple message through and it never happens. Fried Green Tomatoes achieves it and still kindly leaves some things unsaid for us to meditate; and it makes us feel good, and it makes us want to eat these fried green tomatoes, whatever they are. "},{"Title":"Amazing story telling","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watched this movie a long time back. One of the best movies I have ever seen. The best part of the movie is the amazing story telling.I got glued as if I was listening to a fairy tale. Performances of both Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker were very natural.I specially liked Chris O'Donnell in the short role.Kathy Bates was the best in the role of Evelyn. I really liked the cinematic liberty of not showing the relative whom she come to visit at the nursing home. This shows the director's insight of focusing only on the relationship of the two women.Altogether a great movie experience..and what more???...I even started making fried green tomatoes!!! "},{"Title":"A Beauty !","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Believe me, I will give you more points but it is the highest point available on the scale. FGP was and it is, still the best, calmest, soothest & prettiest movie, that I have ever seen in my life. Supper cool, coolest.Funniest at the same time. You showed us popping heads of pretty-pretty women. Gothnic or ethnic air, may that was that spell-binding thing. Hey! What was that! Sorry, could not come to taste the dish. By the way how did it taste. Can I get the recipe, I'll be delighted though I think I'll avoid fatty stuff, just for taste sake. Thanx. A very-very warm welcome. I mean why have you stopped making more of such stuff... movie I mean. "},{"Title":"A warm story like a cup of tea on sunny Sunday afternoon","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I got to knew this movie when it's shown on TV. I didn't watch it carefully in the beginning as it's interrupted by ADs quite often. But I was moved right in the middle and couldn't help loving this movie.Then I read some reviews here and learned it is based on a book named fried green tomatoes at the whistle stop café .I read the book recently and I would say there is a little difference between the book and the movie, but both of them are great. It makes me love the life in Alabama, quiet and peaceful and lovely. The book tells more about the story but you can get moved by the movie as well.I definitely suggest you rent it and watch it with some girl friends on Sunny afternoon. (I guess girls may love the movie more)I also strongly recommend you to read the book. It's awesome and makes me cry. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green Tomatoes is an outstanding movie about the trials of life. I would recommend this movie to anyone. Whether your 8 or 80 this movie will touch you at the heart and will show you what friendship really is. Fried Green Tomatoes ends leaving you feeling refreshed and ready to face the world. It teaches you ethics and manners and the joys of friendship, love, and most importantly happiness. It helps you let go of loved ones that have passed away without teaching you to forget about them. This is an exciting, fun, yet sad movie that will keep you wondering what happens next. When you have some free time, just sit down, pop in the tape, and enjoy one of the best films ever made. "},{"Title":"A one-in-a-million-movie. Pure gold!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Haven't watched this movie for two or three years now and I had almost forgotten how utterly beautiful it is. But it was aired on TV last night and watching it brought back everything. You just can't help but becoming involved in the lives of Idgie, Ruth, Evelyn and Ninny! Once again I shared laughter, tears and love with them all. This was easily the 10th time I had seen it, and it never loses its charm. The score is so beautiful and hauntingly sad that it actually hurts and it works hand in hand with the terrific camera-work providing magnificent shots and pictures; the entire cast, main and supporting actors alike, are doing an awesome job (and I love them for it); and the story itself is just so great... Why Fried Green Tomatoes didn't get any Academy Award will always be beyond me- because IMO everybody's performance (on screen and behind the camera) is just perfect.It was stated that this movie is a movie only girls can relate to, and even worse, that it was a chick-flick. I honestly think this is a major insult. Pretty Woman, yes, THAT's a chick-flick (which I like), but not this one. I should know because after having seen (and by chance taped) it for the first time I showed this movie to everybody who couldn't hide quickly enough (including my father, my brother and several male friends) and I swear everybody was just as captivated by Fried Green Tomatoes as I was. I'll never forget my older brother getting upset as Frank's shoving pregnant Ruth down the stairs. Nope, this definitely isn't a chick-flick. It's a beautiful warm quality movie about true friendship and how it can give you the courage to change your life and to stand up against racism, cowardice and hatred.I have thought long and hard whether I could come up with even one single thing I didn't like about Fried Green Tomatoes... but frankly, there is nothing. IMO it's a gem, and I can just say do yourself a favor and watch this movie.SPOILER AHEAD! When I first watched the movie, I didn't know what to expect, all I knew was it's on tonight and there's nothing better on TV. After half an hour into the movie and almost until the end I was afraid the story would turn out to become a lesbian thing. Don't get me wrong- nothing against lesbians, but we've had so many romantic movies already, but there are only a handful of films about friendship and guts and strong women and even fewer of those are actually any good. Anyway, I was afraid this movie would be reduced to just another romance-thing and I was really truly relieved to see the movie ends just as well as it starts. "}{"Title":"Bit of a weepie! Be warned!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I havent cried at a film this much for a while!  A very poignant film, and the switching between the two separate stories is done very well, without lingering on one story for too long.  Great performances by the four leading ladies, as well as by some of the minor characters such as Grady, Big George, and Frank Bennett, a brilliant performance by Nick Searcy.  Lots of funny moments, with the sad moments too, a very realistic film, showing that life has highs and lows, but ultimately quite a feel good film.The only thing I was left wondering, was who Jessica Tandy was in the other story. Her name in the credits was Ninny, but we were never introduced to her younger self. "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very satisfying tale of memories past and the freedom of Kathy Bates' character who finally decides to act like a modern woman based on the youth of an old storyteller at a nursing home when her typical workaholic, dining in front of the numbing tv with a beer in hand husband drags her to see his aunt and she meets this very intriguing and lonesome person. i'm not big on weeping dramas, but this is a movie i can really recommend to anyone who likes a good story that catches you from scene one and makes you think. "},{"Title":"Highly recommendable and highly underrated","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An exceptionally well written, directed and acted film. Great soundtrack and excellent performance of all the actors. Highly recommendable and highly underrated. It´s Shawshank quality and should be high on the IMDB250.An amazing high impact movie on friendship. 10/10  "},{"Title":"the movie i would take with me on an island","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  one of the best and most impressive movies i have ever seen. there are a lot more movies ranking top ten, but this onelets you weep and laugh when you're down and out ... and at the end you are smiling and lucky to live. it gives you hope and lets you believe in human being. nothing for people who can't weep AND laugh. "},{"Title":"THAT SIZZLED IN THE PAN !","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fannie Flagg wrote an incredible book and the movie was and is just as great. Many people have said it's a woman's movie and that men won't like it. All this male can say is Fried Green Tomatoes is a movie that can be enjoyed by both men and women.There isn't a performance that isn't brilliant. Every actor in this movie is in top form. Rent it, Buy it, Watch it, You'll love it!! "},{"Title":"A pleasant concoction, albeit a little bland in portions","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I felt nice and warm after watching the movie. There was the reassuring certainty in every reel that things will turn out alright in the end. Mary-Stuart Masterson, as the tomboy Idgie, gave an eminently likeable performance - sensitive underneath her tough-as-nails exterior, a picture of innocence. Well, inspite of all that, I came away with the feeling that the movie had lost its way somewhere in between. There were so many incidents which were not strung together - the brother's gruesome death on the rail tracks, Idgie's reclusive nature, her return to a gregarious self, and the list could go on. The characters seemed very two-dimensional. What is it that binds the two principal characters - Idgie and Ruth? I never fell into laughing the laughs and crying the cries with them. The flashback and the present could as well have been two separate films and seemed hastily slapped together to introduce two big names Jessica Tandy and Kathy Bates. By the way, the comic element brought to the film by Kathy Bates was quite nice, only it seemed quite out-of-place in the rest of the movie. All in all, I found this movie to be a pleasant concoction of a town full of old-world sentimentality, charm and niceness, even though it may fail to tug at anyone's heartstrings or tickle anybody's ribs. "},{"Title":"This will stand the test of time","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've watched this a few times now over the years and it never fails to entertain and delight. This is so easy on all the senses. It's what this genre of movie-making is all about. The story isn't a sweet story of southern life, it touches on some sensitive subject matters and handles them very well. Great acting performances by all the major players. It depicts the sentiments of that era and the south very well. One of the few movies you can watch more than once without feeling like you're watching a re-run, and you realize that you have forgotten parts of the story! It's not over-emotional and sickly sweet and it's a lot more than a chick-flick. A great story well told, and well acted. This is a movie for guys too!!! If you haven't seen it, then you are missing out on a treat! "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun, Great Barbecue Recipe","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A housewife (Kathy Bates) who is unhappy with her life befriends an old lady (Jessica Tandy) in a nursing home and is enthralled by the tales she tells of people she used to know.If this film had not shown up on one of my never-ending lists of films to see, I probably never would have watched it. I always assumed it was a chick flick. Maybe in some ways it is, with the unhappy house wife and the lesbian relationship (which is toned way down for the film). But the stories have a wide appeal, especially when it involves a murder mystery. Not to mention the look at race, which is not your typical romantic comedy fare.This is definitely worth watching for just about anyone. You are sure to find something about it you like. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's a great movie. When watching Fried Green Tomatoes we get the clear certainty that everything was meticulously planned. The actors are excellent, each encased in its role. Leases are exceptional, as The Cofee really existed. The plot is powerful. A nostalgic film that makes us meditate and seek explanations for our existence. Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker are in top form. Play their roles with absolute perfection. The scenes of bees and Ruth's death are two sublime moments in the history of cinematography and certainly will be forever in the memory of those who love the movies. Jessica Tandy and Kathy Bates similarly shine in their roles. Director Jon Avnet was an extraordinary competence. Made a perfect job and deserve an Oscar at the height of the result. No doubt a timeless film, magic, awesome. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sure it's a tiny bit corny, but Fried Green Tomatoes is a gem of a movie. It's amazing, in the era of beautiful people and fast paced stories, that it got made at all, but I guess it helped that its stars Kathy Bates and Jessica Tandy had both recently won Oscars for other movies. This film doesn't insult its audience. I like how it tells the tale in a roundabout way through the miserable, modern day housewife (Bates) befriending a sparky elderly woman (Tandy) she meets while visiting another resident at a nursing home. It turns out the elderly lady played merely a bit part and was a young girl, an observer, in the real life juicy tale she starts to tell about rural southern life in the old days, but it tells us a lot about the close ties of a large family and friends in a more innocent time. And she's a great story teller, and Bates's character is taken out of her depression and gains a good friend who suggests ways she can get out more and get over her problems. A simple tale, but a lovely one, with lots of wicked humour and a touch of the macabre. "}{"Title":"A tale for the eternity","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are some movies that I may recommend to everybody, and that don't look outdated with time. That is for sure one nice example. The screenplay is a great adaptation of the novel, the actors are terrific, Jessica Tandy and Kathy Bates in their best (what is a very high level) and Chris O'Donnell in a surprising remarkable participation. Impossible to don't get touched by this film. After 23 years it is such a good job that it still express its value as a masterpiece. The development of the plot with the flashbacks and storytelling was very original and completely adequate. Considering so much trash we see being blockbusters in current theaters, I do emphasize that looking backward we can find some stories that no one should miss. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here's masterful work that imbues you to it through its realism. A housewife who is unhappy with her life befriends an old lady in a nursing home and is enthralled by the tales she tells of people she used to know. This is the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. The only thing that keeps it afloat is the sensitivity of the relationships. I found the acting to be sensational, the dialogue incredible and the director's abilities to be up to par and then some. I really like this type of film, as it reminds me of French movies where it's more about the characters and their environment. "},{"Title":"Very very good writing,Wonderful movie.","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a young man growing up in the Country of my home town of Hawkinsville Pulaski County Georgia, I had saw the movie in rental stores, however I was just never quite interested in watching a movie called Fried Green Tomatoes!!! However one night while watching TV with my family I was flicking through the Chanel's and came upon this very net resting movie that just so,happens to be..yes you guessed it...Fried Green Tomatoes!!! Well right here in the middle of my review I get a knock on my door, some guy tells me that he had just hit a little black dog out in front of my home, we live on a dirt road and people drive on it as if it were a damn Interstate Highway!!!! Sure enough it is my late fathers dog Buster!!! One of the last things my Daddy said was son look out for my dog!!! Now I feel really bad!!! He is not dead yet, he has his wits about him, just a bit loopy, but catching one of those full size Chevy Silverado's ain't good for a 4 pound dog!!! Anyway please pray for Buster!!!! Now back to the Movie review... As I began to watch this movie I just got more and more intertwined into the story!!! I couldn't tell who was more intrigued by Iggies story, me or Evelyne Couch. The story about Frank Bennett was so interesting!!! Heck there wasn't anything about the entire movie that Wasn't interesting!!!! The most interesting part of the entire movie was the fact that Frank Bennett's body was never found!!! And even more the reason WHY IT EAS NEVER FOUND!!!! Big George Put him on the grill and made BBQ out of him and they fed him to the guy from Georgia that was so stern to Iggies that he WAS THE LAW!!!! And you can't beat the law!!!! So to sum it up in a few words!!!! Fried Green Tomatoes is by far one of the best movies I ever saw, most important I. Was working with Georgia Power and happened upon this little Cafe out in Julliett Ga. And before I knew it I was sitting right in the middle of where one of my favorite movies was made..The Whistle Stop Cafe!!!!! You can't imagine my excitement and couldn't wait to tell my wife that I had sat and eat right there where the story played out!!! Now I'm gonna take my wife there to have some of those world famous FRIED GREEN TOMATOES!!!! And if you never watched this MASTERPIECE PLEASE DO!!! "},{"Title":"The Secret's in the Sauce","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oscar winner Kathy Bates stars as Evelyn Couch, who one day while visiting her husbands ailing aunt in a nursing home, stumbles onto Mrs. Threadgoode, a resident of the same nursing home, played by Oscar winner Jessica Tandy. As Mrs. Threadgoode tells her story to Evelyn, we learn a vivid story of a young charismatic girl named Idgie spanning the years before World War One through the Depression.The film is set in the Deep South. Alabama to be exact in a small town called Whistle Stop. The film also stars a young Chris O'Donnell as Buddy Threadgoode, Idgie's brother. When Buddy is tragically killed in front of her eyes, Idgie sets out on a life to live to the fullest, even against her mother's wishes and the town preacher's wishes as well. As she grows, so does her relationship with family friend Ruth Jamison, played by Mary-Louise Parker. Eventually they become an inseparable duo, until Ruth marries Frank Bennett, played by Nick Searcy.Frank Bennett ends up being the plot point of the second half of Mrs. Threadgoode's story, and how Idgie may have or may not have killed him. We may not know what happened to Frank, however, the secrets in the sauce. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has such a good story , don't expect break-neck action or violence , its 2hrs long , but it keeps you captured for that whole two hours , i've seen it more than once , still when i watched it again tonight i had to pause it every time i left the room , not wanting to miss a single frame , i'm a 33yr male and this film is so well screen-played and so well acted ( in every roll ) it just deserves to be seen , anyone who likes being told a good story and loves to indulge themselves into that story should not pass this one by , i think we should all stop by at the Whistle Stop Cafe at some point in our lives it may just enlighten us , one of the best , Daren "},{"Title":"The treasure of being a woman","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sometimes sad and sometimes amusing, Fried green tomatoes is the story of the woman's value. A imaginative and touching film about much things... things about life.The movie talks about of several women that in spite of a hard and sad life caused by the indifference of people who perhaps never had such a big heart as them, they survive thanks to the love and the understanding.Besides the beautiful plot, the performances of Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary Louise Parker and Mary Stuart Masterson are more than special, are unique, exquisite and of course touching.Fried Green Tomatoes is a little of all. So, don't wait just tears, don't wait just laughs, don't wait just an overflow of feelings. This is not only a drama movie. This movie is more than that.* Excuse me for mistakes in words. "},{"Title":"++wonderful movie++","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the movie on LifetimeTV channel, so I bought the DVD. This movie teaches us so much, specially during the hard times. When you watch the entire movie from the beginning to the end, you'll wonder why this stuff happening and what's the significant of it. Then when you bought the DVD you'll watch the 'making of' in the special features and you'll know. The writer(of the book) said that during the hard times on 1980s she start writing this book, and how much she wanted to write about the middle class American. The movie is really uplifting, there's so much to learn about, the women's desperation to save their marriage and how to handle the stress, the way people act, and the way we supposed to behave when it happened to us. I really love this movie and I can say 'Towanda', every time somebody's throw bad manners on me. "},{"Title":"A Splendid and Unforgettable Movie","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched the movie Fried Green Tomatoes and enjoyed it very much. The feeling of true friendship narrated in the movie impressed me so deeply. As the story unfolded, something from the movie resonated within me allowing me to lose myself very quickly and identify with several of characters, suffering their misery and enjoying their happiness, especially living Idgie's life so intimately. I believed because I grew up in the mountains, I can understand the profound simple-hearted friendship between Idgie and Ruth immensely. As Idgie repeated the story her brother had told her before at Ruth's dying, tears flowed down my cheeks.... Actually, in many ways, Fried Green Tomatoes has proved to be a touching movie.When the old lady finished telling the whole story at the end of the movie, I was brought back to the present again from the past. Then I reflected on the movie for a moment, and all of a sudden, I found it such a nostalgic and unforgettable story.For me this movie is not just about family and friendship, it is also about memories and the reflection and the flavor of time, which touched me deeply for a long time. They say bygones can't bear to be recalled to mind again. That's because bygones are in the past and unchangeable. We can't get them back in any way. Only memories is left behind. Reflection upon memories is the best gift that time offers us. If we lose some of our memories some day, then I think the relevant bygones will really be gone and completely disappear and not exist any more. I liked it very much when the old lady said ---- Some people will live as long as you remember them and friends, best friends are the most important thing in life. &#150; I also believe this to be true, and I do believe true friendship does exist in the world. It can also make people feel happy and complete if we have a forever friend for life.The movie is absolutely worth watching.I give this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"No brag , just fact - a #10!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie took me back home to such wonderful memories of Alabama/Georgia. It should have won at least ten Academy Awards. The casting was perfection right down to the children's parts. When George first stirred that pot the next mornin' I screamed then - I already knew the secret was in the sauce. If I'm ever in a nursing home I pray to have a friend like Evelyn Couch. Fannie Flagg hit the peak with her book and kept the movie true to the story. The scenes and details of those days in the south were so good you could smell the barbecue. Thanks to this movie I can say that I voted myself into the Tawanda club and have stayed there ever since! "},{"Title":"My Two Cents Worth","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you haven't seen the movie or read the book... there may be spoilers in my post...This movie was exceptionally good. The Book was exceptionally good. In fact if you read the book and watch the movie you may actually think that these are two interpretations of the same story. Well... I did.. Kinda.. My opinion is that Ninny was not Idgie. But infact Ninny herself. I believe that Ninny placed the jar of honey and the sentimental note on Ruth's grave as a token of love from both her and Idgie. In the movie it shows that everyone loved Ruth. My favorite parts in the movie were about Ruth and Idgie... I did not particularly care for the scenes of Evelyn... gaining her womanly strength.. they were good.. but.. not as powerful as Ruth and Idgie's scenes.The book however... was Excellent. Yes, there are some hints that Idgie and Ruth were deeply in love with each other. Ruth and Idgies boy was one clue and the whole yelling scene in the book when Ruth leaves was a major tip off.... *LOL*.All in all.... 9 stars out of ten! "}{"Title":"**************SPOILER************************","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read the book 2-3 years before the movie came out. It remains as one of my favorite books. So I was eagerly awaiting the movie although I realized the book was too complex to completely transfer to film. I had high hopes. I was not disappointed. The actors were brilliant. Although I wish more characters from the book had made it into the move. ie Big Georges wife and I would have loved to see the Naughty-bird/elephant story in the film. It would also given a better insight to Idgie's and Big Georges relationship.If I had not read the book I would have still loved the movie but having read the book I was truly disappointed in the ending of the movie. To lead viewers to believe Ninny was really Idgie is disrespectful of both characters. Ninny was a wonderful character by herself. Everyone who did not read the book must wonder at the story Ninny told Evelyn about her mentally retarded son Alfred. Also If you look closely Jessica Tandy appears as Ninny in one of the cafe scenes. Idgie actually serves her a plant of fried green tomatoes. I also don't believe they actually served pieces of bar-b-qued Frank Bennett to the investigator. I think they just cooked him up with the rest of the meat. At least I like to think so. All in all a wonderful movie but read the book and get a real insight into all the wonderful characters. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All I have to say is that this is one of the best movies ever made, and even though it is different than the book it still brings out the same meaning. I thought it brought out the best of the book and I also think the casters did an excellent job at choosing the characters. When I saw this movie the characters from the book jumped out at me. This movie is in every way shape and form a beyond excellent film. If you hate this movie you have a serious problem and should go seek professional help. Infinity thumbs way up! If I were part of the Oscars I would absolutely have this film win the majority of the awards. I know this may sound crazy, but I truly believe this film is better than The Titanic. "},{"Title":"Beautiful yet sad story","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was so good, I have seen it countless times and every time I watch every second of it. Some people think this movie was about two women in love, maybe it was, but the real story line is finding in someone the love that we all yearn to feel. Many have said horrible things about Idgie and Ruths love but I think its more than that, its knowing that you have found your soul mate, whether it is a same sex or opposite sex soul mate. Don't focus on something that is not really important in this movie because that is not what the director and the writers want you to focus on, its the meaning of life and how life goes on. I suggest those who have not read the book to read asap. It really is wonderful "},{"Title":"Relationship movie","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie concerns relationships between an older woman, Ninny Threadgoode and Evelyn Couch in the present and the relationship of Evelyn and her husband Ed. The story brings in the relationship of Ninny Threadgoode's cousin, Idgie and her friend Ruth from the past. It shows that Evelyn and Ed have a stable marriage but that she is not happy and feels neglected. Her husband Ed obviously really loves her, but he is so preoccupied with sports and games on television that he has been taking Evelyn for granted. She becomes obsessed with fixing their marriage and does some ridiculous things in the process. Evelyn meets Ninny Threadgoode while accompanying Ed to visit his great aunt at a nursing home. His aunt has become senile and throws things at Evelyn and so she ends up waiting outside, where she meets the older woman Ninny Threadgoode. Ninny proceeds to tell her about her long lost cousin Idgie Threadgoode and her close friend Ruth. This story entails an accidental death of Ruth's abusive husband who had come to steal her child that she had with him. Her friends helped her drive him off and when he came back later one of them accidentally kills him. This leads to a series of mishaps that culminate in Idgie and her friends being cleared. Then Ruth becomes ill with cancer and Idgie has to say goodbye to her, and she will finish raising Ruth's son alone. Evelyn was so inspired during her meetings with Ninny that she becomes empowered as a person and takes charge of her life and her marriage. Ed has finally come to realize how much Evelyn means to him and he is willing to make changes. Evelyn wants Ninny to come and live with her and Ed after she finds out her house is gone and she is alone. Ed raises objections at first, but soon realizes this is something that Evelyn needs to do and that he can't stand in her way. Evelyn finds Ninny sitting in the yard where her house used to be. She proceeds to tell Ninny just how much their relationship has meant to her. She tells her after a bit that she will be living with her and Ed. Ninny asks her what Ed thought about all this, and she says he'll learn to love it and that Ninny will be a blessing for both of them. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all time!","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my life, I have not seen any movie that has moved me the way Fried Green Tomatoes did. There aren't many movies that can make me shed a tear, I regularly watch action movies and silly comedies, and I don't have much of a reputation of being a sappy person, and being a man, one has to have a tough guy facade, but somehow this movie really got to me. The first time I watched it was when I was about 8. I knew English at that time so I was able to watch it, and thank god for that. I shed my fair share of tears all through the movie, and almost out sobbed my mother and sisters (which is not an easy task!). I prefer not to tell anything about the story of the film, because it is better if you take it all on your own. Trust me! I only wanted to share with everyone what an impression the movie left in me...When I am old and gray I most likely will be pestering all the young people to go and watch it and get some culture!!! ;) D hehe P "},{"Title":"Going' south for a masterpiece...and to think that I once confused the title with Attack of the Killer Tomatoes!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In one of the many movies celebrating everything that we love about life, disaffected Alabama housewife Evelyn Couch (Kathy Bates) gets acquainted with elderly Ninny Threadgoode (Jessica Tandy) and learns the old woman's experiences to the point of liberation. It's great to see Idgie Threadgoode (Mary Stuart Masterson) not taking crap from anyone, coming out against racism, and even going so far as to wear pants (in old Alabama!). As for the possible implication that she and Ruth Jamison (Mary-Louise Parker) were lesbians, that gives the movie more of a liberating feeling.I don't know whether or not I would call it a chick flick. True, it focuses on women, but there's some stuff in store for the guys too.Anyway, this is definitely one of those movies that you gotta see before you croak. You're sure to love Evelyn's rant after she feels fully liberated (although as a man, I guess that I'd want to be careful around her!). A real masterpiece. Also starring Cicely Tyson, Chris O'Donnell and Stan Shaw. "},{"Title":"Fried Green Tomatoes...warm and lovely","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite movies. I just love movies that have a great plot, great actors to make the movie, and a great soundtrack to set the mood. This is just that movie. 'Fried Green Tomatoes' is a good wholesome movie for the whole family to enjoy. This movie reminds us that love and friendship goes beyond race, age, and gender, and that both are endearing qualities that can withstand the test of time. This movie will make you laugh, cry, and get up and dance too!) The late Jessica Tandy (Cocoon, Cocoon Returns, Batteries not Included) is one of my favorite actresses. She narrates this film in such a way that it makes you feel like she's your grandmother who has you seated in her lap while reading a phenomenal story. This is one to add to your collection, or re-rent every now and then. "},{"Title":"..if you weren't there in those days, you can't judge this film...","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read every comment - I was shocked at how some people thought it was disgusting or boring - perhaps because the story had no violence in it? I can attest that this movie is authentic in its depicting of the rural south in the '20s and '30s - I was living at that time.Is there NO ONE who remembers an ancient film (according to the ages of most of the commentaries) named Some of My Best Friends Are ? This is a flagrant, gay film about a gay bar - and Ms. Flagg just happens to be in it! That film, too, is authentic in showing how dangerous is was to be gay in the time-frame it is written for. If you can find it, don't miss it. If you saw Midnight Cowboy and paid attention to the gay characters in it, you can imagine that Rico died of the deadly form of pneumonia caused by AIDS. The cowboy's love for Rico is an example of how Idgie and Ruth loved one another - love isn't ALWAYS sexual.The point I am making here is, who would ever think a woman whom the light-hearted comedy Ms. Flagg was known for could ever write such a heavy novel? In the film, her development of her characters is certainly true-to-life and thought-provoking - brilliant. As many commentaries attest, the movie-direction-lighting-editing-EVERYTHING about the film is perfect. An aside I am a female-impersonator, stand-up comedian the joke Kathy Bates acted-out about I'm older and have more money is an OLD joke we performers have been telling for decades. Guess Ms. Flagg - or someone connected to the making of this film - knew about it. I was pleasantly surprised to see......Those young people who made intelligent commentaries on Tomatoes are special people, to be able to understand there WAS life before the age of blow-'em-up film-making. Those films are entertaining, too, but do we really need textbooks on how to be violent? Chick-flick ? - what a narrow-minded opinion ! This film shows us that males and females are all human.....what a redeeming quality Fried Green Tomatoes has shown us. I'd rate it 20....... "},{"Title":"Who needs a better example of human touch ?","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green Tomatoes is an excellent movie. Performances are outstanding. The story smell the South of USA with all that spirit that emanates from Literature and Cinema from that region of our country. The human relationships, the social environment in area and time, and the friendship developed by the old woman in the care facility with the visitor ( Katty Bates ) are poetical.This is, in my opinion, a good example of a touching film.It is also remarkable how, due to circumstances, the story makes us to forgive a crime. Frank is murdered, but who can get angry for it?. There are also the  humor used when the investigator celebrates so often that better barbecue in his life.  The secret is in the sauce Fried Green Tomatoes makes me turn more often to vegetables and less to meat.LOL "},{"Title":"They Don't Make Films Like This Anymore","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" They don't make em like this anymore. The acting was brilliant and the story captivated you about the old South. The film reminded me of a Saturday morning in the park. Wonderfully refreshing and light while at the same time caked with deep meaning. I enjoyed Jessica Tandy's performance. In fact, the entire cast was brilliant. Hollywood needs to make more of these types of films. To be honest, I've lost my love for films about 3 years ago. Haven't watched too many since and I'm 40 years old. Films today remind me of fast food - no effort was made at all in making them. Hopefully, they'll hire executives in Hollywood with something more than a high school education. "}{"Title":"fried green TOMATOES!! (is a good movie!)","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is quite a good movie! we are watching it at school and we all thought it was going to be a massive old 1990s chick flick but it was actually really good! Really good actors and actresses and has a great use of flashbacks (says my English teacherP) and i think it is one of those movies that u can watch over and over again and not get sick of it. I am just filling up space here!! so anyway we are told the story by Ninnie the old lady, and she tells the life of Alabama people in a little town and lots of things happen - sad and happy but the endings the best bit! The accents are really cool too. so as i am coming to the end of this comment i shall bid u farewell so go and watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Good for A Sunday Afternoon with Family","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about how people grow from nurturing relationships the same way land benefits from care and feeding. This film is so good for the soul. Set in rural southern America, this story beautifully and humorously illustrates relationships between many types of people, social levels and ages. Every aspect of this film was rich and completely enveloping. Kathy Bates is utterly charming portraying a woman who grows strong while listening to stories about another time. This film is not over sentimental, it is warm and pleasing and very human. Funny, sad at times, and so poignant, i am grateful to the filmmaker. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fried Green Tomatoes was one of the most inspirational movies I've ever seen. My mother had me watch it with her, and the greatest thing about this movie is how it can make you laugh and make cry in a way like you truly know the characters. In other words the way the flashbacks are put together to show the closeness of Idgie and Ruth, allows you to get to know the two characters as if you were meeting them to be your friends, along with the spectacular acting of each and every character. For example, when Ruth got drunk I laughed as if I was there with her, when Idgie gave the canned goods to the needy I felt her caring as if I knew her since we were children, and when Ruth died and Idgie was crying, I cried as if I knew Ruth as well or even better than Idgie and I could feel the closeness of Idgie and Ruth throughout the entire movie. The Evelyn character and her whole part in the movie along with her life I think brought more comedy to the drama of the good old days of Idgie and Ruth's life part of the movie. Evelyn also brought a breather for the audience so they could think about what just happened with Idgie and/or Ruth. I could watch this movie over and over and I still laugh and cry my hardest. "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very satisfying tale of memories past and the freedom of Kathy Bates' character who finally decides to act like a modern woman based on the youth of an old storyteller at a nursing home when her typical workaholic, dining in front of the numbing tv with a beer in hand husband drags her to see his aunt and she meets this very intriguing and lonesome person. i'm not big on weeping dramas, but this is a movie i can really recommend to anyone who likes a good story that catches you from scene one and makes you think. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly touching movie, moving soundtrack","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never tire of this movie.  I can watch it again and again and I always find something new.  The entire cast is terrific, especially Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary Louise Parker, and Mary Stuart Masterson, but even the smaller roles are played with depth and precision. "},{"Title":"Warm, fun film.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Was spurred to write a comment after reading the unfair trashing of this very enjoyable film by another user.The point of the film is to show the strength of friendship and I think it does so very well. The characters are endearing and funny, and well portrayed by the actors. I would recommend this film to anyone who wants a light film that leaves you with warm fuzzy feelings at the end of it.  "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites.  It is terribly underrated and should be one of the top 250 (closer to 1 than 250) movies on IMDB.  Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary-Louise Parker and Mary-Stuart Masterson are INCREDIBLE and know how to tell a detailed, beautifully woven story. Wonderful transition from book to film.  If you haven't seen this, you are missing out.   "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie with great actors","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every time I have seen Fried green tomatoes so far (about 5 times by now), I could not marvel enough at the beautiful plot and characters. Thomas Newman (well-known for his fabulous score for American Beauty) gives another example of his art the music at the beginning of the film mirrors exactly the slight melancholy of this movie. I am sure you will enjoy the deeply moving story. Unbedingt ausleihen - rent it! "},{"Title":"Ed, if I had answered the door only wearing cellophane, would you still be watching the game? No, honey, I'd probably be checking you into a looney bin! <Evelyn and hubby>","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing small bits of this film on TV here and there, I finally checked the Collector's Edition DVD out of the library and watched Fried Green Tomatoes today. The name comes from one of the specialties served at the Whistle Stop Cafe in rural Alabama back in the 1920s. The sound on the DVD is just OK, but the video transfer is great. The director's commentary adds value to understanding the film, and there is a very nice on-location special showing how they converted a sleeping town in Georgia, and the hardware store into the cafe, for this film. The town became a regular tourist attraction in Georgia, and the cafe remained open.The film is a fable told within a present day story. The story is a relationship that Evelyn (Kathy Bates) develops visiting an old lady (Jessica Tandy) in a nursing home. Each visit Evelyn is told a bit more of the fable and through the process becomes a woman more sure of herself, and able to deal more assertively with her husband who just takes her for granted.SPOILERS - The fable is of Whistle Stop and the friendship that develops between Ruth (Mary Louise Parker, Lou) and Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson, Stu) around 1920 right after Idgie's brother Buddy is run over by a train. Even though Stu was 24 and Lou was 26 during filming, Lou plays a character about 10 to 12 years older. Idgie is devastated when Ruth marries, a marriage that turns out bad because hubby Frank is a real ba$tard. When Frank disappears, Georgia cop brings Idgie to trial because she once said, If you ever touch her again I'll kill you. However, since there was no body, and the local preacher testified that Idgie was at a 3-day revival, the judge ruled, ...accidental death, case dismissed.more SPOILERS - Well, we see near the end that Frank had been beating up on a local drunk, and was hit over the head by the cook (Cicley Tyson)with a cast iron skillet, killed in self-defense. The reason there was no body to be found, It is hog-boiling time, and the Georgia sheriff, after eating BBQ ribs, That's the best BBQ I've ever had. The secret is in the sauce. -)As has been widely discussed, the relationship between Ruth and Idgie was more of a love than just fast friends. They were different types, they complemented each other. Whether it was truly a lesbian relationship can be debated. However, it doesn't matter because the story is a fable told through the eyes of one person, who may or may not be Idgie in final analysis. If one wants to distil it into a simple thought, it is the power of friendship and relationships.A most excellent film. Good stories and superb acting.  "},{"Title":"Smart Story-Telling.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ignored housewife Kathy Bates becomes fast friends with nursing home shut-end Jessica Tandy (Oscar-nominated) in this fine little slice of entertainment. Tandy weaves a heart-touching story about a small diner in racially-driven Alabama in the 1920s that is the site for one amazing tale. The film flashes between Bates and Tandy in the present-day and then shifts its focus throughout on the loving sisterly-styled relationship between two young women (Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker) in the past. Top-notch story-telling is the key in making Fried Green Tomatoes a blue-ribbon winner in the end. 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Fantastic movie.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An exceptionally well written, directed and acted film. It deals with fundamental values as friendship, courage and love. It sounds a bit sassy and girly when you talk about it, really - but never the less, this movie really touches you. Thomas Newman's perfect original score adds the final touch to a truly moving piece of cinema. Highly recommendable! "},{"Title":"Tuwanda!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies, this film truly is fine story telling at it's peak. Fabulous and original are the four main characters. Especially Idgie Threadgood and Evelyn Couch. Evelyn kicks a@* and this film is truly inspiring to me and many other women. Tuwanda!  "},{"Title":"This story hooks you from the beginning, and doesn't let go.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I missed this film when it was released.  What a pleasant surprise to watch it and discover it is timeless.  One can enjoy it without the 'dating' that often it prevalent in movies, such as being able to instantly tell a movie is from 'the 80's', or 'the 70's'.  This is a truly enjoyable, entertaining movie; it 'hooks' you into the storyline from the beginning, and doesn't let go.  The actors are so pleasurable to watch, and are consummate professionals in their craft.  Kathy Bates adds comic relief to an otherwise dramatic story.  Chris O'Donnell has a very memorable cameo appearance.  Jessica Tandy is just pure 'class.'If you are looking for a very enjoyable classic-type movie; if you enjoy themes other than action and violence, you will enjoy this movie. It is in the same vein as Field of Dreams, or currently - Blast From The Past and Frequency.  This movie will hold its own for years to come. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie, I watch it over and over! It is a really funny tale, and i rate it a 10! This movie has the good and bad times, and really paints a picture of the old days in the west. The cast is perfect, and is enjoyable. My faviorte scene is so funny, that it would spiol it if I told you what happened. If anyone rates this below an 8 they must have have a bad taste for the best movies! I recommed this movie to all ages, and if you ever want a laugh or need to cheer up watch this and be smiling and laughing for hours. This is sad in parts, and really has some depressing scenes, but the scenes that stick in my mind our the funniest ones. )  "},{"Title":"A tale of friendship in the South","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes is one of my all time favorite movies.  Beautifully filmed, this movie shares with its audience the tale of two women who become best friends and share loss, joy and adventures together. The movie starts in the present where Bates' character becomes friends with an older lady in the nursing home played by Jessica Tandy. Through this older lady, Bates begins to heart the story of two women who grew up in the early 1900's named Idgie Thresgood (played by the fabulous Mary Stuart-Masterson) and Ruth (Mary Louise-Parker).  Idgie is a hellion wild child and Ruth is a straight-laced reserved woman. The two become close friends and the story follows the different difficulties and triumphs these two women face.      The story manages to keep a delicate balance between the drama, comedy and different times this story takes place well.  A beautiful Southern locale, excellent actresses and a wonderful script make this movie a classic.  I give it a rating of ten because this movie is a moving, smile-provoking piece of work.   Also has one of the best parking lot rage scenes of all times.  "},{"Title":"I loooooooove this movie","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes is a down home movie that made me want to live in Alabama (sayin a lot). It is well done, well acted, and a long and complicated book being so skillfully compiled into an entertaining and fastpaced movie really impressed me. I watched in 4 times in five days. Touching, but not too sentimental.  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece of real life in the past.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best ever made and I truly enjoyed every aspect of it. Even though this movie takes place in the past, I believe it has many topics that are still true to todays society. Such as the importance of love and friendship and the concept of racism. I hope that you are encouraged to see it today if you have not already! It will make you laugh, cry, and beg for more! "},{"Title":"The secret's in the sauce...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Or in the acting, or the screenplay, or the storyline. Not sure quite what the secret of this movie is, but I love it. It's dark, depressing, hilarious, moving and above all, DAMN entertaining.The only thing that maybe beats this movie, is the book. Read it - it's great. It's one of my favourite books and certainly in the top 5 favourite movies of mine (possibly #2 - only edged out by Princess Bride). Totally underrated. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember when I saw this movie, a couple of years ago. Then I didn't have much to say about the film. But here the other night, I sat down, all by myself and watched it. And I have to say, I was impressed. Such a beautiful story. It is sad, but it makes you laugh too. I'm going to buy this movie, and I'll read the book too. I just hope we can see more movies like this, in the future. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A brilliant motion picture by Jon Avnet","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess that there are not enough words to describe what a spectacular movie this is. It is a real gem, a miracle in a time when movies are made just to make money. Fried Green Tomatoes is beautiful in so many ways, it is perfect. Jon Avnet's direction was superb, the performances were inspiring, I mean, this is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my entire life. I remember being touched by it after only a few minutes after it started and that same old feeling comes along when I watch the movie in VHS and, now, in DVD. Bravo Jon Avnet for offering the world such a heart warming film. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolutely..great! Perfect! Marvelous! And it's got some history in it too!  "},{"Title":"Nice movie, read my comment on it.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes is a great name for this movie. I saw it a long (very long) time ago, but I do remember most of it.This movie has many factors that make it excellent, one of these is Mary Stuart Masterson's performance. She definitely has talent. Also, the way Jessica Tandy narrates the whole story is fantastic.Tandy's story is changing the life of Kathy Bates in the present (most of the movie is about the past). The ending is pretty nice and happy, showing us that Tandy was Idgie. (M. S. Masterson in the past)The racism subject is very realistic, it shows how white people had no mercy for the black people, how they punish them, just because they were black.It's very funny the fact that after killing that man who was hitting Idgie's friend Ruth (Mary-Louise Parker) they cook him. And the investigator tastes him, and he actually likes the food. That's where the phrase comes The secret is in the sauce.Idgie's personality and strong character keeps the movie alive at some moments, along with her kindness. This movie is really beautiful and it should be seen by every movie fan alive.I'll rate it with a 10 out of 10. Go see it as soon as you can if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Your best friend lasts forever","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My favorite moment in this movie is when Jessica Tandy says to Kathy Bates that the most important thing in life Are friends. Best friends. It's easy to understand (for those who also read my comment for Stand By Me) why I love this movie. This is a movie about two true friendships, those where there's a person who saves the life of another, only because she loves that person. The 4 actresses are great to describe this, helped by the iron screenplay by Fannie Flagg and Carol Sobieski and the splendid soundtrack by Thomas Newman. I wonder if someone recognized his/her friends here. I did and I love this perfect, tender and beautiful movie for that. "},{"Title":"True Love","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film touched me in so many ways that I cannot begin to praise it. It is about friendship and family.  It is about knowing what true love really is, the unconditional love we all search for.  I like this film for the way I feel about myself, it helps you think about all of your relationships and why they are so important to you. And it is even a little bit of history, it shows what it was like to live in the South in the early part of this century, and since that century is now almost over, it is cool to reflect upon the beginning of it. Enjoy the movie -) PS The food isn't bad either!!!! "},{"Title":"Exciting, enticing, charming - in short, excellent!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those rare cases where the film is better than the original novel. I found the novel too cutsey, too PC and sort of slow, but the film is none of these. It has a remarkable combination of interesting dramatic personae, a surprising plot, and charming anecdotes which will stay with you forever. The story about the ducks in the lake is my personal favorite. In short, a must for anyone who appreciates good drama.  "},{"Title":"What binds Ruth and Idgie? . . . Love.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The book this movie is based on is a very difficult one to make into a cohesive movie, being that it travels back and forth in time and is told from many different points of view.  Taking that into consideration, I feel that an excellent job was done.  One of the more difficult tasks the filmmakers had to contend with was portraying the truth of Idgie's and Ruth's relationship while retaining the subtlety of the novel.  Part of the beauty of the movie for me is the fact that I knew that they were in love without anyone ever having to scream it into my face.  The four women in this movie are some of my favorite actresses and the portrayal of small town southern life is for the most part charming, but realistic in its portrayal of the racial and gender-related tensions that were present at the time. All in all, this is one of my favorite movies and is one that I can watch over and over again without getting bored. "},{"Title":"A timeless charmer","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" EVERYTHING in this movie just works. Fannie Flagg's storytelling, the gentle southern breezes, the span of interwoven events, and the juxtapositioning of the modern-day friendship between the Bates/Tandy characters with the depression era saga of the goings on in Whistle Stop.It just gave me a whistful desire to wander the Natchez Trace, watch for lightening bugs, and visit ramshackled old towns and think about the stories they had to tell. And for those uncomfortable with the lesbian overtone of the relationship between Ruth and Idgie, it was subtle enough that you could even take the kids.Mary Stuart Masterson outshined herself... she's never again been this good. Mary Louise Parker's accent occasional rang hollow, but the two women certainly had chemistry. Kathy Bates is always a master, but particularly has good comic timing... a talent she does not show near enough.Truly a movie that I could watch a dozen more times without growing bored. "},{"Title":"A modern classic","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is on par with the best of modern day movies such as Raging Bull,Being There, American Beauty,Tender Mercies, Lost in Translation,Heathers,Ghost World...... Some of my buddies rag on me calling it a chick flick, but it is as good any movie of the past 25 years.I have to watch it every time it airs. I just missed half of a football game because I kept jumping back to Tomatoes! Great screenplay (and novel).And what a great cast!Well I see that my comment was not long enough so I will say how doggone hot Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary Louise Parker are!!! have they ever been anything that wasn't good, and I mean I even liked Bad Girls, or whatever it was called, with Masterson. Well I have now typed enough lines, but now I want to talk about Masterson's great smile for ten more lines. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's one of the best movies I've seen. I bought the movie on DVD. The love and the friendship between people are the movie. The comprehension with others is still a important matter. I simply loved Mary Stuart Masterson from this movie. Her character is full of sensibility and humanity. Jessica tange says at the end of the movie the best thing in the world is to have friends. No further question about Jessica, her career talks about her. Mary Louise Parker is splendid too and I miss she and Mary Stuart Masterson on more movies. It's very important that you can see how a simply history can lead you a think over things that are really important in life. I adore you Mary Stuart! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is wonderful in every way. The story of Idgie and Ruth and their adventures is magnificent and engrossing, and the story of the modern day friendship between Ninny and Evelyn is heartwarming, too. The four leads are all outstanding, with probably the break-out performance given by Mary Stuart Masterson as blond tomboy Idgie. Jessica Tandy is wonderful here, as always.This film is truly chicken soup for the soul. I give it a ten. "}{"Title":"A good look at the good old days","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What an excellent movie. Jessica Tandy was at her best in this one, as was Kathy Bates. I especially liked the use of flashback all throughout the show. This technique allowed the viewer to see the characters develop in an unusual way. A movie for the entire family, it will make you laugh and cry almost simultaneously. "},{"Title":"Typically Politically Correct Hollywood Propaganda","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here's the real summary of the film The story is a flashback about two women, a butch feminist rescuing a femme, helpless woman from her racist, abusive Southern husband (is there any other kind?) She kills the husband and feeds the body to unwitting, stupid Southerners as BBQ. haha! Jokes on those stupid Southerners! Happy ending for Hollywood. During the film, the women grow together with grrl power and start their own business (because that's the path to feminine empowerment) and befriend weak men they are able to use to help make them more powerful.If you liked this, then you'll love Thelma and Louise which is a similar type of grrl power film. Another film with a similar theme is the Emma Stone vehicle The Help which features African servants spilling the secrets of privileged white Southern women (which I found funny in retrospect because when Hollywood stars got hacked and had their nude pictures posted on the web, they got all upset about the invasion of privacy.) These films are useful to watch to see the contempt Hollywood has for the working class people that keep them fat and happy. "},{"Title":"One small glitch","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Along with many others, I have just seen FGT for the first time, and I was enthralled! The authenticity of the characters, the setting, cinematography, and the plot kept me captivated. There was one small error, however, that caught my attention. At the end, when Frank Bennett was being served up to the sheriff from Georgia, the continuity director seems to have forgotten that he didn't show up at the Whistle Stop until several days after Frank disappeared. I'm sure all the special sauce was gone by then. Needless to say, this did little to dampen my appreciation of the movie, and I look forward to seeing it many more times. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming and enjoyable","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The wonderful lead performances in this well-made film from John Avnet make Fried Green Tomatos the enjoyable, and popular, film that it is.Mary Stuart Masterson plays well the part of Idgie Threadgood, a rebellious and independent young Southern girl from Alabama, 1930. Kathy Bates is wonderfully hilarious as frustrated 90's housewife Evelyn Couch, and Jessica Tandy and Mary-Louise Parker are quite good in supporting roles. The plot has many sidelines but it is mostly about the strong friendship of women, two of whom grew up in the depression era.By no means wonderful cinema, but a very enjoyable movie.Saturdy, May 9, 1992 - Hoyts Forest Hill Chase "},{"Title":"Nostalgia","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a native of Birmingham, Alabama, I thought they did a very good job of recreating Irondale. I would almost swear that parts of this film were actually filmed there. Also, I can remember when Fannie Flagg co-hosted a local morning show in Birmingham. I used to watch it every morning while I was getting ready for school. She was also a weather forecaster for our local TV station. She sure came a long way since then.Not much changed in Alabama between the twenties and the time I grew up there, and seeing this movie brought back memories of all those good home-cooked Southern meals. Fried okra, fried green tomatoes, fried squash, and good old Alabama barbecue. Alabama has the best barbecue in the nation.Folks in Alabama take their food seriously, and they also take friendships seriously. I guess that's why it is so easy to read things into Idgey and Ruth's relationship that may not be there. (Lesbianism? In Alabama? In the 20s and 30s? Get real, people!!!) Anyone even suspected of such behavior in Alabama back then would have been unceremoniously lynched. So, let's try not to read too much into Idgie's and Ruth's friendship, huh? Evelyn's and Ninny's friendship is very moving for anyone who has ever had a friend that changed them, that gave them the strength to keep going when all hope seemed to be lost. And I think posters are being a little too hard on her husband. Ed seems like essentially a good man. He just falls into the same trap that most of us men fall into. We allow ourselves to get too caught up in our own little worlds to pay much mind to what makes our wives ache and thrill. (Come on, fellows, we're all guilty of that sometimes. Be honest.) Throughout the movie, Ed shows that he is devoted to his wife, even if he is totally oblivious to what is going on in her life.This movie reminds me of STAND BY ME, because it makes you want to laugh and cry at the same time and it gives you a snapshot of a time and place that is gone forever. A gem of a film. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"After watching Driving Miss Daisy.......","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know that this movie was after Driving Miss Daisy I really can't balance THAT movie and to balance Fried Green Tomatoes. But I have to say that Friend Green Tomatoes IS Jessica Tandy's best 90's movie every before she passed in '94. I must say that F.G.T. is my all time favorite movie with Jessica Tandy staring (next by Driving Miss Daisy and also *batteries not included*) and many, many more. But still for staring Friend Green Tomatoes with Kathy Bates, Mary Stuart Masterson, Mary-Louise Parker, Stan Shaw & several other faces I knew; I must say that THIS movie has to overcome Driving Miss Daisy but it's still 10 stars for this movie and 10 stars for Driving Miss Daisy because Jessica Tandy was always the best actress for all time; she was always wonderful, caring, loving, and funny. Driving Miss Daisy was my favorite because Morgan Freeman Is ALSO and still is also an all time favorite actor. But all and all Friend Green Tomatoes, I need to buy that movie (I can't believe that I don't have it yet). "},{"Title":"Fried Green Tomatoes really works for me.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really love this movie. I have no idea how many times I have seen it. It gets better every time. Fried Green Tomatoes may be the best womans movie ever made. It is about adult women whose friendship sustains and strengthens them. I love Jessica Tandy.Many movies are made about the friendships between men (the ever popular buddy movies). Many movies are made about romance and the relationships between men and women (chick flicks). However few movies are made about relationships among women and of those that are made, many are about the negative aspects of relationships. And finally, as mentioned by one of the other reviewers, it does not stress female relationships at the expense of the men in the film.Kathy Bates scores in this film as well. "},{"Title":"Three girls' best of youth","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lovely, delightful. These two adjectives are the best to explain what I feel every time I see Fried Green Tomatoes.To be a man, FGT is an exciting voyage inside female minds. The cast is made essentially by female girls and women, with their insecurities and need to love. Kathy Bates is adorable, very far from the evil Annie in Misery !! She's a frustrated middle-aged woman, Evelyn, living with a careless husband, without directions and a reason to live. One day, at the hospice, she finds a nice old woman, becomes her friend and starts listening to a breathtaking story (in third person) about a simple restaurant at the train station where good girls served tasteful fried green tomatoes, in the 1930s.It's more than just a gossip story. The simple, genuine youth of these girls is more enviable than millions others. Life was hard those years, too little rights for women were acknowledged yet, and this movie insists on this theme, but everything is balanced with a (even involuntary!) spontaneous humor, never fading inside pure feminism or inappropriate fields. Furthermore, the way it's edited, mixing the narrated story with amusing sketches of today (the scene at supermarket parking is memorable!), grows in us the same interesting of Evelyn in the story and the characters it's populated of. Nothing happens simplifying or sweetening reality, no, Avnet doesn't look for shortcuts. The story is essentially sad and has a surprisingly grotesque implications (do you know what I mean ?!) you'll never expect. Idgie personifies the will to live, beyond difficulties and odds, arousing then Evelyn's admiration. She realized to be a Ruth and wanted to become a Idgie with her husband, finding the strength to change.Good for the whole family, I hope you'll find it great (and with a better soundtrack could have been greater) as it's for me. "},{"Title":"Honey, I Charmed The Bees","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is something of a rarity, a film set in the Deep South in the twenties/thirties that ISN'T Southern Gothic (okay, neither was To Kill A Mockingbird, but think of ANYTHING by Carson McCullers). Jessica Tandy, who was actually English and had a successful career on the London stage and a less successful one as Mrs Jack Hawkins, is back in the South she visited first when she created the role of Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire on Broadway in 1947, albeit this time around Alabama as opposed to Louisiana and is a joy as the frame narrator enchanting Kathy Bates with her reminiscences of life in the 20s and 30s; a life that embraced laughter, tears and a murder trial. It's all there, the small, sleepy town, the benign Blacks, the obligatory KKK, the eponymous cafe which is the focal point of the town but at the heart of it all a wonderful and enduring friendship to rival that in Il Postino. Virtual unknowns Mary-Louise Parker and Mary Stuart Masterson hold their own and more against the veteran Tandy and well-established Bates but all the cast turn in exceptional work. Unashamedly Art House the number of positive comments on this very site are testimony that it found its audience. This will enhance any DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Strong Southern Women in these troubled times.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film's cinematography and musical score alone make it a worthwhile experience. Both have that almost-unreal-they're-so-perfect quality that give you the good kind of goosebumps.The story is played out so faultlessly by each of the actors in this movie that you're never for one second anything but totally enthralled and engrossed.  The film's main story lines revolve around southern women, in old and modern times, and the bonds of friendship that are at once so tender and so unbreakably strong.  Jessica Tandy's portrayal of Ms. Ninny Threadgood had to be my favorite if forced to choose.  The way she faced life unafraid and with sympathy and humor just warmed your whole being, say nothing of your heart.  But each and every actor in this film brought their very best, and no one disappointed.I'm probably too naive, but the homosexual overtones that several friends of mine said existed in the movie were totally lost on me - perhaps because I'm lucky enough to have a precious few friendships like the ones portrayed here, and there is nothing of the sort in those friendships.  I did read the book only after watching this film, and Ms. Flagg does present a totally different light on that particular subject than is in the movie - I'd recommend both the movie and the book - both are wonderful and thought provoking.  "}{"Title":"Interesting But Not Overpowering","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Watching the progression of the relationship between Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson) and Ruth (Mary-Louise Parker) is fairly interesting. The story is a flashback; a story related by Ninny Threadgoode (Jessica Tandy) to Evelyn (Kathy Bates) who befriends Ninny in a local nursing home. So right off the top you can see that there's a pretty decent cast. Also almost from the start you realize that Ninny is a bit of an enigmatic character. Is she or is she not Idgie relating her own story? The movie seems to lead in that direction but never actually makes it explicit, so in the end it's left to the viewer to decide. Basically, this ends up as a murder mystery from the past. Ruth's abusive husband is murdered, and the question is who killed him. Idgie is put on trial for the crime, but the charges are dismissed. The mystery is held pretty well until the end of the movie.The movie begins with Idgie as a child, and with Ruth as her older brother Buddy's love interest. After Buddy's tragic death, Idgie and Ruth develop a very close friendship - the movie bobs and weaves around the issue of what the nature of their relationship was. Was it just a close friendship? Was it more? My feeling from the movie is that Idgie wanted more than a friendship; Ruth's interests were less clear. I haven't read the book, but I understand that the novel is quite clear in making the point that there was a lesbian romance between the two. Perhaps Hollywood in 1991 was still too nervous about such an issue to make it front and centre; ambiguity was as much as the studios could stomach apparently. We follow both of them through the ups and downs of life as they open a cafe together, whose menu specialty is - you guessed it - fried green tomatoes.Kathy Bates provided some comedy to the movie as the modern day housewife who goes through a rebirth after meeting Ninny - a rebirth that totally confuses her husband Ed (Gailard Sartain), who doesn't have a clue why Evelyn is changing so much and upsetting their comfortable existence. While she provided comedy, I wasn't really taken in by Bates' character in this. I thought the constant switching between present and past was overdone and not particularly well done to be honest; in a lot of ways the two parts of the stories didn't mesh that well. Aside from Bates, there were a lot of very likable characters from the past, such as Big George (Stan Shaw) and Smokey Lonesome (Timothy Scott.) The identity of Ruth's husband's killer in the end took me by surprise, so that was well done.My final reaction to this was that it was a basically well made and well acted movie, and at times even an interesting movie as the story unfolded - but that it also seemed like a movie that was anything but overpowering. It didn't leave me awestruck. (5/10) "},{"Title":"magnetic power of love","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have watched FGT a lot of times. I've searched the book on which it was based. Recently I was in London, bought it. They asked me if I wanted the script for the movie, or the original book. I took the original. Read it. Well, everything was in place after I read the book. Someone here wrote no one falls in love in the movie. Than on other place and please give up with discussing on the friendship type between the 2 girls, can't you imagine just love without sex for a minute?. Yes, I can imagine that, but it is still love, and not only friendship. And in the original book it says Idgie had a crush on Ruth! And it says, Ruth fell in love with Idgie the minute Idgie gave her the jar with honey, and whispered in her ears You're a bee charmer, while Idgie was lying in her lap. This is not a spoiler, since you can not find this in the movie. But this is the bottom line the two women fell in love with each other, there may never have been sex between them, but there would have been if they have lived in 80's, (like Bates' character) and not in the 30' somewhere on rural south! And that is the magnetic power, the real secret of that movie, the real secret why we love it. IT IS A LOVE STORY. "},{"Title":"helped me out a lot","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" oh my lord. watching this movie during a difficult time in my life helped me get through it. watching kathy bates struggle through her own personal dilemmas, whatever it is resembling a mid-life crisis, and using the experimentation of new things to get through it really resonated with me. i have seen it now three times and liked it better and better each time. i wish there were more diversity in cultures and alternative lifestyles, and alos more backstory about the brother. other than that, i couldn't have asked for a more enlightening 2 hours. the actors were great, the writer was great and the images were great. if you haven't seen it find it and rent it. "},{"Title":"Great Film!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. Kathy Bates and Jessica Tandy are among my favorite actresses. I love the way Fannie Flagg combines two diffenrent time periods into this film. It is among the best films of the year. Kathy Bates and the two Marys should have gotten Oscar nominations. "},{"Title":"Nice message, messy presentation","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nice performances from a non-made-up Jessica Tandy, 82 when this was made, and Kathy Bates.However, I found much of Ninny's flashback story to be melodramatic, drawn-out, and when it came to the highly derivative barbecue sequence, somewhat sickening.I expected to enjoy this movie more on re-viewing it, as it starts so promisingly with the horrifying train scene. I love the idea of an older female protagonist who hasn't lost her zest for life.I'm just visiting here, nursing-home resident Ninny tells the candy-bar-popping Ms. Couch (Bates) when they meet at the facility.The friendship between Ruth (Mary-Louise Parker) and the headstrong Idgie (Mary Stuart Masterson), who more rightly should have been called Edgy, left me rather cold. The homo-erotic vibe dragged on and on, leaving one wondering when something might actually happen -- only to culminate in Ruth's inexplicable marriage to a man with all the charm of a serial rapist. It's ironic that Ruth shows spunk in trying to get to know Idgie -- If you give me a chance to get to know you, it may be fun! -- yet displays almost suicidal passivity vis a vis her loathsome spouse. Go figger...This film says some interesting things about the psychological attribute of gratitude (God never shuts one door without opening another). I'd have liked to see this theme more deeply developed. As much as I liked Ms. Bates's characterization, and the performance of Gailard Sartain as her clueless husband, it was tiring to watch this formidable actress endlessly putting up with Ed's insensitivity. You expected more development from her, on a more profound level.In all, this was a somewhat tiresome mishmash with a decent moral -- friendship and self-assertion trump all. "},{"Title":"Outside mainstream post-World War I","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movie blends friendships between persons of different races, while outside world still racist and bigoted. Women got right to vote in 1920s, and in urban areas were doing the Charleston, smoking and driving fast cars. In Whistle Stop, the days went slowly and down-homish. Cicily Tyson sweet in this movie. Very loyal to her friends. Jessica Tandy -- what a classic sweetie. People helping each other in this movie; caring about each other. These characters were not trying to save the world or worry about the starving children on the other side of the world. This was a time warp of place and action, a microcosm of a lost world that once existed in gently remembered splendor. No one wealthy or living in mansions. It was an old timey rural area. People did what they could to get through the days. Looks like they were all generally pretty poor. "},{"Title":"Should have won Best Movie!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jessica Tandy received a nomination for Best Supporting Actress (and it was nominated for a Writing award), but Fried Green Tomatoes definitely should have received Best Picture for 1991. I will never get over the fact that Silence of the Lambs won while this fantastic movie wasn't even nominated! This movie is an absolute must-see.  Be on the look out for a quote that I've used many a time since. (It probably comes from the book the movie is written from.) It is so humorously true.  Imagine it spoken by a woman with a very thick, southern drawlIs there anything worse than a man who's sick? "},{"Title":"It'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my all time favorite movie. One goes through all the motions, from laughing to crying, the scenery and harmony of the intermingling storylines are enchanting. Mary Stuart Masterson and Marie-Louise Parker are absolutely wonderful together and Kathy Bates is excellent as usual. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie, I could watch it a hundred times and never get tired of it. It has some sad parts in it that make you want to cry, but its still the best movie. I love how they have two totally differnt storylines in one movie. I dont see that very often. I love the story of idgie, both mary's played the part excellant. Kathy Bates is so great in this movie. It really shows at the end how things never stay the same and you should always remember the not to take things in your life for granted.I also liked how they made the character of idgie totally change her views on life and become a much more loving person. I could go on an on about it, but if you havent seen it then you are missing out, if you've seen it then im sure your like me and want to see it over and over again. "},{"Title":"A Powerful heart warming drama","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes is easily one of the best films of the 90's. Kathy Bates and Jessica Tandy give such an outstanding performance. I believe that they should have both defently won oscar's for this.What this film is about is Evelen Couch (Bates). She's an overweight housewife who's marriage isn't going all that well and she has low self esteem. She goes to a nursing home with her husband to meet an old aunt and there she meets Ninny Threadgoode (Tandy) who is a sweet 82 year old optimist. Ninny tells Evelen a story about what happened to people she know many years ago. This is where another story comes into it and it is just as powerful and moving as the other one.Over time Evelen grows more confidence in herself and becomes more happy and she and Ninny become best friends. If you believe that this film doesn't sound like much then you are deeply mistaken. It is such an excellent film.  "}{"Title":"I loved the movie, until I read the novel","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was quite disappointed in the movie after reading the novel.  It was disappointing that Idgie's and Ruth's real relationship never came through in the movie.  They were obviously lesbian lovers, which the movie swayed away from.  It was quite annoying, and left me unsatisfied.  Also, in the book Ruth is not Buddy's ex-girlfriend. "},{"Title":"I felt like I was there, in the south, having fun and sorrow with them.The actresses and actors were the best.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a movie I like to see over and over again. This movie gives me good feelings, of closeness and love, lots of love, love between friends, and closeness of family. "},{"Title":"The Color Lavender","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Evelyn Couch (Kathy Bates) subsists on Krispy Kreme donuts and low self-esteem. Her fat slug of a husband is oblivious to the attention she so desperately craves; he would rather plop in front of the set to watch his baseball game, and wolf down the wonderful meals she dutifully prepares. Soon, Evelyn befriends Mrs. Threadgoode, an octogenarian woman living her last days at a retirement home. Through their friendship, two beautiful stories begin to unravel&#151;one takes place in 1930s Alabama, and one in the present. Through this parallel-storytelling technique, Evelyn comes to realize the beauty of love and develops a healthy perseverance towards personal fulfillment.If you haven't seen this little movie, by all means sit a spell and share it with your best friends. There is nothing more soothing than experiencing the sights and sounds of a bygone country summer rocking slowly inside screened-in porches, the song of crickets and katydids, eating southern-fried chicken, and drinking ice-cold sarsaparilla soda right out of the bottle. Don't be fooled, though. The film also has its share of heavy-handed yet serious drama, so be prepared for a truly unique Sunday morning 'barbecue.' Actors Bates and Tandy are fantastic as, respectively, Evelyn and Mrs. Threadgoode. Bates is especially endearing as Evelyn, and Tandy&#151;as usual&#151;turns in an engagingly eccentric role as the seemingly dotty old biddy with a sensitive heart and a sweet-filling&#133;her character is a walking historical-journal ready to be opened and read. Masterson and Parker, however, lack the sufficient chops to match the superior-quality of the older actresses' thespian-talent.Somehow, Masterson and Parker (playing Depression Era fictional best-friends) are mismatched with&#151;in essence&#151;their symbolic (1991) contemporaries. The overall narrative faintly resembles something written by Alice Walker, were Walker an Anglo-Saxon instead of a black novelist.FYI Author/screenwriter/actress Fannie Flagg was a regular player on the TV game show Match Game. "},{"Title":"Saucy saute with good acting to boot","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Fried Green Tomatoes might be considered a chick flick. Well, so be it and more power to it. Go ahead and be ready to laugh, and also to tear up over some of the scenes. This is a well-acted, well directed, and enjoyable film in the solid time-honored tradition of totally watchable Grade B movies. Some of the characters portrayed are people a viewer can get to know for a few hours and really sympathize with. Other's behavior you can get mad at. You might even want to express a little outrage at some behavior portrayed. Enjoy it. The film has its flaws, but for the most part is one the sensitive and discerning viewer can see more that once and be happier with than much of the real trivial tripe that passes for film these days. And to be perfectly honest, it's better than the book. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didnt like this movie very much. I never felt for any of the characters and the story didnt engage me. It felt too exaggerated. Right from the start where the guy gets stuck in the railway. Give me a break. And the scenes where Evelyn finds herself are very predictable and stereotypical. No, it's all too simple. If you want a good movie about friendship, go see Shawshank Redemption instead. At least that movie makes you think a little bit.  "},{"Title":"Sentiment, Soap Opera, A Dash of Comedy, and a Gallon of Gloss","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fannie Flag's interesting novel gets a gallon of gloss in this very Hollywood movie clearly created with a female audience in mind. The result is a well performed but occasionally uneasy mixture of sentiment, comedy and soap opera.In terms of story, the film operates on two levels. An increasingly frustrated middle aged woman living in Alabama (Bates) examine her life and finds it sadly lacking--but by chance she makes the acquaintance of a nursing home resident (Tandy) whose stories of the past encourage the woman to take charge of her life. The stories she tells are shown through flashback, and concern two depression-era women (Mary Louise Parker and Mary Stuart Masterson) who owned and operated a ramshackle diner in a small hard-times town called whistle stop.The present-day story emphasizes comedy while the depression-era story tends more toward soap opera elements, and the two stories sometimes prove an uneasy mix. A great fuss is often made over the implied lesbian relationship between the two leads in the depression-era story, but I myself find this more in the eye of the beholder than in the actual film; it rather depends on how you read the characters.Much of the film is enjoyable, particularly in its performances with Bates a standout. The dreamy quality in which the depression-era story is presented is also nicely done. But the action is sometimes slow and the tone is both predictable and manipulative; I can almost hear the director telling me laugh now; cry now as the film progresses. Enjoyable for one, perhaps even two viewings, but not a film to which I greatly care to return--I'll take the more interesting novel instead.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"An Overly Sentimental FIlm","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The drama Fried Green Tomatoes is directed by Jon Avnet and stars Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Mary-Luise Parker. The film takes place in modern day Alabama with flashbacks from 1920 Alabama.The film starts off with a little girl in 1920s Alabama named Idgie Threadgood who does not want to be a part of her sister's wedding. After being talked to by her older brother she agrees to go to it and then afterward the two of them plus the girl the brother likes, Ruth (Parker) go on a walk around the area. When Ruth's hat flies off Idgie's brother goes and gets it for her but his foot ends up stuck in a train track and he is tragically killed. Idgie is extremely disturbed by her brother's death and is never the same again. This is all told from her sister Ninny Threadgood (Tandy) to Evelyn Couch (Bates). Couch is a middle aged woman who does not believe that she has any power or purpose and she met Ninny in a nursing home while visiting her husband's aunt. As the film goes on it develops the relationship between Idgie and Ruth and also Ninny and Evelyn and it is very sentimental...The script was written by Fannie Flagg who also wrote the book which the film is based on. Personally I thought the writing was weak for one main reason. That reason is that the film bounced between two different stories. The story with Idgie and Ruth was quite interesting but the story with Evelyn and Ninny was a complete bore that lacked depth. It was basically Evelyn just saying I have no purpose and then becoming a crazy woman that just tears apart her home and it is all supposedly because of Ninny's story. It is just not believable. It would have been better if it was more like Ninny just telling the story to Evelyn and Evelyn not having a story of her own.The first feature film for the big screen of Jon Avnet proved that he is a decent director. Avnet got solid performances by all his leads which is hard to do in a cast with four leads. The shots in the film were not really impressive and he did not really make me care much for any of the characters. I would have said that he did a poor job if he did not get the performances that he did, but then again it was only his first film even though he has not proved to be much of a director today in any way.The acting in this film was the best part of it. All four of the leads gave great performances. Even Kathy Bates, whose character I thought to be the weakest written still was able to bring a great performance out of it. Yet she is one of the greatest actresses who ever lived. Jessica Tandy even earned an Oscar nomination for her performance just because she was so great being an eccentric old lady. Parker and Masterson are sort of newcomers to the lead position and they really pulled it off as well. The acting made this film bearable.Overall I give this film a 5/10, I would have gave lower if it was not for the strong performances. I would recommend this to anyone who likes period pieces or films with strong female leads. "},{"Title":"This movie is a bittersweet tale of love and loyalty","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This story is a poignant tale of love and loss and it surrounds the friendship of two young women from the past as told to another woman in the future by the surviving friend. The story includes the developing relationship between the women sharing this story in their own twist of fate. It also shows the growing independence of the woman who is being told this story. She develops into a strong person in her own right. This is the female version of the loving friendship between David and Jonathan in the Bible. This kind of intimacy in friendship is not that rare among women. There is nothing to suggest a sexual relationship except in the mind of someone who is perverted in their thinking. If this was written about two men you might assume something immoral. Men are not usually as close in their relationships as women. "},{"Title":"Why Does Everyone Think This Is A Lesbian Movie?","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find it very interesting, if not hilarious, that many people are rushing to judgment on the lesbian issue. Saying that the two characters are lesbians is like saying Batman is queer cinema (the Village Voice's term, not mine), simply because Bruce Wayne is single, rich, neat, well-groomed, drives a nice car, has an extensive wardrobe and hangs around beautiful women.And if they are lesbians, I doubt that it went beyond deep friendship, since the story takes place in depression era Alabama in a very small town. Back then, you didn't even utter the word lesbian, much less act on it.If you want to see two lesbians, you will. "},{"Title":"Solid performances, not so sure about the rest...","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a while ago, and thought it was enjoyable, but I had some issues with it as well. The leads did a good job, and the mood and scenery was atmospheric. Most of the characters were pretty one-dimensional though. And the really weird thing about this movie was the fate of the abusive husband, and especially Cathy Bates' reaction when hearing about it. Oh, you got rid of his body through cannibalism? Hahahaha! Good job! He was an abusive idiot, sure. But killing and eating him for it? Wow.The way I prefer to see this movie is as a macabre piece of southern Gothic thinly disguised as a feel-good chick flick. "}{"Title":"Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Someone told me that this is worth trying, and the cast list looked appealing, so I decided to take their advice. Basically Evelyn Couch (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kathy Bates) is having difficulties with her marriage to husband Ed (Gailard Sartain), and no-one seems to be taking her seriously. Then one day while in a nursing home visiting relatives, she meets Ninny Threadgoode (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jessica Tandy), an out going old woman, who over their time together tells her story of Idgie Threadgoode (Mary Stuart Masterson), and obviously through flashbacks we see this story for ourselves. These flashbacks take us to 1920's Alabama, where Idgie forms a friendship with Ruth Jamison (The Client's Mary-Louise Parker), after the tragic death of Idgie's brother Buddy (a brief Chris O'Donnell), and working in the Whistle Stop Cafe, cooking the signature dish, fried green tomatoes, and living through The Great Depression. These stories of Ninny's give Evelyn great influence to confront her negligent husband. That's the basic story I got, and they become true friends. Also starring Stan Shaw as Big George, Cicely Tyson as Sipsey, Gary Basaraba as Grady Kilgore and Richard Riehle as Reverend Scroggins. Tandy is likable as the nice old woman, Bates is almost as good as the annoyed wife in need of attention, and there are one or two good moments in the flashbacks, but I don't think it was fantastic, but certainly worth a go. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Good! "},{"Title":"Okay...","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A great storyline...kinda slow and slightly boring, but great if you're into that past-present storytelling. Sad beginning, but that's okay.  "},{"Title":"Fried cheesy plot ideas at the schmaltz café","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No nation is capable of producing movies that just aimed at tugging people's heart strings without a single original idea or anything to say.The story unfolds in two parts. Firstly there is the present day where we have to put up with the rather annoying Evelyn Couch who has a so called failing marriage with her husband. She meets a woman at an aged care facility and so we are introduced to the story of Idgie and Ruth and the whistle stop café.What we encounter is a whole range of rather lame plot points strung together for little effect. The café of the title has no significance to the plot. Ruth's abusive husband has no depth. He hits her because he hits her....it goes not further.Idgie is mostly a female Huck Finn. Of course being set in the south you have to have a fat sheriff and the KKK.Worst of all, no matter how hard I tried, I couldn't see the relationship with the present day. They are just two separate stories.I figure this movie was made as a Yankee plot to make southerners look dull and stupid. One of the worst out of a batch of cheesy reminiscence stories. "},{"Title":"Pretentious","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To me this movie was nothing special. It is a failed dramady with an easy to follow formula and a very melodramatic plot. Did anybody seriously not see the ending coming? While people might say that the predictability might add to the movie's charms, I disagree. i doubt it was intentional. The Evelyn Couch story line was utterly pointless except to give the story a reason to be told. The filmmakers tried to add humor to the Couch's situation but it failed miserably. The overload of drama made each twist less exciting than the one before. It failed to make me cry, I cry in pretty much everything, and I couldn't care less what happened to any character at the end. While Jessica Tandy was phenomenal, the only true shining performance, the rest of the cast fell flat. Most flashback movies don't work. They don't bring the story to life and it is very distracting to go from one time period to another. Very few films have ever made that work, and this is not one of them. What attempted to be a great cinematic experience simply turned into a pretentious, overrated dud. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is the best thing about this one.","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this with a friend the other day and I had a pretty good idea what I was getting myself into. Its written by a woman it stars women and its set in the south. Can you say chick flick.I knew my grandpa loved the movie and considered it his fave and he had somewhat decent taste in movies, but this just didn't have that comedy feel to it. I walked away feeling as if I had watched a lifetime movie of the week.Jessica Tandy is a sweet old woman who has played in a handful of movies I like throughout the years. Stan Shaw is the man and I was glad to see him here although his role in this movie was rather boring.The Couch family was the best reason for watching the movie Gailard Sartain is just one of those 80's actors who always played the same silly character in most of his movies but he was always fun to watch. Kathy bates was doing one of her many 'out there' roles as she played the lonely in love Mrs Couch and I loved seeing her on this film.It is basically a movie where Kathy Bates character meets Jessica Tandy's character in an old folks home and is told a story about a girl and a boy and a best friend and that best friends abusive husband and about the kkk and fried green tomatoes and the whistle stop café.The story was told over numerous visits to the old folks home and the story bored me silly, I did as I mentioned above, love the parts with Kathy Bates in between.This movie wasn't funny really, but it was dramatic and if you're into the whole chick flick thing then go for it. Its one of those movies your grandparents would like. I am glad I watched it, but never wanna see it again. "},{"Title":"very boring","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I got out of the film was Kathy Bates' character whining and nagging her husband for wanting to relax and watch the Braves' game after a hard day's work. What a horrible way to live.I did like Jessica Tandy's character, but then she is a great actress, and would be excellent in just about anything.But every time Bates' character started another complaining, nagging rant about something, all I could think was please put a muzzle on her. That would have made the film much more enjoyable.But I must disagree with the other comments - this is, without a doubt, a chick flick.  "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I finally saw this movie. After all the great reviews I've read/heard, I must say I'm unbelievably disappointed.First of all, I couldn't believe how one-dimensional the characters were - they seemed like plot points rather than actual people. Wild and Crazy Idgy is wild and crazy, Shy and Submissive Ruth is shy and submissive, Mean Abusive Husband is mean and abusive. The characterizations seemed to go no further than that...how am I supposed to sympathize/identify with these people when they have no depth at all? What's worse, this movie was so predictable and contrived, and I feel like I knew exactly what was going to happen as soon as each scene began. The way they kept getting that shot of the cauldron and everyone kept mentioning how good the barbecue was after Mean Abusive Husband was missing? Come ON, a post-it note could figure out what was going on. And is it wrong that I almost laughed at the cliché, tear-jerky, practically-required-by-law death toward the end? I'm not here to only complain - I must say that I found the segments with Evelyn to be very engaging, much more interesting than the flashbacks. Maybe this would have been better if it were two different movies?No, it wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen, but I really don't think it deserves all the rave reviews it has on this site. Plus I think I'm extra resentful of the fact that, just because I'm a woman, I'm expected to fall hook line and sinker for this kind of dull mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Cannibalism And Gendercidal Hatred","Date":"4 October 2012","Score":"13 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, so here's why this film is the opposite of everything you've ever been told it is It's not a wonderful feel-good movie for the girls, it's an ugly, violent fantasy in which justice is confused with revenge.Let's break it down There are no primary male characters in this movie. Of the secondary and tertiary ones, it could be said that all the (white) males are evil or inadequate. Buddy is good, of course, but inadequate. His own foolishness destroys him. Buddy Junior is equally good but equally inadequate.Frank, on the other hand is just plain evil, and in between are more ambiguous male characters. The police chief is willing to help Idgie, it's true, but only because of his lecherous interest in her, and his mentality is thoroughly racist.Of the male characters, only Big George is unambiguously both good and adequate. But Big George is a black man. And black men are oppressed men. In effect, they are not men at all exempt on political grounds from the critique levelled at white men, they are honorary women.This movie, couched in soft colours and sweet music, is one of the most casually misandric movies ever made. First of all, & most obviously, there is the EATING of her Evelyn's murdered husband. But it happens throughout the movie, as well, such as when Evelyn tells Frank if I was going to kill you, I'd use my fists. She fantasizes about putting bombs in copies of Playboy and Hustler. I'll take all the wife-beaters, she says, and I'll machine gun their genitals! You didn't kill Ed, did you? asks Ninny when Evelyn turns up late. Not yet, answers Evelyn with a smile.The problem here is not that women will leave theatres and go on killing sprees. The problem is simply the convincing presentation of a cinematic world in which only women have a 'right' to be angry, in which all women are victims, & all men - all white men,anyway - are evil oppressors or inadequate burdens. To the extent that both women and men consciously or subconsciously adopt this worldview, the mutual hostility that now characterizes relations between the sexes will be exacerbated instead of questioned or healed. "},{"Title":"Rotten Green Tomatoes","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a tale of friendship between a middle aged housewife with a failing marriage, and a lonely old age home resident.Though the plot is touching, I think t has the wrong emphasis. The plot about Kathy Bates marriage is more interesting compared to Ruth and Idgie. The portrayal of Evelyn's failing marriage and her being bullied by almost everyone around her is excellent. Her character really connects to me, and I would have loved to see her more. In fact, I think this plot could have been expanded to become a separate film.I also think the plot about Ruth and Idgie occupy too much screen time. It is too long and not engaging enough, and it bores me. It would be better to see more of Evelyn, and her transformation through her friendship with Ninny. In addition, the two plots are too thinly connected to each other until the very end. It was as if I was watching two separate films at the same time. By the time the twist is revealed, I have already lost patience. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My mind turns to mush when I write about movies that are simply perfect.And since this movie was an absolute masterpiece of garbage, my mind is unprecedentedly sharp.I heard about this movie after watching a Martha Stewart show in which she said to add tomatoes to a stew to make it taste good. But when I opened up my refrigerator and saw that all of my tomatoes were rotten and all green, I thought eww, maybe I should throw these away... But then Martha Stewart said just make sure the tomatoes aren't green, like the movie Fried Green Tomatoes.So when I heard that, I thought hmm, so maybe there is a use for 2-year old tomatoes ... and I quickly went out to rent this movie. To my amazement and utter disgust, I found out that this movie had little-to-nothing to do with my old tomatoes. I took some paper and a pen to write down the recipe, but I seriously didn't get anything out of it.After the movie finished, I went home and thought well, maybe the recipe just means that I am supposed to fry the tomato ... so I went out and bought a deep frier from Bed, Bath, and Beyond for like $50 and put my tomato in there for about 10 minutes ... when it was finished, the skin was all hanging off of it and it smelled like a wet dog. But I figured that it must taste amazing if they made an entire movie based upon it. Needless to say, I was in the hospital for a week.So overall, this movie is very misleading and I didn't appreciate that. But I give it a 2 for effort. "}{"Title":"A disappointing film--vicious and untruthful","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a woman, and this women's movie sickened me.  Fried Green Tomatoes tends to be admired by radical feminists because the women in it are portrayed as loving, sensitive, mutually supportive, and oppressed by men--and the men in it are portrayed, of course, as evil, stupid, or both. It is a travesty.The ending is nothing short of filth--a plot twist that is inhuman and monstrous, but which fans of the movie seem to regard as uplifting.  That says it all. "},{"Title":"Southern-fried tripe","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer Fannie Flagg's idea of a tough, rebellious young woman is one who smokes, plays poker in a gin mill with rowdies, and wears men's clothes (she swears too, and is unafraid of bees). The point of Flagg's book/screenplay seems to be that being 'nice' and 'good' doesn't get you anywhere (wasn't that the point of Grease as well?). This is just an example of how southern-stereotypical and trite Fried Green Tomatoes is. It hasn't an ounce of substance or spontaneity, and, frankly, the performances are mediocre at best. It will surely entertain fans of those Hallmark-produced TV specials, as it incorporates the same weaknesses coziness in place of grit, ninnyisms as homilies, and caricatures substituting for characters. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While the film is technically accomplished, I've never been more disgusted with a film than I was with FGT.  This horrid offering features the absolute worst kind of pseudo-feminist male bashing claptrap.  As she becomes empowered, Kathy Bates turns into a horrible person, but we're supposed to admire her!  She threatens to hurt anyone who disagrees with her and yet we're supposed to like her.  I didn't, and I loathe this atrocious piece of trash.  If I could have rated it a zero I would - it's a terrible piece of work for which all participants should be ashamed. "},{"Title":"Feminism is Evil","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie doesn't even deserve one star. It is pure pro-homosexual, pro-feminist propaganda from start to finish. This has got to be one of the worst movies ever made. It was made for a bunch of brain dead, feminist, men-hating women who think that it's fun watching men getting hit by trains and barbecued. Have you noticed that Hollywood is always portraying women as noble characters, while portraying men as a bunch of bloodthirsty, wife-beating Neanderthals. Yet there's hardly been anything portraying girlfriends, wives, or mothers as abusive.I'm sick of Hollyweird grinding out garbage like this. The people who made this movie are a bunch of harborer PC liberals, same goes to the people who starred in it too. When I was ten years old, I hated all women and girls. Fortunately, I've matured when I realized that a person is contemptible by what is in his or her heart. Fannie Flagg, Kathy Bates, Jessica Tandy, Betty Friedan, Hillary Clinton, and Gloria Steinemen are the historical scum of the earth that need the least amount of praise, and the most condemnation for the hate they've promoted. "}]