[{"Title":"Really stupid but I LOVED it!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK the premise is dumb--A mom is going on vacation to Australia for two months. She has five children and leaves them with a tyrannical babysitter. The babysitter dies (of natural causes) within the first 15 minutes and the kids basically have to live alone all summer...but need money for food. The oldest one is 17 year old Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate)and she easily gets an executive position (just like real life, right?) at a fashion agency and, naturally, is incredible at her job. And her brothers and sisters learn values from her example...Sounds horrible, but it's well-acted (especially Applegate and a drop dead gorgeous Joanna Cassidy), it moves quickly, is very funny, has a great soundtrack of new AND old songs and I enjoyed every minute of it! Not a great movie by any means, but if you can turn off your brain for 2 hours, you'll really enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead- 8/10. Christina Applegate brings humor to this classic 80's style movie.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead (1991)This is one of the best and the last 80's style comedies along the lines of Uncle Buck. Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate) is the oldest of 3 brothers- Kenny (Keith Coogan), Walter (Robert Gorman), Zach (Christopher Pettiet) , and 1 sister- Melissa (Danielle Harris). Excited about her mom leaving for Australia on vacation, Sue Ellen is expecting to have a great summer- that is until she discovers she is going to be babysat by the evil Mrs. Sturak- a mean, grumpy old hag who gives you book reports instead of letting you watch television in the evening. Then, Mrs. Sturak dies- leaving Sue Ellen and her four siblings to survive the summer, prompting her to get a job to support her brothers and sister, put food on the table, and learn the true meaning of responsibility. This movie has some laughs and is pretty fun and entertaining. A good family comedy. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Harmless entertainment","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You know... I've seen this a couple of times and I'd see it again. It made me laugh. It was charming. It was a harmless flick; no psyches were harmed in the making thereof. Granted, no real thought needs to be put into watching it. But it was fun, and I enjoyed it.Christina Applegate especially impressed me, which is noteworthy as -- at the time -- I really disliked her as a result of really disliking Married With Children. She was not only good in her role but, I have to say, pretty much won me over. I can't say that the film made me wish I had siblings or a dead babysitter, but it did entertain me, and it made me smile to remember it watching this review, which has got to be worth something. "},{"Title":"Amusing film from a more innocent age.","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What is a great film? Something that is truly timeless, or something which is a classic of its genre? Obviously, no-one's pretending Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a great film (no great film has a title of more than three words. Think about it) but nonetheless, one does get to see how a film handles its composition of several genres rather than one. It's the best strategy towards greatness, and I hope to see this attempted more frequently.Don't Tell Mom... is at an interesting cultural crossroads. It's basically the last of the Eighties high-concept comedies the same broad category as films like Big and Crocodile Dundee, where the whole film comes from the pitch. However, we get to see shades of Wayne's World-esquire Generation X teen movie, especially in the character of Rob, and unfortunately the short-lived genre of 'kids acting in grown-up situations and delivering ever-so-amusing grownup lines.' John Hughes was the master of this style of film-making, and there's definitely shades of his work in here, most noticeably the setting of a film largely within a family house.First of all - the pitch. Kids left at home for summer with babysitter. Babysitter dies and kids must fend for themselves with as few people let in on the secret as possible. From this moment on, the film was always going to go about the format of throwing its naive, brattish teenagers in the real world at the deep end and extracting as much amusement as possible from their sinking-or-swimming. The screenplay starts to thin at this point. Of the five kids in the house, only two are feasibly old enough to work, or indeed to learn any sort of life lesson throughout this experience. The plot then follows Sue Ellen as she stumbles her way into a job and up the corporate ladder (the script is devoid of jokes at this point, but I kept watching because Christina Applegate is a surprisingly good actress.) Everything from this point is a misjudgment - it's virtually scrawled across the screen that Sue Ellen is getting some life lessons and becoming a young adult. The film could have done without the 'boyfriend' storyline though - it's without doubt the saggiest part of the film.More interesting is the Kenny storyline. Younger brother Kenny goes from being a hopeless layabout stoner with no inkling to as what he wants to do in life to a man with a plan. Lack of screen time prohibits us from truly understanding why, but we do get an insight into the film's message - the real world is about sacrifice. Kenny must throw away his carefree existence if he wants to become a man.Sure, this film has faults like pearls on a string - the annoying smaller children who eat up screen time and contribute nothing but an unbearable cuteness (and they're not even that cute they steal money from their mom's purse - twice.) Sue Ellen's corporate life is shown as patronizingly simple, but that's a fault of all movies in general, you can't have clever successful people as the heroes because the audience feels intimidated. The other major fault I'm going to point out is the chronic lack of laughs. About the biggest giggle was David Duchovny's horrendous yellow shirt. But Don't Tell Mom, much like its characters, has an innocent, naive charm about it, and if you can put aside your critical mauling instinct, it won't be the worst two hours of your celluloid life.Keep your eyes peeled for a throwaway reference to Big. "},{"Title":"Better than the 5/10 rating it has here.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just saw it again; the cast carries a silly plot, in much the same way as a '40s screwball comedy but with an 80s/90s sensibility and awareness. Applegate and Coogan are really outstanding here, and the supporting cast is smart enough to either support or stay out of the way, as necessary. It's pure humor with no big message, which apparently was a virtue 60 years ago but is unforgivable now. I'd best describe the humor as, Hilarity ensues as fish out of water learn to breathe air. I'd give it a very solid 6.8 out of 10, worth a rental or a Netflix hit, but not a $20 purchase.Tom "},{"Title":"What I have to say about my favorite movie ever...Can't you call Lizard or Hellhound?","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being one of those people that isn't heavily into the whole cinema thing, I have my classic favorites and I stick to them. But this one outshines them all. When asked 'what is your favorite movie?' at times I am hesitant to disclose DTMTBD as my number one. First, it must be clear that this is obviously not necessarily a good movie, in the eyes of the Academy or critics, but it's not supposed to be. That's the beauty of it, and that's why Christina Applegate is an actress!There are so many quotes that I would like to add to my comments, but as most of you have probably seen it, you don't likely need a commentary; so instead I'll just get back to the QED Report so Swell can have it to New York by this afternoon.It's too bad she and young Brian are married now -- I used to watch the grunion run with him. We'll see. "},{"Title":"A fun and vibrant film.","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was growing up, I loved it then and I still love it.Despite the fact it's obviously predictable, it's a fun film that's well acted and directed and has a great soundtrack.Christina Applegate is quite impressive as Sue-Ellen, as is the rest of the cast.Most of the characters are quite black and white with the obvious baddies getting their comeuppance towards the end of the film. Predictable films howeverm, aren't always bad. Especially if they are well acted and the characters are interesting. The only character that was meant to be nice that I found utterly annoying, was Josh Charles as Sue-Ellen's sugary sweet suitor, Bryan. His acting was great don't get me wrong, but I think it's safe to say Bryan wouldn't be MY type!If anything else, this fun film is easy to watch and will remind most people in their mid 20's of their adolescents. "},{"Title":"Fun from the word GO!","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How could you NOT like this movie! I am watching it right now, and it has inspired me to write a review, and hopefully give it more recognition and more importantly, a higher rating!!!! Kids home alone with no parents, free to do whatever, but also trying to maintain living! Each character has their own stereotype- Walter the youngest a handful, Melissa the disobedient tomboy, Kenny the headbanging rocker drop-out, Zachary the calm, but sneaky love struck teen and Sue-Ellen the responsible, yet hip mother of her siblings. This movie is full of much excitement and a great plot. You cannot go past this underrated classic! "},{"Title":"Great Movie (Possible spoilers)","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie, even now, 10 years later, I think it's great.The movie starts with the main character, Sue Ellen crowing to her friends about how she's going to be on her own this summer, because her mother is going on a 2 month vacation, but to her surprise, the mother does not trust her 17 year old daughter to be in charge for 2 months, and hires a babysitter, who turns out to be an evil 80 year old nazi, and the kids immediately despise her.Lucky for them, she dies fairly soon, and they pretty much drag her body to a funeral home, ring the doorbell and run. No, that's not incredibly plausible. But good lord, it's a kids comedy. There's going to be some stretches in there.Anyway, so the kids are broke, and Sue Ellen decides to get a job. She gets a job at a fast food restaurant, but decides she needs a more mature job, so she makes up a fake resume, and applies for a receptionist job (which for a 17 year old, isn't such a stretch), however, before she can apply for it she bonds with one of the big wigs at the company, and this big wig makes her an assistant. Some people commenting here forgot that 1. She was NOT an executive, she was an assistant, and 2. She didn't do that great of a job, they never actually showed her working. She was hired and kept on because her boss adored her, not because she was some sort of secretarial prodigy.This movie obviously could never happen, but hello, could Home Alone actually happen either? I can't believe people take these comedies and complain about how unrealistic it was. This movie's objective was to entertain, not make any sort of political statement.Anyway, it was fun, it had a cute ending, and I thought Christina Applegate did a swell job acting in this one. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia at its best","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was about ten and I loved it. I remember being motivated to see it in the first place because Married with children reigned supreme in our house and I loved Christina Applegate. In this movie she didn't disappoint either, as she was not only good in it, but played a character wildly different from mean, dim witted Kelly Bundy. Instead she played Sue Ellen Krandle a decent ,level headed, but restless young woman who is uncertain about her future. Sue Ellen has a contentious relationship with her siblings and mother,but she also is willing to strive for their approval and respect. In other words she is a regular seventeen year old. More mature than her siblings but not quite ready to take up the mantle of an adult. When her mother goes to Austraila, Sue Ellen thinks that she is going to have a care free summer of fun in the sun, when a woman comes to the door and her mother introduces... the babysitter. When mom leaves the seemingly sweet grandma like gem, reveals a nastily terrifying tyrant underneath, and Sue Ellen and her siblings try and keep cool heads. The old be careful what you wish for scenario surfaces when the baby sitter sees Sue Ellens punk brother's bedroom and is literally shocked to death. Sue Ellen finds the woman's corpse and to make a long story short her and her siblings are left for two months with out money or adult supervision. This movie is not perfect from a technical standpoint. It a predicable cheesy fantasy full of scenarios that in real life would be incrediblbly dark. However, for some reason, the acting, the engrossing action pact scenes and the love you have for the respectful a, fresh and resourceful sue Ellen and hate you have for the bad characters emotionally engross you. This movie couldn't hold up today, but for its time, and because the memories it brings I will always love it. "}{"Title":"Much better than is to be expected","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie, I found it very entertaining and would recommend it.I'm often surprised at the points people get hung up on in reviewing movies. They are, after all, FICTION. The main controversy surrounding this plot seems to be Sue Ellen's job. I have done office work for over 25 years and yes, it is entirely possible that Sue Ellen could have landed that position without too much trouble. Maybe not inside of five minutes at the first firm she walked into, but using a faked resume, as she was, she could have obtained a pretty soft office job without too much trouble. Some firms I've worked for would verify your more recent work experience, but many others never verify anything on a resume, and I've never once in all my years known of anyone to verify the education one claimed to have. Indeed, I've often kicked myself that I could have claimed to have some precious, worthless high dollar degree and no one would have questioned it.Beyond this, the movie is awfully good for this genre of film. We see the children unexpectedly learning valuable life lessons and it changing them into better people. It's really a rather wholesome movie considering the time period and target audience. I've let my nephews, nieces, and grandchildren watch in my home, there is nothing more objectionable than the very occasional swear word in it.One of my favorite movies from an otherwise dry period in Hollywood, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"1 crappy film, 2 great premises","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This really should've been 2 movies. There are 2 great premises here that are almost completely unrelated that are just squashed together into 1 not-so-good film. We have the hilarious slapstick comedy of covering up the death of an elderly babysitter, and a woman trying to find a way to save the company she works for (which is a movie that I personally wouldn't have cared for, but probably would've made a great chick flick), both of which could've easily carried themselves over an hour and a half each.Instead, all we get is a half-hour of comedy and an hour of boring Yuppie-ville Corporate America, with the plot of the first half-hour poking it's head every so often, mercilessly trying to remind us that we're supposed to be watching a comedy. But just as quickly as those every-so-often's come up, they disappear back into the void.And they should've done away with the 'no money, gotta get a job' plot device, as that was pretty much what killed the rest of this film. They could've developed a lot more comedy just out of them say... having a party and trashing the house, or relatives come looking for the babysitter, or mother comes home early, or from the fact that they should've just called an ambulance in the first place seeing as how the babysitter really did die of natural causes and they wouldn't have been in any trouble anyway, or any number of possible plot devices that could've been so much funnier than Christina Applegate parading around in Yuppie-land. And as for that part of the film being it's own movie, this section has a lot more detail than the first half. Just add a bit more character development to the supporting cast, and bam, you got that film.The acting is overall fairly decent though. Christina Applegate is definitely convincing as both the valley girl and the yuppie. Keith Coogan as Kenny and the hilarious pranks that him and his gang pull are sadly underused in my opinion, although his transformation from stoner slacker to Julia Child-obsessed chef throughout the film is one of the best parts of the film. Josh Charles (whom everybody would remember as anchor Dan Rydell from the show Sports Night) as the boyfriend Bryan does a fairly decent job here as well. Eda Reiss Merin as the elderly babysitter had me scared stiff. The actress also was sadly underused before the character's untimely death. I mean, come on. The title of the movie is based on this character. Had that been it's own movie (forsaking the Corporate America bit, as I suggested earlier), they could've developed the character a lot more. Maybe have her dole out some worse embarrassments and harsher punishments to the children before her death.Most of the actors in the latter part of the film were pretty stiff. The actress who played Carolyn should've been replaced, as it seemed that she read her lines like a wannabe actress in a poorly written commercial. I was however surprised to see David Duchovny (long before his triumphs on The X-Files & Californication) with the worst hair cut the 80's had to offer, and stiff as a board in the acting department.So basically that's it. 2 good premises, but one overall lousy film. "},{"Title":"What are we going to tell them? Liza Minnelli stole our Buick!","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay right from the top this is not great art but with that title were you really expecting it to be? If you want that go watch a three hour Ingmar Bergman film but if you want a breezy, silly comedy with good performances and a snappy pace than this is for you.The whole setup is preposterous but so are many 80 & 90's comedies, Adventures in Babysitting, Home Alone etc, but once this one gets past its bumpy intro scenes it actually becomes a more focused story of a young girl finding her way through unexpected responsibilities.It helps a great deal that the cast headed by two very good actresses. Christina Applegate as Sue Ellen the young teen who finds out she is more resourceful than she realized and the marvelous Joanna Cassidy as Rose, her new boss. Keith Coogan is also a lot of fun as stoner brother Kenny who belatedly grows up. Besides the good performances the film is filled with some amusing quotes, enjoyable situations and a flashback to 90's fashion. A pleasant diversion but again don't expect anything high toned and you'll enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"A No-Brainier Comedy","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a funny no-brainier comedy with a group of kids about as dorky as the cast from Fast Times At Ridgemont High, not quite as stylish as clan from The Breakfast Club and not as cool as the gang from Grease. But this group does have a way of making you laugh in-spite the fact the babysitter is dead. While you are grabbing a bit of fast food on the way home be sure to pick up this movie too. It is a good watch if you are wanting to see a stupid but funny teenage packed comedy flick. This movie may make a good double-flick night with Weekend at Bernie's or Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. 7/10 "},{"Title":"90's gem I still love to this day!","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this in the early 90's when I was a kid repeatedly and it holds special memories for me to this day. Plot involves Sue Ellen and her siblings mom going out of town for a while and the kids are left in with cranky old babysitter who dies. So Sue Ellen's siblings wastes away funds Mom left and Sue Ellen looks for a summer job to provide for them and lies her way into getting job at fashion company. She befriends the boss, works her ay up and eventually Mom comes home and sees all that happened of course. It is a super funny and fun movie and I recommend it to anyone. anyone who enjoys a good comedy and wants a good 90's nostalgic feel!! "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Comedy Classic From 1991","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead (1991) Christina Applegate, Joanna Cassidy, John Getz, Keith Coogan, Josh Charles, Concetta Tomei, David Duchovny, Kimmy Robertson, Jayne Brook, Eda Reiss Merin, Robert Hy Goman, Christopher Pettiet, Chris Claridge, Danielle Harris, Jeff Bollow, Alejandro Quezada, Michael Kopelow, Wendy Brainard, Sarah Buxton, Laurie Morrison, Kawena Charlot, Deborah Tucker, Sydney Lassick, Michelle Mais, Oscar Jordan, Marc Epstein, Frank Dent, Steve Ruggles, Kristen Corbett, Carl Tramon, Ethan Wilson, Logan Duncan, Robert F. Newmeyer....Director Stephen Herek, Screnplay Neil Landau, Tara Ison.Comedy on film was much better 16-20 years ago, as with this 1991 film from Director Stephen Herek. Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead was successful at the box office and before long it was not only on VHS but even on television (Fox 11 aired this film owing to the fact its star Christina Applegate was a cast member in their hit show Married With Children.) Applegate portrays Sue Ellen Crandell, the spoiled daughter of a single mother (Concetta Tomei) who takes off on much needed three-month vacation for the summer. The siblings are unruly, the eldest is lazy, irresponsible freeloading rocker type, and when the mother takes off on her vacation, they are confident they will enjoy freedom. But the mother hires a babysitter, an elderly woman, who is tough on them. It's not long before she has a heart attack and dies. It's up to Sue Ellen to support her siblings by taking a job in clothing/fashion production. Lying in her resume, she accidentally lands a job as the personal assistant to the editor Rose Lindsey (Joanna Cassidy), striking up jealousies and rivalries with co-workers Carolyn and Bruce (Jayne Brook and David Duchovny). It's nice to see David Duchovny before his X-files fame but the part is no big thing. The real star here is Christina Applegate who matures from irresponsible teen to working adult. The plot may be far-fetched but it works owing to a good script and fine acting. Plenty of funny lines, a little romance, and a coming-of-age story makes this a winning comedy. "},{"Title":"AWESOME--A pure comedy and VERY fun to watch.","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is different.  Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge movie critic and have all sorts of favorite top-notch movie that this may not compare to (Lord of the Rings for instance)--but when I watched Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead I absolutely loved it!  I still watch it whenever it's on cable.  This movie is HILARIOUS, and I'm dead serious!  I laughed so many times throughout the film.I really like it though because of the HUGE family concept it had in it. When I was watching, I dreamed of being in that family with the Crandells (Sue Ellen Swell, Kenny, Melissa, Zach and Walter) spending my summer vacation with them 'cuz they looked like they were having a BLAST!  That would have been awesome if they were all a family in real life today, yes, even in 2004, 'cuz they were a perfect 5!Let's get to the notable lines....check this out, out of all the movies I've seen in life, this one really stood out with the character lines....some were funny and very memorable..where's Caryolyn, always late, nerver answering calls, ---- Sue ellen talks like she's chewing her face...that's her...Kenny on the phone w/mom on the dead old babysitter  uhh...she's not here, she......she went to the yarn store...Walter yellin kenny for help with the new tv that came in  kenny! kenny I need you!... help! somethin's wrong with the TV antenna!kenny  I...(coughing eating too many waffles and syrups w/his frenz upstairs) I....agh..cough.cough....ackkhh.....have bob barker help ya! -- lolRose NEVER getting mad at sue ellen  you let cathy do the q.e.d. report?! uh..huh..   i was wondering, how you were gonna get that and the other files done at the same time! bravo!zach usin swell's $$ to buy cynthia a diamond  you bought her a diamond?! how much was it zach?  it was a chip!..Melissa's turn to take out the trash  melissa it's your turn to take out the trash     i couldn't fit in my schedule...kenny mad @ swell for the party she was having  i'm stuck here, cooking and cleaning, helping melissa with her homework, being a role model for zack, spending quality time with walter!, doing your Party shit!!  You know I'm sick and tired of not bein appreciated anymore!!  swell  i appreciate you!...  kenny  EAT  S H I T ! !-- LOL dude that was THE funniest moment of the entire movie!! look at kenny's face when he says that!so you see, it was hilarious!  man I can go on and on about how much the crandells looked like they were havin fun.  In 1991, it seriously did look fun.  this is prob. the only movie where it is very teen flicky and manages to keep itself as a high-class movie (as opposed to those other stupid teen flicks about girls and guys dating all the time), since this had a bit of maturity knocked into it with sue ellen workin at that gaw company.All in all, one of my favs.  I just thought it was AWESOME.  Two words to describe if I can, fun and interesting.Loved it! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A brilliant look at early nineties family, and more importantly teen life. Firstly, teen movies of today all seem to be set in school, and involve getting a date or a shag. Usually every character is hollow except the main one who we are supposed to cheer for, but more often than not they are hollow too. The actors are chosen for their looks and although they mostly give competent performances, they give nothing special, the film offers no insight, and nothing much happens. This is why Buffy (series) shone so greatly-brilliant stories, brilliant acting, extremely well developed characters. But it probably isn't fair to compare a long running TV show to a crappy film. However, DTMTBD proves that teen comedies do not have to be hollow, and lack humour, but can have a good story, good performances, many funny moments, and offer a message about life other than the rubbish spouted nowadays.DTMTBD is set in the summer holidays, far from school, just the way we like it. The Crandalls are a large, fatherless family, and their mom needs a break, going to Europe for the whole summer. The 5 children believe they are going to be left alone to party etc for 3 months, but of course that does not happen, and they each learn a lesson about life. It may sound cheesy, but the dark humour ensures that there is a balance. Sue Ellen is the oldest, but is only 17, and therefore mum hires a babysitter. At first it seems that the kids will still be able to do as they please, but it turns out that the babysitter has been sent from the deepest darkest depths of Hell. (met. speak) She sets down rules, chores and is going to prevent them from having any fun.However, when she sees Kenny's (oldest son) room she has a heart-attack and dies. They decide to get rid of the body, in a good, respectful way, and continue with their lives-taking her car too of course. All goes well until the car, along with their money is stolen. Their summer allowance is gone 1 week in, but rather than give in to their mum they decide to struggle on. Sue Ellen gets a job, the rest mess about, and soon tensions arise. Melissa (danielle Harris) is annoyed because no-one came to her baseball match, while the others struggle with girls and personal injuries. Sue Ellen has no clue about her job, lying on her CV, but the money is rolling in, and she has her own boy troubles. Sue-Ellen comes to the rescue of her boss, deciding to hold a fashion show at her house, where the rest of the family finally help out. Of course, nothing goes smoothly.It is a light-hearted look at teen life, fear of the future, wanting responsibility but not knowing how to cope with it, trying to balance a job, friends, family, work, boyfriend etc, but the often dark humour is very funny. Kenny gives many funny moments, getting the dog stoned and shooting the dishes rather than cleaning them, while Danielle Harris gives another brilliant performance in a small role. Applegate is perfect, delivering her lines with smooth wit and sarcasm, and showing the pressure she is under with skill. Other funny moments involve Sue-Ellen' antics with her boss's lover, and there are plenty of one-liners. The one about the cucumber and the one about Santa Barbara are good. Kenny learns that he can still be cool if he goes to school, and that life is not for sitting around, while Sue-Ellen learns that trying to grow up too quick can be dangerous. The movie says that None of us really grow up, we just get older and while this happens we should never forget who we are. As silly as it sounds it is true none the less, and few films show this better. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a time when movies were entertainment","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" today movies are violent more than ever before. they are evil and this is the norm of action flicks of today.Now let me welcome you to a time when movies were entertainment. Don't tell mom the babysitter's dead is absolutely from a better day and a better time of life. It reflects not just what the movie style is but it actually was a sign of the times reflected in the movie. No longer will you find movies like this.if you see this review without seeing the movie then find the movie watch the movie the acting directing scripts are all innocently and well directed making this one of the most delightful movies ever made.comparing it to movies of today this movie gets an easy 10 out of 10 for just pure fun. After watching this movie I swear you will feel good at the end not like movies of today. I guarantee you will be smiling and glad that you watched this movie. So what are you waiting for entertain yourself with some quality from the past "},{"Title":"Christina","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie,, very funny, lot's of humor,, you have an old grandma, who looks 90, acts like a drill sergeant towards the kids,, the boy is totally reckless, clueless and lazy,, the teen girl actually shows ambition, and wants to earn money,, not like today's teen girls that's for sure.. Christina Appelgate stole the show for me,, I wish her career would have blossomed, the parents go to Australia for 3 months, and the kids are left with a mean old lady to babysit them,, shortly thereafter the babysitter crokes,, and the kids are left alone to fend for themselves... I got many a laugh out of this movie,, which is exactly why I bought it for in the first place.. not to mention,, Christina Appelgate.. "}{"Title":"A Very Decent 90's Kid flick","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" From the being of the movie, I had a hard time of following this movie. But, as the first five minutes went by and we got to the babysitter 's death. Which I thought it was going to be committed by the kids and was thankful that they didn't. I love how shocked the women got freaked out by all the stuff in the house. I love all the typical 90's kid flicks clichés like the tomboy girl refusing to dress more like a girl or the funny little montage. I didn't enjoy the teen-aged brother using drugs and felt the movie should have gotten a PG-13 rating. But,I love how he changed from that to nice,cleaned-up, young man and taking responsibility. Anyways, I thought fashion show was funny for the idea for uniforms even though I can't imagine any school taking them up. But, however, I loved it for how the kids pulled it and grew up. It was nice to see mature teen film that doesn't deal with the search for sex. And the I will leave off on one note about the music, I would have to say the music was decent but, forgettable. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it's average vote","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is no masterpiece, it's 5.5 rating is a bit harsh for this early 90s movie that I remember watching during High School. Caught it at a Hotel with HBO recently and I thought I'd be cringing a lot, but it has it's entertaining moments and quite a few chuckles. It's almost a homage to John Hughes type movies. There's a lot of adult vs. teenagers vs kids humor, and some of the witty dialog that mimmicks Hughes scripts in movies like Uncle Buck. Here Christina Applegate who never really launched in the movie-world, holds her own pretty well, although she doesn't quite cut-it believable as a 17 year old. I liked the romance and subterfuge she threw at her crush and all the office antics and characters. You can see some of Office Space like goof-balls and behavior in this movie a good 8 years before the Mike Judge Masterpiece came out. Anyway, this deserves a higher rating - it still clings to some 80'ness in a fond way. "},{"Title":"Gotta love the early 90's obscurity.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What do I mean? This movie delivers silly situations derived by a not so family oriented situation. I mean, it isn't funny to have a dead babysitter! But the black humor inserted is amusing. Fortunately for the plot, that situation just serves as a transition for the real fun to begin. Through the eyes of the 5 children we'll get adventures and some Home Alone situations.The humor is silly but entertaining. I can't say much about the over the top situations except that it was a common denominator in early 90's teen comedies.This feels like the 80's but with a special vibe from early 90's, the transitional era where things were confusing.Christina Applegate delivers a fine performance as the sassy and brave big daughter. I love the girl. She carries on her back the movie.Overall, I recommend this movie for those who enjoy 80's teen humor. This time, with a little spice from the 90's. "},{"Title":"Really isn't that awful","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't be mislead by the title, because Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead has little to do with what it suggests. The film is about seventeen year old Sue Ellen's attempt to make some money over summer vacation by posing as a qualified corporate assistant at a design firm.Although predictable and unlikely (highly at that), Stephen Herek's movie remains light-weight and surprisingly likable. The content is poor but the majority of the cast (including Christina Applegate, Joanna Cassidy, John Getz and Keith Coogan) do well with what they have to work with. Not as bad as it looks.Also starred Concetta Tomei and David Duchovny.Saturday, August 29, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"A confused little movie","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While not a really bad movie, 'Babysitter' has a few issues that make me wonder if anybody making it knew what a depressing film they were making. The idea of a woman having to work to support her overpriviliged brat siblings is an interesting one, but really doesn't mesh with the way this film is promoted. And the promoted version seems a lot more fun than what turns out to be a very stupid Afterschool Special mixed with an abandoned whodunit combined with a coming-of-age story that really falls flat.What was the original point of this film? Did anybody really think that making a film aimed at teenagers in 1991 wanted to see someone from Married with Children slowly turn into Al Bundy live on the screen? Or that changing your stoner brother was the way to live life? I can understand what the movie wants to say--that you change into adulthood in ways you never thought possible--but it does so badly. The movie works when it's about the family dealing with their own issues. It fails when it tries to be Kelly Bundy's Smarter Twin Being All Career Woman.A quick look at the Trivia section of this fine website shows that this movie once had the loaded title 'The Real World.' Was this even supposed to be a comedy? Regardless, everybody in it does a good job. But I wonder what kind of movie they would have made if they tossed the preachy blue-collar indoctrination out the window and just had fun with it. The movie, as it stands, really seems like it's talking down to you right before it goes on about the four touchdowns it made in a single game. And it's quite sad to see what could have been. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick Dudes Can Enjoy!","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the only chick flick I can watch. Applegate is scrumptious but the stoner oldest brother steals the show along with the dysfunctional siblings. It is just a blast to imagine yourself at that age havin the house to yourselves for the entire summer. The movie for me is watchable for the first 3/4s but then completely chicks and cheeses out. I give it a high rating for its re-watchability when stoned. This is the only chick flick I can watch. Applegate is scrumptious but the stoner oldest brother steals the show along with the dysfunctional siblings. It is just a blast to imagine yourself at that age havin the house to yourselves for the entire summer. The movie for me is watchable for the first 3/4s but then completely chicks and cheeses out. I give it a high rating for its re-watchability when stoned. "},{"Title":"A Modest Classic","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've watched this film over the years on cable, and it continues to be a very watchable, charming film even with inevitably dated elements. Those who think it the worst thing ever must not see many movies, particularly comedies. This one has an actual brain behind it, a dose of wit and effort to delineate actual characters. In that sense it towers above 97% of most teen-oriented comedies from the last twenty years. I'm pleased that it gets a sizable enough positive response here from viewers, because a film like this can easily be dismissed as a typical formula comedy from a certain era, but unlike many films of its time it retains a very nice appeal, thanks in large part to Christina Applegate. The whole cast is excellent, and overall it's a film that stands up to repeated viewings. How many films from 1991 can still do that? "},{"Title":"A perfect light comedy","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who loved Married with Children and the acting by Christina Applegate in that series will surely like this film, which revolves around her persona.The plot is simple Single mother goes on a month's vacation leaving all the kids in care of an elderly babysitter, who promptly dies from natural causes. The kids don't want mum back at once, so they dispose of the old lady in a fitting manner - accidentally taking all the housekeeping money with her to the mortuary.So the kids ends up with no money and no one to turn to, but they somehow manage till mom comes back.The acting by all the kids is superb, Christina Applegate not least,and the rest of the cast is beyond reproach, too! Joanna Cassidy as Applegate's boss (long story -)!) is just perfect, as is John Getz as Joanna's sometime lover (although he seem to run after anything in a skirt).There are many moral lessons from this lighthearted story, not least that circumstance can force you to do things you never dreamed of doing, and that the sad fact is that money makes the world go around!I liked it the first time I saw it and I even liked it more the second time round! "},{"Title":"She doesn't look dead.....","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mrs Crandall goes on an extended holiday to Australia for the summer. Her children are first delighted but then find that Mom has hired the babysitter from hell to stay with them. When the sitter dies from a cardiac arrest, they deposit the body at a mortuary only to discover all their summer expense money was in her purse. The kids must find a way to survive the summer without mom or her money. This means actual work.......What could have been a macabre twist on the teen comedy blow out of the late eighties/early nineties,just reverts back to your atypical, nuts and bolts comedy at the beginning of the second act.From the one sheet to the plot summary, I was expecting a farcical comedy about the youngsters trying to keep the death of their sitter secret, whilst trying to hide the fact from neighbours, friends etc...And while this is true to some extent, the main focus is Applegate lying her way to the top and letting her pseudo career taking over her teen life. A sort of Taking Care Of Business meets Vice Versa type combination.And for that part of the narrative, it works for the majority, but it's just too predictable, too safe, and too cute to live up to its brilliant title.The cast are fine, the family are the same carbon copy family you find in every movie of this type, and features the same 'villains' who are trying to bring the main character down for their benefits you'd again find in this sub-genre.So the film carries a feeling of déjà Vu which is a little disheartening.So all in all, it's just another atypical teen comedy, with a couple of laughs. "},{"Title":"Actually a really good and involved movie","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very clever movie. It is not one that would go down as a classic movie, but it is still very clever and somewhat original. On one hand the movie is about the teenage desire to be free and be able to do what they want all through summer. On the other hand it is about a group of kids who are rudely thrust into the adult world and suddenly discover that life isn't the party that they expected it to be. The mother of five children is going on a holiday to Australia during summer. The kids expect that they will look after themselves, but what they don't know is that their mother hired a babysitter. From the first instances in the movie we see that the kids are lazy, insolent, and generally don't care about anything and are not willing to help. The babysitter on the other hand is incredibly totalitarian and forces the kids into line. That is until she see Kenneth's room and dies of a heart attack because of it. The children think that this is great until they realise they have no money. The Babysitter had the money on her when they dumped her at the morgue, and thus they have no food and no money for the two months that their mother is away. The solution is that Sue-ellen or Kenneth get a job. Sue-Ellen looses the toss and must work. After working at a Clown Dog restaurant and hating it, Sue-Ellen makes up a resume and gets a job as an Executive Assistant to the Vice-President at a uniform design company. What starts off as a thrill for Sue-Ellen suddenly pushes her into the world of adulthood. She must deal with jealous employees of whose job she stole and fend of the sleazy advances of a co-worker named Gus. I guess we can delve deep into what happens in the plot because there is always something happening. Sue-Ellen, who is the main character, is not only trying to cope in an adult world with a naive attitude, but she is also trying to hold onto a boyfriend while trying to hide the fact that she is masquerading as a 28 year old, and the fact that the receptionist who hates Sue-Ellen is the guy's sister does not help. What we see though is how the characters grow. Sue-Ellen begins to discover what it is like to be a mother. Her mother knows that her children steal cash from her, but Sue-Ellen, in her naivety, does not expect this and is ripped off over three thousand dollars. The house becomes more messier as the trash piles up while the kids do nothing. Kenneth, who spends his time getting stoned with his friends, is also slowly thrust into adulthood, and quite reluctantly at that. It is only when they are faced with a long time in gaol that they begin to rise above what they were. By the end we see that Sue-Ellen, who wanted to waste the summer away on the beach, has now come to understand what life is really about and has made her decisions while Kenneth realises that school is not a bludge and that his results are important. He goes from a messy druggie to a respectable gentleman who ends up with a woman that he could never have. The final scene is clever with their mother returning home to a party, but not any sort of party. The cliché is that parents walk in on a wild drug party where the music is loud and people are drunk and behaving like hooligans. In this movie the party is very sophisticated with many respectable people and a lot of money floating around. Though quite shocked at what is actually going on, it is still a party. Yet we discover that Sue-Ellen's and Kenneth's attitude to their mother has changed. In the end, it seems that everybody has forgotten that the babysitter ever was there, including the audience. Favourite Quote She was the best friend that I ever had. You never even knew her. Yes, but she left us all of her money. "}{"Title":"Christina Applegate is a smart woman","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very average movie with a very, even for that time, tired old plot. Not unbelievable, mind you, but you have seen this story in sooo many mid-80s comedies, the worst being The Secret of My Success with Michael J. Fox. That movie was insanely farcical, though.Here, the farce is toned down. There is an extremely off sequence at the start which involves the title of the movie. It doesn't seem to fit in with the rest of the story. It is more of the Marx Bros. screwball comedy variety, where the rest belongs more in the vein of family comedy.Christina Applegate, who is a smart woman, played a very dumb blonde on the hit sitcom Married with Children as most everybody knows. She finally got a part where she was serviced well. Not that her character here is a genius, but she gets to play all tangents Surly, upbeat, successful and finally brought down. Sorry to say that the movie isn't that compelling as she is. There is an abundance of stock characters, like the one played by John Getz and even the one played by the mostly appealing, Joanna Cassidy. I loved her in Who Framed Roger Rabbitt and she had a great recurring character on Boston Legal as Denny Crane's scheming fianceé. The reason I find her a stock character is that she appears to be a smart woman but is brought down by her inability to see through Sue Ellen (Applegate) at the very beginning. Then again, if she did, the movie would be over.There are some good characters, like the one played by Keith Coogan. He definitely shows range as he is playing two characters with equal aplomb, the loser and the reformed. I did find his transformation believable. Applegate's transformation is a little forced. Yes, we know that she has to make amends to all the people she did wrong, including her mother. It sounds like a John Hughes coming of age tale, and you know what? It is. But just because something worked for him, doesn't necessarily mean that it is any better the second, third, fourth time. "},{"Title":"Tough to hate","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You can't really have anything against this movie, because it's just incredibly harmless fun. The moral lessons that glue this movie together are taken straight from after-school specials, but they are delivered in such a delightful way that they almost become bearable. Almost. The humour is very creative and there are a lot of laughs, then again some of the best jokes are probably unintentional ones. I especially love the scene in which it turns out Sue Ellen has a knack for designing fashion, to which they show us the absolute most hideous clothes ever made in this universe. Ah, the early 90s, how I love thee and all thy weirdness. The cast does very well, kind of a shame none of them ever made it to the A-list. Christina Applegate might just be the most underrated actress in Hollywood, but oh well. Generally I'm not too fond of these movies with an oh-so-important message, but I gladly make an exception for this one. "},{"Title":"One I will never forget watching","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There were many of us who only liked the ballads of the 40's and 50's, that were often used in this movie, with it taking some of us a long time to also appreciate rock. If you fall into this category and enjoyed the overdone comedies of the 40's and 50's also, you should not only enjoy it, you may even relate to what's happening. I had reached the point of liking it when it was first released, for it brought back memories of those overdone comedies of the 40's and 50's. All who liked Big should also enjoy it. At a young 74 in 2009, I enjoyed watching it again on one of the movie channels, for which you pay a little extra, like Showtime. After this many years, I had forgotten some of the plot, so it was in some cases like watching it for the first time. In another ten years or so, should the opportunity arise to watch it again, I'll do this. Should you be watching it with someone who has never seen it, to make it the best for them, by all means do not reveal any of the plot. Last but definitely not least, I as an amateur actor, who understands the deep importance of feeling the part you are playing, the very beautiful Christina Applegate,in this movie's major role, very effectively plays the different characters she must play. "},{"Title":"Funny to say the least!","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Following to her success with Married..With Children Christina Applegate tries her luck with the big screen. In this movie, she plays a teenager who ends up being the sitter of her siblings after the sudden passing of the hired caretaker. Her mother(Joanna Cassidy) was going overseas for vacation and she hired a tyrannical caretaker who ended up dying of a heart attack when she took a look at the brother's room. In order to get some money after unwittingly burying it with the hag, she gets herself a job, buy conning her way to get it. The plan worked, and she now works for a a fashion company who would later have a fashion show in her mother's yard, until she gets back from her vacation! This movie was a a lot of fun, Sue Ellen is no Kelly Bundy. And Joanna Cassidy character should learn to be more open-minded on what her daughter should do in her life, however, she's a bit clueless about the babysitter she hired. At least Sue Ellen could have said, Mom, she had a family emergency, death in the family. She'll never know it was the babysitter that died! 2 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"dropping dead sitter off at funeral home","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie....... One of my all-time favorites! It's a fun movie for all ages to watch!Swell & Kenny dropped the coffin off at the funeral home, and drove away. While leaving, Swell said to Kenny, I should have been nicer to her. Kenny turned to Swell and said, She was a great babysitter. At the beginning of the movie, Kenny drove off with his friends when Swell was getting out of Nicole's car. Swell had already told her friends when they were shopping that they were going to have the whole summer free from their mom and explained how everyone was going to watch everyone else. She didn't know about the sitter before arriving home. And Kenny had to be reminded by one of his friends that his mom was leaving for a long time...So he yelled, By mom! Have a great time in Australia!Kenny didn't get back until Swell went into the sitter's room to talk to her and found her dead. Kenny never saw her until Swell went upstairs to have him go down to the sitter's room and help her figure out what to do.Plus, Before Mrs. Crandall (the mother) said to the sitter before she left, Mrs. S. You know there are 5 children?Neither one had even seen one another, so how would Kenny know what kind of sitter she was? l "},{"Title":"good, funny movie","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christina is finally showing that she can step into any character and do wonders with it. I was hoping the show, Married with Children, would not bend her towards being typecast. My hope came through. She is smart and very talented. I am a huge fan of Christina for a couple of reasons. One is her acting abilities and the second one is when she met the riders that rode from San Francisco to Los Angeles, a few years back. I know she can do more and I hope she is given the opportunity to move forward. The supporting cast (and all crew members) who put this film together deserve praise and a raise. Just one short note my son, who was about 12 years old at the time, was in his room, door closed and he was laughing and laughing. I knocked on the door, went in and watched Married with Children with him. I had never heard of the show. I know what it is now and watch all the repeats, every day! My son also got me started on the Simpsons. I had never heard of that show also. Go figure, my son gets me to critique the shows he likes and we are cool for the night... "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy about surviving on your own when you're a minor!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DON'T TELL MOM THE BABYSITTER'S DEAD, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about surviving on your own when you're a minor! I thought that Mrs. Sturak (Eda Reiss Merin) was the babysitter from Hell! You'd have to have seen this movie if you want to know why. Also, if you ask me, Carolyn (Jayne Brook) was an absolute bitch! On the other hand, every mishap that occurred after Mrs. Sturak's death did was absolutely hilarious. Also, what Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate) did was absolutely brave. If I were her, I'd probably do the same thing. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent comedy about surviving on your own when you're a minor. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first watched this movie, back in June of 1992, and throughly enjoyed the movie.   This movie was about five siblings left alone with a tyrannic elderly babysitter, after their mom went to Australia for the summer. The first night of the babysitter's stay she passes away, and the kids drop her off at the morgue.   Throughout the movie, the siblings are doing everything they can to hide the fact that the babysitter is dead from their mom.   There is one problem, someone has to get a job, and that ends up being Sue Ellen Swell Crandell (Christina Applegate) the oldest.   She gets a job as an administration at a clothes factory.   She works real hard both at keeping the company from falling under and keeping her siblings in line.   At her work, she is having a conflict with Carolyn a receptionist, and keeping a older man named Gus from coming onto her. At home everyone is learning to how take responsibility.   Overall this movie is well worth-watching for anyone, especially for anyone who likes comedy, and drama.     "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have seen","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies that I have seen.  I liked Christine Applegate. I think that Married with Children  which she stared in made fun of the family. I liked the part where their car was stolen andwhen the old lady got mean. "},{"Title":"better than it should have been","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The premise for this movie is OK, but the plot twists are implausible (and that's being rather charitable).  A lot of the fashion and music touches are (out)dated.  There's a cheese factor here that permeates everything in the film.  It really should have been a stinker.  Somehow, though, it's just a lot of fun.  Christina is at her lovely, lovable best, and the rest of the cast is solid enough; everyone has at least a little depth here.  Lots of cliches, but they just can't hold this film down.  Recommended viewing for anyone but the Grinch.Don't expect too much.  It's a goofy, light-hearted movie.  Appreciate it on that level and you'll enjoy it.  7/10 (surprisingly) from me, because it works well for what it is. "}{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best 80's movies that I liked, especailly since they had a tendancy to be so funny. Throughout this movie the kids are constantly making jokes, based soley around stupidity, but they can still be funny. But by all means, go check it out, its a great film! "},{"Title":"Park it yourself Metallica breath","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Surely the best line in this movie is Park it yourself Metallica Breath, if anything, only because it is so dated, ridiculous, and yet still kind of funny because he's talking to X-Files' David Duchovny.This is one of those films they used to make where the plot was strange and funny and meant to be that way. I loved this movie when I saw it in the theaters when I was in first grade, now 12 years later this movie is even funnier. You have to watch this movie as a parody of life. Even the cheesy guy working at the office, 'Gus', is very funny. There really are people like this out there, and that's what makes this film great. You can surely believe all of it is possible. From the traveling mother to Christina Applegate being the teenie bopper girl who has to get a job.... it's great! And somehow the movie being dated in 1991 makes the movie seem even greater. Sometimes makes me wish I was born early enough to really enjoy the 90s, in a great time before people liked cheezy music and... that thing called 'rap'.   "},{"Title":"That is a fantastic movie.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It certainly should have been worse. This movie was highly entertaining. Have a beer,  kick back, and enjoy a well written and produced show. You have to enjoy some of the  things that made late 80's/early 90's movies funny, but you knew that... "},{"Title":"Totally Gnarly","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why does this movie have a 5.1?  this movie deserves at least a 8.9. when i saw my cousins dvd collection, i totally ganked this from his house. this movie rules to no end.  i have no intentions of giving it back to him and have every intention on watching it about 40 more times before even suggesting to him that i have his dvd.  i just hope he doesnt read imdb religously like i do. ;o) "},{"Title":"Pulse enough for repeated viewings","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Christina Applegate wasn't given much material to help her shine on Married with Children. But finally somebody in Hollywood loved her and gave her the opportunity to play Swell Crandell in Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead. This film is an absolutely joy. True summertime fun that the whole family can enjoy. Sometimes it can be argued that the plot is a little trivial and routine. But, that is where it's charm lies.Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is like a longer television show, only constantly kept interesting. Excellent soundtrack too! The characters aren't completely annoying, the tacky fashion of the times is humorous, and the snappy writing along with the concise performances keeps things short and extra sweet. This film simply overflows with genuine sweetness.8/10 or 3/4 "},{"Title":"Five Kids. A Whole Summer. Fun Around Every Corner, So Long As They Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        It was the summer time and Sue Ellen Crandell's friends were going to Europe for a graduation party but she soon learns that her mother was going to Australia for two months so it looked like a whole summer of freedom for her and her siblings Kenny, a lazy party animal. Zach, who's got a date at age 11. Melissa, a smart allec and Walter, the youngest. But to Sue Ellen's horror, Mom had hired a babysitter Mrs. Stirack, who seemed nice but as soon as Mom left, she pulled out a whistle and began making harsh rules for the kids. They couldn't take it much longer so Sue Ellen went to go have a talk with Mrs. Stirack who didn't move. She didn't breathe either. She was dead! They couldn't call the cops because they'd ask too many questions and they couldn't call Mom because she'd come home, so they do the only sensible things to do in that situation they load Mrs. Stirack's corpse in a trunk and leave it outside the mortuary. So for a while, it looked like a summer of freedom for the kids. Just one problem money. One of them had to get a job and since Kenny refused, Sue Ellen got a job at the Clown Dog fast food restaurant where she scrubbed fat vats. She met the handsome delivery boy, Bryan and the two become friends. She also grows tired of this job and quits. She then buckles down and studies on getting big jobs and writing resumés. She practically copied a resumé right out of the book and applied at a fashion corporation for the new secretary. The one they had now was a bubble-head. Sue Ellen met the senior vice president, Rose Lindsay, who boosted Sue Ellen right up to her assistant!         Rose was such an easy-going boss and the work seemed like a piece of cake, especially when Sue Ellen had computer pro Cathy do the QED reports. So while Sue Ellen worked, the kids messed around at home. One night they go out to dinner in Mrs. Stirack's Buick and when they exit the restaurant, they find three drag queens stealing it! They acquire a ride home courtesy of Bryan! The job continued to go steady and Sue Ellen and Bryan go on a date and just hit it off! They bounce on bouncing balls at the toy store but were then told to get out. Sue Ellen soon discovers the petty cash box in her desk where she could borrow cash for necessities so she goes to the super market. The kids some how take it upon themselves to borrow from the cash box to buy such things as a home entertainment center! Sue Ellen was oblivious to this and would pay back what she took with her paycheck. She asked Kenny to help out a little around the house, like mow the lawn and do the dishes. Kenny did the dishes. He used them as clay pigeons! So Sue Ellen continued to run the house with little or no help from her siblings, but one day while Kenny had a get-together in his room, Walter climbed onto the roof to fix the cable antenna when he fell off and broke his ankle and what's more, Sue Ellen's paycheck was small due to taxes, but the real salt on the open wound was when Sue Ellen discovered the home entertainment center. She learns the kids had spent over $3,000! This was now embezzlement! Well things just kept getting worse because due to a protest on the proposed school uniforms, the fashion center Sue Ellen worked at was facing bankrupcy! But a last minute idea from Sue Ellen just might save them!        Rose liked the idea and proposed a banquet. Sue Ellen offered to have it at her house. Carolyn, the secretary who Sue Ellen was supposed to be replacing grew jealous of her. Her little brother was Bryan and he and Sue Ellen fought when she demanded to keep her job a secret. Carolyn and her yuppie boyfriend Bruce tried to dig up some dirt on Sue Ellen. They found out about Cathy but Rose seemed entranced by that rather than angry. With a week until the party, Sue Ellen whipped her siblings into shape. Kenny mowed the lawn while everyone else cleaned the house and got it all ready for the banquet. Carolyn found Sue Ellen's driver's license, proof that she was 17, and showed it to Rose who called Carolyn a liar. Soon the banquet was on and Sue Ellen made a speech. Kenny, who learned to cook courtesy of Julia Child, prepared the meals. Zach was the maitre'd. Bryan stopped by in hopes of making amendments and nearly blew Sue Ellen's cover. What's more, Mom came home eary and then the dooty really hit the fan! Sue Ellen told the real truth to everyone. Rose was still her friend though and Mom seemed impressed on how Sue Ellen handled things in her absence, although she had just one more question, Where's the babysitter?        A pretty good movie! Married...With Children's Christina Applegate plays Sue Ellen Crandell and was very good! Keith Coogan plays Kenny and played a very good little punk! Although in the movie Sue Ellen is older than Kenny, in reality Keith Coogan is a year older than Christina Applegate. How about that? Also in the cast are Joanna Cassidy (Who Framed Roger Rabbit?), Danielle Harris (Halloween 4 & 5), David Duchovny (The X-Files) and Robert Gorman (Leprechaun). Also, this film could really teach people responsibility. But anyway, if you like Christina Applegate or are in the mood for a juvenile comedy, then Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is for you!   "},{"Title":"Very Cool Movie","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is one of the most funniest movies of it's time. the cast was outstanding, I think Christina Applegate was just like her role as Kelly Bundy on Married With Children. Chris Pettiet was at his best in the film, i don't think I saw him do any better in his career. It goes to show ALL parents that teens can make it on their own~ "},{"Title":"Cute comedy with a great cast","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The story's far-fetched, some of it's trite, but the cast is outstanding and it makes an entertaining bit of mental bubblegum when you want to laugh but not think.  It's a nice one to unwind with after a rough day. "},{"Title":"A early 90's chessy classic","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is surprisingly watchable in 2001.  I caught it again on TBS and it was still entertaining, compared to some of the crap nowadays.  I really love the part when kenny does the dishes, the dishes are done man!, is a classic quote.  I would recommend checking this movie out, when it's on cable or something. 9*/10* "},{"Title":"Don't Tell Mom Our Storyline Hasn't Got Much Cred!","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one cool teen movie which ranks amongst such films as Serial Mom  and Wayne's World for great light-hearted Saturday Night entertainemnt. While the premise is definitly not exaxtly believable, babysitters dying and 17 year olds becoming Career women on their summer vacation, it's not as medicore as it is made out to be. it is a story about Teens and what their summer vacation is like without any parents, they become like parents themselves!. It was a humorous look at corporate life too! as the daughter joins the rat race to make ends meet while the passed-out son stays home to enjoy his spectacular sloth. While it's admittedly slow-paced and the storyline's not very credible ,it has a real feel-good factor, and the son's new meaning of doing the dishes had me laughing for 15 minutes! If you like films like Bill & Ted, Wayne's World and Serial Mom, you won't go wrong with this one! WHEN I WATCHED IT Saturday 5 February 8PM CHANNEL I WATCHED IT ON FilmFour "}{"Title":"Cheers up a Sunday afternoon marvelously!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The great thing about this film is it's cheery funny and has many things you can relate to.Otherwise it's just another fun and easy to watch movie, The first time I saw it I thought it was a bunch of garbage but then my friend bought it over and made us watch it, And I loved it. It has all the great teen wishes like the Parents away for weeks and no one there to boss you around..then that all changes, but I don't want to spoil what happens (as if the title doesn't give it away)Just go see it, you'd be dead silly not to!  "},{"Title":"Terrible directing and overall a mess","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead (AKA The Secret to My Success 2 Electric Boogaloo) is one of the most shameless wannabee ripoffs I've seen. You can tell from the image that this movie has on IMDb. The pull quote from the top of the image reads Its Home Alone Times Five...Whoever wrote that should be stripped of the right to free speech. It wants you to think that this movie has something to do with a bunch of kids and the fact that they have to deal with being home alone. But it doesn't. There's 5 kids and the movie only deals with 2 of them. I say that because they're the only ones who have an arc. One of them plays baseball, one of them had a girlfriend at 11 years old but then didn't for reasons we don't know or care, and one of them fell off a roof. Wacky. So it begins with a quick intro to the two main characters, the oldest sister and brother. The brother is a stoner, and the sister...seems to be just a normal girl with normal problems one would have at her age. RANT ABOUT THE MOM just about the worst person in the world. Seriously? You leave your 5 kids alone for 2 months? This is a premise no one can identify with. Because...WTF. She asked the babysitter if she knows there are 5 kids 1 minute before she leaves...So I'm going to skip over the babysitter part. Because its not important. The movie's title is about her dying, and its not the least bit important. There's no drama from this situation. You figure it can be almost like Weekend At Beernies, where they have to play like she's still alive to people. Like a relative comes by to check on them or whatever and they have to make it seem like she's there. But no, there's two scenes on the phone where the mom's asks where she is and they're just like uhhhhhhhh shes gone.OK, so Kelly Bundy needs a job now to pay for food. Which is the only thing the movie shows as a need when the mom is away. Apparently the big house they live in is devoid of food when the mom leaves for 2 months. You figure this could be an amount that a fast food job could handle. But Kelly says F that I'm too good for this ish. So then she try's to get a high class job at a fashion...place. And she gets one under false pretense. But there's some mean lady trying to bring her down. This is pretty much the stakes of this movie, and why this movie fails. If she gets exposed, there is no bad thing that would happen. She would just lose her job, and her mom would come back a few days later and life would go back to normal. You could say that she was embezzling money and she would have gotten in trouble for that, but it's like 3 grand...maybe probation...not something a movie should be based around. Blah blah, the other kids make appearances here and there...blah blah, the stoner wonders if this life of Rock and Roll!!! is whats best...blah blah wait, is that David Duchovny? What is he doing here? He could have been written out and the movie would have preformed exactly the same. I guess I should just end this thing now. So Veronica Corningstone is going to save the company with her fashion sense. It has never been established that she has a superior fashion ability. She just grabs some clothes, and off she goes. You could have made this make sense in 30 seconds with a scene earlier in the movie with her displaying some sort of fashion opinion at a high end clothes store or something. Showing she has some sort of untapped potential at this. But nah.She for some reason decides to hold a fashion show at her house. You can debate that it was to save money which she didn't have, but that party looked like it cost a s-ton. This was a perfect opportunity to give all the kids a quick arc to show that they can do chores now. At the party everything goes fine til the boyfriend shows up. I didn't mention him before because he's not really important (they could have made him important but there is a 30 minute stretch where he's not mentioned or appears). He sees a house with 50 cars parked in front, doesn't recognize the signs that this might not be the best time to confess his love over a loudspeaker, and messes everything up. Doesn't matter because the Mom shows up and everything's exposed. Which results in nothing. Nothing at all... Listen, the point is that this movie has no purpose. It is two movies rolled into one, resulting in nothing. You can do a movie about a dead babysitter, and the crazy mishaps resulting in that, or you can do a movie about a girl trying to fake her way into high society...which is what they did. The problem is that we don't have any background or connection with this main character and the danger she's taking in lying about this job she's in. She's just doing it to make some food money. And she'll be OK in a couple of days when mommy gets home. And this is the director's fault. Somewhere he should have put more meaning in the characters. Giving them more of a reason to be better, or establishing that they are crappy to begin with. The older brother was this, but was done with the subtlety of a wrecking ball. Its your job to give this movie purpose and drive, and it pretty much lacks it all. "},{"Title":"Don't Tell Anyone to See This Film.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Married With Children stars made unsuccessful cinematic ventures in 1991. Ed O'Neill struggled with the mediocre Dutch and Christina Applegate decided that television was a safer place after this terrible little production. She stars as a recent high school graduate who is upset to learn that her mother has hired a babysitter to look after her and her four younger siblings. Luck intervenes though when the elderly woman passes away. The children have plenty of money, they think, and are going to have a great summer. Naturally the money was left with the deceased babysitter after they drop her off at the city morgue. Now it is up to Applegate to keep her family running by getting a job and trying to support all within the house. Of course she reaches the top by basically stumbling up the corporate ladder. Trouble and more trouble will occur though and Applegate must learn to grow up before she is ready. A really corny motion picture that feels like the worst of the 1980s in the 1990s. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Best movie that was made in 1991!!!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a very good movie that has an original plot and great acting.The story is very good and original,a mom goes on a vacation for 2 months and leaves her kids home for the summer with a babysitter that soon dies.basically 20 minutes after the babysitter dies,that part of the story is excluded from the film,since the babysitter isnt mentioned til the end of the movie.The actors gave very good performances in this film.The movie is intended to be a comedy,but really there isnt much comedy in the film,but that shows how good the movie is because the film doesnt need the comedy to be good.The ending was funny though.Long story short,Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a very good movie that gets in my number one list for best movie of 1991.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV yesterday and I thought it was really good. I mean it's not excellent, but I can say that I really enjoyed the whole movie. It was amazing to see Christina Applegate's performance; she carries out her role admirably. Her performance in Married.. with children was Ok, but I really never thought she could act like this. She was the only one who made this movie worth watching.  I was switching channels on TV when I saw this was on. I guessed it was a very bad movie; nevertheless after seeing Christina Applegate as Swell I thought it was quite good. It was nice to see her hairstyles and dresses. I really liked the fact that she had to dress like an older woman to get a job. She was very good-looking. Her dresses and hairstyles were certainly flashy. It made me follow this uninteresting movie without disliking it. It was worth watching.As for the plot I think it was pretty bad and not plausible. How could a girl like Swell become an important executive in an enterprise? I think it was unbelievable. Even though it was a silly movie, it was thoroughly entertaining. This came on the TV last Friday night. I wanted to see a drama movie but I couldn't find one, so I just watched this. I was wondering when this movie was made and found out it was made a decade ago. I really watch these kinds of movies every once in a while, since I don't really like comedy movies that much; however I think it was good. It shows us that lies take us nowhere; it's a good life lesson. I like the ending as Swell regrets to have been lying to everybody in order to ensure her success and give something to eat to her siblings. It's Ok and enjoyable for the entire family. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Silly plot, but still a great movie.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When 'Mom' goes away for the summer, she leaves a babysitter in charge of looking after her kids. When the babysitter suddenly dies they decide not to tell mom and have some fun of there own. Older sister, Sue Ellen is not happy about this though and in between lying to get a job and getting a new boyfriend, she has to keep the kids settled.  Don't Tell Mom The Babysitter's Dead is a good likeable comedy from the early 90's. Yes, the plot is quite dumb, but this movie is still really good with okay performances from everyone involved, including Christina Applegate.     "},{"Title":"OUTRAGEOUSLY FUNNY!!!! oD","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful, light hearted comedy with lots of interesting turn of events. Very smart, very funny, great for laughs and something the whole family could enjoy!  I thought that Don't Tell Mom... was a lot better when I watched it the second time, because when I first watched it, I hated it! Probably because I didn't quite pay much attention to it.  Yet seeing it again (and this time giving the movie my full undivided attention), my hatred for this movie turned the opposite!  Dont Tell Mom... is one of the best comedies of the 90's, and maybe the 20th century!!! o) "},{"Title":"Fairly mediocre comedy","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best part of this picture is seeing Christina Applegate as the beautiful women she is, in different scenarios, hairstyles, dresses, etc.  There's not a lot of fine acting, but there is a little crude comedy.  Okay for a Saturday afternoon, but I wouldn't rent it for a Saturday night movie. "},{"Title":"Good and Amusing","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With their mother away on holiday in Austrailia for 2 months Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate) and her siblings are looking forward to a summer of no rules, no curfews and no nagging, that is until they discover their mom has arranged for a babysitter for the duration of her vacation. When the babysitter dies, they decide not to tell their mother and spoil her vacation.Sue Ellen soon realises that she needs to get a job and support her siblings, but she soon learns that being an adult is not all that easy.With a fine performance from Christina and good support from the rest of cast this turns out to be a really enjoyable film that is effortlessly funny throughout.6/10 "},{"Title":"ignorant fools","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" why is that everyone seems to discard a notably great film from the 90's. It can never seem to stand up to everybody's high standards of what a good film should be. What happened to just enjoying a film and being moved and captivated by it and in some cases being inspired by it instead of being so damn critical.I am not saying that this is the best film in the world but its on my favorite's list and justifiably so. I'm sure if you've seen it you enjoyed it, the humor of sue Ellen's boss (rose), The innocent romance between sue Ellen and Bryan, the coming of age and stepping up to your responsibilities from Kenny.....a recipe for success.You could even be blind and love it.....i am not blind and i could see its potential.But alas as long as the scornful eyes of others tarnish a perfectly good/great comedy then i say i pity you fools...your loss and more fun for me.SERIOUSLY YOU LOVE AND YOUR IN DENIAL........I KNOW YOU ARE..... yeah she like 200 years old....did you hear clip from spinal tap when she gets the petty cash? "}{"Title":"5 kids alone for summer!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best late 1980s/early 1990s movie ever!!! Just look at the clothes, the makeup, the music, the hair! Good stuff. Definitely a good movie for a date or movie nite with friends. The only bad part about older movies is the coloring, but the plot on this one is awesome. "},{"Title":"Five children take over their house after their mom goes on vacation. Great","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the best! Thanks HBO for putting it on today! I had a lot of fun watching it with my family. I think everyone should take a chance to see this movie. It's funny and it teaches you to be responsible (like when they get their act together and clean their house). Christina Appelgate played a great character in this movie. She was perfect for it. It also shows how easy someone can get away with something for a least a while like Sue Ellen (Christina Applegate). I'm an 80's early 90's fan so this movie great from my perspective. It's weird because just the other day, I looked this movie up online after not remembering about since i was about six. I found it and I was like o cool that's what it's called. Then, two days later (today) it comes on HBO? Now isn't that a little ironic? After not seeing it since I was six, i see it today and two days after remembering it. What are the odds of that? Well, that's cool that it happened that way because I like this movie a lot. So, thanks HBO for putting this movie on today and I think everyone should get a chance to see this movie. Bye. "},{"Title":"I found nothing to enjoy","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was nothing like what I expected it to be. It looked to me like a movie where the kids get the run of the house and go crazy, throwing parties and doing outrageous, irresponsible things. It ended up being closer to Working Girl the oldest teen has to get a job and falls backwards into an upwardly mobile fashion career. The responsibilities of maintaining the house eventually turn each of the children into productive citizens.What bothered me wasn't so much the story as the fact that almost nothing was funny. It ended up being closer to a drama. There performances were cartoonish, but at the same time, weren't into so-bad-they're-funny territory (except for the guy who played Gus. Someone should have seen this movie and realized the potential this actor had as a physical comedian).So there was almost nothing to like. Once in a while, we get a good line or two, like when the brother and sister were arguing like a married couple. But as soon as one of these good exchanges got going, the movie cuts right away to something else, killing the comedy momentum. My opinion was that it was an idea with good potential that was completely mishandled. "},{"Title":"Curiously ditches its darkly comic overtures midway for teen fantasy...","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rambunctious teenagers, left alone with a cantankerous guardian while Mom is away, must fend for themselves after the old crone croaks (they use the dirty dishes for target practice The dishes are done, man!). Airheads antics for an undiscriminating target audience, although Christina Applegate approaches the limp material with a dry resolve which is admirable and appealing; playing the eldest of the colorful clan, she rises far above the script and general handling. Second-half of the movie takes a sharp turn into big-business waters which, while too klutzy to be called satire, nearly achieves a certain unsteady charm. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Very inspiring movie","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this was a very funny teenage-family movies in the 80s style although it was finished in 1991. Perhaps the title is a bit stupid and difficult to remember. Christina Applegate is really beautiful and all things considered I thought this movie gave a good picture of how it is like to make it on your own without the support of grownups. Something I am still trying to do at the age of almost 32, ha ha. Sue Ellen's boyfriend is almost Holden Caulfieldian in his outlook on life and all in all this movie is a great view into a time before the home computer got customary, internet, cell phones and so forth. Moreover, the old lady who plays the babysitter is really funny -) "},{"Title":"It is what it is","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you don't have unrealistic expectations of this film, then it can be OK. Amusing to see David Duchovny in a small, role as a slacker. But the whole thing is an obvious vehicle for Christina Applegate. And she was tremendous eye candy throughout. I might not have finished watching this one if not for her amazing gorgeousity. (It's a word! Look it up!) And her acting was fine, too, she had a lot more to work with than in her supporting role as Kelly Bundy on Married With Children. It's too bad she hasn't gotten too many good roles in recent years, but check her out in The Sweetest Thing with Cameron Diaz. The supporting cast was generally adequate, with the exception of John Getz. He had the sleazeball look down just right, but it really didn't work.Anyway, this is for fans of Miss Applegate, and she delivers. Anyone else, well, this is VERY light entertainment. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"a little bit of everything while lacking any true originality.","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although this isn't the worst teen comedy I wouldn't call it one of the best either. This was at times corny, at others just plain obnoxes and irritating. I will admit there were funny PARTS to it(I'm not one of those people who despises it or anything). I just think it could have been done better. I couldn't see ANY originality to it and at times it was little more then annoying. Applegate was a perfect casting chice however, she's truely fun to watch on screen, if not for her the movie probebly would have fallen apart all together. I'd give this an average rating-not awful but hardly all that great. "},{"Title":"YUK!!!","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This ranks right up there as one of the worst films I've ever seen---next to Mr. Wrong! This movie was a total waste of Ms. Applegate's talents. But I guess it's only fair to add she was playing Kelly Bundy at the time so what else could we expect? Rent Adventures in Baby-Sitting instead. "},{"Title":"How to get a great job with no reference checks.","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A mom runs off and leaves her teenagers with a babysitter. I didn't have a babysitter when I was seventeen. It seems really stupid to leave two teenagers with a babysitter who has no money. Then the babysitter dies and Sue Ellen has to get a job. Sue Ellen could have called the police when the babysitter died or at least called her mother. So Sue Ellen writes up a fake resume and gets a job in two seconds. The boss doesn't even check if she went to college and that is what really makes me hate this movie. Also, there is a lot of sexual harassment in it. Then there is a fashion show in the back yard. This movie is so far from reality that it makes me sick. I hate the teenagers attitudes and especially the receptionist attitude. No wonder the babysitter died, she didn't want to be in the movie either. "},{"Title":"Don't Tell the Producers the movie stinks.","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I grew watching this movie and I loved it. Perhaps I watched it one too many times because now I can't stand this movie. Danielle Harris, Christina Applegate, and Joanna Cassidy are good although Joanna's haircut was a bad choice. David Duchovny can also be seen in an early role with bad hair. A little residual eighties bubbling to the surface. This is again that time in the late eighties and early nineties where all the colors are oddly, unnaturally dark. Josh Charles just doesn't come off very charming. I never liked him in this movie. He looks like he could pass for a Bundy with his nose which makes him creepy. There are too many caricatures in this movie as well. The dork with the heart of gold. The stoner escaping responsibility. The fickle yet smart girl. The evil babysitter. Yawn. I also can't stand the kids outsmarting the adults in cute ways genre like Catch That Kid. If I want uncontrollable cute, I will play with my dog. "}{"Title":"OK","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pretty run-of-the-mill, typical late 1980's film. Never hilarious, but fun & likeable in parts. It's a pretty far fetched plot, but keeps realistic enough to just about remain enjoyable throughout. It does suffer from a couple of long lulls where they had to stretch out the plot to last 90 minutes. The only real problem I head was the character Kenny, there were points where he needed a good smack in the mouth, but typically and thankfully he & all ended up ok. If you're bored & this is coming on the tele then it's worth a watch.5/10 "},{"Title":"don't  tell anyone  you watched  this movie","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" it isn't good.i didn't find it funny at all.i did find it boring and stupid,though,so i guess that's something.not something good,but still something.i couldn't finish the whole movie,i was so bored.in the 45 minutes i watched,i never laughed once.i figured if the movie wasn't good by then,it wasn't gonna get any better.the premise is an interesting one,but the execution falls flatter than than a pancake.somewhere between page and scree it falls apart.the average rating here is 5.3/10 and i would have to disagree with that rating.for me,Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead into the awful category with a 3/10. "},{"Title":"The babysitter isn't dead; this movie is.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Christina Applegate should have been run out of Hollywood, never to return, for participating in this piece of garbage. - TonyPolice Academy 5 is more worthwhile. - Norm from ILNeed I say more? The only reason anyone would even put this movie in their player is to see Christina Applegate. We loved her on Married with Children, but the only thing she has done since that is worthwhile is to play Amy on Friends.Want a babysitter movie? Go rent Halloween, aka The Babysitter Murders. "},{"Title":"Actually a really good film!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead is a good film that has a good cast which includes Christina Applegate, Joanna Cassidy, John Getz, Josh Charles, Keith Coogan, Concetta Tomei, David Duchovny, Kimmy Robertson, Jayne Brook, Eda Reiss Merin, Robert Hy Gorman, Danielle Harris, Christopher Pettiet, Chris Claridge, Jeff Bollow, and Michael Kopelow! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Applegate and Cassidy are really excellent in this film. I thought that they performed good. The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by David Newman. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Christina Applegate, Joanna Cassidy, John Getz, Josh Charles, Keith Coogan, Concetta Tomei, David Duchovny, Kimmy Robertson, Jayne Brook, the rest of the cast in the film, Comedy, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was young.  I loved Home Alone 1 and 2.  I was disappointed that I didn't see this one in the theaters because of the previews.  I had to rent it. Back then, I tried to convince myself that this movie was good, that I've never seen a bad movie.  This was a complete waste of two bucks that could've gone to more useful things (gum?).  I can't recommend that anyone should waste any time or money on it.  Let's just say that Police Academy 5 is more worthwhile. "},{"Title":"The worst film in the history of film","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whenever a debate about movies turns to which movie is the worst ever produced, Don't Tell Mom . . ., is always my nominee.  This is the only movie where I actually bolted during the final scene, because I just couldn't take it any more.  Bad acting.  Bad premise.  Bad writing.  DTMTBD makes Home Alone look like Gandhi.Avoid this movie at all costs.Seriously.Christina Applegate should have been run out of Hollywood, never to return, for participating in this piece of garbage.   "}]