[{"Title":"my favorite movie ever","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is my absolutely most favorite cartoon movie ever. it has action, romance, adventure, and gun slinging. The music was really good. I loved every minute of this movie. I'm a big fan. I've loved this movie since I was in 1st grade,( thats when it came out into theaters). I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good cartoon movie. This one is a classic. You wont be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to a great classic","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Fievel, the cute little mouse from An American Tail, is going west for Fievel Goes West. This is one of very few sequels that really deserve the title of the original classics. Fievel Goes West may not have as many touching moments as the original, but that's because it's more of a fast-paced western comedy rather than a heartwarming, sometimes tragic tale (tail?) as An American Tail was. A by-product of the comedic approach is the look of the movie. Instead of the dark, dull, forbidding color scheme of the first movie, the sequel is supposed to be bright, funny, and altogether welcoming. Thus, you get bright sunshine (sometimes a bit too bright from the characters' point of view) and varied color. The animation hasn't changed all too much, unlike The Land Before Time's sequels for video. The animation retains a bit of Don Bluth's touch, though still a bit different. Altogether, the animation is just about as good as it could be in 1991. The film as a whole is a gem, but the one thing truly, wonderfully beautiful thing about Fievel Goes West is James Horner's immortal soundtrack. The songs are just as good as An American Tail, which is saying a lot; besides, you have a brutally edited reprise of Somewhere Out There from the first film, sung by Tanya. Speaking of Tanya, she's voiced by someone different, presumably to allow for her great singing. For proof, all you need to do is listen to Dreams To Dream. Great though the aspiring singer is, the end credits rendition of the song by the crazy Lindstradt lady is beautiful.In Fievel Goes West, our title protagonist is lost on the way to Green River, where he will supposedly find a new lease on life with his family and lots of other hopeful mice. But the dream is shattered when Fievel explores the train, and finds a bunch of cats and a huge spider, led by the smooth talking Cat R. Waul, plotting to befriend the mice before turning them into mouse-burgers by means of a mysterious better mousetrap! But Fievel is found out, and the spider knocks him off the train, leaving him hopelessly lost in the desert. I thought they might have made up something different, not the whole mouse-gets-lost-must-return-to-family routine. I couldn't help feeling they'd done that before. However, Dom DeLuise returns for a bigger part alongside the legendary canine sheriff Wylie Burp.So, overall, what of this sequel? Well, it certainly does the original justice. Yes, it does lack the heart of the original, but having less heart than An American Tail does in no way mean being heartless. Don Bluth might not have had a hand in this, but Fievel Goes West lives up to Bluth's classic story of a little mouse called Fievel.Animation-9/10; Story-7/10; Plot-7/10; Comedy-8.5/10 = Overall-8/10  "},{"Title":"A charming little film...","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I'm not necessarily one to grab a bowl of popcorn, dim the lights, and plop onto the couch and throw in, say, Snow White. Animated films, specifically those Disney and otherwise aimed at five-to-ten year-olds, have never really interested me. However, this movie was one of such grace and humor, I can't help but enjoy it over and over. The lovable Fievel returns once more as his family journeys across the Great old USA in search of a better life in the west. Unfortunately, the nefarious Cat R. Waul had some rather devious plans for them. John Cleese is so funny, it's hard to sit through any of his movies and not laugh once. Dom DeLouise is also quite comic, being one of the greater comics of the past two decades- for proof, see Cannonball Run series, Robin Hood-Men In Tights, and this movie. Dancing Buffalo Bones? Nah! "},{"Title":"Perfect for the kids...","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I look back on my childhood, I think of fond, fuzzy memories, often linked with good movies. The Jungle Book, Peter Pan, really any animated movie will do, especially Disney. For some reason, these movies capture what it means to be a kid, to have fun. What we have hear is one of those funny, heartwarming treasures that will light up a child's face when he or she sees it.In An American Tail Fievel Goes West, Fievel Mousekewitz and his family are tricked into leaving the big city in the hopes of finding freedom way out west. Little do they know that the evil feline Cat R. Waul (John Cleese) is behind this. With the help of his friend Tiger (Dom DeLuise) and sheriff Wiley Burp (Jimmy Stewart), this trio will try and take down Cat R. Waul and his gang of villainous cats.This well animated sequel to An American Tail is one that will bring a smile to anyones face. Clever humor that appeals to little kids is found throughout. This movie is one that will become an instant classic in your collection. It can be passed down from generation to generation. Granted, this isn't a movie that will be watched late at night by you and your buddies. This movie does what it's supposed to do, entertain the little ones. Your children will have you rewinding over and over again (thank God for DVD's!). "},{"Title":"In some ways better, in some ways worse than the original.","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I wasn't a huge fan of the original 'An American Tail', but with my curiosity for animated films, I took a look at the sequel, the film I'm reviewing now.All the voice actors are back, the music, the animation looks pretty damn similar too, but one thing is gone, the director. Don Bluth was replaced by Simon Wells, in his directorial debut. As someone who finds Simon Wells' films to be enjoyable but not top notch (especially in the writing department), this is exactly what we get here.Many people will complain that there are very few plot similarities to the original, this is true, the film's plot is nothing like the original, which I thought was a good thing in my opinion.The characters I found to be much more memorable compared to the original, including the villain, played by John Cleese. Dom DeLuise returns as tiger and is much more funny and less annoying than in the original. Feivel the mouse continues to have a lack of a real character but I still thought he was an improvement to the original, possibly because of his maturing voice actor.The film does not contain nearly the same dark elements as the original, but in my opinion, is more funnier and more fun. The songs are either catchy or not at all, the films signature song 'Dreams to Dream', is as good or possibly better as the original's 'Somewhere out there'. The score by James Horner is a treat, just like the original.All real complaints come from the writing, there are small plot holes, a pointless subplot revolving around Feival's sister Tanya, and sometimes the plot seems a little too convenient.Kids will probably like the film, fans of the original may or may not, I personally rate it lower than the original, but by not too much. "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel for all ages that will warm your heart!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you ask me, this is an excellent sequel for all ages that will warm your heart! When Tiger (voice of Dom DeLuise) got dumped, I wanted to cry. Although some of the characters were diabolical, I liked everybody. Well, it's hard to say which character was my favorite. If I had to choose, I'd probably choose Tiger, although the mice were good too. The music was good, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent sequel for all ages that will warm your heart to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. "},{"Title":"In some ways, better and worse than the original","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For whatever reason, The American Tail films were two of the films I was brought up on. I still own both of them on video and still watch them from time to time. In most ways, this sequel is worse than the original. The brief story of Feivel being separated and lost from his family again is really underplayed in comparison to the first one, which revolved purely around this plot. In Feivel Goes West it's almost as though the family are a bit blasé about losing their only son. It's also hard to top the musical score of the first one. There is a repeat singing of Somewhere Out There that is rudely cut short but without the whole song, it doesn't have the same warming effect. The feature song of this film, Dreams to Dream is very beautiful, however it and the other songs of FGW can't match up to those of AAT.Despite these flaws, there is quite a lot more to enjoy in this film. If you're a fan of westerns as I am, you will enjoy an animated take on the theme, particularly the very enjoyably cartoonist showdown at the end. Secondly, the voice cast of FGW is far superior to that of AAT. Not content with Dom DeLuise as the loveable cat Tiger, they add to that cast for the sequel the likes of John Cleese, Amy Irving, Jon Lovitz and none other than the great James Stewart himself playing the sheriff of a one-horse western town. They're all impeccably cast and pull off a wonderful job.All this said and done, is the sequel better or worse? I have to say I think it's completely equal. Still the same level of childish fun and heartwarming moments, wonderful voice talents and great musical score. Definitely worth showing your kids. ***1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"Better than the original","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I enjoyed the original American Tail movie because of its appeal towards adults as well as children (it uses mice and cats as a metaphor for the Jews and Germans during WWII, with immigrants fleeing to the US). However the dark edge of the movie was a bit too much for me and I felt as a children's tale it was probably a bit too scary.Don Bluth returned in '91 to film the sequel to his last hit, this one a satire of the westerns. Fievel the mischievous mouse returns as his parents are shipping off to Green River to escape the cats, led by Cat R. Wall (voiced by John Cleese).Along the way a spider (voiced by Jon Lovitz) tries to kill Fievel and he falls off the train, into the desert, where he pines for his feline friend from the first film (voiced by Dom DeLuise).Eventually Fievel finds his way out of the desert and finds a dog-sheriff (voiced by Jimmy Stewart) who decides to help train him so that he can fight off Cat R. Wall, who has moved out west to spread his reign of terror.I enjoy this movie more than the first one because it's not as dark (something I just have a problem with in a kid's movie). The satire isn't as strong and the whole WWII edge is lost but it still retains the cats vs. mice, which is a nice element.The animation in my opinion is more classical and the musical sequences are more lively. The voice talents are far more impressive and I love Jimmy Stewart and John Cleese in this movie - talk about great casting! Overall this is better than the original and it surprises me that more people don't actually know about it. As a nice little family adventure film it's pretty entertaining and in terms of animation it represents everything Don Bluth is known for. "},{"Title":"A sequel worth watching","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let me just start by saying I absolutely love An American Tail, and still consider it one of Don Bluth's better movies. It is dark yes, but it is very poignant and heart warming as well. I never fail to tear up during the song Somewhere Out There, marvel at the beautiful animation or while the story is admittedly slow it is a beautiful and engrossing one. This sequel is a perfect example of a sequel that is worth watching. In most ways it isn't quite as good as the original, though there are one or two improvements along the way too. It has its flaws, but it is better than the dreadful Secret of NIMH 2Timmy To The Rescue and the mediocre-but-watchable All Dogs Go To Heaven 2. Also it is one of the better animated sequels out there, and considering how disappointing some of them have been that is saying a lot.My only real problems with the film are that the plot is a little too episodic, and that the film is too short, if anything it could've done with being 5-10 minutes longer. These aside, I liked the fact the story is cheerier and more fast paced. The animation is not that bad at all, it is colourful and well drawn on the whole, and the editing was above decent. Also the musical numbers are very good here. No, not as good as the ones in the original, and even if they did that is an extremely hard task to come by considering how stunning the music in the original was. Dreams to Dream says it all, that song alone pretty much equals the greatness of Somewhere Out There. The Girl I Left Behind is another standout I just loved how upbeat it was. And I would also like to remark that I thought the singing was better here than it was in the original. One of the minor flaws I had with the first film was that I did not like Phillip Glasser's singing voice, I just found it whiny and out of tune. Back to the sequel, Cathy Cavadini does a great job both voicing and singing Tanya, and Linda Ronstadt completely blew me away with her rendition of Dreams to Dream.What made the movie though was the voice acting. There was some truly inspired casting, and all involved did wonderfully. Phillip Glasser is still sweet and likable as Fieval, and Dom DeLuise is absolutely hilarious as Tiger and I loved it that Tiger has more to do here. There is one part when he falls into the sea and he comes eye to eye with a fish, and he says rather flatly Dogfish. John Cleese clearly relishes his role as the villain Cat R. Waul, a villain I preferred over Warren T.Rat, he could be sinister yet funny as well. But the biggest surprise was Jimmy Stewart as Wylie Burp, Stewart was a great actor, evident in films like Vertigo, It's a Wonderful Life and Rear Window, all classics in my opinion, and he proves once more how talented he was voicing a smaller but wholly relevant character and making the most of witty and sardonic lines. Overall, while not quite as good as the beautiful original, it is a sequel worth watching and was much better than I thought it would be. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cleese, Stewart, DeLuise, all good...","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  As far as animated movies go, this is one I enjoyed. The American Tail story takes on a classic western feel as Fievel and his family journey into the heart of the west. The real quality comes from John Cleese as the slimy conniving cat, and the late great James Stewart as Wylie Burp, the reserved town sheriff in the form of a bedraggled dog. A lot of the fun is the dynamic action humor of the last quarter. But, the big comedic boost for these movies is Dom DeLuise, who is just great as the overweight loveable cat. He's one of the reasons to see this. "}{"Title":"James Stewart's voice was the one and only highlight of this movie.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This episodic sequel to An American Tail is worth seeing if for nothing more than to hear James Stewart's voice as Sheriff Wylie Burp. Stewart is my favorite actor of the past times, and it's always a delight to hear him. The rest of the movie is mediocre and forgettable at best. Some people thought it was an improvement over the first film, but I wonder why? Sure, the original was sentimental and predictable, but it had the classic song Somewhere Out There written by James Horner, and also a much better, straight-forward story. The second movie seems more of a Saturday-morning cartoon style western comedy. There's very little story or heart. I guess more people prefer the light-heartedness of this movie than the sentimentality of the first. Now I won't knock this movie for some who like it, but I wish the first film was more appreciated by people. See this only for James Stewart's voice. Note I also liked the main character of Fievel better as an immigrant from the first movie.  "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a lively adventure. A great family film that everyone should see. The animation is very good filled with lots of movement and speed. the film has both physical and verbal comedy. The best thing about the movie is without a doubt the villain played by John Cleese because it,s well John Cleese anything he's in is going to be a ton of fun. He is a fantastic comedian and actor. John Cleese turned down the role as Cogsworth in Beauty and the Beast to play this role. John Cleese as Cogsworth would have been amazing. But he is great in this movie, and it would not have been half as good without him. Amy Irving is also in the film playing a saloon singer and and her voice fits perfectly. James Stewart is also on hand in his last role as an old sheriff. But even though he is good in the role, his part is relatively small. I could take or leave the cat Tiger played by Dom DeLuise(Robin Hood Men in Tights ,The Twelve Chairs )His character never did much for me and the subplot with the Indians felt unnecessary.The animation is very good as I said before bringing the old west perfectly to life while also having some good slapstick.All in all a very good family film that both you and your children should see,well made and fun. Also although I have not seen the Swedish dubbing, I'm sure it's very good because it is written and directed by the Queen of animated dubs Doreen Denning who has done many of the best Swedish dubs of animated movies ever. So if you are a Swedish parent, you can feel safe to show the movie to your children. The dubbing is undoubtedly very good "},{"Title":"A Movie to remember","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie bring me back to childhood! And is one of the reasons I fell in love with film making itself.This movie can be shared amongst generations to come, for it does not fall short of the American Dream, and what it takes to obtain it! For a cartoon, the characters are real life, the drama, personalities and more.The journey is what truly captures each viewer, for we all have a journey we seek, and attempt to conquer.Through diversity, a story is created, as well as an adventure to be shared. I spent times laughing, crying, and looking for my own adventure to discover growing up. And that is what makes this movie relatable, enjoyable, unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Dream to Dream about watching this movie again. It's just that fun.","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" American Tail was slow, dark and depressing. This sequel movie though, while not as emotional, was so much more entertaining for me. It was fun to watch. The movie starts out in the Bronx, the Mousekewitz family find that conditions are not as ideal as they had hoped, as they are still struggling with life. They always being attacks by cats. After one such attack, the Mousekewitz family decide to try their luck out west. While on the west-bound train, Fievel (Phillip Glasser) wanders into the livestock cart to find out a gang of cats lead by Cat R. Waul (John Cleese) is planning something evil for them. Cat R. Waul is a devious but ingenious feline criminal. He pretended to be the champion of a brave new world where cats and mice would co-exist while secretly plotting to use them as slave labor. Then finally killed them off after they outlived their usefulness to him in building a town in the Old West call Green River. After being discovered, Fievel is thrown from the train by Cat R. Waul's hench spider, T.R. Chula (Jon Lovitz), landing the mouse in the middle of the desert. On the way to Green River, he meets up with old friend Tiger the Cat (Don DeLuise) and somebody that might him on the way, Sheriff Wylie Burp (James Stewart). This movie would mark the last movie for James Stewart, and somewhat a tribute to him for such Western roles as the How the West was won, and The Man who shot Liberty Valance. I like all the western tribute in the film, from having The Searcher's Monument Valley type background to naming one of their new characters Miss Kitty as a Gunsmoke show reference. Still, the mocking of Native American with the Indian mice is just ridiculous stupid and wrong. Now the three of them must become western law men, and try to rescue the town mice before it's too late. Surprising, not a lot of people know this, but Don Bluth was not involved in this film as Spielberg and him had a falling out on the direction of the film. Still it's nice to see it is possible to make a sequel to a Don Bluth movie without completely screwing the original over. I have extremely fond memories of this movie from my childhood, but growing up, I notice some faults. I think some moments in the movie are too fast paced like the animators didn't really always see ahead of how it would look like. Like when Tiger hides in the sign, he jumps down and lands on the ground a second after the dog disappears, which is insane. The animation isn't that great, but it's better than most sequel animations. Don't get me started on the other American Tails films after this. The colors are bright. The special effects are nice, the train action was intense. The film plot doesn't get you very emotionally invested in what's happening, especially compared to the first movie. It's pretty so so. While the original is more like an artwork movie, this one is closer to being a cartoon movie. It's a notch down, but still worth all the praises. I adored the singing of the film better than the original. There wasn't that annoying child voice singing in the film, but more beautiful quality singing adult sounding voice. I loved watching the Dreams to Dream sequence with Fievel's sister Tanya. They sure sexed up Tanya's image a lot from the first movie and probably turned a legion of males into furries. James Horner's score is breath taking as well. It's give you that huge Western feel to the film. I forgotten just how funny this movie was for me as a kid. Nothing beats the lazy eye sequence. Don Deluise is just funny as hell, anything he says in the film just makes me laugh. I'm glad they could bring the original cast back for the most part but whole thing, the plot, the characters, etc. seemed a lot more childish. Somehow I've always enjoyed this one more than its predecessor. I can easily admit the first movie is the superior one, but this one always did a better job of putting a smile on my face "},{"Title":"had to comment on the (tail)? thingy","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" what?. . . isn't it obvious?sure its a mouse sure it got a tail but from Russia? or lets say at its time both 1st and 2nd part Russia(USSR)for me its pure subliminal propaganda not even subliminal as its the main title but that area the USA did a lot to put the soviets(Russia) in a dark corner and plant them selfs as the almighty freedom lover when most people don't even know what freedom means i find it disturbing to see the title saying an American Tail as if Russia is the tail of America (main char of this film is a USSR(Russian)citizen in a mouse suit) historically USA don't even reach the toes of Russia very insulting title and so obvious (an American TAIL)<- Original title why not (an American TALE) this is the reason why i write this review very disturbing if u ask me and im not even Russian nor American. note to the professor check out the movies from 85-95 its everywhere anti Russian propaganda by America/Hollywood have this in mind before u jugde an American movie in the end its a good cartoon any child would appreciate it no doubh ) Thanks for reading Much Love! "},{"Title":"Fievel Cheers Up","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Let me get this out of the way - I hate An American Tail (the original) - I think it is a gloomy, morose and overly sentimental piece of tripe. What's more, you try getting a child to watch this trek into unhappiness and gooey emotions... it's not going to happen! Fievel Goes West on the other hand is a much lighter affair, with more cheer and one or two really lovable characters the kids will want to watch and adults won't want to smear the screen with chocolate because of. It is a little two dimensional (no pun intended) and it is also a little episodic and disjointed in places, but it recovers well and bounces back for a great finale. In short, if the kids have been good then let them watch Fievel Goes West (if they've been naughty then you could always punish them by making them watch An American Tail). I have always enjoyed this film and it continues to lighten the day. "},{"Title":"One of the few good non-Disney cartoons from the 80's and 90's.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Feivel Mouskewitz and his family (along with a thousand other mice) are moving to a new land, promised to them by a cat, where cats and mice work together and are equals. Feivel is attacked on the train to get there and gets lost in the desert, along with his cat friend Tiger, both not knowing each one is close. The animation on this film is really great, and the songs are even better than in the first American Tail movie. Many voices are provided by celebrities, including John Cleese, Dom Deluise, Amy Irving and the irreplaceable Jimmy Stewart. So I'd recommend you watch this, because this is one of the very few non-Disney animated films that turned out well, and had great music.My rating *** out of ****. 74 mins. Rated G. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" An American Tail Fievel Goes West. Like the first, I enjoyed this movie very much. But after watching the first movie, I have to admit, it really is missing something from the original. Near the end, the animation begins to look a little flat and lame, there are a few plot holes, and the original plot concept is reused. (The Mousekewitzs seek refuge and move, and Fievel gets lost in the process).Aside from that, this film is very good. I managed to pick up a VHS copy at a grage sale awhile back, and the tape has been earning it's keep ever scince. The music is very good, especially the Way out west song. A good cast of characters also enhances the experience. Cat R. Waul makes for an awesome and humorous villain, Wiley Burp is just plain cool, and Tiger has always been my favorite since the beginning of time. Being a train fan as well, this film also gets high marks that way. Another thing to point out is the wonderful Real Smoke effect that the movie has.If I had to choose a favorite part, it would have to be the one seen were Tiger gets Dogged every step of the way, including a trip to the dog pound, getting plowed by an inbound freight train, and a run in with a dog fish.10 out of 10 Recommended! "},{"Title":"Fun sequel - one of the better sequels out there...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This sequel to the 1986 film 'An American Tail' sees the Mousekewitz family,now living in America, still struggling against the cats, who are led by the evil  Cat R Waul (John Cleese).  Papa Mousekewitz (again voiced by NehemiahPersoff) and Mama Mousekewitz (again voiced by Erica Yohn) question whythey came to America and feel like they have been cheated.  Following anencounter with the felines, they hear about going way out west, wheremaybe...just maybe...they can make a half-decent fresh start.  Tanya (nowvoiced by Cathy Cavadini) dreams of becoming a singer, so she hopes to dothis out West.  Unfortunately the mice are all being led into a trap which only little  Fievel Mousekewitz knows about.Fievel (Phillip Glasser again, although with not quite the same kind of cutesy  voice as he had last time understandably -- well, Glasser was close to teenage  years at this time so the inevitable voice-break was on its way), once again, gets  lost after falling off the train taking the mice West.  Unlike the first movie, where  he just had to find his parents again, this time he has to find them to warn them  of the aforementioned trap they are falling into!  There to hopefully help him are  not only his old pal Tiger (Dom DeLuise again reprising his delightful role), but  also the legendary dog sheriff Wylie Burp (voiced by the late great JamesStewart in what I believe to be his last-ever role in a feature film) -- that is, if  Fievel can get the latter to overcome a little problem he has!Is this a good movie?  Well, I'm in two minds.  Although it lacks the sentimentality  of the original (which will be either a blessing or a curse depending on your  view), it makes up for it with racier slapstick comedy and fun.  Mind you, the cats  don't seem quite as menacing this time around.  Wylie Burp is a joy to watch,  though.Technically it scores highly, too.  The characters are well-defined and sharply  drawn, and a burst of 'Somewhere Out There' from Cathy Cavadini, plus someother nice (and some fun) songs, also add to the proceedings.Basically, if you loved the original you may love this one, although not quite as  much.  If you thought the original was too sentimental you may enjoy this one  more, however.  Weird, eh? "},{"Title":"Dreams To Dreams","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I agree with the person who raved about that song. When I was 6 years old, I got Fievel Goes West and that part was my favorite. I would watch it over and over again, sing it around the house, and record it. I still love it to this day, and am happy to learn that James Horner composed it. I loved the whole soundtrack to the movie -- I would record the music that played during the credits and listen to it, and even at such a young age, it would make me cry. I keep finding myself falling in love with everything I hear of James Horners, from the soundtrack to Casper to Braveheart to Titanic. He is fabulous! But anyway, about the movie...I think it is cute. My favorite character has always been Tiger, whom I even named my cat after. No one else got a say in it! This movie will always remain a classic to me, since it played such a huge part of my early childhood. "}{"Title":"A lovely plot killed by lack of story.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, this is one of those films that seems about a step-and-a-half away from being truly great.  You have undeniable star power in John Cleese, James Stewart, and Don Bluth regular Dom deLuis.  You have a handful of snappy tunes.  You have bright colors and technically brilliant animation.  Yet I watched it and came away from it thinking, There was something wrong with this flick.  What was it?  After due deliberations, the answer came to me the writing.The script is little more than a clothesline on which to hang a series of visual gags and opportunities for Cleese to give his character a few Pythonian scenes.  It takes a promising premise for an entertaining sequel and burdens it with instantly forgettable songs (snappy though they were) and an insufferably cute protagonist.  It's great for kids, don't get me wrong.  If you're childless, however, save it for video and watch it for the quality of the animation.  While astounding, it can't make up for the lack of story. "},{"Title":"Going West","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Some folks complain that this movie doesn't equal to the original and they are right. It isn't as heart-warming, it isn't as dark and the voice and animation style is noticeably different. It relies heavily on sight gags and less on plot.That being said, I find very little wrong about those issues. I have a very hard time really pining down a solid plot for the first movie to begin with, since it's just a series of a scenes featuring Fievel just barely missing chances to re-unite with his family. In the second movie, he has a more pointed mission to successfully warn/protect the mice from yet another self-appointed sophisticate.The original movie was good and gave kids a glimpse into an important part of our history (immigration) but the theme was too slow and depressing to carry the full weight of two movies.The second movie, in addition to snappy animation and clever gags, brought on another 19th century mind-set, the prospect of the west and a future of not only being in America, but being a PART of America itself.Overall, despite this movie's differences from the original, it is still charming and a great deal higher in quality than other sequels.And let's be honest, what little boy doesn't dream about fighting alongside his hero? "},{"Title":"not just for kids","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I will happily admit this is my favorite movie in my collection!I will also point out this movie isn't just for small children, this is a feel-good comedy that though yes probably wont be a good accompaniment with booze and a rowdy crowd, is a good movie for anyone of any age to appreciate! Its good music, brilliant artwork, and fun references make American Tail Fieval goes west something worthwhile to enjoy no matter your age. While their may not be many adult innuendos, do not immediately write this of as something only your kids can watch. let childhood nostalgia fill you as you watch it and as you notice and realize new things about it!Just because something is a cartoon, doesn't mean its only for children. "},{"Title":"Dancing Buffalo Bones???","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's not as sentimental as the first, nor is the music as good (on my personal scale, it's a 3/10), but the fact that there are more characters that are present for the whole movie, I feel that it is far more engaging for an audience of all ages. Even the villain is a lovable character. PUSSY-POOOOOO!!!The animation is also much more unique in this movie. It does its job engaging the viewer to not only pay attention to the characters, but to the scenery as well. Something I felt was lacking in the first.The character animation and voice syncing is far better in the first and the lack of painted background in this one just make it feel on the low quality side, but the presence of shadow and malleability of characters in this one make it a completely different movie.The story is fast-paced and the humor is timed very well. Steven Spielberg brought us a story not like the original... So... you can't really say which is better. ^__^;;And since when did Tanya grow hair?Ms. Kitty = <3 "},{"Title":"a really cool movie","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have seen this film as a trillion times by TV and the truth I never get bored of see it. I think it is brilliant and is one of my favorite sequels, the story is really entertaining from the beginning to the finish. In this second part The Mousewith Family has already succeeded in establishing his new home in New York, after the occurred events in the first film, but the problem is that the dad is not very satisfied with the quality of life they have there, and later to escape a dangerous hunting by cats, they come floating through a tin of sardines to the sewer where they to buy some tickets to live in the west where supposedly cats and mice live together in harmony.Inside the train, Fievel hears some cat's voices in the other wagon and he goes to investigate.Inside, he found that when they reach their destination cats become all mice in mouse hamburgers.Then he decides to save his family and others from certain death.I have seen all the films from An American tail and they are all very interesting and fun but this is my favorite of all. I think that this movie is really great,His songs, the characters, everything is great, but above all his songs. I love the song dream to dream singed by Tanya, powerful and beauty at the same time.the one thing that i don't liked from this second part was the little change was that the design of the characters and the final battle was a little short, but all the other things are awesome.In conclusion, I would like to comment that after seeing so many times the four films from An American Tale Have helped me to create my own version, as I already have 30 minutes he he he and the truth is quite interesting and fun.bye "},{"Title":"Loved it when I was 6 and I still do now at 21","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Growing up, I must have seen An American Tail and feivel Goes West a million times. Recently, I got the DVD in a fit of nostalgia and found that I still knew every line from both movies. But while the first movie is well done and rather dark, this movie is much more lighthearted and has some incredibly amusing moments.The pace is that of a children's movie. I will admit, not a lot of time is spent on atmosphere an the tone of the movie is constantly shifting from serious/sinister (ie. Feivel gets picked up by a Hawk) to goofy (said hawk gets blasted from the sky in a shower of feathers by teeny mouse natives).But despite its pacing, it is quite entertaining. Dom DeLuise is hysterical and really develops a character in this movie. He does the prissy city cat learning to be a frontier dog so well. The animation is much crisper than the first.The song 'Dreams to Dream' caught me off guard. When I was little, I loved the song because it was cute, but watching it again, this song is really an amazing song. Much more emotional and gripping than 'My Heart Will Go On' (another James Horner single). It has that kind of epic, romance novel feel that 'I Want to Spend My Lifetime Loving You' had (yet another James Horner single from The Mask of Zorro). The Linda Ronstadt version is OK, but the orchestral movie version with Tanya singing is really fantastic.John Cleese is wonderful as he always is. Cat R. Waul's fate is classic. His attempts to remain aloof and aristocratic, but his catlike tendency to completely overreact and lose his cool when caught off guard shines through perfectly.James Stewart is great and has some really great moments. His dry, sardonic wit shows through in a lot of scenes that I completely missed as a kid. I never taught him that... when Tiger sweeps Miss Kitty off her feet and the pair vanishes off screen.Kids will love this and parents won't be bored watching it with their kids. Entertaining, brief and a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"another great movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  An American Tail 2 Fievel goes west This is another fantastic animated movie, this one was made in 1991, 5 years after the original and the first an american tail movie. Don Bluth also created The Land Before Time which was made in 1988. I give an american tail 2 Fievel goes west a good score 9 out 10. "},{"Title":"A top movie of all time","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Defiantly one of my favorite 10 animated movies, probably in my top 10 movies period. I've loved it since I first saw it when it was a new release on video. It gives me a a great feeling to watch it, maybe it's nostalgia but it's a great movies even apart from that. "},{"Title":"sweet but sad","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For what it is this is a sweet little film. A decent sequel to a rare non-Disney animated masterpiece (which i still think the first film was). i love the idea of Fievel's next adventure taking him out west. And so many cute things to enjoy here. The villain and the Dom Deluise character especially, along with the inclusion of the performance of Rawhide from the Blues Brothers movie. Alas, the sad part of this movie....this was our last movie with Mr. James Stewart and sadly we didn't even get to see, only hear, the original everyman. Even though he didn't start out in westerns (he turned to the genre to save his fledgling career in the early '50s) by the time this film was made he was a Western icon alongside Clint Eastwood or Glenn Ford (and not far behind the Duke). "},{"Title":"A funny and really well animated film.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a really good film, especially for kids. It's funny for adults as well as for children and is animated in a way that makes the characters really come to life. Although it's successor, An American Tail, was good, this has come a long way since then and the story line is more my sort of thing. It's much wittier and clever and of course includes John Cleese (I'm not biased, promise!). All in all, a great film. "}{"Title":"beautiful music","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I can't believe no one has commented on the song Dreams to Dream yet. When I heard that song, I instantly fell in love! It's amazing- James Horner rocks! I sing this song to my friend when we're spending the night, and she goes to sleep instantly! If you don't see this movie for any other reason, go for the music! Dreams to Dream occurs when Tonya is washing the windows, right after Fievel wanders into the bar and right before Tanya performs, when she sings another great song. Also the animation is GREAT, and the plotline, though somewhat bland, is still interesting. I recommend it to children, women, and sensitive men. "},{"Title":"A good sequel","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I absolutely loved the original film, and I was glad when this movie came out. It's got a lot of heart like the original does, yet it's a slight step below it. One of the problems with this film is Fievel's voice. His voice in the original was like a cute innocent little kid. In this one, it's dramatically different. And that sorta ruined it. Despite that flaw, this film is fun. Though it isn't nearly as kind and good hearted as the original, it's still got heart. And some nice humor by Dom Deluise as well. All in all, a great sequel that's worth watching again and again like the original "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  What an awesome movie. I loved the first movie, but this one is better. I was in first grade when this movie was out.  I remember  how much I liked it, (and I still do).  It had a lot of cool songs.  This is a movie I would like to watch again and again.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Animated Children films of the 90`s","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  An American Tail Fievel Goes West is probably one of the best Animated Children films of the 90`s. Unlike most Disney films of the 90`s, This film seemed much better made and developed. Music scores were okay or above average. This film at times seems better than the first one, but can lonely at times. All in all, its still a great film to watch on a boring weekend afternoonThe Lion King is one of the highest grossing movies of all time, but it`s not as good as any of the American Tail movies except for the direct to video sequel. "},{"Title":"This is awesome!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is truly a work of art, it is the best animated film ever released although the first one was virtually perfect, this one's even better. Next to this movie perfection is worthless! "},{"Title":"The Further Adventures of The Mousekewitz Family","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The resourceful and irrepressible Fievel Mouse, voice by Phillip Glasser, not finding the big city life in America all it was cracked up to be decides to leave the family in the Bronx and head west. His head is filled with dime novel adventures as were many human kids in the 19th century of many western characters. In this case it's that famous legendary lawman, Wylie Burp given voice by another legend, James Stewart. As in the first An American Tail, Fievel Goes West is an utterly charming animated film that will appeal to both children and those reliving their childhoods. The west is just as wild as those novels make it out to be and young Fievel finds that his cat friend Tiger who sounds a lot like Dom DeLuise has gone west also.But not all cats are good, especially to the mouse community. Evil cat, John Cleese is planning a huge mouse massacre and a feast of mouse burgers for his feline cohorts.Will the evil Cleese succeed in his plan. Kids of all age, rent this film and find out. "},{"Title":"Not my favourite","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Review of An American Tale (Gone Western) I didn't like the first and original film based on the same characters. This one certainly did less for me. I remember being bored out of my mind while watching this (as a child). Maybe adults will find it cute, but I didn't like it at all, and I was in my early teens when I saw it.Review of An American Tale I could never get into this film as a child, and I had trouble relating to the characters. It was a sad story, but the sadness just seemed to make me cringe-especially when the mice started to sing about it. I just couldn't get into this film.These were not my favourite Disney films. I'd recommend Bambi, Lady and The Tramp, and some of the others. "},{"Title":"I just want a cat that's more like a dog! - Excellent","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It isn't often that an animated sequel is released at the cinema and this one deservedly so! I loved the original and this one's just as good. It has delightful characters, a fast paced plot, memorable music and splendid humour. Tiger is even funnier in this film than he was in the last. Tanya's character is a lot more developed and I enjoyed watching her dream come true. Other characters worthy of note are Cat R Waul and Miss Kitty. Their scene together is brilliant. The dialogue is sharp and not dull. If it's fun you're after you can't do better than this. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The absolute best animated film","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Now I know what you're thinking.  You can't really be serious about this being the best animated film of all time? But I am serious.  I'm completely biased because when i was little I spent this whole summer where all I had to watch was Fievel Goes West or the three Indiana Jones movies.  Surprisingly, I yet get sick of any of those four movies.  To this day I still love Fievel Goes West.  I have basically memorized all the words and annoy my friends and family by even quoting it. If growing up were easy, Fievel, would it take so long?  I love that quote!  It was basically my motto throughout high school.  I know I sound crazy, but this is an awesome movie with great songs and adorable characters!!! "},{"Title":"A huge improvement from the first one","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I don't know what my reason was for renting this film, since I hated the  first one. To my surprise I liked Fievel Goes West quite a bit. I thought  the animation was a lot better, as well as the songs. I, also, enjoyed  Jimmy Stewart as Wylie Burp, the old law dog of the West. It was too bad  that this film was released around the same time as Beauty and the Beast.  "}{"Title":"An American Tail Fievel Goes West","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was a kid I used to like the original first American Tail film, but then they started making straight-to-video sequels. This sequel is the only one I have seen, why did they have to make s sequel, at least as rubbish as this. Young Fievel Mousekevitz the mouse gets lost again (for a little while) and then decides to try and get rid of all the cats from the West part of America, where the story left off. The only parts I can remember of this film were the parts with Tiger the cat and John Cleese as the voice of the villain. Apparently there was also the voices of Jon Lovitz, and, in his last film before his death, Rear Window and It's a Wonderful star James Stewart. They are meant to be the reason for the film earning a second star. Pretty poor! "}]