[{"Title":"This film changed my life...","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"66 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film changed my life and helped me to become a better person.This movie made me realize how MY life will look when showed upon the big screen. Defending Your Life made me think about how I have handled fear and adversity in my life. It also made me consider the effect my actions can have on the lives of others.Because of this movie, I can tell you that my bus driver's name is Joe, and my mailman is Bob.I never liked Meryl Streep in other movies, but playing Julia, she is absolutely charming. This is one of the few movies I plan to buy and keep.  "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated film, a real treat. Carpe diem.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"55 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film's tag-line The first true story of what happens after you die, is so perfect for this film. This film is so consistently funny, I only wish I could screen it for all my friends at the same time, so I could share it with every one of them. I've seen this film many times, and enjoy it more each time. Lost In America is a great film of Albert Brooks', but this one is my favourite of his. Sadly, I rarely encounter someone who's already seen it. When I think of underrated films, I think of this one first.Right off the bat, our protagonist, Brooks, is dead, flattened by a bus. Next thing you know, he's in Judgment City, where people go when they die, and where it will be decided if he will go on to the next level or go back for another crack at life on Earth.In Judgment City he's reminded of all the key events in his life in something like a flashback screening room and his life is then evaluated by the custodians of the city, who will decide if he goes forward or not. Much like a court appearance.There are great performances by supporting players, especially Rip Torn, and while I never associated Meryl Streep with great comedy, she holds her own as Brooks' love interest. There is a hilariously understated performance by Buck Henry.The most fun with this film is learning bit by bit about the inner workings of Judgment City, as each aspect seems to have been well thought out and executed beautifully, right down to eating arrangements. A true masterful writing achievement for Brooks, who has shown his brilliance in many other films as well.This film should've been a big success, but in a way, I feel privileged to be one of the few people I know who has seen this film and enjoyed it so much. I'll do my part though, spreading the good word as much as possible.See it before you die.  "},{"Title":"A Funny, Thoughtful Film","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this film many times, and each time I seem to enjoy it more and more. Albert Brooks gets a hat-trick by directing, writing, and starring in this film about what life is like after death and what lies ahead for each individual. Many have already gone into great detail about the particulars of the film. I want to add that the film has tremendous heart. Albert Brooks gives probably his best performance as a man riddled with inner fears and yet learning quickly about life. The humour underlies almost every line in the film, much of it subtle and some more obvious. Brooks has a definite grasp of the little annoyances in life as he pokes fun at all kinds of situations that many of us just forget ever happened. The supporting cast is very good. I don't ever remember Meryl Streep looking so well. She seems to be so at home in her role. Lee Grant is as always a major plus, and Buck Henry adds his special subtle humour in a small role. But acting honors and many of the big laughs go to Rip Torn who looks like he is having a ball in his role defending Brook's character. The film, above all, says something about the fears and constraints we have in our lives and how they hold us back emotionally, intellectually, and spiritually. How true! "},{"Title":"An amazing and unique commentary on life and death","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Defending Your Life is one of those movies that has stuck with me over the years for some reason.  The most likely one is that this film presents one of the most plausible and thought-provoking views of the afterlife that I have ever heard from a movie, or anywhere else for that matter.  The protagonist (Brooks) dies and wakes up in Judgement City, where it's just like earth, only 70 degrees and clear all the time, and you can eat all of the most delicious food in existence that you want and not gain a pound.The catch is that you are essentially placed on trial.  Several random days from your like are examined, and the judges decide whether you will move on, or be sent back to earth to try again.  The most interesting thing to me is that you aren't judged according to how well you followed the commandments, but on whether you let your fear keep you from making the right choices in your life.  You see, fear is what keeps those of us on Earth (comically referred to as little brains) from realizing our full potential.As great as this theory is, it's the character played by Albert Brooks that makes this film worth watching.  We can sense his bewilderment, as well as his shame at not living his life as well as he could have.  In fact, it is so easy to empathize with his character that I felt sorry for him, seeing myself in his place one day.  But Don't get me wrong, Defending Your Life is also a very funny movie.  Judgement City is a sort of parallel reality to our own, in ways that are very pleasant to see.  And the ending is perfect. You owe it to yourself to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome and heart-warming","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Albert Brooks definitely gives us his take on the afterlife. After watching movies such as Chances Are Ghost and Heart and Souls afterlife hasn't looked better. Brooks is a comedic genius but not only as an actor but a writer and director as well.In addition, Brooks was joined in this film by Rip Torn and Meryl Streep, who are phenomenal talents of their own. Their additions to the movie makes it that much funnier and dramatically better.Aside from What Dreams May Come, Defending Your Life is the best afterlife film I've seen because it is different than all the others. Brooks is a relief since his comedy is genuinely funny. This movie was a joy to watch because of the fun cast, unique plot and fun loving environment. Brooks, the writer, created the script with laughter in mind and enjoyment in his heart.The setting of Defending Your Life was very creative because it seemed so unique yet so real and true to life on earth. I was very impressed by the set designers at what they came up with to use as sets.Brooks created each scene with humor and wanted the film to be as original as possible. He succeeded because I enjoyed and laughed throughout the film and only original films do that for me.Defending Your Life will go down movie history as one of the more original and funnier films dealing with the afterlife. This is a must see for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Sweet and highly entertaining.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderful comedy-fantasy that has all the wit of a good Woody Allen movie combined with genuine sweetness and good-naturedness. It's one of those rare films that achieve profundity without pushing for it; here it is done with the help of the clever structure. Albert Brooks delivers some great one-liners and wins the audience's affection easily, while Meryl Streep is atypically unaffected and Lee Grant is excellent in her supporting role. And who could ask for a better ending?   (***) "},{"Title":"Eat All You Want!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Albert Brooks' view of death is very pleasing to me!  Imagine eating all you want while dressed in a comfortable Star Trek outfit!  Plus the weather is always great!  Unfortunately, that's only at Judgement City..who knows the circumstances at the other places?Daniel (Brooks) dies in the first ten minutes, while listening to Streisand in his brand new car.  He is whisked off to Judgement City where everyone's life is evaluated.  You see glimpses of your own past and have to defend your life and yourself.  There's a prosecutor and your trial will decide if you 'go on' or 'go back' but none of that really matters that much.  Its really just a reason to see all the flashbacks and relive all the memories.  Everything is based on fear - how you handle it, if you let it run your life and, most importantly, if you overcame it at all. On night in a comedy club he meets Julia, played by Meryl Streep.  They get along immediately and enjoy each other very much.  She has a better hotel than he does and as the movie progresses you see Daniel as more of a loser than anything, while Julia was apparently in the other category.  She is on a first-name basis with her lawyer and gets invited to a dinner party he throws.  Daniel eats alone in a sushi bar (very funny scene!) that night. There is one priceless scene that I closely identified with.  Daniel is on his way to Hong Kong (this is a scene from his life, obviously) and finds he has seat 'B', meaning he's between two people.  He can't even consider sitting in between two people for that long a trip so asks the flight attendant if there are any available seats in first class.  She says there is one seat, but it costs $3000 more.  He takes it!  I would also do a lot to avoid seat 'B', too!Albert Brooks movies are never laugh riots, but they are not supposed to be.  They are pleasantly amusing, memorable and thoughtful.  This movie falls into the category too but does contain a couple of very funny scenes - during his 'trial' there is what seems to be a 'blooper' tape of his life that is very funny and played strictly for laughs. Its a little disrespectful of the character but Brooks never minds portraying himself as vulnerable and human.  Outcome is very satisfying.  Streep underplays beautifully and the two actors have a considerable amount of chemistry.  Rip Torn, Lee Grant and Buck Henry are the lawyers, and all of them are servicable. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A classic romantic comedy with a message to boot","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just recently saw this movie again on the tube and I was reminded why its one of my favourites.  Not only is Brooks at his comedic best but Meryl Streep blended seamlessly into this movie.I was surprised that most of the comments about this movie were focused only on the afterlife and not the more obvious premise of the movie - how we deal with fear.  While it is virtually impossible to take a Albert Brooks movie to heart, this one proves to be a clear exception.  There is actually a profound message in this movie - your life is significantly shaped by the way you deal with fear.I challenge anyone who hasn't yet seen this movie to watch it and failed to be entertained. You won't be sorry.     "},{"Title":"I have never felt so good after watching a movie","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the very definition of feel good movie.This is a true laugh a minute while still managing to be insightful film. I watched this movie with my grandparents and all three of us burst out laughing at the same times. I don't think I've ever seen a movie where that's happened before. This movie will appeal to anyone... the jokes, you just can't miss them. It's touching and mind bogglingly hilarious at the same time. And the ending is phenomonal! Watch this movie just for the ending. ) Take two hours out of your life and watch a movie that I promise you, you won't soon forget. Watch it with your family and have someone to laugh with.I am going to see this movie over and over again, and I don't usually say that about movies. Interestingly enough, I was reading a self help book that turned out to be a complete bore the night before but which used Defending Your Life as an example for something they were trying to prove. I thought, hmm, that sounds interesting, but it's probably one of those old obscure movies I'll never get a chance to see. The very next day, I was in the video store just by chance, and while I was walking down the Comedy isle this movie jumped out at me. Hey! That was the book I read about last night! I thought. I got the movie and I wasn't dissapointed. What a way to make my day.Thank you Albert Brooks and Meryl Streep! "},{"Title":"One of my all-time faves","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEADFirst of all, I should tell you I completely identified with Daniel. He's as neurotic and insecure as I am.Great story, true to form. Great acting (I thought Lee Grant was particularly effective, though I am not a fan of Streep's). Though I can see why the film is not more popular it's a bit cerebral. For me, that is its best quality. It's cerebral without being dry. I was moved, not just at the end, but throughout the film (particularly the scene where Daniel is a child watching his parents arguing).The ending is feel good. I usually don't like feel good movies, because usually they manipulate our emotions solely for the purpose of delivering a happy ending. But in this case I feel that the ending was completely justified, and made me feel good to boot. I was emotionally invested, and when Daniel joins Julia on the bus, it was very true to the remainder of the story.The ending summations were great. After watching Torn's I though Daniel was in. Then after watching Grant's summation, I knew he was in trouble. I thoroughly enjoyed Daniel's summation. He simply said I'll do the best I can. That is the central message of the movie, and when he delivers it, he doesn't sound preachy or hokey. It comes off as simple, honest, and beautiful. And it was only after several viewings (and my sister pointing out to me) that I realized that Rip Torn sets up Daniel before he puts him on the bus. He tells him, just take the opportunities when they come. He doesn't directly tell Daniel to go after Julia, but he's really setting him up.Finally, the sequence with Buck Henry was brilliant. In that sequence, Grant shows a mis-judgement by Daniel, but that mis-judgement is NOT fear-based, it was just a bad investment decision. Buck Henry does not point this out, and Daniel is feeling so guilty about the whole thing that he doesn't notice it himself. Just brilliant.I read all the comments that came before mine, and I was amazed to see that there were a couple of negative reviews. I guess that shows you can't please all the people all the time, though I was genuinely surprised. "}{"Title":"This is a MUST-SEE movie","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, it may be a bit too romantic-comedy-like, but the one-liners and story concepts are excellent. Albert Brooks plays a very convincing confused dead guy trying to figure out how to justify his total lack of manlihood. Apparently, you can only go to the next level if you have no regrets in life. So, he must go to court to defend his life. Rip Torn couldn't be funnier. The whole story is a crack-up. Note the details in the surroundings. Things like billboards, items on desks, clothing, building architecture. It's all surrealistic. It's almost like it wasn't intended to be that way, but obviously, it was. Your gal will like this story for its romanticism, you'll like it for it's irony and comedy. "},{"Title":"Watch As Many Times As You Like And Not Gain Weight, Ever","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**	Writer, director and star Albert Brooks hits his stride to perfection in the out-of-this-world (literally) comedy `Defending Your Life,' which also stars Meryl Streep.  Daniel Miller (Brooks) has just celebrated his birthday; on his way home from work, in a new car and with a stack of new CD's (presents from co-workers), he becomes distracted, has a close encounter with a bus, and does not survive.  The next thing he knows, he's aboard a tram somewhere, en route to a place called `Judgment City,' which has all the amenities of a resort, and has the best food he's ever had, ever (and you can eat as much as you want, and never gain weight).  He's put up in a fine hotel, and a phone call later he is in the office of Bob Diamond (Rip Torn), who he learns is to be his defense counselor in a trial during which his entire life is to be judged.  Did he make the most of his life?  Make the right decisions?  Was he able to conquer his fears, or did he always take the easy way because he was afraid?  The decision of the two Judges (George Wallace and Lillian Lehman) who will hear his case will determine his future.  Will he have to `Go back,' and try it all again in another life on earth, or will he be deemed ready to `Move on.' 	Brooks has created a tableau of colorful, memorable characters here, surrounding Daniel Miller as we follow his progress from one hilarious scene to the next.  As Julia, a fellow defendant whom Daniel meets and falls in love with, Meryl Streep is an absolute joy to watch.  Lee Grant, as Lena Foster, Daniel's prosecutor, is also in top form.  But Rip Torn, as the exuberant Bob Diamond, is the one who practically steals the show, with a performance that should have garnered him a best supporting actor nomination.  The scene in which Diamond explains to Daniel that the average person on earth only uses three percent of available brain capacity (he calls them `Little brains') is hysterical.  Other memorable scenes involve a visit by Daniel and Julia to the `Past Lives Pavilion,' wherein they encounter a number of surprises, and one in which they are having dinner, and Daniel is embarrassed by a waiter who wants to give him `nine pies' to take home, and by Julia, who digs into a plate of pasta with gusto and sucks in the longest noodle, apparently, in all of Judgment City, and all while Lena Foster looks on from another table across the room; all of which adds up to plenty of laughs. 	The supporting cast also includes Art Frankel (Arthur), Ernie Brown (Ernie), Gary Beach (Car salesman), Peter Schuck (Stan), Sharlie Stuart, and Buck Henry, doing an especially funny turn as Dick Stanley, a defense counselor who fills in for Bob Diamond one day, and who doesn't like to `toot his own horn.'  `Defending Your Life' is a witty, imaginative conjuring by Brooks, who uses his magic formula to deliver a classic comedy that you will want to watch over and over again.  And it will be the best you ever tasted, ever.  I rate this one 10/10.   "},{"Title":"A warm, wafty breeze of a film; Albert Brooks' best","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A sweet and playful comedy layered with heavenly romance. Writer-director-actor Albert Brooks had done nothing up to this point to prepare me for how truly poignant he can be on-screen, and his fast, natural wit as a writer never before mined the comic nuances he gets here. Defending Your Life actually manages a thoughtful take on the after-life without gumming up the scenario with gimmicks. After perishing in a car crash, Brooks' soul is transferred to Judgment City, where he is put on trial to determine if he's brave enough to move on to the next level. What is the next level? Brooks isn't interested in going that far (there are blessedly no religious overtones). Instead, he meets minty-fresh Meryl Streep and falls in love (who wouldn't? Streep wafts through the film like a romantic chum). Some of Brooks' ideas don't pan out, some jokes feel a little harsh, and a few questions remain (such as, why are there so many employees in Judgment City? Are they paying dues, are they rejected souls, or do they just have a fondness for manual labor?). Still, Brooks has never been so charming, and he also works wonders as a director. A pleasurable entertainment. ***1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This extremely entertaining film focuses on Albert Brooks as a man who dies in an accident and ends of in a stop-off point between Earth and Heaven. It turns out that when you die, your life is reviewed and if you merit it, you proceed to Heaven otherwise you are sent back to Earth to live your life again. The problem with Brooks is that he has been sent back so much that this is his last chance or he will be reduced to nothingness.Defending Brooks' life is his lawyer played brilliantly by Rip Torn against the vicious prosecutor (Lee Grant). While in a restaurant on the first night Brooks meets Meryl Streep who is also there for the same purpose.While Brooks' life was plagued with cowardice and failure, Streep was a valiant person that cared deeply for others. We can't figure out what Streep's attraction is for such a loser like Brooks but as their time together progresses, some of Streep's raw nerve start to rub off on Brooks.There are some really hilarious scenes including a cameo by Shirley MacClaine in the Hall of Memories and the differences in the hotels assigned to Streep and Brooks.I really loved this movie and can watch it over and over! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film gets unfairly knocked for being too much of a feel good movie, but what happens when you NEED a film to help you feel good?I have this on DVD and watch it when I am feeling depressed, for it reminds me, Courage, mon Pierre! Tough out the hard parts, show a little fortitude, and you too, will move forward.So much in this film rings true. If we hide inside a shell of fear, we miss so much in life. When we come out, when we show courage, if we jump off that tram and chase down our true love, we gain all we desire!  "},{"Title":"Life is worth living, if you only know how to live it","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We often wonder, what happens to us after we die? The mysteries of life after death have baffled the greatest minds in history.On and off successful public relations executive Daniel Miller, Albert Brooks, finds out the mystery of life after death, like we'll all do sooner or later, he dies. Driving his new BMW convertible and listening to a Barbra Streisand song Daniel drops a number of CD's and when he looks under the glove-compartment to pick them up he glides into the opposite lane and slams into a bus killing himself. Finding himself in a place called Judgment City after his death Daniel is giving a hotel room to stay and everything he can ever want to keep him comfortable as well as eat all he wants and not gain a single once. Daniel is later taken to a great courthouse where he meets his court-appointed defender or lawyer a Mr. Bob Diamond, Rip Thorn, where Daniel is told that he'll, like everyone else there, have to stand trial to defend his life that he just lived. Told by Bob that he's in an in-between world of existence where it will be decided if Daniel can go forward, in heaven?, in his advancement as a human being or go back to earth to be reincarnated to re-live a new life and see if he learned from his mistakes from his previous life.Nicely made Comedy/Drama about the after-life and what is and what is not really expected of us in life and what in the end were all judged for fear, fear of doing what is right in life in making us better human beings as well as making those around us also feel better about themselves even if we fail in doing it. While in Judgment City Daniel meets and develops a friendship with Julia, Meryl Streep, who's such a sweet and caring as well as beautiful women that she opens Daniel up to all the thing that he suppressed in himself in life. Later when Danial is in court to face the judge Lena Foster, Lee Grant, he's shown events in his life where fear kept him from improving himself as well making the lives of those that he was involved with better Through his defender Bob the Judge is shown events where Daniel did overcome his fears and bettered himself as well as those around him. Unknown to Daniel his fear of being himself and doing what he knows is right has transcended from Earth to where he is now,Judgment City. It's in Judgment City not on Earth where Daniel will have to show those that are sitting in judgment of him that he can look fear right in the eye and it's fear not Daniel that in the end would blink. Wonderful movie about personal relationships that keep you going for your handkerchief throughout the entire film. Albert Brooks is fantastic as the defendant Daniel Miller who finally realizes what life is all about and how it's better to face your fears then walk away from them even if you end up losing in the end. Meryl Streep was both touching and lovely as the angelic Julia who's feelings for Daniel were at first misunderstood by him because on earth he, like most all of us, never met a person as sweet and understanding as well as saintly as Julia. David was just too scared and in a way intimidated to tell Julia what he really felt for her even though she did everything to put Daniel at ease when she was with him. Both Rip Torn and Lee Grant are also wonderful as the defender and judge of Daniel and you never had any bad feeling about them who in real life would have been motivated in their actions by personal success to acquit or convict Daniel. We saw in the movie both, the lawyer & Judge, were pulling for him and wanted him to succeed in his defense of his life on earth and the ending left you happy as well as emotionally drained. Defending Your Life is one of those few movies, like It's a Wonderful Life, that really lifts your feet off the ground and puts your head in the clouds and makes you feel better about yourself as well as those around you. When outside after you've seen this wonderful film and people look at you as if your a bit odd by looking so serene and tranquil. What they don't know is what you just saw and hopefully, sooner or later, they'll see Defending your Life and feel the same way that you do. "},{"Title":"Another view","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Albert Brooks is daring enough to look at the afterlife in a different way. However, the message is not about the afterlife but very much about your life now. Especially if you believe that you live only once, the message in this movie should speak to you even more, because that means there is only one chance, and if you fear to much to take it, well, that's that.Let's realize folks Life has so much to offer us. Our hands are too small to handle it all, but let's not fear to take all we can handle...... "},{"Title":"Very Amusing & Smart Fantasy Comedy - the Defense Rests!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" With this picture, Albert Brooks really showed me what a talented writer and filmmaker he is. I know he already had a couple of great efforts under his hat by this point, but here he had to create his own version of the universe, no less, besides making his wry observations about humanity. This is 'The Universe as It REALLY is' according to Brooks (not just Earth, everything else, too). And, good heavens, he pulls it off. This makes other filmic 'fantasies' about the after-life (the '78 version of Heaven Can Wait comes to mind) look very simplistic and lazy by comparison.In Brooks' story, his character dies a few minutes after the film begins. He and the audience then find out what happens to us after death. In this version, instead of purgatory, there is a sort of pit-stop for our souls, where we review our lives in a court-like setting; a decision is then reached on whether we go back to live another life or 'go on.' I think each viewer interprets what 'going on' means based on their own beliefs. Myself, I didn't take that to mean going to heaven. The complicated structure of the universe as presented here would make that conclusion a bit too simple. I think it just means you go on to another higher level and continue learning. As stated bluntly in the film (by Rip Torn), the whole point of existence is to learn, to get smarter. It makes a whole lotta sense and I'm not sure even Brooks knew what he was tapping into with these profound observations. Eventually, a soul may reach a state of ultimate knowledge, or Nirvana - or whatever you want to call it.But, Brooks thought everything out before he committed it to film. As the story progresses, we learn more about how the universe works, mostly courtesy of Torn. Pretty much everything seems to be worked out, as if Brooks asked himself a ton of possible questions and then answered them. I did have a couple of questions in my mind after the movie was over, such as how are really bad people handled in such an inoffensive easygoing setting? I mean, serial killers, rapists, mass murderers - the ones thought of as unrepentant (Torn does state there is no hell). All the people we see in Judgement City are quite nice - the worst one was a guy who dabbled in pornography and you got the idea he was gonna have a lotta trouble in his trial. Perhaps Torn provides the answer to even this, when he mentions teenagers are sent to a different pit-stop. Also, why do children automatically go on? Aren't they souls from previous lives? Why did they go back only to move on after dying as children? Or are they special new souls? As we see, a picture such this also raises as many questions as it does answers. That happens with the best films. "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks is great","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Albert Brooks definitely gives us his take on the afterlife. After watching movies such as Chances Are Ghost and Heart and Souls afterlife hasn't looked better. Brooks is a comedic genius but not only as an actor but a writer and director as well.In addition, Brooks was joined in this film by Rip Torn and Meryl Streep, who are phenomenal talents of their own. Their additions to the movie makes it that much funnier and dramatically better.Aside from What Dreams May Come, Defending Your Life is the best afterlife film I've seen because it is different than all the others. Brooks is a relief since his comedy is genuinely funny. This movie was a joy to watch because of the fun cast, unique plot and fun loving environment. Brooks, the writer, created the script with laughter in mind and enjoyment in his heart.The setting of Defending Your Life was very creative because it seemed so unique yet so real and true to life on earth. I was very impressed by the set designers at what they came up with to use as sets.Brooks created each scene with humor and wanted the film to be as original as possible. He succeeded because I enjoyed and laughed throughout the film and only original films do that for me.Defending Your Life will go down movie history as one of the more original and funnier films dealing with the afterlife. This is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"A Nice Little Heavenly Piece","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Defending Your Life was funny, sweet and gets you a bit teary eyed toward the end.As the film opens Daniel Miller(Albert Brooks, who also directed)dies when his brand new car slams headlong into a bus. The next thing he knows, he is in Judgement City. It seems that this is where you go when you die. It is not heaven or hell, but rather a place in which you are judged (Although they say it is not a trial)on your life. Seems that fear is a big no-no, and Daniel has had a load of it in his life (and previous lifetimes, it seems). Bob Diamond (Rip Torn, in an amusing performance)helps him to defend his life. If Daniel succeeds, he is allowed to go forward. If not, he is sent back to Earth to start again in a new life.It is during his stay in Judgement City that he meets Julia (Meryl Streep), who is incredibly sweet and seems to have a better time dealing with this turn of events than Daniel, as well as a much better hotel room. What Julia really enjoys is the fact that, while you're in Judgement City, you can eat as much food as you want without gaining an ounce (And the food is very good. You get hungry just watching!). It is also during his stay that he begins to fall in love with Julia, who is assured of going forward. Will Daniel be able to go with her?This film has a very interesting concept that unless you conquer your fear, you will not be able to go forward in life. It can certainly make you wonder if you have conquered your own fears. If you are not a fan of the films of Albert Brooks (Not including Finding Nemo), then this is a good point to start. Look out for a cameo from Shirley MacLaine. "}{"Title":"If this was real, I'm in soooo much trouble","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film went on a magnificent concept. What if when you died you had to defend every action you made in life, every good step, and every embarrassing mistake. Would you qualify to move on to Heaven, or doomedfor another try on Earth until you get it right. Albert Brooks is ever the everyman trying to show that his meek existence meant something, and that he has learned from his past mistakes. Meryl Streep is also wonderful as the perfect heroine, she is flawless. As you view her life you almost wish you were her, or at the very least were friends with her.It's a great movie, but overall I am glad it is just that. Mainly, because I would never make it into heaven. I just know that I would be looking at the time I helped my best friend shave his ex-girlfriend's cat. Yikes!!!! "},{"Title":"Delightfully Cute and Pleasant","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" While driving his brandy new BMW, the yuppie Daniel Miller (Albert Brooks) distracts with his CD player and crash a bus. He awakes in the Judgment City, a place in the afterlife where his accomplishment in life will be judge to decide whether he shall move on or return to another life on Earth. With support of the defender Bob Diamond (Rip Torn), Daniel must prove that he has overcame the fears of his previous life but the tough prosecutor Lena Foster (Lee Grant) has evidences showing that Daniel was a coward. Meanwhile Daniel meets the enlightened Julia (Meryl Streep) that has had a perfect life and will certainly move on to the next step of her journey; however they fall in love for each other and Daniel does not want to lose his true love.Defending Your Life is a delightfully cute and pleasant romance with an original story about the afterlife. This is maybe the best movie of the annoying Albert Brook, and Meryl Streep is adorable as I have never seen before in the role of a woman that had a perfect life on Earth. I saw this film in 1991 and only today I have decided to see it again, and surprisingly the timeless tale has not aged. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Um Visto para o Céu (A Visa to the Heaven) "},{"Title":"One one My Favorite Films","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films along with She Wore A Yellow Ribbon, It's A Wonderful Life and Casablanca.   It's hard to say why, but I just feel that everything in this movie is perfect.  I am never bored when I watch it and I laugh at the same things over and over.   I have watched Albert Brooks in other movies hoping that he would capture the magic of this film, but I don't think that he has.  Sometimes it is hard to explain why you love a film.  You just do.  Anyone who hasn't seen it should.   That's it plain and simple.  I feel that it is one of the best films ever made.    "},{"Title":"Top ten funniest movies","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I hate to mention other reviews when reviewing a movie, but Artzan missed the point of this movie. It's not meant to be inspiring or life-altering. It's a humorous view of the afterlife.If you do not enjoy this movie, you probably won't appreciate any of Brooks' work (Mel or Albert, for that matter). Not only is this a great movie, but it stands up very well to repeated viewings. The humor, not the plot, is more involved than is first apparent, and more of it comes out each time. Mind you, that doesn't mean you should watch it 5 times a week, or even 3 times a year, but it's worth owning and pulling off the shelf now and then.8 out of 10. (You've got to have some real meaning to get anything more in my book. As a sarcastic movie, 8 out of 10 is a perfect score.) "},{"Title":"Is this Heaven?","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Defending Your Life is one of the smartest, funniest, and original films to come out of the 1990s. Albert Brooks, playing both behind and in front of the camera, does a fantastic job of creating this courtroom drama set in Purgatory. By keeping a the films themes short and simple, enticing us with brilliant performances by Meryl Streep and Rip Torn, and bringing a true sense of fantasy to this picture, Brooks keeps us hooked from the opening scenes until the last. Panned by most critics, I actually found this film to be extremely witty with a Wes Anderson-esquire type of dry martini humor. Brooks is easily able to transform himself into a likable every man that finds himself defending his normal life. What works is that it feels and seems like your own life. Brooks' character isn't a superhero, he isn't a genius (only using 3% of his brain), and he isn't a playboy, he is your average human on the street. Makes decent money, celebrates being alone, just bought a new BMW, and is coasting through life rather simply. Sound like anyone you may know? Brooks creates this sensation that Judgment City could exist, that the trials of your life could happen, and within all of this chaos and confusion, love could emerge.Albert Brooks is a very smart writer. He wouldn't create your typical Hollywood love story and send it through the recycling machine. His approach to love in this film is totally random, somewhat sporadic, but yet honestly real. There is a mystery between he and Meryl Streep's relationship. That is what I loved so much about them. Typically in films of this nature you have this elaborate story of how two people meet, they fall in love, they fight, and suddenly discover that their passion is stronger than ever before (normally due to some unforeseen &#133; or clichéd moment), but not in this film. Brooks approaches love as if it already exists. He hints towards the notion that these two may have been in Judgment City before, that maybe they have already had their awkward courtship, that maybe the climactic cliché has already happened, and now they are just rediscovering themselves. Brooks sets this up with Streep's first lines, which are simply, Haven't we met before? While this may not seem like it is that exciting, the fact that they are in Judgment City after dying, and two random people recognize each other is heartwarming. I was immediately attached to these two characters from the moment they met in the Comedy Club. Their emotions didn't seem created by Hollywood, but instead created by the brilliant craftsmanship of Brooks' words. If you aren't connected to the courtroom antics of this film, than the spark that Streep creates with Brooks will surely keep you grounded for good.I would also like to applaud Brooks for his ability to create a whole new world from the inside out. Just as confused as Brooks is when he first arrives to Judgment City, we are forced to see this creative world through his eyes, and he is not afraid to demonstrate his attention to detail. The concept of food in this film kept me laughing long after the final credits rolled. The scene in the Italian restaurant with the waiter and the pies ranks among one of the funniest scenes in a film. In fact, as I type this review, I am still laughing about it. His creative mind also allowed us to consider the possibility of reincarnation and the existence of bigger and better worlds. He plants us in Judgment City, but doesn't leave us there. He allows us to travel while making us feel comfortable, thus keeping a smile on our faces throughout the entire visit. He makes us laugh, either through his own words, or through that of Rip Torn, who nearly stole every scene possible. As I continue to watch more of Rip Torn's work, I am beginning to see that he is quite a versatile actor that has very deep comedic roots. If it wasn't the instant connection between Streep and Brooks that kept this film glued together, than it definitely was the charisma of Rip Torn in the courtroom.Finally, I would like to say that watching this film in a post-Matrix universe, there are some interesting parallels between the two. When Rip Torn is talking about allowing humans to go through to another life, or sending them back to Earth, he references the universe to a machine. Again, living in a post-Matrix world, this immediately darkened the film and perked up my ears. I know this may be grabbing at thin air, but the scene in the Matrix when Cypher is talking about how good the machine makes his steak taste, eerily reminded me of all the food used in this film. There were several other moments just like this that just seemed to fit rather snug. Whether you believe it or not, I believe the Wachowski brothers may have watched this film once or twice before creating their prized trilogy.Overall, I thought this was an outstanding film. From the instant character excitement to the originality of the script, I thought that this was one of Brooks' best outings. The fact that you could tell that the cast was honestly having a good time in every scene, that you laughed when they laughed (which was quite a bit in this film), and that you could actually enjoy a witty comedy without guns or violence impressed me. Brooks has such a sharp humor that I cannot wait to revisit this movie to catch some of the lines that I may have missed the first time. Streep does a sensational job, while Rip Torn steals every scene he is in. Impressive to say the least, and am happy that the 90s were able to produce one original piece of comedy.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"It's a very good film for gawky people","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion,Defending your life is a significant and quite funny film.Because it told about human's fears in life, and achivements we'll havec if we can win over the fears.Albert Brooks Acted so well that I thought he used to be in Daniel's situation.The film also has interesting parts, like events in life playbacks,and the dead people's world looks just like alive people's.Some events in Daniel's life is very funny,including his death.In the end,Daniel can go to a better world because of the power of love.He is a special person, and I think I am his double.So the film gave me valuable experience for my life. "},{"Title":"Don't let the subject matter fool you great movie with no religious agenda","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The meeting with Bob Diamond (Rip Torn) is possibly one of my favorite scenes of all time. Has all the great subtle humor you would expect from Albert Brooks. Maybe others have said it before me, but Brooks' performance reminds me of Woody Allen at his zenith with non of the aftertaste of Judaism or annalists that makes woody Allen tough to watch for some.Those people that need a laugh track to tell them when the funny lines are said should take a pass on this movie. They will find the movie pointless and boring. --- My 5 percent is swimming Albert Brooks "},{"Title":"Outstanduing film with heart","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Albert Brooks definitely gives us his take on the afterlife. After watching movies such as Chances Are Ghost and Heart and Souls afterlife hasn't looked better. Brooks is a comedic genius but not only as an actor but a writer and director as well.In addition, Brooks was joined in this film by Rip Torn and Meryl Streep, who are phenomenal talents of their own. Their additions to the movie makes it that much funnier and dramatically better.Aside from What Dreams May Come, Defending Your Life is the best afterlife film I've seen because it is different than all the others. Brooks is a relief since his comedy is genuinely funny.This movie was a joy to watch because of the fun cast, unique plot and fun loving environment. Brooks, the writer, created the script with laughter in mind and enjoyment in his heart.The setting of Defending Your Life was very creative because it seemed so unique yet so real and true to life on earth. I was very impressed by the set designers at what they came up with to use as sets.Brooks created each scene with humor and wanted the film to be as original as possible. He succeeded because I enjoyed and laughed throughout the film and only original films do that for me.Defending Your Life will go down movie history as one of the more original and funnier films dealing with the afterlife. This is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"How would you be judged","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at a significant time in my life, when I was trying to choose between the safe road (which was nonetheless dragging me into depression) and a new life.Daniel Miller (Brooks) has always taken the safe road, not risking much and never getting much, either.  He is fearful of what others think, say, fearful of risk.Finally, when Brooks has been told that he will not move on he is on the safe bus to his next life and sees he may lose the one thing that has given his time after death meaning, fear is cast aside and he risks everything to reach love.This film has a great message  Love is a risk. You must risk everything and make a leap of faith.  But that leap can give you so much more, that it's worth it all. "},{"Title":"great, superb comedy","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a masterpiece on film. Not only the acting is terrific, but the story manages to be at same time fun, touchy, romantic and surprisingly. The ending is just marvelous. Definitely one of my favorite comedies ever. And the music score is also beautiful! "}{"Title":"A smart and humorous look at what happens when you die.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In 'Defending Your Life', the simple premise is that we all live multiple lives on Earth, and each time we die, we go to Judgement City where we are evaluated. It isn't the traditional 'heaven or hell' decision. Instead, if we have overcome fear, we move on to something better, more complex. If not, we are sent back to Earth where we lead another life, and continue this cycle until we have demonstrated, to two judges, that we have overcome fear. For Daniel (Brooks) this is a touchy situation, because in fact he is a somewhat paranoid person. It is further complicated by his meeting pretty Julia (Streep) who no doubt will move forward. These days so many movies build up very nicely, only to completely botch the ending. This one passes this test, and has a very nice, creative ending. Overall a very nice movie.SPOILERS follow, for my own recollection, please read no further.As Daniel is required to review his 9 days of his life, the prosecutor repeatedly shows indications that Daniel has NOT overcome fear, and in fact is mainly guided by fear. Fear of asking for the salary he wants and other examples. In contrast, Julia's review is going extremely well, in one of her days is shown rescuing her children from a burning house, then going back in to get the cat! But Julia is attracted to Daniel, and vice versa, and they fall in love. Before Daniel's last day, Julia asks him to spend the night with her, he doesn't because he is again 'afraid', that he might never see her again and the pain of one night of bliss would be greater than never having been with her. And, that is used against him, the next day, by the prosecutor, who gets Daniel to admit I was afraid. The verdict comes quickly, Daniel is to be sent back. However, on the tram out of Judgement City, he sees Julia, longs for her, risks great pain to jump from his tram, run to hers, and try to get in. Meanwhile, the two judges are watching this on their big screen, they see Daniel finally has overcome his fear, is risking everything to be with Julia, one nods to the other with a smile, they press a button, the doors open, Daniel joins Julia as the movie ends.The part of Daniel is well written and acted by actor, writer, and director Brooks. As we realize his 'trial' will be about his fear, we see him acting fearful in all kinds of subtle ways, even after he has died!  At the restaurant, seeing Julia have fun eating her pasta, he wants to leave, embarrassed, fearing that it will give a bad impression to his prosecutor who was at a nearby table. He falls in love with Julia, but trys to avoid a closeness, fearful that he will not see her again. And several other ways.  "},{"Title":"One of My All Time Favorites!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this move several times and just love it. I agree withsome of the others that this is Albert Brooks best, next toBroadcast News. I love that his life on earth was seeminglymeaningless and although it looked as though he had a good job,money, and relative success, ie; driving a new BMW, althoughhilarious when he refers to the small one as a turd, he is clearlymissing something in his life. After he goes to judgement cityand goes on trial it soon becomes abundantly clear that hislifetime of fear has held him back from being the best he could beand keeping him from true happiness and freedom. He continuesthe same pattern behavior after he meets Julia (meryl streep) thewoman of his dreams. Above all she is everything that he everwanted in life and death, but because of his fears he is likely toblow this too. I think this movie made an excellent point and while we all searchfor the meaning of life and happiness it seems obvious that theones who seem to get the most out of life are the courageousones who are not afraid of anything, even death, which is whatmakes their lives so meaningful. I think that this film made anexcellent point to say that only when you conquer your fears thathave been holding you back do you get to move onward. It reallymakes you think.  "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks hilariously insightful view of what its all about","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Albert Brooks does a marvelous job of comically answering the eternal question, Why are we here?'  Brooks' theory may be just a figment of his ever fervent imagination, but I found it to ring more true than any other theory anyone has put forth.  According to Brooks' vision, it's all about conquering our fears in life and being brave enough to stand INSIDE the fire. Although a seemingly unlikely couple, the chemistry and comedic synchronicity between Streep and Brooks in this movie is electric and memorable.  "},{"Title":"Q Why are we here?","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Defending Your Life may be the closest explanation of why we are here on this planet that has ever been put on film.  It may be the most meaningful film ever made.  - And I do realize how bold a statement this is.   This movie touches me deeply.And the humor is superb too.  I consider this required viewing every two or three years.  "},{"Title":"My favorite portrayal of life after death","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Of all the portrayals of life after death in the movies, this is my favorite.  Much better than the one in Made in Heaven.  I really wish Albert Brooks were more prolific.  I loved Defending Your Life, Lost in America and Mother, and I wish there were many more like them. "},{"Title":"A movie that sticks in your mind for years!","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wow so I was getting a microwave frozen meal out of the freezer and thought to myself, wouldn't it be nice to be able to eat all I want and never gain weight? I believe this would be the dream of everyone. Immediately this movie came back to my memory. I googled Meryl Streep because I remembered her in the film, and found her on this website, then looked up the title of the movie.I want to eventually buy this movie because I agree with what most have said here, it's funny, it's a fantastic story and it's just one of those movies you can watch again and again and enjoy it every time. This movie also does make you rethink the way you live your life and the way everything you do can affect others.I'd highly recommend this to everyone. "},{"Title":"NINE DAYS!!!!! You Need More Sake!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is BRILLIANT! I've always loved Albert Brooks, and this movie is in my top five of all time. It's a feel good movie that has real insight!The music is fantastic, as it tends to convey emotion very well. The first time I saw it, I immediately went out and tracked down the soundtrack, which was no easy task. It was so worth it!Rip Torn as the eternally positive defender, even when things are going badly. 'You did really great today! You should feel proud!' I love Meryl Streep in this movie. She has real vulnerability, and I can't help but to like her. Buck Henry is really quite funny as Diamond's stand-in.I was emotionally invested in this film from the beginning, and couldn't stop once I pushed play. Current Hollywood films have a tendency to tack on the feel good ending, just to part on good terms with the audience. This movies has that feel good ending, and it belongs there. I can really get behind it!Bob's statements 'Just take the opportunities when they come. Good luck kid, I've got a lot of faith in you', were foreshadowing of Daniel's potential. 'Big brains' though probably not omniscient, may have had some heightened insight. They (the judges and lawyers) were watching because Daniel's potential, rather than them expecting Daniel to overcome. Really touching scene.The DVD is pretty slim on extras. It would be nice to have a commentary track to hear Albert Brooks tell his part. It is really nice to have an anamorphic presentation though. This is a very clever movie, with a good bit of heart, and some really funny lines and situations.'I'll tell you what I'm going to bring a you nine pies, one for each day..' LOL "},{"Title":"One of my most favorite movies ever, delightful","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this a couple years ago, when I met my husband. We looked all over for it and found one copy at Barnes and Noble. Its a funny, refreshing and light hearted comedy that is great for anyone to watch. Its not obscene or vulgar in anyway, and is for sure kid friendly. That aside, Albert Brooks is wonderful and every detail in this movie is so funny. The past lives pavilion and other scenes just add to the quality of the movie. A small romantic story woven in the lines of the film makes for a cute story with Meryl Streep who is also extraordinary as usual.It makes you think of death in a comforting way and enables you to laugh at an often grimly depicted subject. I would recommend this movie, and once you see it I know you'll love it...anyone would! Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Very cute movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was great.  It was really cute and gave you a lot of things to think about.  (Ha ha -- is the afterlife really going to be like this?) Albert Brooks is good and so is Meryl Streep.  The whole concept of it is funny and the romantic part is just too cute.  But the movie isn't too cute and mushy that it makes you want to vomit.  Highly recommended.  Check it out immediately. "},{"Title":"A great, very poignant comedy","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that I have a certain appreciation for this film that few could probably say. Its very sentimental to me. Watching this film evokes memories of my childhood. I remember going to the theater with my best friend in 8th grade, not having much to see. We kind of watched this movie on a whim, not really realizing how good it was going to be. I'm sure many people who rent this film have the same experience. Theres something magical in this film. It really has a message that is so important to our lives. That message, is that fear runs our lives and presents us from being happy.You know what, when you think about it, its so true! There are so many people who live their lives with such confidence, such grace. They don't go around wishing that they had done more, that they had done this or done that. Life is different for these kind of people, and for the unfortunate unhappy people (which is most of us), we seem to have spite of these types. Yet, we strangely admire (or at least should) them for their philosophy and unique appreciation of life.The Meryl Streep character is an example of this graceful wonder. She is what we aspire to be, but maybe never quite attain. She is so confident and happy in her life that things seem to come easily, without many crossroads or barriers. She may have fear, but she's learned to live with it, and achieve great feats by defeating it.The Albert Brooks character, is quite simply us. Oh, the scene where he's about to make the speech! Its so horrifying because I have felt exactly that way. When we observe it, it seems comical because it really kind of silly to get all worked up about a speech. But on a deeper level, it hurts, because I know I've been in that situation. You know that even though he might have been relieved that he wouldn't have to make the speech. But inside, he knew he would never go on that stage again, and that's quite a humiliating thing to think about.I don't really understand people who criticize this film's afterlife. Its not supposed to be religious. Its metaphorical, and actually very clever. Believe me, when you think about it, our lives seem more relevant according to this afterlife, then in other religious surroundings such as Heaven or Nirvana. This film is very funny as well. But I will not give away anything. I won't even set up any jokes. Just experience it, and try to think about if there have ever been any time you've felt pains in your stomach...Score 8.5 Grade A- "}{"Title":"Not much more to add, other than I agree","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  with what 99% of folks have written here.   Whatever your personal belief, this look at the afterlife is clever and poignant, and just makes you wish it could really be like that.  Wonderful ending, hilarious moments, just the look on Brooks' face some of the time is priceless.   Definitely one of my personal top five. "},{"Title":"Thumbs up","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful film--thoughtful, funny, and touching.  From a philosophical perspective, I am in complete agreement  it is fear that stops us from evolving as human beings.  That aside, it's fun to consider how we, the viewers, might do when asked to reconcile the decisions we have made in our lives.  I was completely captivated throughout the entire film.(On the other hand, if your preferred choice is exploding heads, this film is not for you.  For everyone else--namely, normal people--this is a solid choice.) "},{"Title":"A light-hearted AND intelligent look at the afterlife.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When average movies tackle the afterlife, they usually include a smoke machine, stereotypical angels, and corny music. Albert Brooks will go down in film history as the first person EVER to present a plausible look at what happens when you die.What I like most about Defending Your Life was how much detail was used in creating the setting of Judgment City. The atmosphere was very practical and down-to-earth on one side and surreal and removed-from-time on the other. How this part-time utopia operates makes sense as well part of the city is devoted to court proceedings and the rest is designed for the needs of its temporary citizens, even down to perfect weather. AND THE FOOD IN THIS MOVIE IS THE MOST APPETIZING I'VE EVER SEEN! (How could the actors resist?)Second were the performances, particularly Meryl Streep (who is very genuine as Julia) and Rip Torn (who is very believable as an other-worldly defense lawyer).Third was how Brooks' portrayed the importance of the insignificant life of Daniel Miller. The segments that were chosen by the court were incredibly well-scripted and very believable. An overview of someone's life as presented in this film is an extremely profound, almost spiritual concept. I've never seen anything like that, esp. for a comedy-drama.Defending Your Life is one of the most original, life-affirming films I've ever seen, while at the same time not being sappy or over-the-top (like the beautiful but boring What Dreams May Come). This one is much better. "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks at his best","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is such a terrific film, it made me laugh the whole time.Albert Brooks definitely gives us his take on the afterlife. After watching movies such as Chances Are Ghost and Heart and Souls afterlife hasn't looked better. Brooks is a comedic genius but not only as an actorbut a writer and director as well.In addition, Brooks was joined in this film by Rip Torn and Meryl Streep, who are phenomenal talents of their own. Their additions to the movie makes it that much funnier and dramatically better.Beides What Dreams May Come, Defending Your Life is the best afterlife film I've seen because it is different than all the others. Brooks is a relief since his comedy is genuinely funny. This movie was joy to watch because of the fun cast, unique plot and fun loving environment. Brooks, the writer, created the script with laughter in mind and enjoyment in his heart.The setting of Defending Your Life was very creative because it seemed so unique yet so real and true to life on earth. I was very impressed by the set designers at what they came up with to use as sets.Brooks created each scene with humor and wanted the film to be as original as possible. He succeeded because I enjoyed and laughed throughout the film and only original films do that for me.Defending Your Life will go down in movie history as one of the more original and funnier looks at the afterlife. This is a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"Life is beautiful","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of a trio of Hollywood films -- Oh, God! and It's A Wonderful Life are the others -- that have inspired my imagination about things metaphysical.  Of the three, I prefer this one, because it least drifts into corniness and banality.  Brooks is one of the century's great comic auteurs -- he's not nearly as prolific as Woody Allen, but he may well have a better cinematic batting average.This movie shines with wit and wisdom and inventiveness.  It features memorable performances from two of America's finest actors, Streep and Torn.  And Brooks the actor remains the best deliverer of lines written by Brooks the brilliant screenwriter.   I say there is even an actual hint of plausibility in Brooks' vision of the afterlife, beyond what is played for laughs.  It's not Billy Graham's vision, and that cuts into Brooks' cred with the Christian faithful, but for me there's something endearing and provocative about Judgement City. For one thing, I like that it seems created by advanced beings WITHIN the universe, rather than BEYOND the universe. "},{"Title":"Defending this movie is easy","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Defending Your Life is an underrated, underwatched gem of a movie, with Brooks at his finest. After being hit by a bus, he finds himself in Judgment City, where he must defend the actions of his life, with the help (?) of an assigned lawyer (the  hilarious Rip Torn).While the theology is off-base, the humor is right on target. Brooks' unease at being served such large amounts of delicious food and his embarrassment at having the low points of his life examined are running gags that work well.Personally, I loved this movie. Of course, I only use about 3 percent of my brain. "},{"Title":"warm 'n fuzzy","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I'm sure it's probably not accurate as far as it's depiction of the afterlife, but if you have to worry about that, you're missing the whole point! Very funny movie, I think maybe this is my favorite Albert Brooks film. "},{"Title":"Terrific, smart comedy","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Brooks' best film to date (pre-MUSE).  Not theologically correct, but a fascinating concept and well-detailed.  Upon his death, our timid hero, Daniel, finds himself whisked away to a familiar-looking otherworld in which he must prove that he faced life with courage and vigor in order to advance to the next level.  Beautifully photographed, expertly written and acted, smart, and very, very funny.  This one doesn't suffer from the lags that Brooks' other movies have, and his moping doesn't seem as one-note striding as it sometimes can; perhaps this is the Brooks film for non-fans. If I could bottle the guy and try to sell him, I'd pick this, BROADCAST NEWS, and the scene in MODERN ROMANCE in which the lude kicks in.  Great stuff, among comedy's best.   "},{"Title":"A True Under-Rated Gem","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although most all of Brooks' films have never been what you'd call boxoffice hits, his critics and fans continue to see what an underrated and underappreciated comic mind he has.  This is one of his very best films and really did deserve to do better when it was first released.  It's a gentle, consistently funny gem and Brooks slips in a few messages about living one's life well and to the fullest...and he does this without forcing the messages down our throats.I think time will be kind to this movie and people will discover or re-discover it on video and TV.  The whole cast is quite likable, with standout work from Meryl Streep and Rip Torn in particular.When people talk about feel-good movies, this one should be right up there at the top of the list.  Highly recommended!! "},{"Title":"Defending Your Life","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful film about a man who dies in an accident, who must then defend past events and his own selfishness.Brooks is perfect as writer, director and star of this witty and heartfelt film that makes you hope the afterlife is this pleasant. Torn and Grant are stand out.  "}{"Title":"A Little-brain's delight!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After Broadcast News, this is my favorite Brook's film.  The life after death thing is such a cliche, but Judgement City is a one of a kind place unlike any movie heaven ever seen.  Buffets and comedy clubs in the after life?  I know that the action crowd will never see this movie, but if you're  out there pining for an insightful romantic comedy with an edge, this one is  you. "},{"Title":"A Softer Brooks Makes a Charming Romantic Comedy About the Afterlife","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Six years after piercing the yuppie delusion of the open road with his trenchantly funny Lost in America, Albert Brooks went again behind and before the camera to make this amusing, soft-centered 1991 romantic fantasy involving one man's challenge in handling the afterlife. As with Lost in America, Brooks casts himself as an LA-based advertising executive (a favorite calling of his for the satirical possibilities), but this time a very successful one named Daniel Miller. As he dives for some CDs in the spanking new BMW convertible he bought himself for his birthday, he crashes into a bus and dies. Before you can say heaven can wait, Daniel finds himself in a white tunic in a sterile-looking place called Judgment City. As he finds out, this is where he is to be placed on trial to find out if he moves on to heaven or has to return to earth.The rest of the film is focused on Daniel's trial, where he gets to witness select scenes from his life on a big screen, evidence used by both the defense lawyer and the prosecutor to support their respective cases. In the midst of the trial, he meets and falls in love with an idealized woman named Julia, the perfect candidate for heaven made clear by her innate goodness and shorter trial. His response to their romance leads to a nicely executed climax which tests Daniel's deep-seeded fears toward his inevitable fate. Although I miss the pervasive acerbity that I have come to expect from Brooks' comedy style, he achieves a winsome romanticism here and addresses pertinent questions about how fear holds us back from the things we really want.As Daniel, Brooks is a softer version of himself though just as self-critical, while a relaxed, accent-free Meryl Streep is ideally cast as the too-good-to-be-true Julia, whose only quirk is the bottomless appetite that the afterlife allows her. The two develop a nice rapport that makes the ending emotionally palpable. In welcome appearances, a likable Rip Torn and a tough-minded Lee Grant play their roles as the battling lawyers with precision. Even Shirley MacLaine shows up in a cameo in a particularly funny scene set at the aptly named Past Lives Pavilion, where people can see their previous incarnations. This is an unexpectedly warm and fuzzy treat from a master of comedy sarcasm. There are unfortunately no extras with the 2001 DVD. "},{"Title":"Brooks' best. A film that needs to be more recognized","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot believe every person I have told this film about to has never heard of or seen it! It's brilliant! It makes you feel good about what happens to you after you die. The story involves Brooks' as a L.A. businessman who gets hit by a bus and dies. He then goes to a place called Judgement City where a defender (Rip Torn) has to defend parts of his life in a courtroom. Parts of Brooks' life are played on a movie screen. Brooks' wants to go back to earth but soon meets a woman (Meryl Streep)and feels differently about Judgement City. I would classify this as one of my all time favorite films. Then one day I happened to be at my local video store and they were giving away films that they didn't want any more for a dollar or two. This happened to be in there! I immediately picked it up and purchased it. I would classify this as one of my favorite films, but for goodness sakes! If you have not seen or heard of this I demand you to find a copy of it as soon as possible. You'll love it! "},{"Title":"It may very well be my favorite movie of all time...","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this movie over a dozen times and somehow still never manage to get tired of it. To me, it is a hugely underrated title.It's not the type of film I'd have thought would be my favorite (it can be too sappy at times and the relationship between Streep & Brooks is never properly founded), but it has a wonderfully intelligent depth to it that is inescapable. The story takes on a few of lifes big questions and then answers them in truly inspiring fashion. Other movies may be considered more artistic in their expressions of life ('A Beautiful Mind', 'Citizen Kane' and 'Hannah & Her Sisters' to start the list...) but somehow, DefendingYour Life struck an unexpected chord in me. The overall cleverness, pacing and enchanting humor of the film just sucks me in every time.Each character in the movie, no matter how minute, maintains an uncommon level of fullness & thought in casting, writing and performance. The main players seem to represent different characteristics that lie within each of us- hope, bravery, as well as cynicism and fear are all at the core of what this movie speaks. Through a screenplay that is as funny & heartwarming as it is poignant, Defending Your Life beautifully reminds us to live life to its fullest.I remember watching Albert Brooks' short films on the old Saturday Night Live shows years ago. I never really took note of him at the time, but with this movie- I believe he's certainly proved himself to be a wonderful storyteller. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I hate to give a cliche but this film gave me an optimistic insight to what heaven will be like. Just to look back on your life like a movie would be the ultimate nostalgia (the idea of eating anything you want without gaining weight is nice too). Rip Torn gives another comical performance but Albert Brooks, like always, makes this movie entertaining and fun to watch. This is one of my favorite movies of all time and I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"This film was the greatest","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The way this film was made and how the after life was perceived I thought it was ingenuous. Albert Brooks gives a great portrayal of a done wrong man who dies because of own selfishness. Rip Torn is entertaining as always "},{"Title":"What I want to avoid-(after my life)","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that this one gets close to home, personally speaking. I would not want to be judged on my life when I die. I think the very thought of defending you life is scary, and really, unfair. Some of those people are pretty strange, and some of them, normal. It is fun to think about what after-life dealings are, but this creative fantasy/comedy gets really depressing. It would really be heaven if you could eat all you want, and never get fat. It is even better when everything tastes good. When middle aged Dan Miller (Alert Brooks) enters a purgetory of some sort, he is judged on his fear, bravery gets him to move on, fear puts him back on earth! I know for sure I would not wish to see past times which may, or may not be hurtful, or even pleasuring. Once you are dead, what is wrong with leaving it at that? I know...Broks is being creative, and indeed he is, but for me, this one leaves a depressing feeling, and a knowledge of what I know to avoid after I die. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  *Plot Summary* When someone dies, they are sent to Judgment City where they are put on trial to either go to heaven (there is no hell) or back to their normal life and take care of things. The trial looks at a certain number of days in the defendant's life and the more days that are looked at the worse off they are. The main character is Daniel Miller (played by Albert Brooks) who dies by getting hit by a bus and gets 9 days (which IS a lot) looked at.I saw this in school as part of my Social Justice class.  The movie was great and very funny. The movie also delivers a positive message.  Maybe not all to obvious being this much of a comedy movie, but still good. Though sometimes the humor was a little on the offensive side.*Spoiler Alert!* Around the middle of the movie Daniel meets a woman named Julia (Meryl Streep).  After getting to know each other they go to a sort of individual theater room where they can see their past lives. Before hand, Julia asks Daniel if he ever wondered about his past lives.  Daniel replies by saying that once he was at a party, got a little drunk, went to a bathroom, looked in a mirror, and I thought I saw someone who looked Chinese, but I think I was just squinting.I'm actually an American of Mexican descent, but one of my cousins married a Japanese-American, so this comment was, in fact, a little on the offensive side to me. "},{"Title":"A between the lives romance","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Film auteur Albert Brooks creates a whole new concept of an afterlife with Defending Your Life where apparently the big sin is not to be courageous enough. At least that was his big sin. One wonders how the scrutiny was on other candidates.No such thing as hell. We just keep coming back until we get it right. As Rip Torn has it there are folks that keep coming back into triple digits. Those are who you don't want to hang out with. Draw your own conclusions.So when Brooks his hit by a bus in a traffic accident head on, we next see him on the Tramway to Judgment City. That was an interesting concept as well. It looks like our concept of heaven is quite earthly. It's better than flying around on a cloud playing a harp that could get boring after a while. I wonder what Judgment City looked like in 1491 instead of 1991. Or even 491. The Oriental people would have understood it better as reincarnation was part of their religions.Brooks dies young and he's among a group of new arrivals who've lived out their allotted measure and he's got nine days in Judgment City the Las Vegas of the celestial plane with a bunch of senior citizens. But he gets a stroke of dubious luck when he meets Meryl Streep one of the only young people in the recent arrivals. They have nine days to make the most of it.But that's at night and by day both of them have to be Defending Your Life before a celestial tribunal with a pair evenly matched adversaries, Rip Torn as Brooks's defense attorney and Lee Grant as the prosecutor. These two go at it over Brooks the way Ronald Colman and Vincent Price duel over the fate of man in The Story Of Mankind.In the end Brooks proves maybe he has what it takes.I found this a strangely unsettling film. I kept thinking of that Broadway show tune from Texas Little Darlin', The Big Picture Show In The Sky. The idea of a hidden camera taking video of you is quite unsettling. No such a thing as a right to privacy. Looks like God has us all on a smartphone that has eternally charged batteries.And also having a sister who died young makes one wonder what her fate might have been. I can say that if she didn't make it to the higher plane no one did or should.Defending Your Life is an interesting and funny film, but might be as unsettling for other viewers as it was for me. "},{"Title":"Excellent Light Fun With Deeper Undertones","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a favorite of mine because you could watch it as a pure light rom-com, but it is conceptually very intriguing and cleverly done. The idea of Judgement is about as deep as it gets, but the gimmicks involving the food, the Little Brain vs Big Brain thing, or the Past Lives Pavilion keep it fun. Albert Brooks and Rip Torn are fantastic, and the if Meryl Streep was never more adorable, The themes of fear and how we perceive life and death are ever present and cause one to wonder Meryl or Albert, which is closer to you? The cameo by Shirley McClain is classic! Albert Brooks' writing is funny, poignant, and intelligent. I really like a movie that can both entertain and provoke, and that is what makes this a favorite of mine. It is neither the funniest or most provocative, but a blend it successfully achieves as well as any movie I can think of. "}{"Title":"I must have missed it when they passed the Kool-Aid around for this one","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Defending Your Life has a somewhat promising concept when you die, you have to defend your life in order to see if you move onward or have to return to Earth for a do-over. Unfortunately, it misses too many notes in the execution of this concept, and suffers from major problems of tone and balance between the comedy and the serious.The workings of Judgement City, the trial process, and the afterlife as presented here don't make much sense from a logical standpoint (there are so many issues I had with it that I won't even go into them). Maybe we're meant to forgive the problems for comedy's sake, but the humour feels too sparse to do that. Some of it is effective, but many of the sight gags fall flat or just feel cheap. Or maybe the viewer is supposed to dwell on the inconsistencies and what profound meaning they might conceal from us little-brains (yet another perpetuation of that silly '10% of our brain' myth). Perhaps that works for others, but I find contemplating the meaning of Life, the Universe, and Everything to be dissonant with watching a guy in a white muumuu shuffle around in generic hotels and office complexes while making mildly clever quips and undergoing a sham of a 'trial'.Brooks and Streep have pretty good chemistry, but their romance does feel superficial and a little rushed, and the ending where he overcomes his fears to come chasing after her is too pat.Final summary Uneven life-after-death film that fails both as a comedy and as an inspirational thought-provoker. 3/10 | D "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Amazingly sweet, thought provoking and funny. Albert Brooks plays an average person being judged in the afterlife. Should he be moved upwards or not? Being average, he's right at the cusp. The problem is, you can only go back to the world so many times before the universe says it's not worth it, and discards you&#x97;and he's almost out of lives. He meets the amazing Julia, played by Meryl Streep, and against all odds they fall in love. How will this affect his judgement?This is one of my favorite films, and only after a dozen watchings do I wish there was more. Streep's character could be better rounded&#x97;she's a bit more icon than person. But you can't go wrong with this film. "},{"Title":"Not that funny but the concept is quite interesting","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The basic concept looks like it incorporates various belief systems here and there; Buddhist view of reincarnation, Abrahamaic religions' views of afterlife personal judgment, and the American Dream of a liberal heaven. The movie builds up the main character's funny attitude very well. It's too bad that it doesn't really support the story. It's because the story gets to be so serious and it leaves no room for any practical jokes. I personally think that this movie should also be billed as a romance story, because it can present the afterlife acquaintance and ensuing relationship nicely. The acting is decently okay. Albert Brooks give out enough character to his role and was funny in it. Meryl Streep gives the nice balancing act on the romantic side of the story. "},{"Title":"Tram Rides in Limbo","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a 'snoozer.'Technically it's not a 'sleeper hit' because it made $16M at the box office. Which, in 1991, is a lot of money, right?Well, it's money, we can agree on that.Anyway. Now twenty-three years post-theatrical release, nobody remembers its existence. It's a shame, really. That's why I'm coining the phrase, 'snoozer,' a good movie everyone seems to forget about.Because wow, this movie holds up.I think it's easier to watch Defending Your Life when you know the year it's from. Even then though, the production design is spectacular. It's easy to discern they're shooting on a set sometimes, but it's strangely enchanting.First of all, this movie's written, directed by and starring Albert Brooks as Daniel Miller. That man's talent is underutilized. He's a great actor, and Defending Your Life is an all-star picture that fires on all cylinders.From recent memory, he's great as Paul Rudd's father in This is 40, and he's just spectacular in Drive. In DYF he's playing a much less antagonistic role.An obvious and (what some may consider) dull comparison to make is with Kafka's The Trial. Perhaps there was some inspiration there.The script is reminiscent of a Woody Allen movie; each line's meticulously written so there's humor in every beat. Everything occurs for more than one reason, and it's all very thought provoking.Judgment City is one of the most intelligent and detailed depictions of the afterlife you'll ever see.The 'attorneys' (although they prefer not to be thought of that way) are the best part of this film. Lee Grant as Lena Foster (the prosecutor) and Rip Torn as Bob Diamond (Miller's defense attorney) are stupendous. They establish a captivating back-and-forth from the get-go.Grant's role in DYF comes in toward the tail end of a long acting career. It's her job to be the bad guy in purgatory, and she accomplishes this in spades, but Lena's not without subtlety or nuance.To use his own quote, Torn's character is, just dynamite. He's the most optimistic, lovable person and I enjoy seeing the loyal friend character; someone the protagonist (and the audience) can always count on.Meryl Streep's excellent also; her character exemplifies 'affability.' It's the quality you recognize in all genuinely good people. She's quick to laugh and can tell when someone expects her to, and she's easy going; unfettered by worry.Seriously, it's quietly a masterful performance. This is the best role I've seen Meryl in.Well friends, if you haven't seen Defending Your Life, it's a five star comedy with compelling characters, an intelligent narrative and some very touching sequences. Despite the predictable ending, it brought a tear to this humble reviewer's eye.But if you're sensitive to spoilers stop reading now.To comment on the aforementioned character of Lena Foster, it's worthy of note because she's intense and accusatory but you can see her feelings deep down. She wants Miller to move on from Earthly life, but she can't force it on him. Ultimately, she wishes him the best.In consideration of the inherent difficulty in world building, Brooks' exploration of the material is vast and thorough. He put a lot of work into writing this screenplay, and it shines through in certain moments in an indirect manner.For example, Miller asks where Diamond (Rip Torn) was the day before.I'd tell you but you wouldn't understand, Diamond says.Don't treat me like a moron, try me, Miller says.I was trapped near the inner circle of fault.I don't understand.I told you&#x85;There are four main trial sequences, and instead of doing the exact same thing (having Diamond vehemently defend the merits of Miller's choices) the stand-in utilizes a different defensive method by having Miller defend himself. This offers the viewer a greater variation in scenes.And if the only option for pay-off is explaining it as nonsensical (literally), then so be it.Another good example is during the final trial sequence.I think we all know what's coming when Foster shows the clip of the night before, a scene from the lobby of Julia's hotel. Perhaps Brooks recognized the potential for cheesiness ahead of time, and wrote the following exchange as a precautionary measure.Foster brings up the clip and Rip Torn objects.I was told we're not doing that anymore, Diamond says.No one told you that, a judge responds.It's hilarious, nonsensical and completely out of left field, but it works! It's a great joke, and totally justifies the placement of the scene.Which transitions into my sole criticism of the film. It's a bit predictable. But that's fine, given the unbroken flow of well-rounded moments provided along the way.It's illustrative of a larger truth. A well-thought out story can be efficient. The ending doesn't have to be spectacular for us to buy in. It can be satisfactory if the ride was even more so to get there.Defending Your Life reminds us that great screenplays can often be great enough.There's still one thing that baffles meWhy isn't it out on Blu-Ray? "},{"Title":"He knows how to write","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Imperfect, but interesting exploration, which has been explored quite often in Hollywood movies, of the afterlife. This is another remarkable achievement of that favorite outsider, Albert Brooks.As in Broadcast News, Brooks plays a misguided, cynical and neurotic individual, but with softer edges this time. The main difference between that movie and this one, is that he actually gets sort of a happy ending. Also, where as most of the characters in Broadcast News couldn't stand him (not for a long time anyway), the supporting characters take those character traits and reduces them to fear of succeeding. Broadcast News was about Brooks screwing his life up, Defending Your Life is about not even trying to screw it up.Although, the picture is quite funny and clever there are a few sequences that don't work or are extremely underdeveloped and Brooks, a talented writer, wants it exactly that way, I think. We are not going to see an Albert Brooks film and immediately get what he's trying to tell us. Fortunately, they don't cause extreme harm to the overall enjoyment. Take the Meryl Streep character. In no way is Brooks trying to explain why her character would fall in love with him. The explanation Because he is the only guy there under 100 years old, is as good as you will get. Streep also thinks that Brooks' cynical attitude is endearing and not annoying. Really not that believable. But as said before, it's a minor quibble.The premise of going to trial to defend your actions or non-actions of your life is clever. But again, the stakes are not that high. If you do nothing with your life you get another one up to a point. Rip Torn's defense attorney says one guy/girl lived a hundred times. That is another weakness of the plot. There is a bizarre sequence where the defendants get to see what their past lives where. Streep sees that all her lives where basically fair, while Brooks get the underprivileged. Again, clever but the scene doesn't add that much. Only amusement of seeing Meryl Streep and Brooks with their mouthes wide open of seeing who the host of this program is.I wish that I could have given this movie a better rating, but I think there are a few too many shortcomings. However, most of the film is really funny, so I will give it an above average score. "},{"Title":"A Great  Heaven Can Wait-Style  Fantasy","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Probably the best film Albert Brooks has ever made. Usually overlooked on Meryl Streep's Filmography. A terrific screenplay. A brilliant supporting cast Rip Torn, Lee Grant, Buck Henry, Shirley MacLaine (as the curator of past lives). It starts out a little slow, but stay with it. Daniel Miller has to die for the action to begin Daniel pays more attention to his music than his driving and gets hit by a bus. (No gore, however.) In the next scene, he is on another bus heading for Judgement City to defend his life and all the fears that us little brains have. Is this Heaven? No. But some of your new little mini-malls come close. While in Judgement City you can eat all you want without gaining weight and the food is fast, fresh and delicious. Where is Judgement City? High above the Earth where we all expect Heaven to be. If Daniel wins his case by defending the decisions he made in his life, he gets to move on to the next higher level of existence. If he loses, he gets sent back to Earth to try again. Rip Torn plays his defender, Bob Diamond. Meryl Streep plays his love interest, Julia, who had the perfect life until she tripped on the patio furniture, hit her head, and fell into a backyard pool. (I shouldn't have died, I was a terrific swimmer.) I rank it up there with other all-time fantasies such as Here Comes Mr. Jordan,Heaven Can Wait and Oh, God!. Far from perfect movies, but compelling to watch with a haunting quality. Apparently, many of the reviewers who didn't like it failed to understand it. Judgement City is not Purgatory! One of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Talk about This One's Got Legs!!","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Well, here we are -- over two decades later -- and I still can't come across it while surfing the Web without becoming hooked, as usual; and I just know I'll never cease to avail myself of every future opportunity to stop by for a treasured visit until I end up in Judgment City myself. I am a Master Yoga Therapist, and yogic philosophy is based on two main objects of life (1) to conquer all of one's personal fears, and (2) to do battle with evil wherever one finds it and to the fullest extent possible within one's sphere of personal influence. Brooks has brilliantly captured the essence of #1 in this film, feeding us ceaseless spoonfuls of sugar to help the medicine go down; so I would love to see him apply his talent to encapsulating the second arm of the yogic credo as adroitly as he has the first. The world could surely use a poignant reminder of this one right now. "},{"Title":"A light hearted comedy about romance on 'the other side'","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Personally, I think this is Albert Brooks best film he has ever directed and acted in. Both Albert Brooks and Meryl Streep acted very well making their characters believable, and they had a good rapport with each other. The storyline was simple but unique - a love story on 'the other side' where two people meet and a romance starts when they are dead and awaiting judgment. I found the humor witty and amusing with a lot of great one liners. You can't help but feel some sympathy for Daniel Miller the lead character. Don't you wish you could undo the silly mistakes and decisions in your life? But he doesn't want to go back and have another try at life on earth. Now that he has met Julia, his soul mate, he must overcome his fear in order to join her where she's going. "},{"Title":"in defense of many things","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There have been many movies about the life and death, but Defending Your Life is probably the most interesting. Albert Brooks directs himself as yuppie Daniel Miller, who gets killed in a car wreck one day. Once dead, he gets transported to Judgment City, where he has to defend the self-serving, mealy-mouthed life that he led; if he wins, he gets to continue on the afterlife, but if he loses, then he has to live another life to improve on his previous one. Meryl Streep plays Julia, whom Daniel gets to know in Judgment City, while Rip Torn plays Daniel's attorney and Lee Grant plays the prosecutor.I gotta say, it's a crying shame that there aren't more movies like this. Whenever Albert Brooks directs a movie, it always seems like he comes up with something really creative, and he doesn't disappoint here. If this is really what happens after we die, than I am not afraid to die (hey, no one should fear death; I mean, we're all gonna die eventually). And above all, I staunchly defend this movie. "},{"Title":"DVD Not Full Version","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a great movie. Written and directed and performed by Albert Brooks. The concepts and ideas he came up with for this one are truly genius. One disappointment is that some of the scenes were cut from the original movie (I suspect to obtain the PG rating) which were really funny things. If anyone knows where I can obtain a DVD of the original uncut version I would like to get one for my collection. Also why doesn't IMDb have a full biography of Brook's other films? Perhaps I did not see the right section of the website, but when you type in the search phrase it should pull up a link for all of his accomplishments. Regardless this movie is still hilarious and even my teen age kids had a few side busting laughs with the whole concept and delivery of by Brooks and his humor. "}{"Title":"Defending this Movie!!!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has all the wit and humour of Woody Allen, yet scrapes away the ego that turns almost all of his films into a big pat on the back. This film has all of the elements a touching love story, a witty commentary to the after life, many big laughs, and the everyday maincharacter that is easy to relate to. Me and my girlfriend have sought out all of Albert Brooks's other films and have only found his film Mother to be as strong. This film has the likeable hollywood feel but also takes risks, which is why it will appeal to almost anyone. Overall, probably my favorite romantic comedy, over Shop Around the Corner, Groundhog Day and Harold and Maude. "},{"Title":"a great look at afterlife","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie & consider it one of my favourites. I think it is a lovely look at what could happen when you die. I had my own ideas about death & this just helped visualise them a bit more. It has also helped my daughter who had a phobia about dying as a lot of teenagers do.This might sound sad but there is so much violent death around us that this film helps to alay some fears. "},{"Title":"Read this. I use 7.5% of my brain.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Want to know what happens to you after you die? Well, Defending Your Life explains it all. With Albert Brooks directing, writing, and starring in it, DFYL is all that unique Brooks brand of understated, poker-faced, droll comedy. The film begins with Brooks' death and ends with his...well, you'll find out. A clean, crisp, creative piece, the film's romantic subplot doesn't seem to work too well. Brooks and Streep just don't look right together, IMHO. Nonetheless, those with a taste for Brooks' comedy won't be disappointed by this tasty little flick about what's beyond life. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, likable and amusing but...","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember first seeing 'Defending Your Life' when it had come out on video around 14 years ago. I remember enjoying it for being amusing and clever in the typical Brooks style with an atypical comic performance from Meryl Streep that was a nice change of pace for her.So when I watched it on DVD recently, I wondered whether it was as good as I recalled it was. And it was... almost.While it was still a clever and amusing movie, it wasn't quite as good as I recalled it would be. There was an overall feeling that the potential comic hilarity setup by Brooks wasn't exploited as well as it should've been.I think some of the film's problems are demonstrated where we're shown a flashback scene when Brooks' character was alive demonstrating how nervous he was before having to do public speaking. The scene falls flat because, instead of Brooks acting out his character's fear and nervousness in a funny manner, we see him tell someone how nervous he is. It just doesn't convince and therefore the comic potential of the scene is lost.And that happens regularly throughout - in his previous film 'Lost in America' Brooks created three of four classic memorable comic scenes. Unfortunately none exist in this film.Still, despite its missed opportunities its still a pretty good film with a pleasing, satisfying ending. "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal of what it's like.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Robert Monroe, founder of The Monroe Institute, calls Judgment City, Level 27 where people go after death to process their previous life and debrief for their next life. Military and lay people have trained at this institute and learned to access various levels of consciousness. According to those who have been to Level 27, this movie is dead on!This movie was instrumental in a personal assessment of life and the challenges we came to the planet to handle. Our fears rule our experience here--small fears to big fears we are constantly limited by reactionary thinking. True courage through confronting our fears is what this movie is all about. It will put you right in that 'courtroom' as you recall the times you could have stood up for yourself and failed. A shot in the arm for the fear flu! "},{"Title":"Great Albert Brooks Comedy!","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Albert Brooks writes, directs & stars in this 1991 romantic comedy that co-stars Meryl Streep, Rip Torn and Lee Grant. After getting into a car accident on his birthday, Daniel Miller (Brooks) is sent to the afterlife where he's on trial for being afraid his whole life. He meets lawyer, Bob Diamond (Torn) who defends him and prosecutor, Lena Foster (Grant). They show him past moments of his life where he had fear and made wrong decisions. Soon, Daniel finds romance with Julia (Streep) and must try to overcome his fear. I've always liked this film, Albert did a great job and he and Meryl have good chemistry. I also really like the food scenes where you can eat all you want without gaining weight. I recommend this great film. "},{"Title":"Beginning of small questions","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Death. And a small definition. Nothing complicated. Ordinary ingredients. An car accident, a new universe, a man and a lady, a love story as prize. And, more that, Meryl Streep as same impressive presence. A film about guilty and errors in a strange note. Comedy in the forms of childish reflection about important things and regrets, expectations and life leaves. A story about the connections and happiness. A game of sentiments. And Albert Brooks virtue is the courage to explore , carefully, a delicate subject in warm nuances. A Sunday film who may be beginning of small questions. About past, feelings and regrets. And about any Euridice. "},{"Title":"Extremely intelligent, thoughtful and often funny film","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Firstly the only reason this film is not getting 10 is because the scenery was a bit dated, but I suppose good for the early 90's (I'm just spoilt with all the modern films). Also only read further if you have watched the film, then if you want come back and read and see if you agreed with what I see to be very universal reflections on this film.Let's begin with the main plot, very thoughtful and if I did not know better I would say was inspired by a book called 'Journey Of Souls' (88 I think!) and so this plot provides a very hopeful insight into the afterlife, quite a big theme since for anybody who is a believer in something greater there is infinitely more of it. The theme is whether or not the main character has to reincarnate again, never is heaven mentioned, and hell is said to be non-existent, but there is a panel that helps ascertain one's worthiness as to be a 'part of a machine' working for the universe. This is the thoughtful side of the film.The sub-plot part is the intelligent part, brilliant acting on the part of Meryl Streep, never really noticed her before as being highly seductive and a great flirt. Most of her quips go unnoticed though by Daniel (the main character), and his jokes seem to force a pained laugh from Meryl, yet his one liners on their own do warrant a few laugh out loud moments, what is intelligent about it all is the subtlety though.Daniel is so oblivious to all the other characters motives in the film (almost all of them add comedic value by the bucket load, especially at the sushi bar!) and he kind of drifts along in his own world, with plenty of humour, just not much depth, he's not really interested in becoming smarter, and does not understand the 'bigger brains' and their metaphors and feelings. He is just mainly concerned with hooking up with Meryl's character, who is the opposite, she is smart, and she likes smart minds and she does have depth, and in this depth, Meryl gives us many glimpses of what her character is really feeling. Daniel can't see this throughout though, and so for me it was a confusing ending, but it worked in a way because Daniel does progress to the next level as it were, a happy ending although it was not necessary because a sequel was on the horizon if it had gone the other way.The real comedy of this film lies with Rip Torn, these are the best bits, and in his 'defense' of Daniel he is somewhat sarcastic all the way through. He knows what happens next in all the scenes and so picks some awful moments for Daniel's defence to recall since they always dovetailed with Daniels biggest failings of his lifetime. However this is needed for the events of the film to unfold as they do, Rip Torn's character had a plan all along for Daniel it seems.The main thrust of the message this film brings though is this age old idea that it is fear that blinds everybody from the joy that love could bring. It is about removing the barrier of fear by facing it so that love can be known and at the end of this film, this is exactly what happens and so it is about what Rip Torn insinuated, following your heart. "},{"Title":"**SPOILER ALERT**  PABLUM! (Well, maybe white Wonder bread!)","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  C'mon.  Brooks, The Lesser (as opposed to Mel, The Greater) is not a bad writer and has usually a knack for slipping in some wry little pun or twist to give us the value for the price of our ticket.  However, this film is pure doggerel pablum.  It's all feel-good mind-mush wrapped up in a warm and fuzzy blanket.  The hesitating, unsure Brooks falls for, in after-life, the self-assured Streep.  It seems there's nothing Brooks has gotten right in his life and nothing Streep stumbled on in hers.  Now, is that a match made in heaven?  Apparently so, reading the reviews herein.  I rented this film on video and had never gave it a moment's consideration while it was running on the big screen.  I was not surprised by anything in it, not challenged or provoked to look for anything further and found it to be rather boring for the most part.  I mean, lots of people hanging around and riding buses in white outfits?  That's inspiring?  Well, maybe pablum is too severe a comparison  white Wonderbread, however, does come to mind... "},{"Title":"Entertaining, But...","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...I wouldn't take what it says about the afterlife as gospel truth. As I look at this site, I am amazed at how many people took this movie so seriously. I don't think it was meant to be. The only people who know for certain what the afterlife is like are not telling us about it.Still, it's an entertaining story. Michael Gore, Lesley Gore's brother composes the score for the movie, and has some rather nice things in it, especially in the opening and closing credits. Albert Brooks plays a likable loser and Meryl Streep plays his love interest. Honest to God, what did she see in him? He's a loser. It also makes you think. Personally, I don't believe this is what the afterlife will be like, but it's still different and amusing. The humor is gentle and about as inoffensive as you can get. Not bad if taken for entertainment value only and not to gain any insights of the afterlife. "}{"Title":"Only an American Lawyer could have written this... (SPOILER?)","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I suppose if you are enamored of ambulance chasers you might enjoy this- (or an admirer of Meryl Streep.) But the idea of dying and going to a court with a prosecutor and lawyer to determine if you are entitled to go on (the reward of heaven?) based on whether you displayed no fear? How can anybody write something as dumb as this? So if Hitler and Ghengis Khan and Idi Amin displayed no fear they get to go on? And the highlight of the place is to be able to eat all you want without getting fat? Who could write garbage like this? The flashbacks could have addressed some serious issues, or even some comical issues, since it's supposed to be a comedy, but Brooks played such a spineless schmuck, (good acting?) that the only reason for giving this waste of time a 2 out of 10 is because Streep brightens anything she's in. (How'd they ever get her to waste her time in this?  "},{"Title":"A great idea poorly thought through.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A truly excellent idea that was simply not done justice by the script writer and director. Totally lacking in subtlety. We saw very little variance in the main actors - either helplessly over the moon or down in the dumps. I watched it right through only out of the hope it would deviate into some refreshing angle. While the ending is surprising, there really seemed no-where for the relationship of the two main characters to go to. It seemed to be there just to pad things out. There was no real conflict between them - it was all too easy and everything was accepted too easily. Some good performances from minor roles (Defendent, Italian chef). Overall, a great idea poorly thought through. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep's weakest performance","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I like funny movies. Some Like It Hot, Born Yesterday, Back to the Future - these are superior funny movies. Good funny movies include Groundhog Day, Analyze This, Outrageous Fortune, The Devil Wears Prada, Broadcast News, and numerous others.BUT Defending Your Life doesn't even belong on the same page as the above! I saw this one cable on a snowy day. As a few others have written, it was a cute idea but not well-executed.I adore Meryl Streep and have seen nearly all of her films. In this one, all she does is smile beatifically. She has one good line, about heaven being a place where you can eat all you want and not get fat or have a stomachache. To my fellow reviewers Hello! She did not write that line. She just delivered it. The movie has a couple of cute scenes, but not those with Streep. She was even better in She-Devil. "},{"Title":"Just terrible...","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like most movies that I end up despising for than anything, I honestly gave this thing a try. We had to watch it in a class on the afterlife in school and its premise was interesting....sorta.One of the biggest problems is the acting. Brooks tries to sound like he's doing stand up comedy in the middle of conversation. Sorry Al, only Jerry Seinfeld can do that (and even Seinfeld can do it badly too). The whole ordeal about Jeeps in the beginning should have given me a hint, but I ignored it. I would think that since the SOB wrote the damn thing that maybe he would give himself a more interesting character. But he doesn't. Rather, Daniel Miller is shown as this supposedly funny guy who by the sheer grace of God (who is conspicuously absent in this whole ordeal, which shows that the only kind of world where Albert Brooks is allowed to write, star, and direct his movies, is in a godless Hell) is able to win over Meryl Streep, for reasons that are too stupid to discuss further.The other biggest problem is the whole story. I believe Donnie Darko said it best that you can't just combine all human emotion into Fear and Love, it just shows ignorance to the human condition of outside, mitigating circumstances...OK he didn't say the last part, I added that in for fun. But, having Fear and Courage as the basis to get into heaven is just a complete mockery of the divine ideal. To dumb down the afterlife to this human creation of a hearing, with judges and attorneys, just shows that Brooks was attempting to show heaven in a way that can relate to the ever-deteriorating human mind. It fails.The ending is also so ridiculously predictable. Because he wanted to have sex with Meryl Streep, he gets into heaven, but when he doesn't, that means he's a failure at life? Kind of showing Streep on a pedestal I see. Okay, I want to have sex too. If I impregnate an underage girl, but show courage, then do I get into heaven? Awesome! The only reason this even gets a 2 is because of the Past Lives Pavilion with the sumo wrestler and the girl with the doll. And I mean, that is really it. "},{"Title":"Are you people nuts?!?","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read some of the reviews on this shlockfest, and I'm amazed.  This is Albert Brooks at his weeniest.  Nothing about this movie is entertaining and it is painful watching Meryl Streep try to save the movie and her dignity at the same time. "}]