[{"Title":"Maybe you have to be a writer...","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Just as I disagreed with the critics whom universally panned DELIRIOUS, I must disagree with most IMDB reviewers.  I believe this is a genuinely funny movie, quite original and inspired.  Sure, there are more than a few things in it that don't work (particularly the casting of Mariel Hemingway as the love interest); but, what writer hasn't a fantasy of being a part of his creation?  The high point of the movie is the guest appearance by Robert Wagner.  The big surprise is how funny Raymond Burr turns out to be.  Despite her spoiled brat vixenishness, I would still take Emma Samms over the awkward, nerdy Miss Hemingway. The cruelist humor in the movie is the disintegration of Samm's brother. It's also probably the funniest thing about the film.DELIRIOUS may not be to EVERYONE'S taste, but I happily purchased the laser disc a few years back.  I watch it about once a year, and call it my writer's fix.  Enjoy it if you are a mind to...  "},{"Title":"A decent Candy vehicle","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a much more watchable film than many of the lightweight vehicles Candy took part in in his post-SCTV career. His part could have been played by any number of comic actors, but John steps in and gives it his best shot. He's always fun to watch on screen, and he has a good time here without going over the top, which he tended to do.DELIRIOUS is a weird mixture of Groundhog Day, Soapdish, and various Rod Serling scripts in which the characters in a story are being controlled by someone at a typewriter. It's a workable premise, and the actors make the most of the stock soap opera characters they play. David Rasche, Emma Samms, Raymond Burr et al were well-chosen for their parts. Bit parts by Robert Wagner and Marvin Kaplan (the voice of Choo-Choo on TOP CAT) are also memorable. Mariel Hemingway takes some flak on this comment board for her part, but she seemed suited for the role and moved smoothly from her gawky character to the soap opera devil woman. This is a pleasant comedy but not as consistently funny as SOAPDISH. The script by veteran writers of Gilligan's Island and Bewitched suffers from a lot of unnecessary language (for what could otherwise be a family film) but moves along at a brisk pace (except for the longish horse-riding scenes). "},{"Title":"Delicious in parts","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The all time best line in the movie -- John Candy rescuing Emma Samms on horseback -- This stranger knows no danger!A bit spotty -- can't maintain a high comedy level throughout but nonetheless is enjoyable and a vehicle for John Candy to demonstrate comic range. Excited he will get to spend a romantic weekend tryst with Emma Samms (and misunderstanding her feminine wiles), he finds himself lugging umpteen of her suitcases to the taxi cab, then knocks himself out with the trunk door as he tries to load the suitcases. Wakes up in the pleasant little village where she reappears as new character, daughter of Raymund Burr, along with others in town, Mariel Hemingway et al. Plenty of lines for Candy in trying to write the new soap opera about family conspiracies with a stolen formula, and the rapid disintegration of Emma's brother while none in the family seem to notice or care. Again the highlight to me was the rescue chase by Candy when Emma's horse took her on a wild ride and Candy rides up and self congratulates later as modern day Zorro or Lone Ranger. All in all, enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Help, I'm Trapped In My Own Soap Opera","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" That's John Candy's dilemma in Delirious. Candy's a writer for a popular television day time soap which seems to bear more resemblance to the night time big budget soaps so popular in the Eighties. Anyway after some creative differences with fellow writers Jerry Orbach and Renee Taylor, Candy gets into a nasty car wreck and when he wakes up finds himself in the hospital of his own show being treated by a couple of the characters of same, doctor David Rasche and nurse Andrea Thompson. After seeing this, I see where the creators of Pleasantville got their idea. Pleasantville of course was a bit more serious in its subject matter. Delirious was a good idea that didn't quite come off although the players do give it a good try.Part of the problem is that even in the fantasy Candy's thinking with his hormones. He's got it bad for his show's star Emma Sammes who is doing a nice Joan Collins impersonation. There's good girl Mariel Hemingway who is auditioning in real life for a part on Candy's soap opera and she shows up in the fantasy as well. I have to give special kudos to Raymond Burr who plays the family patriarch of this soap opera with tongue firmly in cheek. Burr's occasionally flashes a twinkle which you have to be sure to catch just to let you know how much he's enjoying this. Nice he took time off from Perry Mason here.Sammes and Burr are the real treats of Delirious. It could have been a lot funnier, but I think someone like Mel Brooks should have directed it. "},{"Title":"It's...Groundhog Day! Only This Time, The Master Of Comedy, John Candy...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"   John Candy made this film.The story involves a soap opera writer (Candy) who gets knocked out, and enters his own, type-written, created world, where all the characters are alive and playing their roles - or so he thinks. They are actually living them. So, Candy finds that whatever he writes on the 'ol typewriter happens in the world he's in, because, after all, he created it on the typewriter, right? Built off the same foundation as Groundhog Day, Delirious is by no means great, and not John Candy's best, (I give that to Planes, Trains and Automobiles) but it does have an actual soap opera feel to it - that cheap feel - and has some laughs along the way. Not great, but worth watching. Candy was one of the best comedians of his time, God rest his soul...John Candy Ulmer "},{"Title":"Good By John Candy Standards","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A soap opera writer (John Candy) gets hit on the head and wakes up as a character in his own show.I have to say I am not generally a fan of John Candy's films. Some are better than others, but I never think of his as a starring role kind of guy. This film was different. I guess it flopped, but I am not sure why -- it is clever, charming and an overall fun little film. I would recommend to friends and family.The whole concept of a writer being able to write his world is awesome, and while it has been done elsewhere, I am not sure it has ever been done with such wit as it was here. I mean, really... cold deer? Hilarious. "},{"Title":"John Candy's best... Hilarious all the way through...","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can watch this movie over and over and never get tired (then again, I haven't ever tried watching it 10 times in a row in the same day)... Candy does his own sort of persona with his trademark charm without getting annoying, and the way the film turns constantly as he tries to solve his dilemma is great (particularly when he starts to write while drunk).  Not a masterpiece by any standard, but a fun flick... "},{"Title":"Soap Opera fantasy/spoof - typical John Candy comedy but not his best","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Slightly along the lines of My Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter but the other way around and with fantasy rather than contrivance, with similar comedy and cheesy soap opera acting/story lines. It's silly, ridiculous but typical of soap opera shenanigans and it's quite a good spoof in that regard. John Candy is typical John Candy and everyone else is over-the-top, including Robert Wagner as himself and Raymond Burr in a comedic role, and Jerry Orbach too! Delirious is a crazy romp set in a fantasy town created by a lovesick soap opera scriptwriter. In a concussion-induced delirium Jack Gable (Candy) thinks he's inside his own soap opera and uses his writing to make himself into a dashing hero. It's Hollywood schmaltz but rather enjoyable and good for silly giggles. Lots of silly stunts (pretty impressive horsemanship) but shockingly bad sound/dubbing and there's lots of holes in the production. Overall a nice rainy afternoon watch. Wouldn't recommend it or necessarily watch it again although I really like John Candy, however, this was by no means Uncle Buck. "},{"Title":"Fun film, not a classic, but has its moments","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" An enjoyable premise and pulled off really well in spots, Delirious is a fun film that spoofs soap's (similar to the TV show Soap)by allowing a soap writer played by John Candy to dream that he is in the soap opera he writes for. While it the dream, he can change what is happening each moment by simply typing it out on his typewriter, most of what he writes involves his anger toward the shows other writers and a vehicle to make himself a sexy leading man while wooing his love interest played by Emma Sands. Because at some moments Candy's character is simply trying to get rid of people, Candy writes some funny, if weird, things that the characters can't even figure out why they are doing them.Although the movie lags in places, it has some of the funniest lines I have ever heard in movies, especially the Robert Wagner lines about Cleveland and the running gag about cable TV repairmen and having to wait for them. The cable gag is really dated (I haven't had black bar issues in about 15 years)as is other parts of the film, but it still works.Raymond Burr does a great deadpan job in his final theatrical performance. Muriel Hemmingway really stinks it up, the rest of the cast is made up of soap actors who do a nice job of spoofing their own genre.Another good flick that spoofs soaps is Soapdish, does not have the fantasy piece of Delirious, but is also very funny. "},{"Title":"GREAT IDEA, BUT...","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...unfortunatelly not that great realization. All in all, throughout the movie i have a feeling that it could be done a lot more with a first-class producer and a actors, though John Candies is quite allright, but sadly nothing more. But, despite that, the comedy brings a few great laughs and that's why i give this movie 5 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Vintage Emma Samms","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"     Emma Samms looks great in this movie and shines in it despite the fact that this is a comedy.Best known for drama,she plays herself acting in a soap opera,and then plays the character her character plays.Oh yeah,this is a John Candy film,too. He plays the writer of the soap who then gets trapped in it.He then discovers that he can still control the reality of the show with the typewriter that created it and that he brought along.Losing out on the several erotic possibilities he could of done,he instead finds true love with Mariel Hemingway.In short,what could have been a great movie parodying soaps becomes a so-so fantasy that I for one wish could happen to me.This film is a must for fans of either Samms or Candy. "},{"Title":"There's A Lota Love In This Room","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Flimsy comedy carried by the likability of John Candy as Jack Gable a third rate script writer on a failing daytime soap opera. After an accident Jack awakens in Ashford Falls the town he created in the TV show with all his characters brought to life. He soon realises his typewriter gives him the ability to write his own destiny and go from Jack Gable the bumbling writer to Jack Gates the wolf of Wall Street. The film has some neat ideas the comedy is a tad hit and misses but John Candy is as reliable as ever pulling this movie from the depths it would have gone without him. Other characters are broad soap archetypes and exist solely as props in the John Candy show. The film is passable and raises a few laughs Raymond Burr and Robert Wagner make funny guest appearances and supporting characters Ty, Dr Kirkwood and Blake all have their moments. An enjoyable bit of comedy fluff 7/10 "},{"Title":"Creative","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Delirious is a creative and funny master piece.  I enjoyed every minute that I watch of the show.  It was very nonpredictable and suprised me many of times.  The writers of this show wrote this movie with style, and having John Candy, the greatest actor in the world, made the movie that much better.  It was enjoyable and fun to watch.  It is even a great show to bring your kids to.  i would recommend this show to anybody who likes comedy and likes John Candy. "},{"Title":"John Candy's charms can't save this","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Jack Gable (John Candy) is the writer of a successful soap opera in NYC. He's in love with manipulative diva Laura Claybourne (Emma Samms). Louise (Mariel Hemingway) is the bumbling new actress. The Sherwoods are interfering producers looking to kill off Laura's character. He gets hit on the head and finds himself in the soap opera in Ashford Falls Community Hospital after a car accident. He discovers that he can manipulate the characters by rewriting the story.John Candy's ample amount of charms can't salvage this movie. The problem is that the soap opera is fake and the only compelling character is Candy. It also doesn't help that the best he has to work with in this movie is Mariel Hemingway. At least, she's game even if she's not that able. This is a miss. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" John Candy, Mariel Hemingway, Emma Samms, Raymond Burr, Dylan Baker, Charles Rocket, Andrea Thompson and David Rasche star in this 1991 comedy. The late, great, Candy plays Jack Gable, a writer who gets into an accident and dreams he's on his soap opera, Beyond Our Dreams. He plays along as wealthy tycoon, Jack Gates and begins writing his way through town trying to impress rich woman, Rachel Hedison (Samms). Jack also meets, Janet Dubois (Hemingway), a botanist whom he finds romance with. Jack eventually comes back to reality and tries to better the show. The late, Burr (Perry Mason) plays Rachel's father and industrialist, Carter, Baker (Spider-Man 2) plays Carter's son, Blake who begins having side effects from an experimental drug, the late, Rocket (Dumb and Dumber) plays Carter's other son, Ty who has one eye, Thompson (NYPD Blue) plays nurse, Helen Caldwell who tries to win the affections of doctor, Paul Kirkwood (Rasche) whom is engaged to Rachel and Robert Wagner (Hart to Hart) also appears as the actual, Jack Gates. This is a good comedy I've always enjoyed, Candy & the cast are great and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Close to being a really good comedy, just fizzles to much in areas.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This John Candy movie had potential to be a really funny comedy, perhaps one of his best movies where he is the lead star and there is not a Steve Martin or Dan Aykroyd to back him up. However, the film just is not funny enough in areas of this film and it can not seem to build up any steam so I have to say this one pales to another purely John Candy film Who's Harry Crumb as that one may have been sort of a Fletch copycat still maintained the laughs all the way through the film while this one just loses its luster by having one to many unfunny scenes. The story is about a writer on a soap opera who is obsessed a bit with one of the star attractions going on a trip with said star. She is basically playing him because at this point he is the only real reason she is still on the show as the makers of the soap wanted her killed off long ago for being so difficult. Well an accident happens and when Candy's character comes to he is actually in the soap opera he writes for which makes for some funny stuff. Unfortunately, the character he yearns for is seemingly headed for death, but Candy's character quickly realizes that with a typewriter he can make things happen to his liking in this strange world he has entered. Like I said at times this movie is really funny and it is nice to watch Raymond Burr in one of his final roles, but to many times this film is just not all that funny. "},{"Title":"A Nice Comedy","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have recently re-watched one of John Candy's more interesting films done around the subject of the soap opera. This film stars Candy as a producer of a Soap Opera that ends up being pulled into his own world where he has the opportunity (or misfortune) to interact with the characters that he created to love and hate.This movie is pretty good. I felt that the entertainment value is fair and it is re-watchable. The cast interacts well and there are some very funny moments. I enjoy this film but unfortunately it falls in around the same basic feel that most comedies had at this time so don't expect the spectacular or a film that is gut wrenchingly funny. If you are looking for a film that is enjoyable and fairly pleasing this one has a good feel to it. "},{"Title":"Funny John Candy movie.","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a really good movie to watch if you like silly/fun movies, parody movies, or john candy. It has a great blend of comedy, wit, action and all sorts of other things. I am pretty surprised by the low rating. Its not the best movie by any means, but greatly above standard and really enjoyable. The actors/actresses were funny and did their parts nicely. Its not exactly original though, and it doesn't look like it had the best budget, but it does what its suppose to.. make us laugh. Definitely worth checking to see if your video store rental has it. I rate it 7/10. Rated PG for sensuality, crude humor, language and comic violence. "},{"Title":"Not Candy's best, but still a lot of fun.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" John Candy has done some great comedies; Only the Lonely, Uncle Buck, The Great Outdoors, to name but a few. And while this is far from his best, it is still great fun to watch.The premise begins with Candy as the screenwriter for a cheesy day-time soap opera. After receiving a bump on the head, he awakens to find himself caught in the script he has been writing. He is now one of his own characters and has to endeavor to find his way back to this alternate reality, or so it would seem.This premise is done well here, but was done far better (and darker) in In the Mouth of Madness, the horror production featuring Sam Neill.While I found this movie to be fun, as I said, it is not the best of Candy's films.I highly suggest The Great Outdoors, & Uncle Buck. Summer Rental wasn't bad, either. One of Candy's least known, yet better, films, in my opinion.This movie rates a 5.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"great satire on daytime soap operas","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who has seen a daytime soap should identify with this film. It mocks the genre unmercifully. It also works well as a fantasy, control your life with a typewriter! I love the blurring of reality and fiction. Robert Wagner's entry was a high point.My favorite John Candy film. "}{"Title":"Deliriously funny till the very end","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" John Candy shines as a soap opera writer that finds himself in the very soap opera he is writing. This movie pin points the very ora of a soap opera and with a twist of a dangerous spy, Jack Gable aka John Candy. He is a chic magnet once he realizes what powers his typewriter possess. But does he go too far? A great supporting cast that includes the late great Raymond Burr and General Hospital star Emma Samms. *** stars "},{"Title":"A Writer's Dream","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is extremely creative and funny, not to mention thought provoking. What would you do if you could make anything happen with just a stroke of a keyboard? This is a writer's fantasy come true.  "},{"Title":"A Great Candy Movie","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There are only a few actors in the same category as John Candy when it comes to 90's comedy. The reasons that this movie does not rank as one of the best movies of its genre are a good,not great, script, no special effects, and only one star. Unlike movies with good scripts, and single stars, Groundhog Day and Uncle Buck, there was nothing to be done with this premise. For other movies with missed potential one needs look no farther than movies like Godfather 3, Bram Stokers Dracula, Waterworld, The Fan, etc. The difference between those movies and this one is that the star had nothing to do with any of the films perceived problems. If you like John Candy, and if you don't you are an idiot, this is a great flick. His other movies that are worth an evening, doesn't matter which evening they are worth showing up late for work, are Uncle Buck, The Great Outdoors, Plains Trains and Automobiles, Once Upon a Crime, Brewster's Millions, Spaceballs, Stripes, Nothing but Trouble, and Who's Harry Crumb. They are all a little zany, except for Planes Trains and Automobiles which is still one of the only movies that will make me cry no matter when, how or, who I see it with. Want proof that Candy can act, watch Planes he plays such a sad and honest character that there is no doubt that he has what it takes. John Candy is one of the Great comedic actors of the second golden age of American cinema, he is set apart from other notables by his lack of personal problems, his candor, and zest for life. We should all be as fortunate as he for the blessings he was given. Mr. Candy you are and will be missed, and for as long as there are roofs there will be those of us who shout your name from atop them.Long Live SCTV, John Candy and the best Julia Child I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"no surprise that a combo of John Candy and Hungarian Rhapsody #2 comes out fairly neat","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I guess that Delirious was mostly one of John Candy's innocuously silly placeholders in between his really great roles, but it's still a fairly entertaining one. Maybe not rip-snorting hilarity - after Planes, Trains and Automobiles, it's hard to imagine Candy in a funnier role - but an OK way to pass time. As a screenwriter who gets knocked out and wakes up a character in his own show, Candy makes the most of his role. Among the other cast members are Mariel Hemingway, Raymond Burr (in his final theatrical role), Jerry Orbach, Robert Wagner and Margot Kidder.Oh, and if you think that you recognize Hungarian Rhapsody #2, the classic Looney Tunes cartoons often used it Rhapsody in Rivets, Rhapsody Rabbit, Wise Quackers and What's Up, Doc?, to name a few. Later, Who Framed Roger Rabbit had Daffy Duck and Donald Duck play it on pianos and undermine each other's performances. "},{"Title":"Wonderful idea, executed with enthusiasm","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful idea for a movie - the dueling attempts by writers to change the course of the narrative of the movie itself - one is inside the movie, the other outside. I found the movie hysterical.John Candy is excellent, the lines of Raymond Burr hysterical, Mariel Hemingway charming and sweet and fun, and Emma Samms luscious.I truly don't understand the few who made negative comments - it's one of the 3 or 4 funniest movies of the 1990s - the humor is more physical, but is otherwise on a par with Sleepless in Seattle, While You were Sleeping, When Harry Met Sally - but it doesn't have the serious side in those movies that moved many.   "},{"Title":"Welcome to Ashford Falls","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What if you could get into your favorite television show ? What if you learned that the typewriter that created it was there to help you alter the reality around you ? Sounds like a bad movie, doesn't it ? Maybe not this time, after all what television and movie fan wouldn't want to meet and interact act with the characters of his favorite show much less bend and control the reality around him? Unless Star Trek's holodeck becomes a reality, I guess we'll only be able to dream or at least watch this movie. In Delirious, John Candy realizes you shouldn't wish for things because you just might get them. In order to keep from getting bored with John Candy's smiling face and sheer content at being in a soap opera that he created and writes, the movie also pokes fun at all the clichés of the theme (brain tumors, favorite sons, diabolical scheming, series contradictions, et al). Stunningly immortal and sexy Emma Samms seems to enjoy herself in this movie playing against the good girl roles she has always received. Versatile Mariel Hemingway, however, is too tall and goofy to play the other beauty in this film; if not that holodeck truly existed, I would give this role to someone with sex appeal to rival Emma's like Donna Dixon or Ashley Judd. Raymond Burr proves he can be funny as he does his lines straight and David Rasche of the failed series Sledgehammer plays Emma's handsome doctor boyfriend impervious to her wiles who doesn't understand what is occurring around him. John Candy is a hoot in the role we would all want as he falls victim to his own short-sighted planning and typos as he creates the events around him. Missing out on numerous erotic possibilities, he never gets the chance to change the movie's rating from a PG to an R. Nor does he get to create his own celebrity walk ons Madonna as the mayor, Victoria Principal as a policewoman, etc. What we do have is a Brady Bunch-level fantasy-comedy with all the humor of a spoof of daytime dramas. This can be a funny and charming film that takes you through the life, loves and times of one daytime drama writer. Now, if only I could get into Dark Shadows............ I give the movie a 10, but that's mostly for the presence of mind to cast Emma Samms in it. "},{"Title":"A waste of a great comic talent","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" John Candy worked so hard trying to make something of this turgid script, but it was a waste of his time. Bad writing by untalented people. This movie was just a series of scenes with no forward momentum to the plot. And how many times did they have to run the same boring riff about soap opera plots twists? Once was enough 'cause it wasn't funny the first time! Not an original idea anywhere, but you sure could tell the writers had seen Groundhog Day. You have to wonder how a studio could commit to making this script, since it appeared that they spent quite a bit of money on this turkey. Another in a long series of films that prove comedy is harder than it looks. "},{"Title":"Not John Candy's Best, But Still Pretty Great!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"    Many people on IMDB say this movie is boring and that there is no laughs. That is ridiculous! This movie is great! OK it's not the most original idea for a movie, but I'm a real John Candy fan and he makes me like it. Basically, this movie is about a writer Jack Gable (Candy) who writes for a popular TV soap opera called 'Beyond Our Dreams' when one day, after being knocked out, he appears in his own soap and is able to write what happens in it! Candy carried this movie well with support from the lovely Mariel Hemmingway and Emma Samms, but I feel I have to note that the ending to this film was a complete let down and just too obvious! But overall I enjoyed this perfectly watchable movie from THE LATE, GREAT JOHN CANDY! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Deliriously Boring","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you watch only if you are trapped inside a video store, and you've already watched everything else.  I didn't laugh once through this whole movie, and the plot is weaker than Leonard Part 6.  All in all, I can't say this is a bad movie, but it's sort of like watching the paint dry for 2 hours.  I give this film a perfect 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Candy saves this film.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It, ok to watch.  A low budget rewrite, that is slow in spots.  It has its moment.  The way John Candy acts in some of the scenes is so stupid its funny.  I love it when Robert Wagners is added into the mix.  Worth watching late night. 6/10 "}{"Title":"B.R.I.L.L.I.A.N.T","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one superb movie. I can watch it over and over and over again without tiring of it. John Candy is as engaging and as superbly comic as ever in this little gem. Also has a great cast including Emma Samms, Charles Rocket, Raymond Burr and Mariel Hemingway. ONE TO WATCH! "},{"Title":"Even if the audience doesn't watch","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Built upon the &#132;Groundhog Day` pattern, &#132;Delirious` drives in a completely different direction soon. The idea is not mainly to alter the main character step by step but to parodize run-of-the-mill soap operas with everything they've got in common. And in this respect, the movie does a good job. The plot of the soap turns really crazy after some time and this fact itself is an ironic side-swipe at the industry. After years, it's impossible to keep some realism in the developments of soap characters. The idea that despite all this, the fictitious world has its own virtual level and that the stories go on, even if the audience doesn't watch, is also interesting. And then, the gags are held together by a number of inside jokes of a kind that is actually NOT found in an ordinary soap opera.As usual, John Candy is completely displaced here, but the difference to other movies is that here, there is not much he can ruin. The film is great not because of him but in spite of him.Unfortunately, the ending comes up to the expectation you have about John-Candy-films. The fictitious narrative level is destroyed, we're back to reality. That's the ending one expects. Surely, it would have been easy to produce a more witty, more brilliant ending, but maybe this predictability is part of the game. Soap operas are like that...  "}]