[{"Title":"Don't judge it by its cover","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I avoided this movie because I did not care to see a romance involving Barbra Streisand and Nick Nolte.  When we finally rented the movie, it turned out to be so, so much more.  An incredibly intense film.  I was never of fan of Nolte, but what a tremendous performance!  It moves me to tears every time I watch this film.  I am amazed the IMD reviewers give it such a low rating.  "},{"Title":"The Prince of Tides is my all time favorite movie!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"39 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Prince of Tides is an exceptional movie! It is filled with emotion, humor, adventure, and pathos. Nick Nolte is the heart of the film. He is a broken man, covering up for the past, trying to please his family, but unable to open up and absolve himself of the dysfunction of his past life. He travels to New York to try to help his sister by uncovering what he has been hiding, with the help of a psychiatrist (Barbra Streisand). He is enchanted with her, and is therefore able to open up and reveal the secrets deep within his heart. The emotions that Nick is able to impart to his audience is a joy to see. I learn more about him every time I view this movie. He is a versatile actor and is truly underrated. He DEFINITELY deserved the Oscar for best actor for this difficult role. Barbra Streisand was fantastic as the psychiatrist who had her own secrets, and her son Jason was terrific as the rebellious son who wanted to please his father, but who needed to find himself by taking on the challenge of playing football. I never tire of this movie, and each time I view it, I get more out of it. The Prince of Tides has everything I want in a movie, and if I were to rate it, I would give it 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Barbra and Nick at their best in a terrific movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie many times and it always holds me. Its rhythm, cinematography and casting is perfect and the story never fails to deliver.Tom Wingo, played by Nolte in an all-time best for him, has to go to New York to help his twin sister, Savannah Wingo, played by Melinda Dillon who has attempted suicide for the umpteenth time. Tom is aware there are ghosts in the family but wants to keep them submerged. However with the love for his sister and the encouragement of her psychiatrist, Lowenstein, played by Streisand, the truth begins to unfold along with a love between Lowenstein and Tom who are both in unhappy marriages.There are no easy solutions here to the many issues that are raised, suffice is to say that Streisand, who also directs, keeps a gentle hand in and does not wham home any major emotional points. George Carlin is deft in a minor role, as is Blythe Danner as Tom's wife. The film never fails to pack a punch for me.9 out of 10. Kudos to all, not a false note. "},{"Title":"Sincere, generally well-crafted story about the far-reaching effects of childhood trauma, lovingly directed by Streisand and grounded by Nick Nolte's profoundly moving performance.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Throughout the 80s and 90s, Barbra Streisand has grown in stature (albeit sporadically) as a formidable producer and director of social drama for both films and TV.  The apex of her behind-the-camera career came with The Prince of Tides, a poignant study of a man coping with the long-term effects of childhood trauma.  Streisand nurtures this pet project from start to finish (co-adapted by Pat Conroy from his epic novel), finding a precise heartbeat for the profoundly sentient piece.  Despite a rather protracted love story and one too many climaxes, Streisand, who also co-stars, never loses sight of the novel's primary intent.Streisand graciously hands the spotlight over to actor Nick Nolte, who gives the most sensitive, emotionally complex performance of his varied career.  Tom Wingo is a walking shell of a man who quells his pain with a drink, an easy smile, a cleverly foul remark, and a bitter, uncontrollable outpouring of anger.  A one-time Southern-bred football coach-turned-teacher, he has grown increasingly irresponsible and disconnected over the years.  With a troubled marriage hovering over him, he conveniently heads off to New York City at the urging of sister Savannah's psychiatrist, Susan Lowenstein, following his twin's most recent wrist-slashing attempt.  His purpose is to fill in the missing details of her tormented past (she has blotted out all childhood memories) in order to help steer the psychiatrist in her recovery process.  Eventually, Tom, who lacks faith in psychiatry, finds himself facing his own demons as these initial discussions about Savannah take a suddenly dramatic and romantic turn.In addition to Nolte's Oscar-nominated showcase, much of the film's strength lies in the highly concentrated flashback sequences as Tom recalls his turbulent family life.  Kate Nelligan (also Oscar-nominated) is simply extraordinary as Lila, Tom's brittle, often callous mother, who quite understandably vows to remarry into money after surviving a horrific first marriage to Tom's violent, alcoholic, dirt-poor father (played by an absolutely terrifying Brad Sullivan).  Nelligan grabs this role literally by the throat and allows her character no apologies for her flawed, self-serving logic, despite the effects it would have on her children, as her wealthy second husband starts exhibiting the same abusive traits as the first.  Kudos must also go to the three strong young actors who play the Wingo siblings as children for reenacting the more horrific elements of this story. Some of the other present-day roles, however, are hit-and-miss in their effectiveness.  Blythe Danner has some strained though affecting moments as Tom's neglected wife.  Sadly, the vital role of Savannah is nearly excised from the film.  What with the talented Melinda Dillon egregiously reduced to such an insignificant extra, one can only rue the dramatic potential untapped here.  As Savannah's neighbor and trusted friend, George Carlin seems to be around merely to show off New York gay chic -- providing mild amusement, a bit of pathos, and little else.  On a brighter note, Jason Gould (Barbra's real-life son) acquits himself surprisingly well in the difficult role of Lowenstein's antagonistic son who slowly bonds with Tom's absentee father figure -- showing for once that nepotism isn't necessarily blind or reckless.  Dutch actor Jeroen Krabbé gets brief but noticeable exposure as Herbert Woodruff, Lowenstein's charming, smug-elegant husband, a renown concert violinist who demonstrates more affection for his Stradivarius than either his wife or child.  There is one telling dinner scene at his opulent Manhattan high-rise in which the out-classed Wingo gets to put Woodruff in his place.     As for Streisand herself, many will invariably take her to task for casting herself in the fundamental role of Susan Lowenstein.  A star of such magnitude always faces the daunting task of presenting a fully- realized character, and Streisand is only marginally successful here.  Although there is undeniable sexual chemistry between her and Nolte, it's hard to overlook her somewhat glossy approach to the role and the unethical intentions of her character.  One can only imagine the ramifications of such a harmful act had her suicidal patient ever uncovered the illicit affair between her brother and psychiatrist.Director Streisand, however, must be applauded for her explicit attention to exterior details.  A visually resplendent picture, great care was taken to get the right look and feel.  Notice particularly the lovely allegorical scenes with the children at the beginning and end.  And with Streisand's exceptional musicianship, it is hardly surprising that James Newton Howard's lush score is one of the most beautifully designed ever (in fact, I borrowed it for my own commitment ceremony in 1996).  It floods the film with an unexpressible tenderness.  Nick Nolte's bookend narration is perfect as well -- warm, wise, poetic and reflective.And so, despite the flaws The Prince of Tides may have, Streisand certainly shows that her heart was in the right place. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Streisand directed Prince Of Tides in'91, and was not honored by the Oscars with a  nomination for Best Director;. fortunately the Directors Guild and Golden Globes did not ignore her, and the film.  Beautifully directed, acted, scored and phtographed, it deserved all the praise it has received.  Some fans of the book were disappointed because so much was deleted.. true,  maybe should have been or will someday be a mini series... but Streisand and Conroy, caught the heart of the book, the dysfunctional family.. and the problems that emerged in future generations;  Nolte was excellent as was Kate Nelligan... see it again and again,  Brava Babs !! "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas I've ever seen!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Barbra Streisand's visual presentation of Pat Conroy's novel is excellent! I never expected a film under her direction to be this great and very expressive. Nick Nolte's acting is excellent and I can't think of any actor who can play his role as Tom. For those of you who never seen this film, The Prince of Tides is a drama that tackles family, time and emotions. The film is indeed a great imitation of life! "},{"Title":"Nolte's terrific but Streisand's ego defeats it","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm afraid Streisand's overblown ego defeats this film. Taking what is essentially over-ripe Tennessee William's material, this may have had possibilities. But Streisand's character (and especially the director's fawning to her character (no surprise, since she directed it) makes this an ego journey of immense proportions. I don't know how Nolte survived this and how he crafted such a magnificent performance. I don't know how he managed to mutter the film's last lines (Lowenstein, Lowenstein.) without breaking into laughter. (My guess...liquor and multiple takes.) Streisand as a performer needed someone to fetter her (she can give good performances when restrained.) Streisand the director needed to keep from falling in love with Lowenstein. (She did very well with the opening...except the titles and cast lists interfered with the story.) At the end, the only impression left is an unsubtle argument for Streisand's greatness. An argument that fails to persuade. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie should have focused solely on the psychological make-up of the Nick Nolte character, Tom, or of his mother. Instead we gets tons of the usual New Yorker vs. Southerner dialogue, a silly romance between Nick and Barbra which serves no purpose, a pointless interaction of Tom with Lowenstein's son. The childhood events of Tom and his family were so intense that the secondary plots were fluff. On top of that, the yelling school of acting was sometimes employed. When you can't think of any good dialogue, simple have the actor rant and rave loudly way out of proportion to the issue discussed. Exactly what made Tom lose and gain back interest in his loving family was really important but not really explained. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Performance by Nick Nolte - Part I","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Part I of My Critique - I've read some of the comments here, but unfortunately, have never read the book. Firstly, it's easy to detect the Streisand haters among these critics....your hatred is truly sophomoric, and doesn't serve in your recounting an objective critique of the film.As for this film itself, I think that Nick Nolte was absolutely the best element in it, as well as Kate Nelligan. I had never been a Nick Nolte fan, and was very surprised by his layered characterization. He did more with just a certain look, no words, than most actors can hope to accomplish reciting non-stop for two hours straight. In the simple shot of his looking at his daughter blow out her birthday candles and smiling when she's done, right after we are treated with a flashback of his horrid past, was enough to make me break. You could see him hiding some long-held, buried pain behind his genuine smile and love for his daughter. It was, for me, a very subtle, yet powerfully moving moment.I think Streisand did a fine job directing this film, and was definitely robbed of a best director nomination. Several of the academy members who presented Oscars that evening, including Billy Crystal, Liza Minnelli, Shirley MacLaine, and Jessica Tandy (who REALLY made a point in a beautifully sarcastic delivery to mention how ridiculous it was that the film was nominated, but not the director. This almost NEVER happens, and it certainly happened that evening because there are so many academy members who despise Streisand.) Minnelli and MacLaine made a point of saying, before they read nominations for the particular award they were giving, that they would love to be directed by Streisand some day....more digs at the Academy. ANYWAY, beyond the snub, I thought the film overall was very poignant.Where it falls short, however, are in the following areas. First, Streisand and/or the screenwriter (LaGraveness) shouldn't have focused really any time developing a love story between Streisand and Nolte. This was completely unnecessary. For this reason alone, I might not have even voted the film as one of the best of the year....I don't remember what else came out that year. My contention is that, if you're going to honor a film with the Oscar, you should also honor the director, since this film had Streisand's vision all over it. In fact, LaGraveness I believe was also a bit disgruntled with the many rewrites that Streisand made of his screenplay. More time should have been devoted to the horrific background story of Nolte's family, and of his sister. I understand that her character was actually schizophrenic for many years, probably triggered by her rape at 13, but that was not portrayed at all in the movie. Also, I thought Jason Gould did a fine job in his little part. However, I think it was disingenuous to even include that whole storyline in the movie. He was introduced in a slice of voice-over offered by Streisand's character when she talks to Nolte during a transitional scene when she invites Nick Nolte inside her apartment after he walks her home from Eddie's (George Carlin) party. She asks why don't you come inside. I'd like you to meet my son. I know the plausibility we're supposed to accept is that, her son is a bit difficult and he's in football, and Nolte's character is a football coach who might be able to coach him privately....but I just didn't buy this whole plot line. It was an opportunity for Streisand to give her son a part in her film...that's it. He did all right in the part....I just didn't think this element was necessary. More showcasing for Streisand.What else....the love story. I know that Tom Wingo (Nolte) is not her patient, so, romance between a doctor and his/her patient isn't an issue. And, it is plausible that she is pained as well, since her husband is having an affair, we later learn, with another woman. However, it would have been far more realistic and plausible if no romance came up, and no opening up on Streisand's part occurred at all. Or perhaps we might have been offered only a glimpse of her also troubled life, even though it's shielded behind the veneer of her being a successful psychiatrist. But to have her character let loose in a full-blown romance with Nolte's character was a plot line that took so much time away from what I really wanted to see, which was more of the background of the Wingo family, and particularly more of the sister herself....the raison d'etre of the film itself.Part I Ends. See Part II for the rest of my critique. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I personally really like Barbra Streisand, and I think that this is a very good movie, even if not particularly for her own presence.  The story is touchy and involving.  The screenplay is well written and never exaggerated or out of track.  Even the final cliché of the two main characters falling in love with each other is pretty well portrayed.  Probably because it doesn't just happen during the final-five-minute-scene, but is developed enough to make it believable and not ridiculous.  The soundtrack, by James Newton Howard, is lovely and really fulfills and underlines the whole movie. Technically, the finest work is done by the cinematography, which is warm and wrapping.  The entire cast is good, especially Nick Nolte, who is very believable and delivers a great performance.  Barbra Streisand is great behind the camera but only good in front of it.  Playing the role of a rich, sophisticated, and independent woman she is kind of playing herself. Indeed, she is at her best when she doesn't have to deliver any line. Unarguably, because her charming presence by itself is enough to fill up the entire screen.  She was probably too busy worrying about the way she looked than anything else.  This probably wouldn't have happened if someone else were directing her.  But then again, in that case we probably wouldn't have enjoyed her sweet and profound point of view.  "}{"Title":"An adaptation of Pat Conroy's Wonderful Novel","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is next to impossible to turn a 800 page novel into a consumable movie without losing some of what made the novel brilliant in the first place (which this one is).  The novel is about growing up in South Carolina and about the love of three siblings for each other.  The novel takes its name from what the sister calls one of the brothers The Prince Of Tides.  But, Luke Wingo, the title character is seldom seen in this mediocre adaptation. Ms. Streisand decided to make it a love story about her character and Lukes brother Tom.  She missed the entire point, and screwed up a good story that would have better been left as a mini-series because of its length and depth. (She needs to watch LONESOME DOVE or ROOTS or CENNTENIAL to see that you can make masterpeices on tv, especially if you have a huge text to work from).However, Nolte is perfectly cast, and plays the part of a downtrodden southern everyman very well.  The few childhood flashback scenes that they do film are done very well.  Too bad Babs didn't realize this was the meat of the novel.  Oh well, at least she didn't sing. "},{"Title":"This movie will help you heal.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a poignant movie done with the usual excellence that Barbra Streisand is known for, both in subject matter and acting ability. Nick Nolte manages to convey both the recipient and the facilitator of the healing process with depth and believability. Their chemistry is challenging and enjoyable to watch. Some of the scenes that depict early memories may be dangerous trigger points for people who are still in the healing process, but they are handled with care and a gentle touch. This movie will help you believe that healing can become a reality in your life, if only you are willing to do the work. It helps those that are in pain reach for that place where peace exists. I would recommend this movie to anyone that is in the healing process, as well as to anyone who simply enjoys a well-constructed drama with plenty of humor thrown in for good measure. This movie will make you think, and it will help you heal. An excellent movie - one that I now own in my movie library. See this movie!  "},{"Title":"An extraordinary movie with 'ab'normal characters","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those few movies which does not take you to a climax, but leaves you completely and purely satisfied.. The movie flows like a river, quiet, serene.. but never permitting you to forget its turbulent agitated sources..The movie shows many facets of unhappiness.. almost every character in the movie is unhappy..Tom, Sally, Lila, Savannah,Susan, Jason and even the very successful Herbert..Each one of them knows that he or she is unhappy, but does not know how to be happy.. It happens to most of us and that is what is appealing about the movie..Nick Nolte is absolutely amazing as the unhappy 'Southerener' who does not cry over personal tragedies.. Performances of Blythe Danner and Kate Nelligan as Sallie and Lila respectively are commendable..The movie certainly deserved better Oscar treatment.. "},{"Title":"Book or film?...well they're both great!","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that although I'm a great great fan of Barbra Streisand (having seen all her films) I unfortunately hadn't before this month the chance to watch this particular film.First of all there's always the problem what one wants; to read the book or watch the film but since I then didn't own the book I had to see the film and indeed it made a huge impression on my. The cinematography and casting is superb and now after having read the book I realize that although a lot is left out in the film it wouldn't have been possible to include all the details of the book in the film.Although it's a typical Hollywood film it has a deep sense of beaty and tragedy and I do believe that the film includes the most essential parts of the book in its own right. Of course we don't for instance hear a bit about the great grandmother and her life, nor her biblical husbond and certain parts of the book are changed in the film.However it's a film that makes sense; tragedy, love and the southern way mixed in a very particular way and that especially is what, from my point of view, makes the film great. It's not just a funny or boring one, it really has something to tell all of us.I do also feel that it shows the southern way of life in a very true manner although it can be strange compared to other places in the US we really here get to see what the southern parts of US is all about.Barbra Streisand also in this film, as in all other ones where she appaears, is great; that lady really has talent and she knows it! Being a fabolous singer and a fabolus actress at the same time is quite somethng so again...bravo Barbra you're one of the absolutely best actresses. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Part of my love may come from the fact that The Prince of Tides is my favorite book. I know the film leaves out details from the book, but if the screenplay had included everything, the movie would have been longer than Gone With the Wind! It is a faithful adaptation of a beautiful book. I think it is Streisand's greatest directing achievement.The acting was superb! Streisand played Susan Lowenstein wonderfully, and I haven't seen a better performance from Nick Nolte playing Tom Wingo. Particularly, he plays the haunted Tom with just that hint of the boy who never got to grow up while telling the tales of his childhood. Kate Nelligan eerily wavered between loving and destructive mother, Lila. And Blythe Danner was typically wonderful; she stood out in every scene she was in. "},{"Title":"Kudos to B.Streisand!!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I definitely enjoyed this film. I read the book first, and I was quite disappointed when I first saw the movie, for there are lots of things missing. Specially all the events during childhood which explain why each of the children turn out to be the way they are when adults. But then I realized that the book is so, so rich and full of details, that it would have been necessary to make a mini-series (as B. Streisand said) in order to respect the original story. When I saw the film again, I realized it was a fair adaptation of a wonderful book.  "},{"Title":"Every time I see it, I feel better","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie, I'm not especially a Barbra Streisand fan, but I loved that one. I've read some really negative comments, and I was sorry, but everyone has a right to express himself. I found Nick Nolte really good, completely different from the 48 Hours series, and right for the part of a troubled guy. I must admit that I'm particularly drawn to big bears who love their children, hide their feelings and eventually get out from the ivory tower they were caught into. Nick Nolte is just that. I intent to read the book right away, I didn't know there was one. I've seen it many, many times, and each time I watch it, I find something new that makes me like it all the more. And no matter what people think, I think that Barbra gave a really good performance. I admit that her part resembled her part in The Mirror Has Two Faces, but it didn't trouble me more than that.  I'm not a professional, but I think it was well directed, and the soundtrack is just great. "},{"Title":"The Prince of Tides","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The powerhouse performance by Nolte as a man troubled by his past carries this film version of the Pat Conroy novel, as brought to the screen by Streisand. Barbara is miscast as Nolte's shrink and love interest. Her work behind the camera is much better here and sadly it was not acknowledged by the Academy with at least a nomination.  "},{"Title":"Break Out the Violin for Streisand & Nolte","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pat Conroy adapts a novel about a dysfunctional SC Southern family's traumatic events, with Barbra Streisand, into an Oscar-nominated intense role for Nick Nolte, who plays the leading man (Tom Wingo), to Streisand's (Susan Lowenstien) leading woman, NYC psychiatrist. The beginning twist is, Lowenstien is Wingo's sister's shrink who Wingo finds accidentally after his sister's suicide attempt. Wingo is not Lowenstien's client.Wingo agrees to help Lowenstien by giving her family background information to help his mentally suffering sister. It becomes harder to recall that he's not her client when his post-traumatizing repressed memories are brought forth by Lowenstien in such ways that they expose his own mid-life crises & Lownestien's. Healing each other through their therapeutic talks, Lowenstien & Wingo begin to become romantically involved. They go so deep with each other mind to mind that it seems only natural that they express themselves to each other in physically tender ways, as well.Though the film's climax involves memories of childhood post-traumatic sexual violence & their romance is bittersweet, Streisand, once again, directs another stellar film. She treats a very difficult theme, that is cinematically understudied as carefully (or perhaps carelessly over-studied), with the utmost tenderness as both a psychiatrist in role & a director. This time, her real son plays her real son (and a violin). Yes, for this movie, one does break out the violin. "},{"Title":"Everyone Should See This Movie","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies ever made. Nick Nolte and Barbra Streisand give legendary performances that should not be missed. The acting was so good it looked like a documentary movie that was happening in real life. This is an amazing emotional roller coaster that all movie goers need to see.All families have ghosts or skeletons in their closets that they must face at some point in their lives. In fact many families are dysfunctional. This movie portrays them perfectly in a realistic story and screenplay that is unforgettable. The emotional impact is immortal. You will find yourself watching it again and again shedding some tears every time.Take my word for it and see this movie now. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Revelatory Family Drama","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all, the movie is a Barbara Streisand vehicle and little more. She completely misses the point of the book and may as well glide around without her feet touching the ground. Love the woman, but her interpretation of the novel falls to ego.I've read the novel repeatedly and it tells a story of family tragedy intermixed with repeated tales of heroics that nourish the soul. Barbara's version takes away most of the message, avoids the subject and meaning of the novel, and merely sets up pretty stage Sometimes a Great Notion, by Ken Kesey. Superb book that far exceeds his One Flew Over the Cuckoo Nest. That one misses the point by having the main character focus on the female lead, a kind of claim the woman ending. Nolte's ending utterance, Lowenstein, Lowenstein, has the same impact. Neither the book nor the movie are about possessing a woman, or about a meaningful affair with someone. If men are going to be defined by their relationship with women it will be as tragic as the woman as property attitude men express.After seeing the movie and reading the novel repeatedly, I chose Hunting Island, SC for a Fall vacation. As you drive across SC there is a fall point, a descent from the uplands of the western half, down to sea level. You smell the salt marshes before you see them. When you begin driving through them you recognize how accurately they were captured in the story. I remember my heart racing as we entered salt marsh county and the movie's setting came alive all around us. If you leave your car and walk the boardwalks through the marsh you come to realize that this is the heart of life on earth. The fecundity of the marshes, washed by the ocean during high tide, helps you understand the primordial ooze that nurtured our ancient ascent from minuscule sea creature to hominid. See the movie, visit the marshes. "},{"Title":"Excellent Streisand Direction; Superb Nolte Performance","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For me, the pleasure of watching this film again, now in 2012, is remembering just how fine an actor Nick Nolte was before he (well, I'll put it politely) let himself go (although my favorite performance of his was Jefferson In Paris. But, this is a close second.Here, Nolte plays a teacher/football coach from the South Carolina coast, who is asked by his mother to go to New York City to help his sister, who has again attempted suicide. There, he works with his sister's psychiatrist -- Barbra Streisand -- to try to determine was leads the sister to her attempts at self-destruction. In sessions, Streisand plumbs the dysfunctional family in which Nolte and his sister grew up. A moderate number of flashbacks are used, some somewhat disturbing, and an abusive father and a weird mother. Meanwhile, Nolte's own marriage is dissolving. And, just to make it real fun, Nolte and Streisand develop feelings for each other. Finally, Nick reveals to Streisand that as a teen, 3 escaped convicts raped him and mother and his sister, and that his older brother shot 2 of the convicts, while his mother stabbed the other. The shock of the film is...well, best to let you discover that. Will Nick stay with Barbra? Will the sister recover? It's an excellent story by Pat Conroy, and it's difficult not to draw parallels with the kinds of work that Lillian Hellman once wrote.As I indicated earlier, Nick Nolte is superb...perhaps his finest performance. I was not as impressed with Barbra Streisand's acting here. Not that it was bad. It was fine. But I didn't quite buy into her as a psychiatrist, though I thought her scenes at the dinner party segment and her romantic scenes were excellent. And, I say that as someone who generally enjoyed her in film portrayals, and I actually feel she should have made far more motion pictures. But, I give her immense credit here for here work as producer and director and the film.Though not a large part, George Carlin is very good playing a quite gay friend of the sister's. All the actors do a nice job here, and it is worth noting that Barbra's son in the film really is Barbra's son.This is an excellent film with a sensitive performance by a once great actor -- Nick Nolte. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte Delivers A Terrific Performance!","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nick Nolte Delivers A Terrific Performance in 'The Prince Of Tides'. In fact, even Nolte's worst critics would keep quite after watching his act in here.Directed by the Legendary Barbra Streisand, 'The Prince Of Tides' tells the story of the narrator's struggle to overcome the psychological damage inflicted by his dysfunctional childhood.The film is interesting in most parts, as the adapted screenplay is well-written. Streisand's direction is proficient. She handles the dark & gritty moments with maturity. Also, Stephen Goldblatt's Cinematography is striking. Editing is satisfactory.Performance-Wise Obviously, Nolte steals the show. His Oscar-Nomination was so well-deserved. Streisand, even succeeds as a performer. She's very likable. Kate Nelligan delivers a sincere performance. Blythe Danner leaves a mark.On the whole, An interesting watch, with a stand-out performance by it's lead star. Check it out! "},{"Title":" Ghosts created in fear are more powerful, if they live in one's memory ","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The novel upon which this movie is based, was written by Pat Conroy. If you read the novel first, you'll learn, the film is very close to the literally version, perhaps, too close. The story follows Tom Wingo (Nick Nolte) on the way to the hospital where his sister Savannah, (Melinda Dillon) is a patient, having tried to commit suicide. There, Tom is asked by a Psychiatrist‎ (Barbra Streisand) to help her fathom the reasons why his sister has twice tried to kill herself. During the private sessions which follow, Tom, reluctantly becomes his sister's painful childhood memories. While this helps the doctor understand her patient's background, it also allows Tom to understand why the doctor too, is so unhappy with her marriage. His tragic memories, as well as those of his sister and their family, delves into the very horror of a Southern family troubles, living in a section of a deep river plantation. Every family has secrets which cause intense pain, but when exposed to a listening audience it is chilling to see them exposed Raw and bared to all. The movie is slow to enlighten the listener, but when the movie exposes all, it's patently horrifying and tragic. The cast members which include Blythe Danner, Jeroen Krabbé, Jason Gould and the late George Carlin, make this story all the more real. Easily recommended, but only to the thick skinned. **** "},{"Title":"One word describes this movie - PERFECT!!!!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  WARNING! SPOILERS.A southern football coach heads to New York after his sister tries to commit sucide. While there, he meets up with her psychatrist and must tell his troubled past. A richly textured film. Very well acted, especially by Nick Nolte, and directed. The make-up, score, and cinmeatography are all excellent too.There is so much pain and sadness in this film, but you just can't take your eyes off the screen. You feel each characters pain, sadness, and happiness.And towards the end, Barbara and Nolte fall in love and the ending is so sad. I get all teared up every time I see it and that final word in the film packs such an unforgettable punch that stays in your mind. Those words just stay in my mind and I just can't forget them no matter how hard I try. Lowenstein. Lowenstein. It gets me all sad that Nolte returned back to his marriage, when him and Barbara where so perfect together.A few more things, the film features terrific characters and characterizations and every scene in the film feels so natural and well thought. Barbara shines in her role. And when the love story forms between Nolte and Barbara it feels so good and so right.  To put it simply, I Just Love This Film. A Perfect 10 out of 10. Rush out and make this film a part of your movie collection today. "},{"Title":"A good attempt at adapting Conroy's magnificent book","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is no use criticizing some of the things about this movie, such as the relationship between Susan and Tom, because they are very much a part of the story as originally written.  Tom sees the relationship as redemptive for him and ironically he sees it as part of healing his broken marriage.  Some people say that it does not cross ethical boundaries because, technically speaking, Tom is not the patient.  But that is quibbling, because Tom is in great need of help, and Susan gives it to him.  Also, the stuff about New York vs. the South is very much a part of the book.  As for other things that were Streisand's choices, one thing I can say is that she identified very stongly with the Susan character, and that character really did suffer. Who is to say that Barbra hasn't suffered in her life; it's pretty arrogant to make that kind of cheap shot.  Kate Nelligan is younger than Nick Nolte; that is why she got an Academy Award nomination, because she played the character at different ages so well, no sexism here.  You can't put everything into the movie.  Yes, the dolphin part was very cool, but if people really want to go into this story, they should read the wonderful book.  Haven't people figured out yet that people who live in sumptuous apartments can suffer just as deeply as those who have come close to starving?  It's a powerful story, just please read the book! "},{"Title":" Exceptional direction by Streisand","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie adaptation of Pat Conroy's novel was sensitively made by Streisand. Her casting choices were brilliant and portrayed true to the book (perhaps because Conroy was screenwriter as well). The cinematography was very good. The one criticism I have is that of the role of Savannah Wingo played by Melinda Dillon; this role in the book is much larger and important. It could have been explored in greater detail. Kate Nelligan also was a fine actress, though a bit young for the role of Lila Wingo. "},{"Title":"The best drama ever.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nick Nolte was the reason I watched this movie for the first time and didn't know what to expect. Then it turned out to be a sad, touching yet a great movie. That's why I have seen it many times and will certainly do so in the future.You never know what the future holds for you. Neither does Tom Wingo(Nick Nolte) who has gone to New York where he meets a psychiatrist called Susan Lowenstein (Barbra Streisand), hoping he can give her useful information about the reason of his sister's continual committing suicide. From Tom's attitude, being ironic and cynical, you can easily deduce that he is hiding something which Lowenstein is fully aware of and she is intended to make him open up. According to the Southern Way, there's no tears says the man from South Carolina. Actually, he cries sometimes, at weddings, at the Olympics but not over Luke (his brother who died). What the hell for? It wouldn't bring him back - adds Wingo. NO, BUT IT MIGHT BRING YOU BACK - replies Lowenstein. I think that's the best line and the turning point that gives food for thought for Tom. The soundtrack is also great. "},{"Title":"I never get tired of it.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wonderful New York City and South Carolina low country locations.  Much more focused and intense than book.  Nick Nolte would surely have won an Oscar had Streisand not been involved.  She is anathema in Hollywood and also cost Lauren Bacall an Oscar on another occasion.  Wasn't Jason Gould (also a Streisand production) amazingly believable and sweet!  And finally, could Kate Nelligan have been better?  A riveting performance to add to an outstanding body of work. "},{"Title":"Another Great Movie!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had to see this movie on opening day. It was by far one of the best movies Barbra has done. Full of emotions, high and low. And a love story that will break your heart. I just loved this movie! "}{"Title":"A great film of Barbra Streisand's.  But then again, hers are always great.","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Barbra is great in this movie.  She made a good decision by picking her son for the role.  Barbra directs, produces, and stars in this picture and is great with each task. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous movieversion of great book","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is by far one of the best movies based on a book. Mr. Conroy and Ms. Streisand took great care in bringing the story to life and to the screen. Kate Nelligan, Nick Nolte, Blythe Danner and Barbra Streisand are giving this movie a fantastic cast, put that together with the story and the incredible good filmmaker eye of Ms. Streisand and you have one of the best movies of the 1990's. It's a shame that the movie got overlooked at the Acadamy Awards, and lost it's best picture trophy to a slasher movie like Silence of the lambs. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte's and even, Barbra Streisand's Best!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   I absolutely loved this movie when I first saw it Nick Nolte and Barbra Streisand had great chemistry throughout! Babs sure knows how to direct as she did with Yentl. Kate Nelligan in her over-the-top performance as Nolte's secluded mother. She left her children with her abusive alcoholic husband after a tragic event of escaped convicts. Then Nolte grows up in his southern up-bringing town. He becomes an English teacher and then marries lovely Blythe Danner an has 3 girls. Sounds like the ideal life right? WRONG!!!! His suicidal sister in New York tries to do away with herself and he must tell the shocking secrets of his dysfuctional family to psychiatrist Streisand who has had her share of problems as well. They eventually fall in love due to his wife's affair.He also coaches Streisand's real life son Jason Gould at football. Jeroen Krabbe was good as her a**hole of a husband.George Carlin was hilarious as the sister's gay neighbor. Melinda Dillon was also convincing as the waif sister.But Blythe Danner was my favorite. Everything Blythe does is sensational! She is much better than overrated Gwyneth! This is not all pain and suffering! I laughed so hard at the dinner party that I was in tears. But the endings was one of the most beautiful conclusions of a film I have ever seen! Splendid movie! See this video ASAP! NOW! NOW! NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!10/101991 140 mins. Rated R CC. "},{"Title":"Great beginning","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'The Prince of Tides' starts out SO good, with that nostalgic feeling, and that feeling that it's going to be such a great movie.  Unfortunately, the love story between Tom and Lowenstein soon comes into play, and it's the love story that messes everything up.  I didn't see that the forte of the plot was the love story...in fact it made me physically sick.  I think it should just have followed the main plot of Tom seeking out his memory of his childhood.   "},{"Title":"Lots of Potential but Fails Miserably","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like most of movies where Streisand has a stake as a director and/or producer, she ruins a film that had a lot of potential.  Her directing is amateur level, lots of technical mistakes, continuity problems and vanity close-ups on herself when the focus should be on another actor. Streisand is typically miscast in this role (she has a terrible track record over the last 20 years or so in picking her own roles).  Nick Nolte triumphs despite the horrible direction and having many of his most important moments sacrifices for Streisand's vanity. "},{"Title":"Reliving a Troubled Past","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Prince of Tides shows how one man suffers in his adulthood from the consequences of a deeply troubled childhood. Nick Nolte is the male lead who reaches a point in life where he becomes withdrawn from his wife. An attempted suicide by his sister triggers a series of events that forces him to face up to his past. Nolte is urged by his mother, played by Kate Nellgan, to go to New York from South Carolina to help his sister recover. He becomes the voice of his sister's past to her psychiatrist, Barbra Streisand as Dr. Susan Lowenstein. In trying to piece together the reasons for his sister's suicide attempt, he discovers his own ghosts and demons and in the process, falls in love with Dr. Lowenstein. Nolte shows his evolution from a rebellious and uncooperative bystander to a man who is softened by revisiting the life he and his siblings were forced to endure at the hands of their father and another incident where he, his sister and mother are physically molested. An older brother is lost in another tragedy. He returns to his mother to remind her of his tortured upbringing and to relive her own troubled past. There is a resolution at the end but like life, there is a price to be paid. "},{"Title":"sincere Nick Nolte","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tom Wingo (Nick Nolte)'s marriage to Sally (Blythe Danner) is in trouble despite outward appearances. They have 3 daughters. His brother Luke is dead. His poet twin sister Savannah in NYC has attempted suicide once again and is under the care of therapist Susan Lowenstein (Barbara Streisand). He agrees to go see Lowenstein to help Savannah. She hires him to coach football to her angry son Bernard. Her husband Herbert (Jeroen Krabbé) is a philandering concert violinist. Tom's problem stems from his dysfunctional family with his abusive shrimper father Henry, mother Lila (Kate Nelligan), twin Savannah, older brother Luke and one terrible incident.Nick Nolte is a powerful presence and Barbra Streisand is well-matched. I wouldn't call her directing great. It's solid. This is mostly about the acting. Krabbé is terrific in the dinner party. Jason Gould is limited. It's another instance where nepotism takes away from the cinematic experience. Kate Nelligan is a great actress but I can really sense her southern acting in this one. It's an effective romance melodrama and Nolte gives it his all. "},{"Title":"Having not read the book","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'll start by saying that I had not read the book. Having nothing to compare the movie to, I enjoyed it very much. I was particularly captivated by Nick Nolte's portrayal and thought he was very good as a man emotionally crippled by his past. I felt he portrayed very well indeed, the many ways men deal with the suppression that they experience when trying to express emotions. We knew there was something wrong under the surface. I kept rooting for him to break through that wall. When he did, it was powerful.I think Barbara is an incredible woman who deserves credit for the whole scope of her talents and convictions. I thought she played her character with subtlety, not trying to pull the spotlight on to herself. Kudos to her for being persistent in her efforts to further women in the industry. "},{"Title":"A Gut Wrenching Movie","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nick Nolte and his sister are damaged goods, but they don't know why. When the sister goes into therapy, Nolte's Tom Wingo meets the therapist played by Barbra Streisand. She is in an loveless relationship with an arrogant concert violinist husband. Wingo gets a second lease on life when he helps with the development of Streisand's son, teaching him boy things. The thing that keeps this going, however, is the secret that lies in the subconsciouses of the siblings. This succeeds because it is not clichéd with a pat kind of conclusion. The world is not simple and the issues here are not simple, and the solutions don't come cheaply. "},{"Title":"Prince of Tides-Elusively captivating","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I never tire of this film, probably watched it more than twenty times. It is an exceptional movie that has stood the test of time. While I am a fan of The Silence of the Lambs that cleaned up the awards that year, this movie by far has more depth. The range of emotions captured and exemplified by Nolte truly should have resulted in him winning the best actor award. The Wingo's family storyline while intense and traumatic reminds us all that despite the 'imperfections' of our parents they are often doing the best that they know how. The final release of Tom from his past is a tear jerker, yet a constant reminder that we the tapestry of our past and sometimes it requires intervention to release us from that past...acknowledgement...acceptance and finally release.The close of the film is a gentle reminder of the simplicity of choosing what is right despite the loss of an 'unexplored love'. As Tom said in one of the scenes...'I have loved her longer' "}{"Title":"The Silence and the Fury","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Barbra Streisand, The Prince of Tides stars Nick Nolte as Tom Wingo, a man whose dysfunctional childhood has left him with severe psychological scars. When his sister attempts suicide, Tom comes into contact with Susan Lowenstein (Streisand), a psychologist with domestic problems of her own. The film was adapted from a novel by Pat Conroy.The Prince of Tides is channelling the Southern Gothic fiction of Tennessee Wiliams and William Faulkner. In this regard, Streisand's film is proudly melodramatic, overcooked and larger-than-life. There's no subtlety here, just one ridiculously bombastic moment after the other. Whilst this is the film's largest flaw, it's also its biggest asset; southern melodrama has always tended towards the voluptuous. With fine performances by a scenery chewing Nolte and an austere Blythe Danner.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See The Beguiled. "},{"Title":"The Tide Comes in-Prince of Tides ****","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Superb 1991 under Barbra Streisand's direction depicts Nick Nolte, a southern guy who comes up to New York following the attempted suicide of his sister. There he meets her therapist played by Streisand. It turns up that each of the characters have their own hangups and inter- relate so as to improve the very existence of their lives.Nolte's outbursts and emotion as he recounts his very dysfunctional family and one tragedy after another is memorable. Streisand does an admirable job in the role of the therapist.Kate Nelligan was perfect as the mother with her own agenda. It is amazing that the family survived at all given all the problems in their daily lives. They really didn't miss anything.The backdrops of Charleston, South Carolina and our New York City serve to promote the cultural differences and yet the human relations that ultimately endure. "},{"Title":"A Devastating ending....","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me not say too much about the whole movie itself. Needless to say it is an amazing traumatic movie, with tons of sadness and pain. But i must talk about one thing the ending. Towards the ending of the movie, the brother (nick nolte) and the psychologist Lowenstine (Barbra streinsand) who had a pretty rough beginning, fall in love. they are both betrayed spouses. one of the times after they were making love, she kisses his chest and asks him what will we do when she wants you back?, referring to his wife, with whom he had problems and who confessed about committing an adultery. and then one day he gets a phone call from his wife, asking him to come back home to her and their three daughters. we don't hear the context of the conversation but we can understand. and then, he goes to Lowenstine's (barbra) workplace. SPOILER ALERT the moment she goes out of the building and sees him across the street, we see she can understand. we see the tremendous sadness on her face. then she approaches to him, they hug and cry, speechless. then we can see he's going back to his family, and the closing monologue, which i don't intend to quote here is just devastating. it goes with me ever since i saw the movie. it doesn't come out of my head. It's a tears-ending. guaranteed. go watch it NOW! "},{"Title":"Shrimp boats, psychiatry and Babs!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Barbra Streisand may be the most demanding person to ever sit in a director chair, but her reputation is not without reward.  Streisand does offer up quality films, and I suspect that The Prince of Tides is her best work to date.  Based on the novel by Pat Conroy, this is the story of a South Carolina football coach who must come to terms with a dark family secret when his sister attempts suicide.  Nick Nolte plays Tom Wingo, a man undergoing marital difficulties (his wife thinks he is cold and distant) who must meet with his sister's New York psychiatrist (that would be Barbra) and tell her about some of the family skeletons that his sister has blocked from her memory.  The Prince of Tides is beautifully filmed.  No doubt, Streisand's attention to detail shows through  loud and clear.  The actors are very good, despite what I felt was a script that tended to be overly dramatic at points.  I read the Conroy novel and of course there is far more detail in that story, as Wingo traces back the whole sordid history of his childhood with an abusive father and a social climbing mother.  The movie, despite limitations, does a fine job of capturing the essence of that story.I am not a Nolte fan but I liked this performance, and would go out on a limb to suggest that it is his best yet (even better than Affliction).  Barbra seems to have resigned herself these days to acting with her legs, as they are a featured performer throughout the film.  Perhaps the most noteworthy performance, and my reason for watching this again, is Kate Neligan as the mother, Lila.  Neligan always seems to 'wow' me with her work, and this Oscar nominated role is no exception.  As the sometimes angry, sometimes glamorous, sometimes eccentric, Southern belle, Neligan is fascinating to watch.  The Prince of Tides is at times an indulgent story, but the kicker is pretty powerful stuff.  Nolte has his machismo challenged in this role as his character must confront something that fills him with anger, confusion and shame.  Sadly the climax comes too soon, before most of the soap opera-like twists can be fully resolved, leading us to believe that this effort is running on too long.The Prince of Tides, despite its faults, is a film well worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Welldone, Lovely film.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK-what Can I say? It's romance, drama, tear jerker etc etc. But I thought it was really beautiful. Prince of Tides is a warm, sensitively done and Stirring film.I really was touched by this movie and still after all these years, remember it's beauty. And I really did feel Barbara Streisand was ROBBED on this one(an Oscar) and I seem to remember(I think) even Billy Crystal made a comment during the academy awards. I think both Streisand and Nolte had great chemistry and were wonderful in this. Interestingly, I have not read the book to completion,although I usually prefer book versions over movie ones, I started reading Prince Of Tides and didn't find it as compelling as the movie.Prince of Tides was recognized as being an excellent movie but it and Streisand should have received more recognition. "},{"Title":"Well-Done Movie","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very effective drama. This is not normally the type of movie that I would go in for, but this was a mesmerizing drama. Nick Nolte is just sensational. He is truly one of the finest actors of our generation. His character is a man who has managed to carve out a semi-normal life for himself, through sheer effort and determination. From all outward appearances he has a normal life, but there are horrible past experiences, and demons roiling around inside him. What appears normal, is really something ugly and terrifying under the surface. This makes for an extremely unhappy, even scary, marriage and family life. This is conveyed by Nolte exceptionally well. The pain just flows out of him in the scene in the Doctor's office.The flashback scenes with the family are harrowing and sad. The scene with a very young Nolte, and his mother's second husband is absolutely excruciating.I had more of a problem with the romance between Nolte and Streisand. There seemed to be something missing here. As much as I respected the journey through pain that Nolte's character took, I had to then question his judgement in entering into an affair with the Doctor. It seemed to take away somewhat from the movie. I found I couldn't root for this couple; too much seemed unfair and thoughtless. His actions basically were hurting terribly the people who cared about him the most. After the pain and torment he had lived most of his life with, it was disappointing to me that his thoughts woudn't have gone to the people who had lived their lives with him. This seemed to be out of place to me; any Doctor in her position would have understood very clearly that she was dealing with an emotionally damaged and fragile man. It seemed highly unlikely that her character would have taken a step like this. It was difficult for me to buy the romance. It seemed tacked on just for the sake of including a romance in the movie. But, personally, I couldn't help feeling that it was an incredibly thoughtless and selfish move, and destroyed the feelings of cathartic awakening that the earlier parts of the movie portrayed.All in all, though, an exceptional movie, and tremendous acting performances. "},{"Title":"Not at all a chick flick!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ok, ok, so some parts of it are very chick like, but if you ignore all of the scenes that take place in New York (except maybe the dinner scene with babra striesands cranky hubby) then you have your self a deep, moving story with all the right elements of southern literature visualized. I was very impressed with Nick Nolte, as well as the children playing him and his siblings, and boy there are some scenes in this film that you can't get out of your head for months. Well ive said my piece. "},{"Title":"One of Ms. Streisand's Best","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Prince of Tides is one of Barbra's best, if not the best, drama she has been involved in.  Her direction and performance in this film are wonderful, and at points flawed, but not very often.Nick Nolte's portrayal of Tom Wingo is amazing.  The use of his voice-overs adds another level of depth to his character.Also, George Carlin's performance as Eddie Detreville is, in my opinion, one of the classic bit parts of the 90's.  Very memorable!  "},{"Title":"A beautifully filmed masterpiece","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this film was generally considered, by the critics, to be inferior to the the popular Pat Conroy novel, I think it is a superb piece of film, beautifully filmed with the most exquisite James Newton Howard score. The cast is superb and top quality and although Streisand herself shines it is Nick Nolte who steals the show as Tom Wingo,in one of the most intense and moving performances in modern filmmaking. He was surely robbed of the Best Male Actor Oscar. The film is a gripping and intense study of how our childhood memories and experiences can have such a profound effect on our adult lives. Then like a breath of fresh air the last half an hour bursts with romance and positiveness in typical Hollywood style, it is almost like you are watching a different movie all of a sudden. At the end you are left with a good feeling if somewhat drained perhaps by all the emotions along the way. Nick Nolte you are a genius !   "},{"Title":"You know you're in trouble when...","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Whenever I read the user reviews for movies I like, I always go to the Hated It category first. There always seems to be a common thread between all these reviews and that is that the reviewer just didn't have the mental or emotional capacity to understand it and therefore begins making up a bunch of crap as to why the movie was bad. The first review for this category, written by some dork from Auckland, is no exception. For example, in the movie, Streinsand plays a psychiatrist. Obviously, given the theme and subject matter in the movie, singing certainly wouldn't be needed...yet this pathologically skeptical idiot manages to dis Streisand for either not singing? Or having a singing career that comes out in other movies or what? What exactly is the problem here? Bruce Willis is an actor who also plays blues harp. But he didn't play that on his way into outer space to blow apart that rogue asteroid in Armegeddon did he? Whaddaya think, 459? Was he fighting himself over that one? And then stupid goes on to say that the suicidal sister was given very little screen time, yet she instigated the events of the story. Well, let's examine this. In Armegeddon, that poor dumb rogue asteroid ALSO instigated all the events of the story. How much screen time did IT have? Also, it's based on PAT CONROY'S NOVEL, YOU MORON!! Rag on HIM or better yet, write your own goddamn book! For example, re-write Dances With Wolves! And make it ALL ABOUT ABRAHAM LINCOLN! Because, hey, he instigated everything that happened, right? And finally, Miss Upside-Down says Nick Nolte is not given much to work with. Excuse me? He's the entire STORY, you loser! But let me say a few things about the other strap-ons who dissed this movie. Several of them actually read the book and think the book was better. Allow me to disabuse them of that notion. I also read the book and was flat out amazed that Streisand was able to take a rambling, dis-jointed, almost incoherent manuscript and make it a first rate movie. Costner did this with Dances With Wolves (which seems to have been written by a 14 year-old for other 14 year-olds) and Eastwood did it with Bridges of Madison County. I've read only one other Pat Conroy novel, the excellent Beach Music, and I was expecting a masterpiece with Prince of Tides, given the brilliance of the movie but I was wrong. Some of the nonsense in the book was such that it's like someone else wrote it. For example, in the book, Calenwald was some GUY, some crazy homeless Rasputin type character that Miss Lila winds up having an affair with or some such idiocy. Give me a break! However, one negative reviewer of the book did mention one thing that unfortunately WAS correct. Barbra Streisand, as great a job of acting as she did in this movie, was not the correct casting choice for Susan Lowenstein. But that's only because I pictured Susan Lowenstein as being brunette. I pictured more of a Karla Bonoff type but the only actress I could think of for this role was Debra Winger. And now follows a second review.Right at the very beginning of the movie, Nick Nolte, in a voice-over as Tom Wingo, supposes that his father Henry Wingo might have been a pretty good father if he hadn't been such a violent man...Ya Think???It only gets worse, dysfunctional family-wise. As much an a s s hole as Henry Wingo was, the mother Lila seems to have morphed from a reasonably decent person into someone who's only values were having money and caring only about appearances. I say she SEEMS to have morphed from A to B, but in fact, she was ALWAYS B. Her behavior should have at the very least caused social services to take her children away from her and preferably landed her in prison. Her greedy, grasping rapacious velociraptor-like appeal managed to get her oldest son murdered by a government that eats its young, (much like today's monkey government, starring George of the Jungle, and his CEO of Hallitosis vice president, giving new meaning to THAT term), her daughter on her third suicide attempt and Tom Wingo himself emotionally crippled without really understanding the reason why. Tom comes to New York to offer insights into his sister's behavior to the psychiatrist, played by Barbra Streisand, who does a decent job although she would not have been my choice for the role. A minor subplot involves the psychiatrists husband, a concert violinist, who develops a hatred of Tom Wingo for coaching his son in the art of football. Probably he felt slighted for not having the sack to do it himself and therefore preferred his son to be a dainty, dolce affetuoso cake boy such as himself. How ironic that Jay Gould...well, never mind. "}{"Title":"Pale, thin reflection of  book","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the film many years ago, but now (2006)am reading the book. Early in the book, I rented and re-ran the film. Even at that stage I saw that the film was a pale, thin reflection of the book, and that the role of Lowenstein was tragically miscast. Now that I'm more than half way through, I'm more than ever convinced. The book is so rich in S Carolina life, fascinating incidents, wonderful characterizations, and more that it would be hard to reproduce it in a standard-length film - like James Michener's Hawaii. Prince of Tides was almost a total disappointment, a couple of bright moments being Tom Wingo's getting to know Lowenstein's son, and the rape attack on him and his family. And to put most of the action in New York city when so much happens in the south was pitiful. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Prince a Catharsis","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was Christmas 1991. I had just broken up with a woman I loved. To try to suppress the searing pain and leaden depression in my soul, I asked another young woman, whom I knew wanted to know me, now that I was free, on a date to watch Prince of Tides. I had no idea that the movie would reflect my own life and my own past failures with loves lost. I realized that like Tom Wingo, I had no capacity to love because my heart was locked behind a shield forged by childhood memories that had haunted me, and left me incomplete without the courage to show anyone the extent of the damage that had been done. Donna, the woman I had loved and lost, tried hard to break past that suit of armor shielding my sensibilities. I tried hard to shed the weighted protective suit, but we both failed. She mistook my shield for fear of commitment, perhaps, or indifference, or even contempt. As I watched the movie, it had a cathartic effect on me. I left the movie house and took my date home. I could see in her eyes disappointment that no connection, or chemistry, had been established, and she could see that my heart burned from a different fire. The next day, I tried, and for the next two or three years, I tried, unsuccessfully, to pick up the pieces of the vase I had broken, and glue them back together. But as I learned, it's a repair that is nearly impossible to accomplish. Once pushed off a shelf and shattered, there is little hope. In consolation, at least, I learned that truth, trained on pain, will show the source of pain, and perhaps even a way to soothe or discard pain. Truth allowed me to relegate bitter emotions where they belonged,and I was able to see her once again as a beautiful, loving, compassionate, exciting woman who stirred emotions and feelings inside of me I didn't know even existed. God how I love, and miss Donna. She had come into my life at a critical time, and taught me the meaning of unconditional love, the quest for adventure, and that the clay of trust, passion and loyalty will create a beautiful sculpture. She had helped me to become a man, with compassion, with insight, with heart. Now, when I hear the heartfelt soliloquy at the end of the Prince, as Wingo is driving across the bridge, I shout a name into the wind as a tribute, but the name isn't Lowenstein, who taught me to live again, the name I shout is Donna. "},{"Title":"The tides will hold your memory...","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is indeed very awkward how sometimes we set off to help someone and we become the ones needing help. Nick Nolte offers a great performance in showing how some of us can be masters at keeping secrets until the prying words of a shrink (The shrink's perfume has something to do with it apparently..) and the ability to re-exhume some buried memories can crack open a big Pandora's box.By now (It's 1991) Nick Nolte owns the art of playing extremely dramatic roles (You will see a great Nolte in 1993's Lorenzo'Oil, along with Susan Sarandon) and, no less, a convincing family man. It sure made me emotional to see him with his daughters playing, laughing and, above all, trying to hide what was happening between him and his wife. I must say that, although the name Barbra Streisand is synonymous of song, love song, I appreciated her as an actress as well. The story is totally credible, the original score is enchanting and every aspect of the photography was excellent.I must say that, although New Yorkers were a bit wilder in 1991 compared to nowadays, I have to say that the New York attitude portrayed in the movie was a bit too much for my taste and they could have toned it down a notch. The cast was a fit for the story (But why George Carlin?) and seeing this movie again after about seven years was rather pleasurable. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tom Wingo(Nick Nolte) goes to new york after he is told that his sister, Savannah (Melinda Dillon)has tried to commit suicide. He meets with her psychiatrist (Barbra Streisand)who is trying to find out background on Savannah to try and find out what happened in her past to make her want to end her life.We find out that Tom has a lot of secrets regarding his past and that he came from an abusive southern family.Tom and Susan become friends and he starts coaching her son Bernard(Jason Gould) Bernard's father and Susans unloving husband (Jerone Krabbe)is excellent as the disapproving father. As Tom and Lowenstein get closer we find out secrets from Toms past.From the memories that haunt us and the truth that sets us free. an excellent film with terrific acting. You can clearly see Streisands talent for all aspects of film making; producing, starring and directing. A must for fans. A truly heartwarming film "},{"Title":"Tides doesn't make much of a splash","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most accomplished (and lauded) of La Streisand's three directorial efforts is, in many ways, her least enjoyable.  Yentl was, of course, redeemed by its lush score and remarkable singing, while The Mirror Has Two Faces, proved unintentionally hilarious for finally and fully exposing just how out-of-control Her ego really has become.  Without the singing (in fact, Streisand intentionally uses an instrumental version of the movie's theme song instead of the soundtrack's vocal one so as not to detract from the film's message) and with her ego still almost in check, Tides falls kind of flat.  While her acting is acceptable, she is almost as miscast in her portrayal of a psychiatrist as is her (real-life and rather slight) son Jason as an aspiring football player.  Much of the problem stems from the fact that Streisand has become so self-conscious about her looks that she must constantly pose in only the most flattering angles (from the left, as everyone - especially Rosie O'Donnell - knows by now) and seems incapable of immersing herself enough in a role to put vanity aside once in a while. (For God's sake, Barbra, have the mole removed and show us the right side of your face, already).  Nolte is actually quite good - his (deservedly) Oscar-nominated performance goes a long way toward redeeming this film.  And while Jeroen Krabbe's role as Streisand's wayward husband is rather thanklessly one-note, most of the supporting players are fine - particularly Blythe Danner and a surprisingly restrained George Carlin.  Nevertheless, one cannot help but wonder just how much better this film - and Streisand - would have been had someone else been allowed to call the shots. "},{"Title":"some more","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sorry, I forgot a couple more things from my last post1)  The subplot containing Lowenstein's son and Tom's relationship is pure crap.  Although I can see that Bernard sees in Tom the father figure that he never had, I find the portrayal completely unrealistic.2)  That last thing that Tom says before the movie ends is just soppy.  I would have expected him to say something more of a summary to the movie, not 'Lowenstein, Lowenstein'...I almost screamed.3)  Sad to say, but of a cast so full of stars, Nick Nolte is the only one who gives an effective, powerful performance.  Barbra Streisand is just unconvincing as a psychiatrist, or as the troubled wife and mother.  I'm sure if given a bigger role, Blythe Danner might have given a better performance rather than the bland one she does give.  Let's just say Jason Gould doesn't even belong on the big screen.  I think that there must have been better teen actors out there in '91.  Fine, he's Streisand's son, but that's a bad choice for a role that's relatively big. "},{"Title":"Wango Tango is the title of a song, a Ted Nugent song","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Prince of them tides. Prints off hem sides. Hints of slides. This is a movie that people made. People are tall lumbering things what keep their guts inside and they cry when they are sad. Sad people. Barbra Streisand produced and directed, and I know the critics just love the sh*t out of this f*cking movie so that's a real feather in her cap. A local radio station 98.9 The Rock, is having a contest, if you know the plot of this movie, The Prints Of Thigheds, be the first caller and tell Johnny Dare or The Moppet. You will win an all season pass to Schlitterbaun!!!! Kansas City's premier water park! All employees of 98.9 The Rock and their families are ineligible to win. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Moving Films","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Streisand is her usual outstanding self, and Nolte is  incredible.  This film captures the beauty of the Carolina tidal shore, as well as that of New York.  The complex issues are well presented, and the movie is full of a love for Conroy's story.  I watch this film at least annually to stay in touch with the hopefulness that resides in us all, despite our histories. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving, disturbing film","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Prince of Tides is a wonderful movie. I loved every minute of it and the story is told so well by Mr. Nick Nolte. I've never really been a fan of his or of Barbra Striesand but they played their roles to perfection in this. I won't go ahead and tell the story line because everyone who reads these comments already know!  I thought Barbra done a wonderful job at directing this movie. She didn't focus on herself too much and I think we saw more of Nick than we did her. I found the scenes of Tom Wingo's (Nolte) childhood disturbing. Especially when his father would yell at the children and fight with his mother over turning off the television or having something he didn't like for dinner. But the rape scene was the most disturbing of them all. It wasn't graphic or gratuitous, but seeing young Tom screaming and crying over what was happening to him is an image that is burned into my memory.  But I loved how his older brother Luke was very protective over his family and killed the rapists. He was a young man and it is disturbing to see an adolescent man killing three grown men with a shotgun but they deserved it! They broke into someone's home and brutally rape a mother and her two young children!  It was a sigh of relief when Luke blew the men away. Tom loved his brother very much and every time he talked about him he would become sad. I also loved the relationship between Tom and his sister Savannah. He loved her so much and I loved the scenes where he was visiting her in the hospital and reading to her. Very moving.All in all I thought this was an excellent movie and I loved all the performances. And I agree that it's a disappointment that this film didn't win any Oscars. Nick Nolte should have won because I think, in this film, that he gave the performance of a lifetime. Great acting by all the cast. Thanks for reading my review! "},{"Title":"A Great and Moving Movie","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess what drew me to this movie was Nick Nolte narration at the very beginning and end.  This is indeed a very touching, sad and all too often true story of life as we struggle to overcome our obstacles, past injustices that many of us face through out life.I highly recommend this movie, but better seen without commercial interruption. "}{"Title":"Movie was great","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the movie was great!QUESTION  What was the  name of the Clasical Piece playing during  dinner in New York City.Answer to  dwielgat@hotmail.comThanks "},{"Title":"Flawless adaptation of Pat Conroy's complex novel","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Streisand's semi-controversial adaptation of THE PRINCE OF TIDES may not have completely satisfied fans of the book, however, the general public fell instantly under the film's hypnotic spell - and turned it into a surprise box office smash The decision to keep the film's focus in the present rather than the past results in the elimination of most of the novel's lengthy backstory. However, the well-condensed script (written by Conroy himself and Becky Johnson) manages to seamlessly fill in the missing information, and allows all central characters to reach a level of character development that is unusually high for a mainstream Hollywood film. As the film progresses, these characters seem especially real, and they are embodied by an absolutely flawless cast.As anyone who has read the book can attest, the characters of Tom and Lila Wingo would seem to be extremely challenging (if not almost unplayable) roles, both of which are brimming with contradictions and hidden emotions. However, Nick Nolte and Kate Neligan find the perfect balance in their portrayals, which earned them both well-deserved Oscar nominations. Blythe Danner, Jason Gould, and Melinda Dillion all also turn in memorable performances, even though Dillion's Savannah (a lead character in the novel) has precious little screen time due to the film's structure. Barbra also gives an affecting portrayal, however, the director's chair is where she really shines this time. With it's moving storyline, compelling characters, and breathtakingly beautiful cinematography, THE PRINCE OF TIDES is film that will continue enchant audiences for years to come. "},{"Title":"My new favourite film","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I can say is WOW! I love this movie! This is the most wonderful chilled-out movie that I've ever seen. It's like, really kind of washed out, but full of colour and sound. I was so enthralled by it all the way through and so was my new friend Richie. I love Richie.Ever since my nan brought me &#145;Snooker Legends' I've been taking these really nice pink tablets and things have really got good for me. I've got a new friend Richie who's like this nurse who just watches me and asks me questions and I got a job pushing trolleys at the supermarket. I love working at the supermarket.This film has Barbra Streisand in it and I didn't used to like her, but now I'd be like `Hey Barbra you're really cool and I've seen you in some films that I like'. It's also got Nick Nolte in it as a man who's in love but married. I Love Nick Nolte.Richie was on his phone through most of the film, but that's cool. He gives me my tablets free and has to make sure that I don't drink alcohol with them, but he sometimes sells them to his friends. I don't think he likes being a psychiatric nurse though, because he's always complaining about working with perverts and lunatics, but I know he likes me. I love perverts.This film is about something to do with love, and I think runaway sex-crazed criminals, which is wrong (see my review of &#145;Dead Poets Society' for details of right and wrong), but they dealt with the whole thing very well. I REALLY liked the colours in the film because they were pretty, then a bit scary and then, like a volcano. I love Volcanoes.As a whole I rate this movie very highly as I really felt involved and almost obsessed by what was going on with the characters and their lives. Some of it seemed too real to actually be a film and seemed like what was in my head was like warm water. The ending was both sad and happy, but in a way that made me laugh for half an hour without stopping. I love laughing.If you like dramas and are a fan of either Streisand or Nolte then this film is a must see. ****/***** 1991 140 mins. Rated R CC.  "},{"Title":"How Many Times Can She Make The Way We Were?","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I should have known.  Back when they made a movie of Funny Girl, they cut my two favorite songs (Cornet Man and Music That Makes Me Dance).  In Prince of Tides, Barbra cuts my two favorite parts of the book (the story of the white dolphin, and the final part where the older brother becomes a sniper hiding in the woods).  Who else but Barbra would cut the choicest supporting female role in the story (the mad sister who Melinda Dillon could have done to perfection)to less than 10 minutes of screen time?Who else but Barbra would hire a great actress like Blythe Danner only to cut her scenes down to the minimum number of seconds needed to be seen?  It is a tribute to Ms. Danner that she manages to create a character all the same, believable and complex despite the director's attempted sabotage.Streisand manages to give us a skeleton of the original plot in a little over an hour, then turns this movie into girl meets goy just like The Way We Were.  Yeah, the romance was in the book, but it wasn't so in your face.An unintentionally funny scene Nick Nolte weeps in the good psychiatrist's office (Dr. Lowenstein is played by Barbra Streisand), as he recalls being raped when he was a boy.  The doctor, with the best of intentions, says I feel your pain.  Somebody behind me said I don't think so, Honey.  "},{"Title":"Ostensibly about a suicidal poetess; for Streisand, it's all about the romance","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Weak offering from the otherwise-estimable talents of director-star Barbra Streisand, here losing her footing amass a sea of soap opera clichés, characters and contrivances. It all begins as an examination of a suicidal woman's life, but quickly turns into a romance between her brother (Nick Nolte) and the woman's psychiatrist (Streisand). The movie progresses in fits and starts and never quite feels real. Streisand gets a good rhythm going between Nick Nolte and Jason Gould (as the doctor's son), but her performance as the shrink is too cautious and posed; worse, she and Nolte never quite ignite. There's all that talk about feelings and pain and childhood, and in the meantime what happened to the suicidal writer (Melinda Dillon, in an utterly thankless role)? Streisand is much too interested in giving us the love story--and the romance inherent in freeing yourself of yourself. The final fade-out leaves one with traces of the doctor's heartbreak, the brother's conflict, and nobody else. It's a false front. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Prince of Tidy","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This talky, convoluted piece of pop psycho babble may be barely mediocre but it's still director Sreisand's best film. The Prince of Tides has enough plot for 3 Lifetime channel movies and it's burdened with unnecessary characterizations by Jason Gould, Blythe Danner and Jerome Kerobbe to say nothing of a pointless, highly unlikely and questionable romance between Nolte's troubled Tom Wingo and his suicidal sister's shrink Dr. Lowenstein played unconvincingly by Streisand whose direction is rhythm-less, pedestrian and overwrought and in no way suggests Streisand was robbed of a Best Director nomination by a sexist Academy but rather was damned lucky that The Prince of Tides was a Best Picture nominee! As the troubled sister Melinda Dillon phones in a performance seemingly from a different film while Kate Nelligan does the best she can with a tricky part. Nolte's performance is surprisingly sensitive and believable and is the film's sole redeeming feature. By film's end all the various characters and their problems have been neatly, quickly, happily and simplistically resolved. It should have been called The Prince of Tidy. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Performance By Nick Nolte In A Very Powerful Movie","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've had mixed reactions to Nick Nolte's work over the years. Some of his movies I've quite enjoyed; others I think have been disasters. As far as his performances go, I've usually found him good but never quite reaching the heights of greatness. But then there's The Prince Of Tides. Barbra Streisand might have produced, directed and co-starred, but this is Nick Nolte's movie from beginning to end, and his performance is absolutely brilliant. He captures his character's complexities perfectly - his repressed emotions, his unwillingness to face conflict or trouble and eventually his underlying pain in a powerful scene in which the family secret is finally revealed. Streisand as director does a good job of building up to that revelation; Streisand as co-star is just that - a good partner for Nolte who's wise enough and confident enough in herself to let him carry the movie.The story - revolving around Tom Wingo (Nolte) travelling to New York from his beloved southern home to be with his sister who's just attempted suicide - is rather heavy at times. With the sister's suicide attempt and the general dysfunction all the lead characters deal with, it had something of an Ordinary People feel to it, although the conclusion is more hopeful than that film was. The viewer is drawn into the story right away with a surprisingly effective opening narration by Nolte that intrigues us, the movie ends on the perfect note of reconciliation within Tom's family and a powerful closing narration by Nolte. Music doesn't usually make or break a movie for me, but kudos to James Newton Howard, who was responsible for the original music. It was absolutely perfect - it suited the movie superbly and was itself very moving. The movie weakens a little bit after the revelation of the secret, mainly because it turns a bit sappy as Tom and Lowenstein (Streisand) become romantically involved. You could see that coming from the start, but I found it unnecessary - in fact, the whole angle of Tom's growing relationship with Lowenstein (and her son, and her husband) was perhaps an unnecessary diversion. Still, one can't deny the basic power of the story or the strength of the performances. 9/10 "},{"Title":"You've Got to Hand It to Babs","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well-done soap opera with Southern Gothic undertones.Nick Nolte gives a marvelous performance -- the first one to establish him as a serious actor -- as a man in therapy because of a horrible and horrifying event that happened to his family when he was a boy. Barbra Streisand, who also directed, plays the therapist, and delivers a solid performance of her own.People seem to want to dislike Streisand, but you've got to admit that the woman has talent, both in front of and behind the camera. I haven't seen this film since it was originally released, so maybe I would find that it doesn't hold up well. But as it stands now, I remember it as being very good and very moving.There was a big broo-ha at the time that the film received a whole bunch of Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Picture, but not one for Streisand herself as director or actress, the result being that the Hollywood community accused the Academy of being sexist. Big surprise Hollywood!Nolte did receive a nomination, deservedly, as did Kate Nelligan, playing Nolte's mom.Grade A- "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While I have never been a huge fan of either Streisand or Nolte, I found that they both were wonderful in this movie. Heartache, pain and confusion all play out in an epic storyline that tugs your heart. Tom's heartbreak over trying to help his sister, the destruction of his family and his inability to fix the wrongs, makes it a movie that will make even the hardest heart tug. After watching the movie, I read the book. While the book expands on all the characters and tells more of Luke, the movie does give you a fair representation of the book. If only they had a couple more hours, they could have told the whole story. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of book with great Nolte","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Barbra Streisand directed The Prince of Tides by book of Pat Conroy and in my opinion she did a good job. Story is about Tom Wingo (Nick Nolte) who has to talk to his suicidal sister's psychiatrist Susan Lowenstein (Barbra Streisand). In order to help his sister Savannah (Melinda Dillon) Tom must remember few things from his childhood that he put deep inside.Streisand made good movie and first role of Tom Wingo was offered to Kevin Costner. I'm glad that Costner didn't act in this one. I'm saying this because in my opinion Nick Nolte did excellent job. He was nominated for Oscar in 1991. but he couldn't hope for winning because he got great competition in Anthony Hopkins, who was brilliant as Hannibal Lecter in Silence Of The Lambs. Nolte didn't win Oscar but this is one of his finest performances. Barbra Streisand is miles away from Nolte's performance but her role isn't that hard to do. Kate Nelligan was very good as mother of Wingo family (also nomination for Oscar).In some parts movie isn't realistic but in whole it is very good. Maybe you will feel that movie is a bit long but it is quite impossible to make short adaptation of such complex book. Good drama about lives of ordinary people with great acting of Nick Nolte. 8/10 - mostly because of Nolte "}{"Title":"Not Quite Royalty.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unemployed high football coach Nick Nolte (Oscar-nominated) sees psychiatrist Barbra Streisand after his sister (Melinda Dillon) tries to commit suicide. Streisand is attempting to figure out what in Dillon's past would cause her to go to the edge of death. What follows are intense flashbacks to a highly dysfunctional southern family and a childhood of abuse and unrest. Kate Nelligan (Oscar-nominated) and Brad Sullivan are the suspect parents in the disturbing little mix. As flashbacks go back to Nolte's youth, he simultaneously finds love with Streisand and a need to help her young son (Jason Gould) become a better football player. Jeroen Krabbe is excellent as usual as Streisand's disapproving ex-husband. All in all The Prince of Tides is one of those highly verbal films that talks itself into a corner during its running time. The performances are good for the most part, but the screenplay lacks something and Streisand's shortcomings as a director are really too much to overcome here. I still liked the film for its bravery and honesty, but The Prince of Tides never totally sold me. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"good","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pretending I didnt read the book Id say this was a really good movie.  The acting was well done, especially the character of Tom, and its not a typical kind of movie.  However, since I did read the book, Id say the movie didnt come close.  There was soooooooooo much more to the story, which obviously couldnt all have been added, but would have been great if it was. But thats what always happens when you turn a book into a movie.  At least they highlighted the main points and did a good job of going from past to present. "},{"Title":"what I like about the film","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the first time I saw the film was in 1991, in the cinema. Then I have to wait till this year to see it again, with my girlfriend. Tears run across her face at the end of the film. After 8 years I have the same sensation. A fantastic story, with 2 excellent actors. The best movie is the one that can reach your heart, and this one did it to me .  "},{"Title":"Personal","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen The Prince of Tides hundreds of times, but I always find that it truly touches me in a different place each time. It is definitely able to provoke tears with each viewing, but it also can amaze because it is so skillfully made. Some of the transitions from flashback to present-day scenes and back prove that Barbra Streisand is indeed a talented filmmaker, even if she gets knocked all the time. "},{"Title":"A film that ages well!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Released in 1991, The Prince Of Times, seen recently (2005), ages very well.It is a waste Streisand made only three films as a director for she is sensitive, attentive to her actors, good for details, especially in that film. In 91, I was 15 so I remember thinking that film was quite boring. But now at 29, more than once was I deeply moved, in particular by the strong bond between southern brother and suicidal sister. It IS true that the ambiance of the movie is a bit depressing and one has to be open to psychology and soul-searching to appreciate that film, but it is a great piece, really well done that ages very well. Not far from a future classic.Nick Nolte is SO VERY good in his part, giving it his all, that, seeing him, one think THAT'S the true definition of an actor. He's able to convey the many sides of his character to the viewer effortlessly. A great performance, really.Not so much for Streisand as an actress here! For the first three quarters of the film, she rely more on looks and mannerisms than acting. She DOES look very good and classy in her own movie, but who wouldn't expect more from certainly the most talented woman if not performer of all time? Near the end of the movie, she becomes more credible as an actress, but, overall, she's disappointing in her part.All the others are just perfect. Even the children. With the exception of Jason Gould. But I must single out the wonderful Blythe Danner here! At last a meaty part for her! But that fabulous woman just can be and that's enough. She's beautiful in a natural way, always without a trace of affectation, healthy, radiant...Thanks to Streisand for casting her and directing her so beautifully.What else? See that movie for itself. It is good. But for those who aren't familiar with the famous Streisand, perhaps the younger ones, and who are curious to discover what the fuss is all about regarding that legendary performer, don't judge her as an actress by that film. Go rent «Yentl», «Funny Girl», even «Hello Dolly» despite everything bad that has been said about that last movie (including by the lady herself!), and then, just then, you'll know who is Streisand. She HAS to sing to glow! In spite of what she's always sustained for more than 40 years, she is a singer who acts, not the contrary. As an actress alone, she's much too lazy, too self-conscious and...well, how to put it (sorry, my first language is French!), uneven...is it the right word? Unequal...you know, sometimes very good, sometimes just okay...erratic? Anyway, you know what I mean...so she's too much of all these flaws as an actress alone without singing to be a really great actress. She HAS to sing.On these final words, go see the movie. You won't regret it. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Fair Adaptation","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Prince of Tides is a fair adaption of the much better book by Pat Conroy.The acting in the movie is very good, including an excellent performance by Nick Nolte, one of my favorite actors. He brings a depth and a warmth to Tom Wingo that not many other actors could have done. One of the main problems that I had with the movie was that it varied a little too much from the book, which I love. The whole scenario with Renata Halpern, for starters, and the way that they left out what really happened to the men from Callanwolde. Also, Amos & Tolitha Wingo (Grandpa & Grandma Wingo) weren't part of the movie whereas they were important parts of the book, such as the black widow scene.All in all, I like The Prince of Tides. It's a fair adaptation of a wonderful book. But if you really want to do yourself a favor, read the book first.  "},{"Title":"Compared to the book, it was terrible","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of Pat Conroy, so I was very excited when the movie came out, but I all but hated it. To me the book was about the family, the land, and what happens to these children when they grow up on the coast of SC and have two crazy parents. I thought Barbra Streisand spent way to much time and energy on the parts that took place in NY and not enough time in SC. Also, there was a huge part of the book involving Tom's brother that wasn't even in the movie. Also, the kid's accents about drove me crazy. Those kids sounded like they were from Tennessee, not anywhere in South Carolina, especially not the coast. I guess if you had not read the book, it would be a pretty decent movie. However, unlike most novels made into movies this one was not bad because they left out too much, it was bad because the parts that were left out changes the whole tone of the story. "},{"Title":"Pat Conroy","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Prince of Tides is one of three great movies based on Pat Conroy novels (the other two were Conrack and The Great Santini). Southern football coach Tom Wingo (Nick Nolte) one day learns that his sister in New York has attempted suicide, forcing him to meet with her psychiatrist Dr. Susan Lowenstein (Barbra Streisand, also the director). Through their conversations, we learn that the Wingo family had an abusive father, and how various ugly situations arose from that. Over time, Tom and Susan fall in love.I guess that the part about Tom and Susan developing a relationship was kind of predictable, but Streisand did a good job with the movie. I really liked the part where Tom taught Susan's obnoxious husband Herbert Woodruff (Jeroen Krabbe) a lesson. Good support also comes from George Carlin as neighbor Eddie Detreville. My dad read the novel and said that the few minutes in the movie right after Tom teaches Herbert the lesson weren't done very well; I've never read the novel, so I can neither confirm nor refute that. All in all, quite well done. "},{"Title":"Not Enough","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read the book first, and I have to say I think Babs bit off more than she could chew here. The book is an intricately detailed story of a nearly psychotic family, and so, so much was left out of this production that ripped its guts out it became almost unwatchable for me (for example, in the book, the climax of the story comes near the end, as Luke self-destructs; the family rape scene is really only a build up to the final catastrophe.)Why does Barbra feel like she has to completely fill up the screen with her presence in every film she makes??(See Nuts as a prime example of this). Nick Nolte was absolutely, as People Magazine noted that year, the Sexiest Man Alive in this flick but even he couldn't compete with Barbra Streisand. Read the book.  "},{"Title":"Worthwhile viewing","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having long ago first been hit by such things as `Hello, Dolly' and `Funny Girl', in the intervening years I seemed to fall into not caring what Ms. Barbra Streisand was doing or undoing. Such that, on first seeing this film some years ago, and now again a few days ago, it is indeed a nice surprise to see that she can do things behind the camera with aplomb, with a little help from her friends, and more or less acceptable things before the camera, with a lot of help from Nick Nolte. Almost certainly the best film I have seen him in - or, at least, of the kind that I consider stomacheable. His playing is just right, and helped out by some really good camera-work, the film is pleasantly comfortable viewing with a story-line carried out with much gallantry. Perhaps overly long; I feel sure that a few nicely placed cuts would not have been out of place.Worth seeing with a plate of peanuts, a little red wine, and relax and let the story carry you. Worthwhile viewing which does not require too much cerebral activity, but without falling into the triviality of more recent romanticisms.  "}{"Title":"Self indulgent and about two hours too long!","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Boy this film sucked! Barbara Streisand is certainly no Peter Bogdanovich. Why did I watch this? I thought it might be an interesting film about a man coming to terms with a brutal past. No such luck! This is just another film for the audience of the Young and the Restless. I am actually surprised that Streisand did not throw in any musical numbers! I bet she was fighting with herself over that one. This is the second Streisand film that I have actually seen. The first being the Mirror has Two Faces. Does this woman play the same character in all of the films that she 'acts' in? English teacher, psychiatrist, it all amalgamates into the same person with the Brooklyn accent. Streisand can't act! Stay a weirdo recluse lady! Stop torturing the innocent public! Remember Southpark? That was a prophecy! Where is Robert Smith when you need him?  The major flaws in this film come from the writing. I have not read the book. This film does not encourage me to either! However, this film turns into the Mirror has Two faces. All of the narrative is sucked into the same old tired romantic drama plot devices. It is almost like Streisand takes everything and ultimately turns the material into one of her albums. Corney, sappy, sickly and just downright blurrgghh! Nick Nolte is not given much to work with. I think he needed to be drunker and falling down into gutters. His part was so obvious as the 'dark' and 'troubled man.' He smokes cigarettes so he must be troubled! See! That's character development! I swear, the writers of this film were retarded. Streisand should have been more subtle and just make him walk around with a bottle of whiskey and some razor blades. Nolte also overacts. He is however good at playing troubled men. That is because, well, he is a troubled old bugger himself. If you truly want to see a really good movie about a man struggling with his past. See Nolte in Affliction  by Paul Schrader. This is a truly well written and sad film that features some great performances.    The Prince of Tides falls down because Streisand turns this film into Nolte and her getting it on. That is fine if it is in the original story. But how many scenes does the viewer need of these two looking lovingly into each other eyes?! A whole half hour of the film consists of them doing this. I was wanting to slit my wrists towards the end of the film. The scenes of Nolte getting it on with Streisand. I had to look away! I do not consider either of these people as sex symbols. I think my parents might, but certainly not me! Old people making sweet love by the fire. EWWWW!!!     About 15-20 minutes of the film actually deals with the main characters childhood. Surely the novel held more depth than this.  The actual environment where the kids grew up. The tides, the shrimp fishing. The characters of there parents and its relation to the children's psyches. This is what I was looking forward to! Not watching bloody fights between, Nolte, Streisand and her creepy, 'I like to play my with my own fiddle,' husband! The climatic scene where Nolte explains the escaped prisoners and the rape of his family. This story is told in such an offhand manner, Nolte has a good cry then the characters go, well, o.k, what do we do now? How about a love scene? This is really undramatic and is really annoying. It certainly does not feel like a resolution for the character.     The construction of Nolte as a father figure to Streisand's son. Groan, boy was that corny! An utter cliche! The husband also was the two dimensional villain. He was so obvious that he should have had a mustache, tophat and tied Lowenstein to some train tracks! The son also goes from belligerent teenager to wanting to clean Nolte's toilet with surprising quickness and no real character development. I hated this film because it just seems that no one put any thought into it. The characters all come off as soap opera types. At one stage, Nolte tells a story where his brother Luke went nuts  and blows up a construction site. This could have been the movie! Luke's story sounds far more interesting. Plus, what is bizarre is that the character that plays the suicidal sister is given very little screen time. Yet, she instigates all of the the events in the story! Funny enough, Streisand probably gets the most screen time. For shame! How self indulgent can one mega-star be?  The only reason I'll give this a 1 because where the kids grew up looked like an interesting place. Otherwise this is recommended to those of you who like Hallmark and bad soap opera's. I kept asking, 'when will this self indulgent monstrosity end?'           "},{"Title":"Dark and light Southern  drama is played out brilliantly by the actors.","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spanish moss dripping from the branches of the live oak trees, dark and brooding tide pools of brackish water, love and hate intermingled, deep, abiding secrets shared and forgotten, Tom Wingo (name like unto Tom Wingfield of The Glass Menagerie), quintessential Southern boy/man. Brother Luke and sister Savannah, a mother named Lila, a brutal father, Henry. Terror and shame intertwining to paralyze and shock, murder covered over like South Carolina soil covered over the bodies, psyches being explored, wrung out, hung out to dry, love healing as it crucifies. Christ repeatedly crucified, but the only mention of his name is a curse. Symbolism abounding violin vs. football, Southern life vs. Northern life, Jewish mother, Southern mother, children playing, laughing, crying, hurting, adults playing, laughing, crying, hurting. Oh, God, where were YOU in all of this? "},{"Title":"Outstanding Film","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was not too much of a leap for Barbra Streisand to play a liberal, Jewish psychiatrist from New York who is getting divorced and commits adultery with Nick Nolte. Even so, this is an outstanding film on all counts, and it has something for everyone with mass appeal to all types of audiences. Nolte aced this complex part and deserved at least an Oscar nomination for the work.The scenery of the beautiful coastal South as a backdrop for all types of interwoven family conflicts made for a great film. Tom Wingo's social climbing mother was the classic phony southern hypocrite in every sense of the word, especially in how she treated her first husband (feeding him dog food). Her pickup line The most handsome men are the most successful just floored me. We have all met her, worked with her, or had her in our families.(Excellent Casting) Streisand and Nolte exude raw talent and chemistry that is rare in modern film making. Please do not cast Dolly Parton as the Jewish psychiatrist in New York or Ms. Steisand as a southern country western singer. This film is more than worth a look. "},{"Title":"First-rate adaptation of Pat Conroy's #1 bestseller","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" THE PRINCE OF TIDES, in my opinion, is a first-rate adaptation of Pat Conroy's #1 bestseller. When Tom (Nick Nolte) had some flashbacks to his childhood, I got kind of scared and tense. This was because I didn't want to see anyone get hurt. It was really touching to see him and Susan (Barbra Streisand) have their romance. To sum this up, the performances were top grade, the costume design was good, the direction was flawless, and the casting was perfect. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Nick Nolte or Barbra Streisand, or you enjoyed Pat Conroy's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Queen of Tides Masterfully Guides a Man's Catharsis","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In only her second directorial effort (after Yentl), Barbra Streisand proves to be a masterful storyteller with an almost exaggerated romantic sensibility and an unfettered preoccupation with psychoanalysis. She obviously found the perfect vehicle in Pat Conroy's epic novel about Tom Wingo, a Southerner whose failing marriage and career reflect a deep suppression of an abusive childhood, the memories of which are triggered by his twin sister's suicide attempt. That the story revolves around a man's personal crisis versus a woman's may strike some as odd given Streisand's particularly female perspective, but she actually makes Tom's complex personal journey resonate with greater sensitivity as a result. In fact, the emotionalism Streisand invests in her musical performances is very much in evidence here, and her lush, almost Baroque style fits the contours of this soap opera very well.The 1991 movie is helped immeasurably by a galvanizing performance from Nick Nolte, who captures all the layers of pride, regret, anger, sadness and humiliation in his character. He propels the storyline with the unbridled passion of an actor sinking his teeth into a juicy part as only a female director could define it. In fact, Streisand steps back to play the subordinate role of Dr. Susan Lowenstein, the pricey New York psychiatrist treating Tom's sister, Savannah. Granted, she does make herself rather beatific even in her high skirts and flimsy blouses, but such expectations come with Streisand as she basically plays Tom's savior. At the same time, it is probably her most subtle work on screen even with the touches of excess that often detract from her performances. She also hands out plum parts to both the wonderful Kate Nelligan, who gets to age convincingly as Tom's upwardly driven mother with a dark secret, and Blythe Danner, dependably effective as Tom's conflicted wife. Both especially excel in their revelatory conversations with Tom, the dialogue insightful without delving too much into psychobabble. Credit should be given to Conroy and Betsy Johnston, who wrote the superb screenplay. Melinda Dillon has little to do as Savannah except look traumatized, which she does well. And in a not too subtle display of nepotism, Streisand's son, Jason Gould, sullenly plays the doctor's son, a musician-in-training who is coached on the finer points of football by Tom.The movie is not without flaws. First, there is a critical scene where Tom confesses to Lowenstein (as Tom calls her) what exactly happened in his childhood that none of the Wingos have been willing or able to share with anyone else. Because of Streisand's effective juxtaposition of the long-ago violent crime with the present-day therapy session and Nolte's superb work, this is an especially powerful sequence. It feels climactic in nature given the depth of the catharsis we have been presented at that point, but the problem is that it comes about 45 minutes before the end of the movie. It is around this point that the story shifts to an inevitable affair between Tom and Lowenstein following a tense, pretentious dinner party with Jeroen Krabbe holding court as her psychologically abusive husband, a world renowned violinist out to humiliate Tom. Consequently, we are given a flagrant detour into Lowenstein's own catharsis, which brings up valid questions about her character's professionalism in even having an intimate relationship with a patient. This part of the story is Streisand at her most self-indulgent as both director and actor, as we follow these two smitten people on gauzy romantic walks and sweaty lovemaking by candlelight. Luckily the film recovers toward the end before any serious damage is done. Special mention should be made of the beautiful cinematography by Stephen Goldblatt, who perfectly captures the burnished aura of the lowlands of South Carolina, and the symphonic, often swooning score by James Newton-Howard. It's an impressive accomplishment to translate Conroy's lengthy, often florid narrative into a cohesive movie that retains the major themes of its source material, and Streisand has done a splendid job in pulling it all together. "},{"Title":"Streisand is NOT Lowenstein","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading the book, maybe five plus years before, I wondered who would do the movie.  I shuddered when I learned Barbra bought the script.  I shuddered more when she played Dr. Lowenstein, which is probably what she had in mind.  I must admit she caught the essence of the book, but what Conroy wrote could never be captured in a two hour flic.  But considering the limitations of a two hour film, it came across real well, especially the acting of Nick Nolte as Tom Wingo.  I had fantasized the pair as James Woods and Ann Bancroft. Psychologically, it hung together and was sound, which is saying a lot!  The subplots of Streisand's husband and son came across with impact.  George Carlin was cute. "},{"Title":"Great film, great storytelling","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Prince of Tides is a well acted excellent story that tugs at you, grabs you and won't let you go. I have been reading repeatedly in the IMDb reviews that the book is much better than the movie; of this I have no doubt. Then again I have never seen a movie that has been better than the book. Books are infinitely better because we create the characters in our own mind, and basically are directing the visuals of the story ourselves. Because all directors adapting movies from books have to fight this natural disadvantage, they are often accused of 'not capturing the book'. How could they capture what you saw in your own mind? It's a no-win scenario for the director, which is why a film needs to judged as a completely separate piece of work.This film works on many levels, and I completely believe Streisand and Nolte in these roles. It's my OPINION that many people who have torn into Ms. Streisand on IMDb are people who either don't like her personally, or disagree vehemently with her politics. I am no great personal fan of hers, and my belief is that her political voice is way out there. However, this difference of political opinion cannot cloud the fact that she directed a great film, and put in a very credible and believable performance.The only real issue I have is with the character of Lila. She seems very shallow and only seems to be there to make everyone she comes into contact with miserable. One wonders how her new husband could stomach her bitter personality. She doesn't hide it well. That and her makeup job in the older years is awful. But these are minor concerns. Oh, and George Carlin could disappear and no one would notice or care.The true performer here is Nolte. His journey and relationships are real, flawed, believable and heartwarming, all at the same time. The way he hides his pain through humor is something I have seen a great deal of people do. He is a good man, but he is the only one who seems incapable of seeing that. The Lowenstein character does a marvelous job of tearing down the barriers of doubt in Nolte, all the while exposing her own fears, doubts and unhappiness. It is here the two characters bond. Having shared intimate secrets with each other that they never shared with anyone else brings them towards a natural level of trust and love. It happens quickly, but we believe it (unlike in most movies &#150; Titanic's Jack and Rose come to mind). All this tied in with an excellent musical score, this film really works! Overall, The Prince of Tides is a spectacular film. Streisand does her best work here by far. If you have been conditioned by the book, go back and try to watch this film on its own merits. I know this is difficult (an example of this with me is The Firm - a movie I just can't seem to buy into after reading the novel), but if you can do that, you may be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Didn't capture the book at all","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently read the book, Prince of Tides, and it was wonderful, so I decided to give the movie a shot. I was extremely disappointed. The main character, Tom Wingo, is supposed to be an intelligent but troubled man, burdened with his past and hides his emotion through humor and sarcasm. Nick Nolte instead came off as having swallowed a bottle of Adderall, then trying, and failing, to do a comedy routine. I was also unmoved by his emotional scenes. And Barbara Streisand as the unhappy psychiatrist who doesn't realize her own beauty and inadvertently seduces Tom while trying to coax out his emotions? No offense to Babs, she is an excellent actress, but not meant for this role. Furthermore, while I understand the movie couldn't possibly portray every part of the book, the parts it did choose were random and failed to capture the true story. For instance, there was an entire story behind the rape scene that wasn't explained, nor was the part where Lila takes young Tom to the rich guy's house to apologize. Savannah Wingo, the character who half the story is supposed to about, wasn't developed nearly enough. Pat Conroy is a beyond excellent writer whose works could never be fully captured by a movie, but this movie didn't even seem to try. I'd stick to the book. "},{"Title":"Uninspired relationship tale of psychiatrist & patient 's brother","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My husband loved this movie, especially Nick Nolte's Oscar winning performance in it, but I personally found it a boring package of psychobabble and of course the standard pair of would be lovers trapped in unhappy marriages, with no one else understanding their problems except each other.The film tells the tale of a troubled Southern man, Tom Wingo (Nick Nolte) who is consulted by the New York psychiatrist, Susan Lowenstein, who is treating his suicidal twin sister, Savannah (Mellina Dillon). As a result of their talks aimed at ferreting out Savannah's childhood issues, Tom's own painful past is revealed and the pair fall in love. I don't fault the acting. Nick Nolte is the definite shining star in his role here, especially in light of the horrendous memory his character has repressed. Barbra Streisand is convincing enough as the sophisticated, independent psychiatrist. It just isn't a role that elicits much sympathy or even interest from me. If anything, her entire persona annoyed me. Aren't relationships between psychiatrists and close relatives of their patients considered somewhat unethical? However, I was interested to read that Streisand's real life son, Jason Gould, portrays (quite effectively) her character's teenage son, Bernard.These psychotherapy tales are just not my type of movie. I fail to find painful childhood memories very entertaining and, dramatic as their uncovering was, the pair failed to elicit enough concern from me to take much interest in their fate. Perhaps Tom should have made more of an effort to sort out some of these issues with his admittedly not very responsive wife (Blythe Danner). It's the entire 'My wife just doesn't understand me' story yet again. Of course Tom also has a domineering mother (Kate Nelligan), and Susan both a difficult husband and a rebellious son eager to please the father but needing to find himself via football. Tom's issues are justifiably serious but frankly, I would have been quite happy if they had all sorted out their problems away from my viewing range. "},{"Title":"What isn't wrong with this movie??","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If only 1) Barbra Streisand hadn't directed and starred, 2) the story had been more concerned with the Wingo family than the therapy provided by Lowenstein, 3) the really horrible scenes (such as the awful dinner party at the Lowenstein home) and dialogue had been left on the cutting room floor, 4) the suicidal sister been allowed to have a character, and 5) the score had been dumped (it's so sickly it should come with a warning from the dental association) THEN this movie might be palatable!  We're supposed to believe that Lowenstein can change the lives of the poor damaged Wingo children?  She hasn't even got the wits to get rid of her philandering, peripatetic, arrogant, insensitive husband!!   "}{"Title":"Love And Healing","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm sure that many people like myself saw The Prince of Tides and asked themselves, is there nothing that Barbra Streisand can't do in the entertainment field? Which then begs the second question of why the Motion Picture Academy didn't consider her for a Best Actress Award or Best Director considering all the other nominations The Prince of Tides received.This film may be Nick Nolte's career role. He plays a man from South Carolina, an English teacher and football coach who is the brother of a famous author, Melinda Dillon who has made numerous attempts to kill herself. She's living in New York and seeing the latest in a long line of psychiatrists who in this case is Barbra Streisand. But Streisand is going to try something new. She asks that Nolte come to New York and tell some of the family secrets in a hope that a breakthrough can be achieved. Nolte comes to New York and gets some healing of his own in the process.The two of them do have an affair and it's interesting that both are married, but the liaison seems quite natural and normal, in fact the whole film builds up to it. The high point of the film is Nolte telling of the traumatic event that scarred all their lives to Streisand. He's telling someone he regards as a friend not a medical professional.Director Streisand got fabulous performances out of Actress Streisand and the rest of a well cast feature film. Nolte lost the Best Actor Award to Anthony Hopkins for Silence of the Lambs and the film itself lost Best Picture to Silence of the Lambs. Kate Nelligan who played Nolte's mother lost for Best Supporting Actress to Mercedes Ruehl in The Fisher King. The Prince of Tides got nominated in five other categories, but did not win in any of them. And most egregiously, no nomination for Barbra Streisand for acting or directing.Barbra even got to direct her son Jason Gould who plays her son. Most of his scenes are with Nolte however. Jason has talent genes from both sides of the pool, but the nose is definitely mom's.The Prince of Tides is a great story about love and healing and is a Nineties classic. Hopefully Barbra can be coaxed to at least direct again because she hasn't won an Oscar in that category. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, but read the book instead!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished reading The Prince of Tides.  This book is one of the best I have ever read.  Pat Conroy is a master at the use of the English language, and gifted in the ability to paint a picture with words.  I felt compelled to watch the movie based on the book.  It would be difficult to really capture the spirit and lyrical beauty of the language in the book within the visual medium of film.  The movie is OK, but missed so much that the book holds.Read the book!  There are several characters and subplots in the book that could not make it with the limited time of a movie, that you will enjoy.I thought all-in-all, the movie became too much a love story, and missed the complex dynamics between Tom Wingo, and his brother Luke and sister Savannah.  The movie also could not capture the book's horrifying, graphic descriptions of his sister's schizophrenia, and the accompanying hallucinations.  So when watching one cannot grasp why she is mad.  She just seems ill and tired.  No, if you read the book, you find she is a complex tortured soul.Read the book!!!! "},{"Title":"Nolte=Good/Babs=Bad","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nick Nolte confronts ugly childhood memories as he goes to New York to met with a psychiatrist, Barbra Streisand, to discuss a suicide attempt by his twin sister.  This film, based on the best-selling novel by Pat Conroy, who also co-wrote the screenplay, has much to commend  an excellent performance by Nick Nolte, wonderful cinematography, and skilled direction at hands of the big-B herself.  The film also has some drawbacks a hurried, overwrought plot and, most importantly, an unconvincing performance by one of the leads, the big-B herself.  If Babs were really a good director, she would have cast someone other than herself in that lead role.  Maybe that's why she didn't get the nomination. "},{"Title":"Striesand almost kills it...ALMOST","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Barbra Striesand is the most boring entertainer alive. Whatever she touches turns into a big, steaming pile of sappiness. When I heard that she was directing the screen version of the brilliant novel Prince of Tides, I almost wept for fear that she would destroy it.Well, Striesand tries her best to be sure. Her directing is, for the most part, subpar and her acting is TERRIBLE. She looks like she's posing for the camera 90% of the time she's onscreen. argh!However, Nick Nolte and Kate Nelligan are great...REALLY great. Also George Carlin is pretty good in a cameo role as a New York neighbor. These three folks all save the movie from being unwatchable. Nolte and Nelligan were robbed of Oscars that year, but at least they were recognized with nominations.Also, I do give bonus points to a stirring soundtrack and an occasional stunning shot of the South Carolina Lowcountry.Worth a rental but just be prepared for Barbara's presence when you watch it. "},{"Title":"pretty negative and containing an observation on the casting","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Prince of Tides', like most of Ms S's films, is one for the fans of her celluloid activities (I am a fan of her marvellous voice but feel she should never have been let loose near either side of a camera).  I won't dwell on what I dislike about this film, will say only that it's enjoyably bad, in the same way as 'The Mirror Has 2 Faces'.  The novel stinks even more, so I suppose it's commendable in a way that the film is better. I just want to comment on the most rampantly sexist bit of casting ever - Kate Nelligan (b. 1951) plays the mother of Nick Nolte (b. 1940).  That means she was -11 years old when she gave birth to him.  That's a ****ing miracle isn't it.  It really sucks.  Imagine the genders reversed.  You can't can you.  That's because it's incredibly sexist.  "},{"Title":"Actually, it isn't a horror like I thought It'd be","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Any Barbara Streisand film I've seen made any film by George Romero look like any film from Chuck Jones.  But, I actually liked this film.  The acting was surprisingly good (not by Streisand, but by Nick Nolte as the man with troubles) and there were good dramatic scenes.  Not a bad Streisand film (which is saying something big).  Biggest incentive (for me), George Carlin appears as Nolte's Gay neighbor and gives one of his best (in a few) performances.  A- "},{"Title":"The Prince of Tides","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by the lead star herself, earning a Golden Globe nomination for it, Barbra Streisand deftly translates a novel to the screen. Basically Tom Wingo (Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Nick Nolte) isn't happy with life, having misunderstanding wife Sally (Blythe Danner), suicidal sister Savannah (Melinda Dillon), and dominant mother Lila Wingo Newbury (Oscar nominated Kate Nelligan) to deal with. Originally meant more on Savannah's behalf, Tom opens up to her psychiatrist Dr. Susan Lowenstein (Streisand) about all his problems, and to uncover the terrible secrets of the past. Slowly it becomes clear that Tom not only is opening up to Susan, but they both fall in love with each other, I can't really remember why in the end they part, well, they do have partners. Also starring The Living Daylights' Jeroen Krabbé as Herbert Woodruff, George Carlin as Eddie Detreville, Jason Gould as Bernard Woodruff and Brad Sullivan as Henry Wingo. Nolte is quite something as he wrestles with family demons, and Streisand as both actress and director does a very good job, and even though I missed half an hour of the beginning, I caught up very quickly, and there were some good moments to enjoy. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Music for James Newton Howard, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"That's what I like about the South..................................","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mr J.Crabbe has every right to be put out at Mr Nick Nolte for sequestering his wife's affections and the dinner - party scene where he plays Dixie on his Stradivarius whilst looking Mr Nolte right in the eye gives the lie to the musicians' myth that classical instrumentalists are unable to fake even tunes as simple as Happy Birthday to you.Finishing with a flourish,Mr Crabbe then says in Al Jolson style That's what I like about the South. Instead of challenging him to a duel as any Southern Gentleman might,Mr Nolte merely holds Mr Crabbe's fiddle out over the balcony in a fit of pique. There is a little of a Hick from the sticks quality about Mr Nolte as he arrives in the Big Apple to see his twin sister who is recovering from a suicide attempt.He appears never to have met gay people before,nor rude cab drivers and is a long way from the New York State of Mind that the city's denizens are so proud of. Then he meets his sister's shrink (Miss B. Streisand)whom he later refers to as a Manhattan Jew.We never actually see the shrink and her patient in the same scene,but gradually Miss Streisand sets her on the long path to recovery (at 150 bucks an hour one would hope not too long) and at the same time persuades a reluctant Mr Nolte to reveal some horrifying secrets from their family's past. I'm fairly sure the A.M.A. has rules about the conduct of medical professionals towards patients and their relatives but does Miss Streisand give a fig?Clearly not as she seduces an obviously confused and vulnerable Mr Nolte.(Although not as confused and vulnerable as Mr Redford had been in The Way We Were). Eventually he is stricken by conscience and returns to his wife and daughters - oh,didn't I mention them?How remiss of me - but,obviously,never gets over Miss Streisand,muttering her name as he drives home every night from work.Get over it Nick - it would never have worked. The Prince of Tides is the sort of movie Taylor and Burton could have made 40 years ago and we would have laughed uproariously at the silliness of it all,but Mr Nolte and Miss Streisand go for serious and ,apart from the soft - focus love scenes,achieve it more often than not.Mr Nolte in particular excels as the jock with well - hidden secrets.He conveys brilliantly the ostensibly bluff and tough Southern male who has spent thirty years in denial. Miss Blythe Danner is equally good in the small and rather thankless part of his wife. Miss Streisand,actor,producer,director,singer,writer and all - round Rennaissance Woman may well have a big ego,but my goodness she's entitled. She was unlikely to have pleased devotees of Mr Conroy's novel but she has made a film that should be judged on its own merits. "},{"Title":"A total Cliché Nothing compared to the book","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know it is a cliché, but as someone who read and loved the book, I find the movie to be an utter failure. Nolte does a fine job, but the 650 pg. novel is condensed down to 2 hours. This causes a lack of the subtlety and forshadowing which make the novel truly great. The focus is all wrong. Instead of focusing on the Wingo family and the telling of it's history, which in turn nurtures both Tom and Savannah back to peace and health, the focus is on the short relationship between Susan and Tom. This is not what the book had in mind at all. Thus key important figures in the novel, Savannah, Luke, Henry, and Lila, are glanced over. With Luke, perhaps the major protagonist of the novel barely being mentioned. Other important figures, like Amos and Tolitha are not mentioned at all. Instead of beautiful well crafted novel, in which nature, family, and the southern way of life are explored, and admired. We are left with a cliché romantic drama, with only two real characters. I know Pat Conroy received credit as the screen-writer, but I have to believe that this wonderful story was either butchered by Streisand in the director's chair or in the editing room. I really expected great things from this movie after reading the book, but it hits all of the high points with none of resonance of it's source. 3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Deeply Disappointing","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you have read the book, or if you are from South Carolina, then this movie is not for you. This movie is like taking the love story of David and Bathsheba and making it the central love story of the bible. There is so much missing. Please do yourself a favor and read the book and skip the movie. The images from the book will haunt you forever and you will judge all great novels against this story hereafter. The images from the movie haunt me only in a disappointing way. Of course, like many have commented - Tom is not the Prince of Tides. His brother Luke is, and that character is only given a few lines. It is cheap and disturbing to see the way the plot of this movie is given away like a whore, when Pat Conroy plays you for chapters, trying to figure out who, if anyone (Savannah, Tom, Lila) is really telling the truth. The disturbing images of Savannah and her madness are really not explored in Depth. There is no mention of her visions of bleeding angels and angry dogs. The only word that Lowenstein mentions from the post-coma diagnosis is Calanwold, and even that is not explored in depth. The only character in the movie that lived up to the book was the father - and he wasn't mean enough. The violent, abusive, drunken man was only hinted at. Nick Nolte does not even come close to a Beaufort lowland accent, I don't even know if it is a southern accent. It is a disappointment. "}{"Title":"I am amazed at the love for this movie","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Honestly, there are people that think this is actually a well acted movie? My god, could it have been any more fake and absurd. This is truly a direct result of Bab's direction. Nothing about these scenes showed any moment of honesty and reality. It looks put upon and completely forced.The story is there, I am sure the book has some resonance, but this movie, while pretty in some ways, was just painful to watch. There are some quality actors in this, making fools of themselves. And nothing is worse than the way the scenes are setup. Fake is the best word I can use for it.Want a REAL good example? Tell me ANYTIME you have seen a fishing boat look THAT clean.And can Babs and Carlin (RIP) be ANY skinnier? "},{"Title":"Really improved at 1.5x forward","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As one who professes to possess the finer qualities of a featherless biped with a soul, if you, like me, find this hard to sit through, preposterously acted, and morally repugnant, try watching it at 1.5x speed it takes on a Keystone Kops mise-en-scène without losing any of the pathos. Nolte's brow moves like a metronome for an oompah band, the scenes of Streisand's ass in motion are spectacular in near double-time, and the cathartic pedophile rape flashback renders its true poetry when the adult Tom Wingo winds up heaving in the arms of Lowenstein 25% sooner. All it lacks is Yakety-Sax. A very fast and hard thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Not bad. But not Barbra at her best.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been a fan of Barbra for years. Even though I am, I always like to view her movies as I would any other. As a movie. Not a Barbra Streisand movie. So being that the case, this is what I have to say about The Prince Of Tides it is alright. I really do hate to say it, but I just feel that her portrayl of Susan Lowenstein was pretty much lackluster. That is not to say that I do not feel that she didn't have some good scenes in this film, because she certainly did. But I am talking overall here. And overall, I felt that she did not really bring to life, or develop the character that she portrayed here, in this movie. I do feel though, that Nick Nolte DEFINITELY brought depth and dimmension to his character, and brought his character to life for sure.In fact, I even feel that the woman who played his mother, Kate Nelligan and the woman who played his wife, Blythe Danner, did as well. Very much so. Even Barbra's son in the movie,(her son in real life),did an absolutely fine and wonderfully believable job portraying his character. But Barbra's character just didn't come to life for me like the others did. Also, the story itself was just a little too soap opera-ish; with the music being just a wee bit meladramatic at times. Would I say that this is a bad movie? Definitely not. Would I say it's worthwhile to see? Yes, I would. But would I say that it is a perfectly made excellent movie? No. That I wouldn't say. But again, worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"A travesty of movie making","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie took Pat Conroy's vision of his troubled youth in South Carolina and completely distorted it. Barbara Streisand put the emphasis on entirely the wrong aspects of the story. She went into so little detail about the complexity of the Wingo's life growing up, which were the most rich and poignant aspects of the book without question. What Streisand created was a love story, nothing more, and borrowed a couple of characters from a beautifully written book that she loosely based her movie on. Pat Conroy should resent this simplification of his dark, intense novel about abuse, power, coping and, of course, love. He should have found someone to faithfully uphold his vision, rather than turn it simply into a love story with glimpses of Wingo's sordid past. "},{"Title":"A Mistake","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The problem with this movie is that, like most incredible, wonderful books made into movies, it does not come remotely close to capturing what the novel did.It is a crime to watch this movie without first reading the book. In fact, to be honest, just read the book. The book is quite possibly the most terrific book I have ever read.Pat Conroy delivered a masterpiece of a novel and there is just no way a movie could possibly touch all the aspects of the book. I will not give anything away, but the first obvious reason the movie cannot accomplish this task is because the book is chock too full of story to fit in a 2 to 3 hour span of movie time.Do yourself a favor and read the book. If you aren't a big reader but are interested in reading something that will get you into reading, DEFINITELY read this. Words can't really describe it. "},{"Title":"Hatchet Job on Psychiatric Profession","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm beginning to think that 1992 must have been the year that they decided to villify the psychiatric profession in films.As a counseling psychologist and psychotherapist,I'm really rather insulted by the grossly patholgical antics exhibited by BABS in this movie,and Gere in Final Analysis.(Here's hoping that my review of that piece of tripe finally gets on line.)Dr. Lowenstein screws up from the start.After notifying the next of kin,and concluding any professional responsibilities,she should have stopped there.Instead,she pumps Nolte for info(without a release of information form-does she want to be sued?),has him coach her son for football-in lieu of payment,I guess-and instead of confronting her marital difficulties head on,she avoids taking responsibility by sleeping with a client that she should never have taken on.here's hoping that the AMA,American Psychoananlytic,and the N.Y. State Medical Board get after this menace tout de suite. "},{"Title":"A big, massive stinkbomb. Complete rubbish.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'The Prince Of Tides' is one of the most boring, lame and terrible movies of 1991. Everything associated with this utterly awful motion picture is absolutely terrible. Barbara Streisand cannot act her way out of a paperbag and has absolutely no directing talent at all. The story is way too complicated for it's own good and due to the incredibly slow pace and lack of depth to the cliched characters, it is impossible to maintain an interest in this drab motion picture.  And, to make matters worse, there is a pointlessly horrible scene in which a boy gets raped by one of the attackers who invades the family home. A truly slow, boring and terrible movie. 'Prince of Tides' is to be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The book 'The Prince of Tides is exceptional - full of great dialogue, interesting images and riveting events. The movie, screenplay by the author of the book, tries but doesn't succeed very well. In his defense, this sprawling book doesn't lend itself very well to filming - too much goes on and too much depends on several characters development from childhood to adulthood, and adulthood to old age, and friend to lover.And geesh, I'm not crazy about Barbra but her obsession with herself borders on megalomania. She is not Lowenstein (at least from the description in the book) and thinks she is much prettier that she appears in this movie. Read the book... "}]