[{"Title":"Up, up and away!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"60 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this film.  Absolutely love it.  Can't help it.  I'm a child of the 40s and this movie is about when I was a kid.  The sets are great, the story is 40s, the cars, the cafe with the bizarre little gingerbread giving an impression of a gnome's hangout, the costumes, the hero with his wiffle hair style, the airplanes and even Howard Hughes.  What more could you want?  No, this isn't The Matrix with a lot of slick computer effects with mind twisting is it or isn't it real.  It's clear who the bad guys are-- and they're bad, except when, of course, the mob types are swept away by patriotic feelings and fight the Nazis.  It's got it all.  A wonderful trip back into the 40s with near superhuman villans, beyond the pale heros and lovable sidekicks.  "},{"Title":"wonderful throwback to 30's serials","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"54 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is what Spysmasher and The Red Skull wanted to be, but couldn't because special effects were too lame then and their budgets were too small. It's sad how a lot of critics dumped on Bill Campbell's performance in this movie, when he does precisely what he should -- he's the square-jawed, slightly naive, optimistic hero who is repeatedly double-crossed by the wily villain (if he were less of a Boy Scout and more of a James Bond, there wouldn't be any movie). Connelly and Arkin are just great as, respectively, the beautiful and plucky girlfriend and the brilliant mechanic father-figure/sidekick. If you liked those old serials, you'll love this movie. Maybe the movie didn't have an audience, but if you watch the trailer it wasn't marketed right -- the trailer makes it seem like an Indiana Jones movie, and it is much more innocent (and sweeter) than that. Apparently Disney was planning to make another one, but pulled the plug because this one bombed at the box office. I recall expecting something else when I went into the theater, and being very pleasantly surprised by it. I was also very surprised when the movie wasn't a hit, but I even sort of liked the old Flash Gordon serials, so...Another thing that is disappointing me at the moment is that I can't find any entries for the Spysmasher or Red Skull serials (the latter was the first one I know of with the Commando Cody character, although I don't recall him being referred to by that appellation -- I saw it 40 years ago, and then managed the catch the last hour or so in the middle of the night about 15 years ago one sleepless night, so it's kind of a blur). "},{"Title":"Two-fisted tribute to the serials of yesteryear","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THE ROCKETEER Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format 6-track Dolby Stereo SR(35mm and 70mm release prints)Based on Dave Stevens' graphic novel, this very un-Disney-like Disney movie is a joy from start to finish, a two-fisted tribute to the serials of yesteryear which combines nostalgia for the innocence of ages past with the Art deco gloss of a world on the brink of war. Bill Campbell (from TV's Tales of the City) plays a 1930's air ace who stumbles on a jet-propelled device that allows its wearer to fly at high speeds, a device coveted by law enforcement agencies, gangland criminals, Howard Hughes (!), and a Nazi villain (Timothy Dalton) masquerading as a Hollywood heartthrob.Handsome and talented, Campbell plays the title role with just the right amount of wide-eyed candor and boyish charm, and he's supported by a veritable who's-who of Hollywood's finest character actors, including Alan Arkin, Paul Sorvino, Terry O'Quinn, Ed Lauter, Jon Polito and Eddie Jones, alongside Tiny Ron as a hulking henchman clearly modelled after Rondo Hatton (courtesy of Rick Baker's rubbery makeup), whose speciality is - you guessed it - *snapping spines*! Sadly, Jennifer Connelly is unable to make much of an impression as Campbell's eye-candy girlfriend, an old-fashioned heroine who lacks autonomy and is almost entirely dependent on her co-star's strength and bravery. That small blip aside, director Joe Johnston (HIDALGO) plays the whole thing straight, without even a hint of camp (when Campbell asks how he looks in his spiffy 'Rocketeer' outfit, Arkin deadpans Like a hood ornament!), and while the characters are mere stock figures, they're played with real integrity by an enthusiastic cast, and the film's many set-pieces culminate in a showstopping finale on board an exploding zeppelin high above the Hollywood hills! Yep, this is one movie where you *definitely* get your money's worth!! Produced today, the script (by Danny Bilson and Paul De Meo) might have been co-opted by some overpriced 'star' whose off-screen notoriety could sap the magic out of every frame. It's the fact that Campbell WASN'T a household name during filming, and that the production dares to celebrate the movies of a bygone era without simultaneously mocking its references, which makes THE ROCKETEER so special. It carries none of the baggage that a major celebrity would have brought to it, and is simply a thrill-ride, no more or less, packaged and presented as a widescreen spectacle for audiences young and old (and DO try to see the film in its original Panavision dimensions). Incredibly, the movie underperformed at the American box-office, despite playing in 70mm (blown up from the original 35mm) at selected venues, though it has since found an appreciative audience on TV and home video. Originally released in the UK as ROCKETEER, an unnecessary abbreviation. "},{"Title":"Great pulp/serial adventure!","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"46 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was chomping at the bit, waiting for this movie to come out, back in 1991. I had loved the Dave Stevens comics since I first encountered them (ironically, at the same time I had read about Bettie Page in an article about Bunny Yeager, in a photography magazine).  The comic captured the spirit of 1930's aviation pulps, as well as the Doc Savage crowd.  It also brought along that Republic Studios flavor.  I couldn't wait to see this as a movie.The movie captured the spirit of the comics beautifully.  Sure it was disappointing that Doc Savage couldn't be included, but Howard Hughes made a sensible substitution.  I was a bit annoyed that Disney felt they had to change Betty into Jenny, but with Jennifer Connelly in the role, I was in a forgiving mood.  The film was full of action and humor, cliffhangers and character; just like Stevens' creation.  If there was anything to criticize, it was the toning down of Betty/Jenny.  Yeah, I know, this is Disney, and she was far tamer in the comics than the real Betty/Bettie Page; but, hey, a guy can hope.Bill Campbell was perfect for Cliff Secord.  He had that All-American look, with an impish twinkle in his eye.  Watching the movie, you could see the excitement when he was flying, and that he was head over heels in love with Jenny.Alan Arkin made a great Peevy, although he was far less cantankerous than his print counterpart (incidentally, Peevy was based on Doug Wildey, creator of Jonny Quest).  He was more of a Connecticut Yankee than grouchy mechanic.Timothy Dalton made a great pseudo-Errol Flynn.  I wasn't too happy that they trotted out that Flynn-as-Nazi Spy nonsense; but, it works beautifully for the story.  Paul Sorvino made a great 30's mobster, too.  Add Tiny Ron as Lothar, modeled after Rondo Hatton, and you have some pretty fun villains.Then, there's Jennifer Connelly, one of the most beautiful and talented actresses in Hollywood.  As I said, I had hoped for a little sexier character; but, the compromise was still pretty good.  Connelly brought both a wholesomeness and sex appeal to the role.  She looked great in the period clothing, too.Everything about this film worked.  The period detail was first rate, from the costumes, to he set design, to the slang.  The only thing that would have improved this would have been to make more films.  This is a great film for the whole family and captures the spirit of Republic and the pulps as well as Indiana Jones did.  "},{"Title":"wonderful, old-fashioned movie","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've always surprised when people don't like this movie. It was one of my favorites at the time, and it has aged very well. It's a real retro 30's picture, like The Shadow, instead of being a modern reinterpretation of such movies like the Indiana Jones films (which I also like very much). The reviews cover the plot enough, and there are no real surprises here, but it's great family fun. My kids really love this movie, and I end up watching it every year or two, and I have never tired of it. When it came out there were apparently sequels planned, but it got killed at the box office by T2, which ran over everything that summer, so Disney never did anything with the show. They have recycled the atmosphere and the music in the Soaring over California ride at DCA, and I have to say it always makes me wistful that the movie never got a sequel.By the way, the movie doesn't follow the comics that closely, which I don't mind, but if you are a purist and a fan of the graphic novels, you might keep that in mind. "},{"Title":"Into the Wild Blue Yonder","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has the tendency to fly off the screen at you, especially if you saw it on the big screen like I did. I was 9 years old when the Rocketeer came out, and after seeing it I couldn't help but day dream about flying, and winning over the girl. Of course I tended to have the same day dreams after watching Superman the movie. But this film is a little different. It seemed more believable to me, as a kid, in that it incorporated some semi historical facts with the story line. I believe it to be one of Disney's finnest films, perhaps a modern epic. It's one of those films you've got to watch at least once a year. However I do have a question concerning it, How did the Rocketeer manage with all those flames blasting at his ass? "},{"Title":"As enjoyable as Indiana Jones!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liken this movie to movies such as Indiana Jones or The Mummy.  It's one of those action-packed, adventurous movies with just enough romance, humor, and drama to make it in my top five movies of all time list. Cool special effects and happy ending.  It's safe enough for kids, satisfying for parents, and teens probably enjoy it the most.  Set in the 1940's, it stays true to its setting and gives a good look back at what American culture was like then. It gives a little history lesson, too (Howard Hughes, Nazis, etc.) The acting is also wonderful- probably Billy Campbell's (Enough) best performance, Timothy Dalton plays a great villian, and Arkin always does good.  Jennifer Connelly, who recently made it big in A Beautiful Mind, looks surprisingly different, but still quite pretty.  Her performance is also grade-A.Who wouldn't want a jet pack?  EVERYONE should see this movie. "},{"Title":"In a nutshell, the most entertaining Disney movie that I've ever seen","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disney hasn't made a whole lot of movies over the last decade that have really been able to capture my interest. One of their better efforts, 1991's The Rocketeer, is one of the luckier films.The Rocketeer soared high and mighty upon its release in 1991, from the graphic novel by Dave Stevens and onto the big screen, with Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) dawning an experimental rocket pack that is coveted by gangsters and Nazis during World War II.The movie does remind some people of the serials of the 1930s and 1940s, some of which helped to spawn the mega-successful Raiders of the Lost Ark in 1981 and this year's Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow.The Rocketeer is a great movie, and it should be viewed by everyone.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Delightful Adventure Like in the Old Times","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In 1938, in Los Angeles, the pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) crashes his plane after being hit in the air in a shoot-out between gangsters and FBI agents in a car chase; completely broken, his best friend and mechanics A. 'Peevy' Peabody (Alan Arkin) tries to fix an old plane to raise some money in an exhibition show. However, Cliff finds a package hidden by one of the gangsters with a rocket with belts and they find that the device allows man to fly. Meanwhile, his beloved girlfriend and aspirant actress Jenny Blake (Jennifer Connelly) succeeds in an audition to make a small part in a movie of the great actor Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton) that is ranked the third in box-offices. During a flight exhibition, the mechanic Malcolm (Eddie Jones) has an accident, and Cliff uses the rocket to save him, being called Rocketeer by the public. With his picture in the front page of the newspaper, Cliff is chased by the FBI, the gangsters and German spies that abduct Jenny and forces Cliff to rescue her.Rocketeer is a delightful adventure that recalls those classics from the old times of Hollywood. There is a handsome hero, a gorgeous heroine, gangsters, Nazi spies, betrayals, in a pace of cartoons with a magnificent art decoration, cars and costumes recreating Hollywood in the late 30's. The story has great lines and uses real characters, like Clark Gable and Howard Hughes, in fictional situations. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Rocketeer "},{"Title":"Pretty enjoyable","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's more fun to be had out of this movie than I'd expected. The story is given elsewhere so I'll pretty much skip it and get to the more important things, like the twenty-year-old Jennifer Connelly with her eyes of night and lips as bright as flame. She's a bit plumper (all over) than we're used to seeing her but it's okay because cartoon figures ought to be slightly overdone. She looks and sounds magnificent -- those two monumental and nacreous incisors, I guess. She could open mangoes with those teeth. Not that she's as beautiful as any woman possibly could be. Connelly COULD be better looking but if she were it would probably be against some law. Anyway, it would be hard for any normal man to stop from flinging himself at her feet and groveling over her toes.Bill Campbell looks like a cartoon too. In fact everyone in the movie looks like a cartoon except the guy playing the huge thug working for Paul Sorvino. That guy doesn't look like a cartoon. He looks exactly like Rondo Hatten, an acromegalic actor from a few 40s horror flicks. But, it must be admitted, Rondo Hatten looked like a cartoon. And, well, if A = C and B = C, then A = B, no? It's a conundrum alright.The movie is filled with delicious 1938 atmosphere. I wasn't around to enjoy it but it's always struck a resonant chord in me when I glimpse it in movies or listen to recordings from the period. Here we have an Artie Shaw sort of band playing Begin the Beguine with a close simulation of that famous arrangement that made it such a hit. A smiling singer who looks like Nicole Kidman stands on the stage and sings without rolling around or smashing a guitar. Call me retro, but I prefer it to Snoop Dog Eeeze 2 Dudes. All seriousness aside, what happened to pop music anyway? Where are our Cole Porters and Ira Gershwins. Somebody hand me a hankie.The production designer deserves a medal for capturing the exhilarating vulgarity of Southern California. I think I glimpsed a reproduction of Benvenuto Cellini's Apollo amidst the faux Egyptian columns.I enjoyed the airplanes too. The one in the beginning of the movie was built exclusively for racing. (I forget its designation.) It was a horror to fly because it was hardly more than a huge engine with a tiny airplane built around it, as unstable a craft as ever took wing. Scary news footage exists of one of them zipping along at a tremendous rate and then, out of nowhere, kaboom, spinning deliriously into the ground at full speed. The 1930s were famous for their air races, like NASCAR is today. Heroes were made out of aviators. Airplanes that later became famous as fighters in WWII were first configured as racers -- Curtis P-40s, for instance, and the British Spitfires.Of course it's an imitation of the Indiana Jones series and maybe an imitation of some Indiana Jones imitations, a kind of meta-imitation, but, gee, it's enjoyable. What atmosphere. And lots of action. Everybody and everything is turned into mincemeat one way or another but not in any way that's offensive. It's really kind of engaging if you don't ask for significance. "}{"Title":"Boyhood Dreams and Adolescent Lust","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   I liked this movie for the same reasons most people do.   It illustrates that Hollywood can make a user friendly  movie when it sets it's mind to it.  The movie was  reasonably successful, so there was no reason not  to copy the formula over and over again, just like  they do with so many others.  I'm sorry they chose  not to do it.  Since Stallone, Willis, Norris, and company  have pretty much passed into history, I find that  the new breed of action heroes like Vin Diesel (do  you believe that name?) all blend together.  On the  odd occasion that I watch one of these mindless  bombs, my eyes start to glaze over.  Kind of like  looking at a kaleidoscope on acid.  No story.  No  identifiable characters, no background, no nothing -  except explosions, car chases, splattered guts and  so on.  The Rocketeer may be a cartoon, but it's a  cartoon with a heart.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyed It, But Can't Help Feeling It Could Have Been Better","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A decent adventure story that has its moments but could have been far more interesting. That's a one-sentence description I would have of this movie, which I have seen several times. I keep expecting it to be better than what it turns out to be. I like it, but there is just something missing.I love the late 1930s look to this film, which has great color and sound and a likable hero in Cliff Secord, played by Bill Campbell. The rest of the cast is pretty attractive with Jennifer Connelly, Timothy Dalton, Alan Arkin and Paul Sorvino - another reason this film should have been more memorable.The rocket scenes were terrific. I just wish they had more of them, or that the rocketeer had used his rocket to help more people than just his girlfriend.The action scenes are a bit hokey but some subtle comedy helped make this Disney action flick intriguing enough for a couple of viewings. "},{"Title":"So underrated it's sad","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have always loved this movie. I will never stop loving this movie. It reminds me of the time when directors made film with a love for the craft as opposed to these hacks that make films for the love of money. In this day and time you will rarely find a movie that is this fun to watch and has a good story to boot.The plot is simple enough Cliff Secord(Bill Campbell) finds a rocket in his airplane. This rocket is sought after by mobsters and a Nazi spy working undercover as an actor named Neville Sinclair(Timothy Dalton). Cliff uses the rocket to thwart Sinclair's gang.Bill Campbell is perfect as Cliff Secord. He's headstrong but still immensely likable. Jennifer Connelly is great as his girlfriend Jenny Blake and Alan Arkin gives a strong performance as Cliff's mentor but wise best friend Peevy. Timothy Dalton gives one of his best performances to date as Neville Sinclair. Neville Sinclair is a great villain without being over-the-top with it. I've always like Timothy Dalton as an actor even when he played James Bond. Paul Sorvino's role as the mobster Eddie Valentine shouldn't go unnoticed either.The thing I like most about The Rocketeer is that its a fun movie. Watching Cliff test the rocket for the first time remains in my mind in a place so snug. The director respects the time period(1930s) without contradicting it(like a few directors that do period pieces tend to do). In short its a blast from the 90s that is more enjoyable than the overrated dross that is out now. Its definitely worth a second look.Before I leave I will say this do not take directors like Joe Johnston for granted or you will be responsible for the onslaught of Follywood hacks. I've seen Joe Johnston's whole catalog of films and have yet to find one stinker among them. He's earned my trust and how many directors can you say that about? Not many. In conclusion support directors that respect the art of film-making or you will be sorry when all that is left are the hacks. Think about it. "},{"Title":"This rocket fizzles out....","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You couldn't blame Disney, really. After all, they'd struck gold - and then some - with WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT and DICK TRACY. Like THE ROCKETEER, those two films had also been lightweight, glossy adventures set roughly during the World War II era. Who's to say that anyone might possibly have suspected that lightning wouldn't necessarily strike a third time? (Then again, we've all heard the expression about three strikes and an out.) I was ten years old on that summer day when my little sister and I were taken to see this. I had no inkling at the time that it had been based on a comic book, but I didn't care; I didn't read comic books then. All I knew was that it had been produced by Disney (a sure-fire name brand for reeling in kids like my sister and myself) and that it was set in midcentury America (a time and place that I had always regarded as colorful and lively) in my mother's hometown of Los Angeles. I didn't expect a masterpiece....but then I didn't expect to be left cold, either.I think my greatest problem was with the actors who played the hero and heroine Bill Campbell and Jennifer Connelly. Campbell had very little charisma; and Connelly....well, she might as well have been a very lifelike robot. They were so boring that I found myself rooting for Timothy Dalton's suave and sinister bad guy. If your film's protagonists inspire nothing but apathy from the get-go, you're already in serious trouble.The plot was so superficial and generic that it could indeed have been plucked from a 1930s Saturday matinée serial. The concept of a Nazi takeover of America using Howard Hughes's jet-pack device seemed like an afterthought. Why were there even Nazis in this, other than that a posse of well-dressed Mafiosi (led by Paul Sorvino) didn't exactly present a credible menace? The answer, of course, is that you can inject Nazis into anything and the plot will automatically become sexier. There's really nothing wrong with this (the INDIANA JONES films and Disney's own BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS had also served up Nazis for a family audience); the problem here is that, unlike in other films, here Nazism seems more like a spice rather than an essential ingredient. Even worse, we are never offered any justification for why a wealthy and personable actor like Neville Sinclair would ever be attracted to Nazi ideology.For a supposed action film, THE ROCKETEER features precious little action and spends way too much time on plot exposition during the first half of the movie. The romantic subplot could have been totally written out, as well as the aforementioned Nazi element. Kids like movies with stories in them, but not if those stories are overly convoluted. At the end of the day, we just want to see a guy in a rocket suit beating up villains.(On a side note Why would Germany be sending a passenger zeppelin around the world in 1938 - a full year after the Hindenburg disaster?) Is there anything at all good about THE ROCKETEER? Sure, there are many things good dialogue, good music, good special effects, and (in the case of a mob goon named Lothar who looks like he could have made a cameo in DICK TRACY) excellent makeup. But none of these things can ever truly save a movie whose story is weak and whose characters (except for Sinclair) are indeed as paper-thin as the comic-book creations that inspired them. "},{"Title":"Given this company, a worthy adaptation","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's something both nostalgic and patriotic about The Rocketeer that really bolsters the movie's likability. G-men, hoods, dames, Nazis, all wrapped up in a WWII comic book movie that wears its heart on its sleeve - all the while tipping its hat to the Tinseltown glamor and serials of the era. And it does a pretty good job capturing the spirit of the source comic.I liked this movie back in '91, primarily because I was the target audience Disney was marketing to. It wasn't until I was a teenager when I really got the movie's point and fully appreciated its virtues that it made a true fan out of me. It was also during that time that I discovered both the original comic and Dave Stevens' art which fueled my love for the film. And even though they sanitized Cliff Secord's girlfriend, Jennifer Connelly is just sublime here; a particular bonus. I still hope the studio doesn't really go through with those reboot plans, and instead just give this movie some love (almost 25 years old, and we still don't have a decent home video release; this has been getting the shaft for too long). Bottom line, this is one of my very favorite Disney movies.Entertaining on all fronts.9/10 "},{"Title":"I have to comment on this movie... It's among my all-time favorites","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of all the movies I've seen over the years, this movie stands out in a class of its own. It's a sweet mix of adventure, romance, drama and delightful humor. And the flying scenes! Hold onto your seat, sit back, and enjoy the ride.This is a movie where you're not really sure how it will all turn out, but you'll have fun on the way.  The hero is a likeable, ordinary guy, who must save the day, and the stakes are high if he doesn't.The music is intense, the backdrop is elegant, and every scene is strikingly vivid. While the setting is in the thirties, it doesn't have that way back then feel. In fact, it feels timeless.I highly recommend this movie to anyone! I wish there were more movies like it. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Panned Very Entertaining","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis movie was an unmitigated disaster for everyone involved. Disney built it up for months, it was to be their summer blockbuster of 1991. Connoly's acting is a big reason why it took so much damage; she is gorgeous to look at but she has always been a dreadful actress. The movie has the Nazi's and the Mob in hot pursuit of the secret Rocket Pack built by Howard Hughes. During the 40s, there were rumors about a famous Hollywood actor being a Nazi sympathizer or Bundist as they were called. I can only tell you to study the actor Neville St. Claire played by Dalton and ask yourself who does he remind me of? I do not wish to be sued; you can figure it out. Dalton has a terrifying gorilla working for him, with his mob friends, led by Paul Sorvino of GoodFellas fame. The movie moves quickly and has very few slow parts. The rocket flying parts are very well down, even today. The finale on the Nazi blimp, has to be seen to be believed. Arkin, Sorvino and Dalton anchor the two shaky leads. This is what really hurt the movie, both Campbell and Connoly are dreadful actors. Cast for their looks, it was a bad choice to have both of the leads stink it up. The supporting cast is good, but they just are not on the screen that much. There is some levity in spots but on the whole it is a serious action movie way out of Disney's genre. I own the movie for its non stop action, great effects and the fact that the movie will grow on you. I hated it in 1991, but the more I watch it the better it gets. There were also lots of other big movies released with it and The Rocketeer got lost in the crowd. There are some mid air flying sequences that are truly breathtaking; Arkin is very good in the movie. If he had not been in this role, it would have been so much worse. The weak spots in this movie are whenever the two leads are alone together; they stink it up big time. A great scene is where Campbell is trying to get a message to Connolly and he is the world's worst waiter. Shot using lots of the period sets, restaurants, night clubs even a pack of the old Beech Nut chewing gum. There is a good attempt to recreate the 1940s. Dalton is an excellent, suave, double dealing actor / Nazi. Action movies are only as good as their villains and Dalton does very well. The movie is worth owning for the last twenty minutes on the blimp. High up in the air, a great perilous battle for the rocket pack between the Nazis and Campbell. An Underrated, unfairly maligned little gem. "},{"Title":"A steampunk Iron Man","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer has almost all of the right parts to make it orbit the moon and back, but coughs and splutters and only manages a brief soar. The period setting in the golden age of Hollywood and a pre-war America has all of the innocence and wholesomeness you would expect from that era. The excitement of then-new technology leading to a high-tech future is hinted at, but is slowed down by the plot like a sprinter wading through melting tar.Cliff Secord is a stunt pilot (played by the charisma-free Bill Campbell, who I have never heard of) who discovers a prototype jet pack designed and disowned by Howard Hughes himself. Cliff, and his friend Peabody (a much more likable Alan Arkin) experiment with the jet pack, but never make any solid plans for it. The movie loses altitude here. Instead of soaring into the stratosphere by giving a thrill ride into this new invention the movie too often deviates into a sub-plot with Jennifer Connolly as the girlfriend and Timothy Dalton as the villain, and the best thing about it.What the Rocketeer should have done is establish the new-found jetpack within the first 10 minutes, given us about 20 minutes of the origins of Secord as a new superhero, and then spent the remaining 80 minutes fighting villains. It is so frustrating that every time the movie should finally take-off it cuts away to a story that drags it to a halt.The production design and special effects are all top-notch. The pre-CGI sequences of the Rocketeer jetting around the sky don't look bad despite coming in at the tail end of the optical effects era. The anamorphic Panavision photography is extremely high-key, and this perhaps is a fault. If the film were a little more rough around the edges it might have worked in its favor. James Horner's twee, sweet-natured, treacle score was a misjudgment though. Silvestri or Goldsmith could have improved on it, but I guess that they were far too busy in 1991.Despite its shortcomings it is a shame that the Rocketeer did not end up being as popular as the Mummy or Zorro series. Although Bill Campbell really does look like Brendan Fraser, who was also in Looney Tunes Back in Action, which featured Timothy Dalton as a spy pretending to be an actor - exactly what he is in this movie. Weird.It's easy to see why it has gone on to be a cult favorite, and it is still worth checking out. "},{"Title":"I may not make an honest buck, but I'm 100% American. I don't work for no two-bit Nazi.","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocketeer is directed by Joe Johnston and co-written by Danny Bilson, Paul De Meo and William Dear. It is based on Dave Stevens' comic book The Rocketeer. It stars Billy Campbell, Jennifer Connelly, Alan Arkin, Timothy Dalton and Paul Sorvino. Music is scored by James Horner and cinematography by Hiro Narita.It took eight years to get to the screen, with many rewrites, changes in personal, changes in setting and etc, the only thing consistent was Disney's inconsistency. Once out the film received generally positive reviews but posted only a small profit, in the wake of a Tim Burton inspired reinvention of the Super Hero genre, Rocketeer fell away into cultdom, sequels planned were shelved and its reputation remains to this day one of being a misfire. Unfair say I! Rocketeer is a lovingly crafted adventure film, nodding towards the serials of the 1930s, it's awash with period Hollywood delights, Art Deco imagery, has a damsel in distress, square jawed heroics, Nazi villains, wonderful effects and a blunderbuss Zeppelin finale. Backed by beautiful smooth tone photography and an evocative heart stirring music score, it's a family friendly blockbuster that ticks all the requisite boxes. The quality of the action sequences still hold up today, and Johnston, who wanted the job big time, directs with a knowing grasp of the setting, and crucially he never once loses a grip on tone and pacing. There's no self parody here, no deep Fruedian dissection of the main character, just a honest to goodness good against bad axis, with a romantic cause deftly wafted over proceedings.The role of Cliff Secord (Rocketeer) proved hard to cast, where Vincent D'Onofrio turned it down and name actors such as Dennis Quaid, Emilio Estevez, Kurt Russell and Bill Paxton auditioned for the part. Paxton, it's believed, was very close to getting it as well. Disney wanted an A list man, Johnny Depp and Kevin Costner were mooted, but Johnston had a feel for unknown Billy Campbell and managed to convince nervous Disney heads that he was perfect. Much of the scorn that has flown towards Rocketeer has landed at Campbell's door, again, this is unfair. It's hard to tell if one of those A list actors could have made the character work better, for it helps in this instance to not have a familiar face propelling the adventure. There's an innocence, an awkwardness to Campbell's portrayal that just sits right for a guy stumbling upon a rocket pack and finding himself submerged in a chase and harry battle against bad. He also has the looks, a handsome dude who creates a homespun based chemistry with the sensuous Connelly. It's Dalton's movie, though, he's having a devil of a time as the chief villain. Modeled on Errol Flynn and the spurious notion that he was once a Nazi spy, Dalton has the looks, the gusto, the moustache twirling shiftiness and a voice perfect for such material. A roll call of great character actors fill out the support slots, with Terry O'Quinn, Paul Sorvino and Ed Lauter particularly striking the right chords.A smashing piece of escapism, no pretensions or ideas above its station. The willingness to tap into the basic premise of a comic book actioner and entertain in grand Hollywood terms, to be applauded. And I do, and I do love it so. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Rocketeer","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its corny, but I really don't care. It's just a fun film.The discovery of a top-secret jetpack hurls test-pilot Cliff Secord ( Billy Campbell) into a daring adventure of mystery, suspense, and intrigue. As he encounters an assortment of ruthless villains, led by Hollywood screen star Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton)who's a secret Nazi spy & Mafia head Eddie Valentine (Paul Sorvino), whose been hired to recover the jetpack.With the help of his actress girlfriend Jenny (Jennifer Connelly), and his gruff old friend (Alan Arkin) the young pilot battles enormous odds to defeat his foes, who are anxious to use the device in an evil plan to rule the entire world.The thing I really like about this film is the whole 1930's Los Angeles feel the film is set in. The costumes, etc. Two other things I love about this film are Connelly who is so sweet and gorgeous in this film (that white dress, my god) and Dalton who is just so wicked and charming. The way he plays Connelly's character throughout the film is hilarious; he is basically using her to get at Cliff.Between the two of them, is easily my favorite scene from the film. Connelly is basically playing it all up for Sinclair, and she eventually knocks him out. ?I finally played a scene with Neville Sinclair, she says. She then finds like his hidden room, and finds this radio. ?Hello, this is an emergency. The radio then starts speaking back in German! The look on her face is priceless.Watch for Terry O'Quinn ( Lost) as Howard Hughes as well. "}{"Title":"Before 'The Aviator,' there was 'The Rocketeer.'","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'The Rocketeer' is a really fine piece of escapist cinema that, in slightly better world, would have made a lot more money for the studio. But to the misfortune of Disney, this film was released about 10 minutes before 'Terminator 2.' The producers of 'T2' cynically calculated that the summertime movie-going public, dominated as it is by adolescent males, would prefer the steroid-saturated sadism of Arnold Schwarzenegger. 'T2' stole the audience from this film, and 'The Rocketeer' quickly faded into relative obscurity. (Based on the box office of similar fantasy pieces set in the 1930's, such as 'The Shadow,' 'The Phantom,' and 'Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow,' it might also be true that the audience for retro-thrills has dwindled. Too bad, because those films were good. The horrid 2005 version of 'King Kong,' set in the 1930's, was profitable. But I attribute that to the effectiveness of the studio machine and to the personality cult around director Peter Jackson.) But 'The Rocketeer' is, of course, vastly superior to 'T2,' and deserves to be ranked as a classic within the genre of comic book, fantasy, and adventure movies. If your taste runs more toward 'The Adventures of Robin Hood' or the Indiana Jones films than, say, the 'Die Hard' series or Steven Segal, then 'The Rocketeer' is for you.Also, if you thought 'The Aviator,' particularly the airplane sequences were cool, you might get a bang out of this. Howard Hughes plays an important part of the plot, and there is an 'in' joke for you.In addition, fans of old movie serials and old sci-fi should love this. Odds are you already know that the original inspiration for the character of the Rocketeer was the 1949 Republic serial 'King of the Rocketmen.' "},{"Title":"Raiders of the Lost Rocket  fine imitation of Indy Jones movies","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If anyone is entitled to make a movie that in some ways mimics RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, it's one of the visual effects designers who won the Oscar for ROTLA. Joe Johnston also was one of the creative artists responsible for the first three STAR WARS films (Yoda was his artistic creation) and he also did similar work on the TV series BATTLESTAR GALLACTICA. While this film was not the critical and artistic success of his first directorial effort HONEY I SHRUNK THE KIDS, I think it still rates as one of the top ten Disney live action films of the last 20 years. It didn't quite bomb at the box office when it was released, but it was unfortunate enough to come out on the same weekend as TERMINATOR 2. T2 was such a juggernaut, it was bound to eat up everything in its path. After such huge successes with the STAR WARS films and first two RAIDERS films as one of a group of talented whiz kids who helped give these films their visual style, some might have thought he moved up to the director's chair too soon, even though HONEY was big enough of a hit to spawn two sequels and the ending to ROCKETEER is tantalizing enough to suggest a sequel also. For whatever reasons Disney shelved any such plans. Johnston moved on to make JUMANJI, JURASSIC PARK 3, and HIDALGO, and it's certain he'll continue to make good films.His films are always entertaining and he knows how to fill the screen with memorable images. THE ROCKETEER is no exception. While not in the same class as his later films mentioned above, it does a fine job of bringing to life the old Saturday morning serials, with dashing heroes rescuing damsels in distress and saving the world from dastardly villains. The flying scenes are first rate, including those with the rocket. Interestingly, the special effects were old school, using models and miniatures, without the computer-generated graphics that its box office rival TERMINATOR 2 used extensively and are now the norm in special effects. Old as it is, this film can still give audiences a good ride. I had the pleasure of watching it last night at Lidgerwood Presbyterian Church, with an audience mostly older than me. We all remembered the Republic serials that inspired ROCKETEER's filmmakers and the Errol Flynn-type swashbucklers that make a brief appearance in the storyline. Some in the audience were old enough to have battled Nazis themselves, as do Cliff, the FBI agents and the patriotic gangsters in the end. In these days after September 11th, when we're still, like the Rocketeer, caught up with fighting people whose values and ambitions for world dominance clash with ours, it was enjoyable to see everyone unite to fight a common enemy. It's sad to think that those battles are still being waged long since those nostalgic Saturday mornings. Dale Roloff "},{"Title":"Great tribute to serial adventure","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a terrifically fun pulp movie in the vein of Raiders, Sky Captain and The Phantom. Great family fun. Love the old planes and the terrific cast. Fifteen years later, most of the cast members have become much bigger and more renowned stars, haven't they? Anyways, I dug the hell out of this movie. Unlike The Shadow, this is well-balanced, engaging storytelling. The direction is crisp, the art design is particularly lush. This movie conjures an idealized 1930s, and the appeal of that world is half of what I love about these movies, and movies from that time period. I grew up watching this movie, and loved it as a kid. My dad loves it to this day, so I can assure you, this is good for all ages. "},{"Title":"Pure fun","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie fast became a winner in this household - one-liners abound and the hero is the type I remember from my own childhood. Situated a bit before the Indiana Jones era, it has some (though perhaps not all) of the wonder of taking you back instead of forward to find elements of both sci-fi and nostalgia. There is nothing stale in the presentation - this came across as a new concept even though it was set in the past. Pure fun for all, a good family movie where the good guys are good, the bad guys are bad, and we certainly know that the hero by risking life and limb will win. Even so, it doesn't take away from the surprises. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Flarin' all the way!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I started to watch Rocketeer, I thought that it would be a boring Action/Adventure 80's movie, but it was a lot better than I expected.Bill Campbell stars as Cliff Secord, an aeroplane pilot living inpre-WWII, who doesn't have much luck flying. The movie is about how Cliff and his mentor and plane designer, Mr Peabody (Alan Arkin) stumble across a jetpack designed by Mr Howard Hughes. Disguising himself as the &#145;Rocketeer', Cliff uses the jetpack to his advantage, saving lives along the way. But what movie would be complete without the traditional villain? Timothy Dalton (Licence to Kill, The Living Daylights) marvellously portrays Hollywood actor Neville Sinclair, who will stop at nothing to get the rocket pack. But why would he want it? ;-DCliff always has a lot on his hands, from risking his life to rescue another pilot, to saving his girlfriend, Jenny Blake (Jennifer Connely), from the evil clutches of Sinclair. Get ready to rumble!The special effects were very good at times, especially the jetpack scenes. The acting excels as well, and the emotions and action are near-perfect, and those witty one-liners add to the humour of the film.Rocketeer is one in a billion. Its humour and acting fill up any plot holes that may appear. This is a slick clever film which I wholeheartedly reccomend.4 stars out of 5 -)****  "},{"Title":"Blast-off for old fashioned fun","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To date, there have been five films in the 'Scary Movie' franchise and yet only one 'The Rocketeer'. This may not be the worst of mankind's sins, but it's surely in the top-five.Lovingly made by the underrated Joe Johnston and featuring one of the late James Horner's best scores, 'The Rocketeer' really is gee-whiz fun in the absolute best sense of the word.As we await yet another reboot of comic book A-listers like Batman and Spider-Man, I should think there's room at the table for a new adventure featuring this two-fisted retro hero. And when/if they finally do, the bar will be awfully, awfully high. "},{"Title":"Fun, Exciting and A Nice Callback To 30-40's Serials.","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In contrast to a film like Indiana Jones which was built upon the formula of 30-40's serials, the Rocketeer is designed to recreate them. And it succeeds, bringing the real feeling of something like Flash Gordon in every way from it's cool look to it's action packed story.This story starts when a pilot, an everyman named Cliff (Billy Campbell), comes across the strange device that allows a man to take flight without wings and soar through the skies. But he quickly learns that there are many others who are interested in the device, with the machine being said to be capable of world domination and his girlfriend being kidnapped in an attempt to obtain the device. Thus he must now fly to the rescue fighting of gangsters, Nazi's and shady agents in order to save his girl. It's an over the top story with a plan that doesn't make sense when you think about it (how would Nazi's having jet packs lead to world domination?), but one that lives up to the adventure and excitement that the film is going for. The film also has a great cast of memorable and likable characters. Connelly plays the girlfriend to our hero, who may often be a damsel in distress but always remains likable fighting back and even saving the hero once or twice. Timothy Dalton plays Neville Sinclair, a Nazi sympathiser who's snuck into the Hollywood scene and is a straight cut villain who comes equipped with his own James Bond's Jaws kind of henchman. And Billy Campbell as the Rocketman, who is the everyman with little complexity and just the guy doing the right thing. They're all the basic archetypes we've seen before, but they're so well played and are very memorable. Plus it's nice change to see a straight up hero like the rocketeer now we're at a point where it seems that every hero must be dark and brooding. And it's always enjoyable to have a villain like Dalton who always seems like he's a short step away from twirling an evil moustache. It captures the atmosphere of 30's Hollywood in a great way. Everything from the costumes to the sets really gave a great feel of the time. The little details the filmmakers went to do have are impressive from the Hollywoodland sign to smaller things like some characters use of slang in the dialogue, it all goes a long way to make the context very believable. Plus by being in the 30's we get a great character in Howard Hughes (Terry O'Quinn), who plays a Walt Disney type imaginative character who invents the machine and lives up to the creative legend that Hughes is built up to be. Just like any great adventure film the action sequences are great. Beyond the great shoot outs and brawls, the jet-pack sequences are brilliantly imaginative with some well thought out sequences of the Rocketeer soaring on to a moving plane or speeding round a packed ballroom. Better yet this great imagination is also backed by very impressive special effects. The effects in this film are comparable to something like Christopher Reeves Superman, creating a very realistic feeling of flight which few films have seemed to be able to do. This film has everything you'd expect from a family action movie. In my opinion it's a film that never got the reception it deserved only making a small profit at the box office and sadly stopping the chances of sequels. This is really a shame because they probably would have been something impressive since this film was a great adventure and one that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Seriously Under Rated!","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After I saw the Nostalgia Critic's Top 11 Under Rated Nostalgic Movies, I decided I should give this movie a shot, and he was absolutely right! It's a very fun story, with memorable characters, and a few dated effects. The movie keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout, and I was actually worried when the characters were in danger. The only problem I think is that, although the movie is called the Rocketeer, he doesn't show up that much in the movie. It's like going to see a Spider-Man movie, but Peter Parker only puts on the costume two or three times. I don't really have a problem with that, because the few scenes he is in are really action packed and fun! If you love World War II movies or super hero films, definitely check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Blast from the Past!","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a fan of classic Hollywood cinema, how can I not love The Rocketeer? I delight in all those old Hollywood references, from lines such as You stood behind Myrna Loy with a bowl of grapes, to a movie set very similar to the castle interior from The Adventures of Robin Hood. I even find myself thinking this film's protagonist has pretty sweet life going for him; he gets to fly planes all day, has a hot aspiring actress girlfriend and lives in 1930's Hollywood.Why does these pulp serial adventures keep failing at the box office (The Shadow, The Phantom, Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow). Of course The Rocketeer's lack of box office success cancelled plans for an intended trilogy. Are audiences just not interested in these kinds of films, or do they just keep getting poorly marketed. Either way, this is why we can't have nice things.Timothy Dalton is the one of who steals the show as the Errol Flynn- esque Neville Sinclair. Dalton really is one of the last of his kind, as a Shakespearean trained actor who can play these types debonair, hammy villains, both here and his role in Hot Fuzz.My only complaint with The Rocketeer and the only aspect which prevents me from awarding the movie with the mighty 10, is the lead protagonist played by Billy Campbell, whom I find not to be terribly interesting. While it could be argued he's supposed to be dull in keeping with the tradition of B-movie serials having bland leading men. Still I would rather have a more charismatic screen presence. But when a movie still manages to be this much fun despite this, it's defiantly doing something right. "},{"Title":"The Superhero Most Deserving of a Reboot","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" PlotThis is the story of how Cliff, a pilot, because the hero known as the Rocketeer. The film starts off with Cliff test flying a new plane that he is going to enter in a national race. Do to no fault of his own the plane crash lands and is lost beyond repair destroying the fuel truck of the local business man. In order to pay for this debt Cliff agrees to fly another plane in the air show that this business man runs. When Cliff inspects this plane he finds a rocket pack in one of its seats. With the help of his friend Peevy (Alan Arkin) he learns to use this rocket pack to save someone's life. Meanwhile two different fractions are searching for this rocket pack. One group is the FBI and the other group is a bunch of mobsters that were hired by Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton), a Hollywood actor.Character DevelopmentCliff (Bill Campbell) learns what it takes to become a hero, but he doesn't have to do any soul searching to do it. He doesn't have to sacrifice anything or face any real trials and in the end he is pretty much the same guy he was at the start of the film. Jenny (Jennifer Connelly) does make a more noticeable change. She had stardust in her eyes at the beginning of the story, but by its conclusion she had a different perspective on Hollywood.ActingThe acting was really brilliant in this film. All the players reach high marks all the way down to the bottom of the cast. I particularly enjoyed Bob Leeman's role of W.C. Fields. The acting is on the pinnacle of any current comic book hero movie that you may choose to see, with all the black and white bad guys and heroics and colorful characters you can ask for. There are mobsters with hearts of gold, greedy nickel nursing business men, historical figures, intrepid FBI agents, and a bunch of cartoon Nazis to shot at. This is art mirroring art; Hollywood's looking back onto itself circa 1940.OverviewThis picture could have been made into a sequel. It had all the right ingredients and there was even a seed at the end that hinted that this could be a possibility. Yet I believe the talk was that this picture went over budget and the studio didn't get a good return on their investment so a sequel wasn't in the cards. Still there should have been one. This was movie magic. It had the feel of no other comic book hero movie. Like Batman the Rocketeer didn't have any super natural powers. He could fly, but only because he was wearing a rocket pack, only this was not like any recent Batman film. There was a certain ease and finesse here that didn't go overboard in the telling of it. I don't think the creators of the Rocketeer would have Batman speaking almost unintelligible or have him destroying squad cars and rooftops. "}{"Title":"Just wonderful","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Thankfully, the kind of annoying, self-congratulatory post-modernism that's so common now hadn't got hold of Hollywood when 'The Rocketeer' was made, so there's no winking at the camera, sneering at the source material or unfunny irony to be found. It's just a wide-eyed, good old-fashioned adventure. A monumentally underrated film, it generally gets unfavourably compared to the Indiana Jones movies but it's a true gem, one of those half-forgotten movies that never really found an audience but has so much to love that I never get tired of it.It's a wonderful throwback to the cliffhanger serials of yesteryear, a mixture of good guys and bad guys, Nazis, bi-planes, G-men, tommy guns, classic songs, damsels in distress and derring-do. I guess comparisons with the Indy movies are fair enough up to a point because Dave Stevens' original comic (which first appeared around the same time as 'Raiders') derived its inspiration from the same kind of films as the Spielberg quartet. Stevens even worked on Raiders as a production artist (also, look out for him here as the German 'rocketeer' who gets blown up). The comic was a blend of nostalgic adventure, period drama and romance, somewhat overwritten and heavy on the 'Gee whiz, aw, gosh darn it!' dialogue but good fun and beeeeaaaauuuutifully drawn. But where the Indy movies are brutal in places and suffer from Spielberg's mechanical direction, 'The Rocketeer' offers a far lighter touch, crafty homages to Thirties movies and an innocent tone that matches its post-Depression, pre-war setting.Although it doesn't stick to the letter of the comics, the movie connects with it at key junctures &#x96; the air show rescue where Cliff first makes his debut as the Rocketeer, the Bulldog café, the villains dumping the rocket in the hangar, Jenny's, um... shape (although she was called Betty in the comic). The Rocketeer costume is bang on, although the design of the rocket itself has been changed to a dual pack rather than the original 'King of the Rocketmen'-type single cylinder job, and it looks a lot better. Director Joe Johnston (later to make the equally delightful 'Captain America') has ensured the transition from page to screen has been a pretty faithful one.The casting is spot on &#x96; Bill Campbell, handsome and just a little bit bland, looks just like Stevens' art, especially his haircut. Alan Arkin is great fun as Peevy, Timothy Dalton is perfectly cast as an Errol Flynn-esque smoothie, and Jennifer Connelly is lovable as anything, with curves in all the right places. There are wonderful supporting turns from Terry O'Quinn as Howard Hughes, Paul Sorvino as chief heavy Eddie Valentine, Jon Polito as air show boss Bigelow, and especially a watery-eyed heartbreaker of a performance from Eddie Jones. Referencing the kind of hidden-in-the-shadows, unsubtle henchmen who would appear in Thirties potboilers (played by actors like Dick Wessell and, more specifically, Rondo Hatton), Tiny Ron gets plastered in prosthetics for the character of Lothar, growling 'Give me the rocket!' before he snaps people in half. It's refreshing to see such an eclectic cast, free of huge stars, for what was one of 1991's big movies.Production values are superb right across the board. The pacing is fast and smooth, Johnston's direction is light but exciting and the good-humoured screenplay fairly zips along with plenty of witty lines along the way ('I'll miss Hollywood'; 'But what he means is a piece of the world'). James Bissell's gorgeous pastel production design evokes a Hollywood that probably never existed, full of art deco buildings and lavish clubs, while Hiro Narita's lush, colourful photography makes everyone look fantastic and nods in the direction of past masters while he's at it, throwing shadows on faces in just the right places. Top of the list, though, must be James Horner's outstanding score, which is one of my all-time favourites a rousing theme, an optimistic tinkling piano, and darker undercurrents for the Neville Sinclair scenes.But of course, in a movie about a guy with a rocket pack, you want to see flying &#x96; and here the movie scores big. By far the best scene is the one where Malcolm takes to the air in Cliff's place and has to be rescued by Cliff in Rocketeer guise. The ruddered helmet looks fab, and the shots of him blasting through the sky are just exhilarating. The visual effects are excellent, making you believe a man can fly better than the Superman movies ever did; he's out there in the wide-open skies, Horner's music bringing a tear to the old eye. I love the bit where Cliff flies alongside the passenger plane; the whole air show bit is amazing, and actually I find the flying sequences quite emotional for some strange reason. It's a shame there's not a bit more Rocketeer action, admittedly, but when it comes it's worth waiting for.Whether it was because most Nineties movie-goers have memories that don't stretch back much beyond the mid-Eighties, or because everyone just thought it was another Indy copy, or because it was just made at the wrong time, the box office failure of 'The Rocketeer' meant no sequels emerged, which is a real shame. It's a wonderful film. The good guys are untarnished and pure of heart, the bad guys are Nazis and gangsters, there's a big shootout between the Feds and the Nazis and there's a great finale on board a zeppelin &#x96; in short, it's a rollicking adventure made in the right spirit, much like that other much-maligned comic adaptation, 'Dick Tracy'. It's a corker. "},{"Title":"The Rocketeer","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its a real shame this film bombed so much at the box office, I really can't understand why it did so badly as its one of the best comicbook adaptations around. It captures the all American spirit of the time and harnesses that glorious 30's feel with every frame. Johnston really did superbly well with this film and capturing the very essence of that classic early comicbook/serial type hero and integrating it with that all American WWII wartime effort vibe.Just seeing the old movie poster shows you how much care and attention to detail went into this film. The poster has a fantastic art deco design (from the era) of our heroic lead character, its simple and minimal but does the job a thousand times over, I love it, one of the best posters created. Even the font for the text is absolutely perfect looking.Although the character was created in 82 its an obvious homage to pulp comicbooks and matinée/serial hero characters of the 30's/40's, the idea is simple but it works so so well. The whole film has that Indy feel to it and completes a trilogy of classic pulp comicbook superheroes alongside 'The Shadow' and 'The Phantom'...in my opinion. All characters of the era and all similar in design, typical manly and dashing in smart outfits, saving poor damsels in distress for breakfast.The film is nothing but fun and doesn't pretend to be serious or shy away from the ham n cheese. Dalton is the dastardly caddish villain who is clearly suppose to be Errol Flynn, Connelly is the soppy damsel in distress, Sorvino is the classic American gangster in a tubby Al Capone style ('Eddie Valentine'? perfect American mobster name methinks), O'Quinn plays Howard Hughes amazingly well and Tiny Ron is a character straight out of 'Dick Tracy'. New boy Campbell also does really well as the lead character giving the role a fresh feel and no ego problems which tend to come with big names.The film looks great and has some terrific design work, the rocket pack looks cool and practical with more nice art deco touches...as does the helmet with its rudder fin on the top. Effects were considered very good at the time with lots of high flying thrills and aerial stunts, bluescreen heavily used of course. Nowadays the effects do look rather iffy and obvious but that tends to add to the charm really, it doesn't detract from the excitement in any way. The plot is straight forward but it does get a bit beyond itself towards the finale, like how on earth does a huge Nazi Zeppelin fly into the US undetected? I guess its suppose to be the 30's so who knows, radar not at its best back then huh (well it was in its early days I believe). I must also mention the brilliant animated black n white short in the middle of the flick which shows the Nazi's intentions with the rocket pack. Truly awesome animation that is sharp as a knife to this day, it could easily have been a separate film (or series) in itself.I really can't fault this film in any way, sure its silly but its well worked escapism and an affectionate tribute to the era, anyone of any age would have fun watching this. Without taking anything away from the creators you could almost say its like an adventure from a young Indiana Jones, an early tale from his younger years, a prequel even. I love how they didn't shy away from using the Nazi's as the bad guys despite it being a family film, an important requirement. The Indiana Jones of the skies, fighting the dastardly Nazi's and their incredible machines of war, hell this is really what 'Captain America' should have been like.9/10 "},{"Title":"Good, and better 20-years on","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When it first came out, I remember enjoying the first 30 minutes of this movie, then finding it a bit slow. This time around, I found myself appreciating the tribute aspects a bit more and enjoyed it in its entirety. You'll like this movie a lot more if you know about the era and the real life counterparts of the characters that are referenced and portrayed. Without that knowledge, the movie might appear far more naive than it actually is. The acting is generally spot on for the tribute tone of the movie and both the leads are outrageously good-looking people. If memory serves I developed a slight crush on Ms. Connelly after my original viewing of this movie. I'm sure I wasn't alone. I'm not sure it didn't happen this time. This was filmed long before she joined the Hollywood cult of the anorexic.The FX are nicely done and the science is perfectly out of whack considering the genre that the film mimics. All in all, I appreciate this movie and its honoring the past without becoming a schmaltz-fest. It's an action movie done in a thoughtful manner. I Like It. "},{"Title":"In the tradition of Indiana Jones and The Mummy trilogies...","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...except that it takes place entirely in Southern California. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but it does distinguish it from the globe-trotting approach of those other films.The Rocketeer (1991) takes place in 1938 where a pilot (Billy Campbell) and his mechanic find a jet-pack that can enable humans to fly. The problem is, the Nazis, the FBI and the Mob all want it and are willing to kill for it. Jennifer Connelly plays the pilot's girlfriend and Timothy Dalton his rival.It's surprising that Campbell didn't go on to greater success after this movie, but I guess the fact that it performed modestly at the box office had something to do with this. Jennifer is in her prime here and never looked better (she unfortunately lost weight and her beautiful curves in subsequent years). Dalton almost steals the show as the dastardly villain.BOTTOM LINE The Rocketeer is just a fun, rollicking adventure film in the tradition of Indiana Jones and The Mummy. If you're in the mood for this type of fare it delivers the goods and delivers them well. That said, it's not great. Some aspects are too tame; for instance, they could have done more with Connelly.The film runs 108 minutes and was shot in Los Angeles, Hollywood, Santa Maria and Piru, California.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Big gopher.....","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cliff Secord crashes his plane after being hit in the air in a shoot-out between gangsters and FBI agents in a car chase; completely broken, his best friend and mechanic 'Peevy' tries to fix an old plane to raise some money in an exhibition show. Cliff finds a package hidden by one of the gangsters with a rocket with belts and they find that the device allows man to fly. Meanwhile, his beloved girlfriend and aspirant actress Jenny Blake succeeds in an audition to make a small part in a movie of the great actor Neville Sinclair. During a flight exhibition, mechanic Malcolm has an accident, and Cliff uses the rocket to save him, being called Rocketeer by the public. With his picture in the front page of the newspaper, Cliff is chased by the FBI, the gangsters and the German spies that abduct Jenny.....Way ahead of its time, but maybe a little too soon after the last crusade, the Rocketeer was the second most original film of a very weird 1991 blockbuster summer. It's fun in the sense that it was ignored on its initial release,and has been ever since. This was Disneys big release in 1991, and this film is like the first POTC film flopping, they threw a lot of money at this, and somehow, all the marketing did nothing.It harks back to the films of the thirties, where all the bad guys were slick,a nd the good guys were just too good for their own good.And this is where the film falters. Where Indiana Jones had the swagger and the attitude, Secord is all happy and apologetic, and very bland at times.Thank heavens for Dalton, who steals the show as the dastardly villain, who goes from smooth to outrageous Nazi in a matter of seconds. It's pure pantomime stuff, but it works in this.The effects are okay, and Johnston can do this era in his sleep, the direction is flawless, as is the cinematography.It's a shame about the bland lead. "},{"Title":"My favorite Disney film","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are lots of early 20th century pulp heroes that have been adapted to the big screen. But few have scored high with audiences. And then there are the ones that gather a cult following for being so unappreciated at the theaters when they were originally released. This movie is one of them. There are multiple reasons to why this movie should have been a success and yet audiences never realized the material within. It may not be Captain America The First Avenger (2011) or Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) but the adventure is just as filling.The Rocketeer recollects the time when everything entailed G-men in pressed suits, kingpins wearing corsages, sinister masterminds cleverly disguised as other individuals, and damsels' in distress. It is a much- welcomed nostalgic aura because these types of elements aren't always used in the correct manner. But director Joe Johnston, utilizes everything that's given to him and it's done brilliantly. And although it wasn't made the exact way he wanted it to be, Dave Stevens, the creator of The Rocketeer character, which was derived from a popular comic book, was happily satisfied with the majority of the movie.In this film, because Disney sponsored it, the story not only will appeal to adults but to teenagers as well. The original comic book was actually more for adults. Bill Campbell as Cliff Secord was an excellent choice, as was Jennifer Connelly as his attractive love interest. And like many other films, Connelly plays her strong-willed female character quite proficiently. Both look stunning together as well kudos to the casting by Nancy Foy. Thankfully, the writers decided to have Secord already have a love interest and not find her as the plot continued, like most love stories go. Also the fact that this film doesn't have sappy love. This can drain the energy from the whole plot, making it difficult for the audience.As characters go, many scenes were done in pairs. If it's not Secord's technician pal, Peevy (Alan Arkin), making funny lines, it's mobster Eddie Valentine (Paul Sorvino) making threats to his boss, Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton). And if it's not them, the audience will even take pleasure in watching Ed Lauter and James Handy, play two FBI agents, Fitch and Wooly, who seem to always be one step behind everyone else. And who's their boss? Nobody else but Howard Hughes, played by Terry O'Quinn. The screenplay leaves nobody out of the story and that's good because every character is amiable for their own reasons. Each role was given special care so that no one would be left out off the screen and it shows. The special effects are reputable here too. Some audiences may find them exhausted due to how special effects are used nowadays but all the same, for 1991, that's exceptionally impressive. Not to mention that 1991 was the beginning of when CGI was first introduced from Cameron's Terminator 2 Judgement Day (1991). But when Secord is up in air and soaring like a fighter jet, it's still an eye-catcher today. Some may even call Secord as the Ironman (2008) of his time and in a way, they're right! And although The Rocketeer wasn't a machine, he was the first human flying machine. It's a lot of fun to watch.There is no question about action in this adventure tale either. All of it is appropriate for its audience especially for what Johnston was given to work with story wise. I will admit that there wasn't as much as I had expected there to be but I still loved the movie at the end. The music is great too. The man who created a stirring soundtrack to the movie Glory (1989), is back again; James Horner. Horner may not have made this particular soundtrack to be emotionally moving, but it is profusely joyful and innocent, making it just as delightful. And just like Glory's tune, The Rocketeer has its own theme that's also of one to remember. The conversion of Dave Stevens' comic book hero has a great cast, a pleasant screenplay, and a sensational soundtrack. It's shocking that a film done this well, did not make it big in the movie business. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but not bad either.","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The title characters takes off to fight some Nazi's in Joe Johnson's THE ROCKETEER. Let's start with the positive elements. Well first of all the acting is good, nothing groundbreaking, but still passable. The special effects are also good, again nothing excellent, but still nice to look at. The main characters are also very goodhearted and likable. Now on the negative aspects. This story isn't horrible, but it can get a little TOO silly at times, like what the Nazi's plan to do with the Rockets. The villain is also pretty ridicules. Well despite the flaws, this is a very enjoyable film. It's innocent, good old-fashioned fun, so check it out and have fun. "},{"Title":"Like Bo Derek...This is a '10'","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was a fan of Dave Stevens Rocketeer Comic Books from the 1980's (even though his first Rocketeer strips were in a comic called 'Starslayer' and were a little bit more raunchy than this film)So I was surprised yet delighted to hear back in the 90's that this film had been given the Green Light.In the end it seemed it had been made especially for me as I was the only one who went to see this in the cinema (or so it seemed) so I guess I owe Disney millions -)Why did it fail? I have no idea!!! It's fun fun fun. Beautifully & Stylishly directed by Johnson (who later went on to direct Captain America...I knew he was a super director)The 1930's details are beautifully realised here, Dalton is a great swashbuckling baddie, Campbell a good hero & Ms Connelly simply is Betty Page (just a shame they had to tone the picture down from the comics but then again it wouldn't have been a GREAT family film but rather a GREAT R Rated Movie)YES IT'S ONE OF MY FAVOURITE MOVIES...WITH A GREAT SOUNDTRACK TOO.Rocketeer Flyer says...Up Up and Away. "},{"Title":"Nazis, Good Guy, Fit Girl=The Greatest Superhero Film Ever Made","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the greatest superhero film ever made, not just by Disney, but by anyone. It's about a man who finds a rocket and decides to become a superhero-this is what kids films should be about! As well as this, it has everything an action film should have, explosions, girls and Nazis, with Jennifer Connolly playing a role that decided my sexual preference. When it came out in cinemas it didn't make much money, but this would have been due to its release date falling on the same day as Terminator 2, a surefire problem you would have thought Disney would try to avoid. Had the film been released earlier, I firmly believe it would have been a much bigger Box Office success, (and then made into a trilogy), not only because of the spectacle of Jennifer Connolly's ample bosom, but also because of the quality of action, adventure and childish wonderment that the Rocketeer provides. "},{"Title":"Blast it! This could have been awesome; instead it's just moderately entertaining.","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When an elderly colleague experiences trouble during a stunt show, pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) straps on the mysterious prototype jet-pack found stashed in the cockpit of his plane and unwittingly becomes the news sensation known as The Rocketeer; he also becomes the target of dashing Hollywood star/Nazi spy Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton), who plans to develop the amazing invention for use in a planned aerial assault on the US by German troops.Even with an undeniably fun concept, a great cast, and every tool in ILM's special effects arsenal at his disposal, Spielberg acolyte Joe Johnston fails to turn pulp-style comic-book Rocketeer into the absolutely awesome movie it could so easily have been. How? With too much talk and not enough rocketeering!For a film based on a character who can blast through the sky with the aid of a jet-propelled back pack, The Rocketeer features surprisingly little aerial action, instead spending much of its time set on terra firmer. There's plenty of intrigue and suspense as Sinclair's hired goons (which include a hulking Rondo Hatton lookalike) try to locate the pack, and Jennifer Connelly as Cliff's gorgeous girlfriend is a pleasantly diverting sight (boy, would I like to get my hands on her massive twin boosters!) but none of this is a truly satisfying substitute for lots of fast and furious, rocket powered action. "}{"Title":"ROCKETEER (Joe Johnston, 1991) ***","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is another comic-strip adaptation I missed out on when it first came out; as it happens, it's one of the most enjoyable efforts of its type and time (i.e. before the days of CGI) that I can recall &#150; so much so that I decided to add it to my collection as soon as it was over! Again, the setting is pre-WWII America &#150; with the villain eventually exposed as a Nazi agent (it was a wickedly clever touch to have him, in the person of Timothy Dalton, adopt an acting career as cover!). Incidentally, I'll be watching presently the former James Bond's other appearance in a film sourced from comics &#150; the maligned BRENDA STARR (1989).While lead Bill Campbell as a flying ace is somewhat anonymous if still likable, he's surrounded by pros &#150; Alan Arkin, marvelous as his mentor/mechanic; the delectable Jennifer Connelly at her loveliest (with prominent cleavage to boot) as his star-struck girl &#150; who becomes a pawn in the subsequent powerplay; Ed Lauter as a hard-boiled yet incompetent Fed; and, of course, Dalton himself &#150; who gleefully lampoons matinée idols and Errol Flynn in particular (since the film he's currently working on faithfully reproduces part of the climax of THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD 1938, but replacing the witty dialogue of the original with hilariously stilted lines!). With this in mind, the film features 'guest appearances' by the likes of Clark Gable, W.C. Fields and Howard Hughes (who, given the central aviation theme of the narrative gets a sizeable part &#150; though, obviously, no mention is made of the notorious OCD complex which plagued him throughout his entire life).Despite its generous length (108 minutes), as I said, the film is tremendously entertaining and looks handsome into the bargain &#150; providing wonderful characterizations (including a thug/hit-man rendered even more sinister and imposing by the effects of acromegaly!), effortless charm, tongue-in-cheek humor (the design of the Rocketeer's helmet itself being delightfully wacky) and, naturally, plenty of rousing action (capped by a climax set aboard a Zeppelin). "},{"Title":"Not ... quite ... there.","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's hard to pinpoint, really. The makers of The Rocketeer plainly did their homework. It's a very faithful reproduction of Dave Stevens' style, they got so many of the Art Deco details right. The cinematography was lush, Bill Campbell looked right as Cliff Secord, Jennifer Connelly was fine in her own role, the director played it without a trace of camp, the script and plot was reasonably faithful to canon, the production values were first rate, it was just ...... missing. Connelly wasn't quite vampy enough (I know, I know, they wanted to tone Betty's plain porno inclinations down for the Disney crowd), and we know she can do that. Campbell wasn't quite strong jawed heroic enough, and we know he can do *that*. Perhaps it's just that the principals didn't bring their A games to this movie, because just a touch more energy and verve would have made this a classic.7/10, mostly for the production values. "},{"Title":"Far superior to most action movies of its type.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is difficult for me to understand why this movie is not rated more highly by critics and viewers.  It is an excellent action film, with attractive and likable protagonists confronted by some first class villains.  The plot is logical, it flows smoothly, and the final resolution is entirely satisfying.  The photography and special effects are first class. Perhaps part of the reason for this movie's rather poor showing has to do with its title and the way it was marketed.  I really don't know. At any rate, I think The Rocketeer is far superior to most action movies of its type, including those which were commercially successful like Spiderman and the Indiana Jones series.  "},{"Title":"It was the closest I'll ever get to heaven, Mr. Hughes","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, for fans of the common man becoming quite heroic, is a blast. Nothing to figure out - just watch at it unfolds and enjoy each step of the journey.Bill Campbell portrays a pilot, who loves what he does in a plane...then discovers what he can do without the plane and a rocket strapped to his back.  Alan Arkin is great as the mechanic/best friend/conscience of good and evil, Timothy Dalton plays an over-the-top Errol Flynn-esque film hero/Nazi spy. Paul Sorvino does his best mob inpersonation...all in good fun.The score of the movie adds a richness, a patina of days long gone by...from the opening piano solo to full blown orchestra when the action gets going hot and heavy.All in all, not a cerebral who-dun-it, but a grab the popcorn and let's forget about the next two hours fun movie.  Very underrated, but 11 years after release, still a hoot to watch. "},{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is exciting fresh and thats in 2001.ten years after it was made.only now is Joe Johnston getting the praise he deserves thanks to his brill jurassic park 3.bill campbell is likable as the rocketeer.jennifer connelly is absolutely beautiful.and timothy dalton steals the show proving he could do humour.i loved him as bond but if he had played it with the same twinkle in his eye.even moore didnt get it right until the third.this is a must see.disney should make another one of these where the rocketeer has to battle a army of nazi rocketeers.come on we want another.one of the best music scores ever.a classic movie that wont date like terminator 2 "},{"Title":"One of the most under rated films of the '90's","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe that this film isn't better known. It's almost perfect, from the design, the acting, the direction, music and a spot-on script. It's as exciting and as thrilling as the old movie serials that it pays homage to.Everything about it is pitch-perfect. One of the only films this decade that I wanted a sequel for. Why this film didn't do better at the box office is a mystery to rival the Bermuda triangle. "},{"Title":"GREAT FUN !","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great fun  gorgeous production design, dashing leading man & dashing villain, entertaining story, good soundtrack by James Horner (who also did Titanic, Glory & Star Trek II  The Wrath of Khan). Funny in-jokes the Erroll Flynn doppelganger villain is really a Nazi spy, as Flynn was at one time suspected of; the appearance of a Mondo Hatton look-alike, a monster-ish bad guy with a frightening face; Howard Hughes seeing a model for his Spruce Goose actually fly; the Erroll Flynn villain commenting that he does his own stunts, as Flynn often did. Go and see this film, you'll enjoy it too! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and entertaining","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed the Rocketeer. No it isn't perfect, there isn't much of a story at times, and there parts of the narrative that felt a little illogical. However, there is much to enjoy, in an overall enjoyable film. It is lovingly designed, with lovely costumes and splendid set pieces. The screenplay is compelling and quite intricately crafted, and the direction is solid. The acting is very good too. Bill Campbell particularly is very likable in the lead role, with his boyish charm and his charisma. While both Alan Arkin and Pierce Brosnan have given better performances, they still managed to give something to the proceedings. And we also have Jennifer Conelly at her loveliest, and she is a lovely actress. The music is outstanding, very dramatic and a pleasant listen. Overall, the Rocketeer is very good fun, not perfect, but a nice diversion for two hours. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Remember watching this as a kid..Now it makes me feel like a kid in a good way!","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" wow. I cannot believe it's been so long. I thought this movie was just great as a child. Now it's even better. Anyone who is too young for this film, however, if you enjoyed The Mummy and National Treasure you will love this flick! It's so classic. Guy loves girl, loses girl, finds special power, girl meets bad guy, guy beats bad guy and reclaims girl. HHmmm..Sounds like a lot of movies. It's how they're executed that stands them apart. And this one is truly one of those times. Although no globe winner or academy winner by no means, this film does excel in entertainment. Even watching it today, it looks and feels just as good as it did when I watched it on VHS. It's like taking a B-movie idea (yes I know it has comic origins) and making it an A grade film. And it was helped along by Disney, which is surprising in those days. Black Cauldron wasn't released for years because it was too violent. This film, however, had a lot going for it that was not exactly Disney standard.Anyhow, if you're a fan of comic books or adventure, if you're looking for a film for the whole family or simply trying to escape the hardships of the world for a more simpler time and place, this one's for you. Highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of the pulp series of yesteryear","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although the film lags a bit in spots, this is an excellent representation of adapting an alternate source of drama for the big screen. Too often novels, TV shows, and especially comics have been given a Hollywood treatment only to suffer for it. See The Phantom with billy Zane, Batman television series, the Dick Tracy film with Warren Beatty, etc. Here is a great example of how these sources should be treated. With reverence and authenticity. They truly capture the feel of rural life in the 1940's. On the eve of war with the Nazi's, gangsters running wild, and no real heroes to speak of. A experimental rocket pack is stolen and stashed in a barn. Happy go lucky schmuck pilot discovers it, and builds himself into a American hero. His lady love gets involved with Nazi spy, and his Hulking/deformed henchman. A spectacular chase ensues with a climactic confrontation atop a zeppelin. Some figures of the day make guest appearances (especially Howard Hughes played by Terry O'Quinn), and the period piece is helped greatly by the art director and set coordinator, who seamlessly recreate a 40's era California. Complete with flashy nightclubs, over the top movie sets, and characters straight out of a pulp novel of the time. Sinister Nazis is one of my favorite subplots of any movie. Several Sherlock Holmes films with basil rathbone featured Nazi spies, as did a slew of the Dead end kid serials, East End Kids, etc. A real forties feel, and great special effects of the Rocketeer flying, plus a harmless tone to the film making it accessible to kids and adults alike, makes this a great addition to any film collection. "}{"Title":"Strap yourself in!","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer was one of a series of comic book to film adaptations that emerged in the early 90s following the success of Tim Burton's exceptional Batman. But none of these successors were able to recreate the same box-office appeal. Films like The Shadow and Dick Tracy fizzled. And sadly, so to did The Rocketeer.Inspired by the 30s Saturday matinée serials, The Rocketeer follows the adventures of daredevil ace pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell). Cliff is down on his luck. He's a pilot without a plane. His relationship with his girlfriend Jenny (Jennifer Connelly) is stuck in a rut. And his only friend in the world is oddball scientist Peevy Peabody (the greatly underrated Alan Arkin).But all that's about to change. When an experimental rocket jet-pack accidentally ends up in Cliff's hands, he christens himself the Rocketeer. But unfortunately, the rocket pack is a valuable commodity. And there are quite a few parties interested in acquiring it. The FBI. The Mafia. The Nazis. And even the reclusive filmmaker Howard Hughes!The Rocketeer is infused with such an authentic all-American, gosh darn gee-whiz enthusiasm its almost impossible not to like the film. Directed by Joe Johnston, one of my favourite filmmakers, The Rocketeer represents a slightly different change of pace for him. Johnston loves to make exciting thrill-rides that move at a breakneck pace. He did after all create the wonderful Honey I Shrunk the Kids and the quite spectacular Jumanji. But every now and again he likes to make films that are a little more restrained. Like the rather charming October Sky.In the case of The Rocketeer, he tries to meld both approaches into one package. And I thought he did quite a fine job. Its just as exciting as any of Johnston's purely action-packed films. But he also invokes the spirit of the 30s and turns out quite a lavish film.Some of the sets are very retro, but some of them, like an opulent restaurant recall the spirit of many a Howard Hawks/Busby Berkeley picture. But where Johnston really scores is in the action scenes. That's the one aspect of film-making he really does well. The flying scenes are dizzying and even occasionally breathtaking. Just as they should be. And there's hardly any signs of obvious special-effects work. They've aged rather gracefully. Compare it to more recent comic-book adaptations like The Hulk. Where the effects work already looks dated. The Rocketeer runs rings around it.And at times it even manages to be thrilling too. The climax in particular. Aboard a burning Nazi zeppelin that slowly turns into an inferno. Its a real corker of a finale. Its the type of ending A View To a Kill wanted to be but wasn't.The effects and action scenes certainly can't be faulted. The cast is a little more variable. Bill Campbell is an almost too perfect incarnation of the lantern jawed All-American hero. But he's just a little too stolid in the role. He doesn't bring the sincerity that the part so desperately needs. Its no surprise that Campbell has never really done anything noteworthy since.Jennifer Connelly looks downright ravishing as a 1930s up and coming starlet. But like Campbell, she's a bit blank. She was still polishing her acting style since making her debut in 1986's Labyrinth. But it would be a few years yet before she would become an actress worthy of notice.Out of the cast, the ones that probably come off best are Timothy Dalton and Alan Arkin. Dalton is wonderfully slimy and perfectly sneaky as Hollywood star/Nazi sympathiser Neville Sinclaire. He throws himself into the part with gusto, and interestingly, he plays the part like a larger than life Bond villain! And Alan Arkin turns in another archly droll performance as Peevy. He is the first one to remark how much like a hood ornament Cliff resembles when dressed as the Rocketeer!The Rocketeer doesn't quite have the lasting appeal of similar like-minded adventures like Raiders of the Lost Ark and the underrated Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow. But its likable, Sunday afternoon fare. It is a snappy adventure, and although the memory of it will probably fade after a few hours, during the time it is on, its quite a fun ride to be having. "},{"Title":"Fun, fast but sadly forgotten.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Based on the Dave Steven's 1980s comic book series of the same name, the Rocketeer is one of the first comic book to film cross overs whose director (Joe Johnston of Jumanji) made a serious effort to stick as closely to the source material as possible. Despite a few alterations to the over all story, such as the Risqué Bettie Page character from the comics being replaced with the much more repectable girl next door Jenny Blake, the film very rarely strayed for the main ideas presented in the comic book.The film was pitched to audiences as Indianna Jones meets Top Gun, but in fact the Rocketeer was actually an update and homage to the popular 1950's pulp movie serial Commando Cody.The film was released in June, 1991, and grossed just under $50,000.00 in the US despite some very positive critical buzz. The film was one of Disney's major financial flops and quickly slipped into obscurity.However as with many films of this genre the movie has built up a cult following both stateside and in Japan, were even to this day a major toy manufacturer (Medicom) continues to produce 12 action figures and replica helmets based on the film.The films cult status is well deserved, and is one of the most under-rated action films of the 1990's. The script, the actors and even the action were all top notch and exuded a sense of charm that has been somewhat lacking in the last decades barrage of summer popcorn flicks. There was a true sense of that old Gee Whiz feeling that was so key to the serial films of the 30's 40's and 50's. Billy Campbell, who like the film has slide into a level obscurity, fully embodied the all American fly boy image that America was trying to establish at the time. Billy was able to walk that same fine line between awkward geek and hero that Christopher Reeves did in Superman. Alan Arkin made the fatherly role of mechanic Peevey his own. Jennifer Connoly struck the perfect chord as the girlfriend who feels distanced and shut out from her boyfrieds life and is always on the defensive regarding her career choice to be an actress.This is also one of the most memorable roles for Timothy Dalton whose much maligned jaunt as James Bond never allowed him to show the kind of acting range he displays here. As a villain Dalton was spot on.Yes there are clichés, Nazi's once again are the villains. Yes there are mechanics in the film that are questionable, the Rocket pack shoots out flames that should set Cliff Secords pants on fire. But it's all very tongue in cheek and if you can see past the few flaws then the film is one hell of a ride.This is also one of the last big budget films to use practical effects. The film was released in the same month and year as Terminator 2 which used heavy CGI to accomplish many of its action scenes and is considered by many to have begun the CG revolution. There are directors such as Jon Favreau that have argued for a return to practical effects due to the over saturation of computer Graphics in modern sci fi and action films, and looking at the Rocketeer it's easy to understand why some directors are beginning to rebel against the use of CG. The effects in the Rocketeer have a certain charm and magic that would have been lost with the cold and sterile feel that computer renders tend to exhibit in these kind of films. "},{"Title":"Retro and proud!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I caught this film in the theater not long after its release in the very early summer of 1991. It would go on to be a very quiet release,as the business it made for Disney was abysmally small. I bought it cheap off a Disney discount rack at the supermarket where I worked some six years later and have enjoyed watching this movie very much whenever I pop it in.Joe Johnston directed this tribute to action serials of the past,which places the action in Depression-era Hollywood. Test pilot Cliff Secord(Billy Campbell,more known for his TV work but seems perfect for this particular film lead)is no stranger to danger,as he is one that has been known to work on flying engines that have nearly gotten him killed before. So his discovery of a highly unusual rocket engine that had seemingly been discarded,prompts him to--with the help of his engineer and old friend Peevy(Alan Arkin,dutiful as ever)--patch the engine and give it a whirl. Naturally they are impressed and somewhat frightened(particularly Peevy) by the power this engine harnesses,but they have little time to decide what to do as the Nazis,gangsters and feds go looking for it. Covered in a near spaceman-like helmet and riding jacket(a look that has Peevy thinking Cliff looks like a hood element),he becomes the title character,and will need his speed and bravery to rescue(among others)his starry-eyed up-and-comer of a actress girlfriend Jenny(Jennifer Connelly,stunningly beautiful as usual but not asked to flex much range here as she's been known to).Some very good turns here by freshly un-Bonded Timothy Dalton(As the Errol Flynn-like Neville Sinclair,a screen idol with nefarious designs),Paul Sorvino(as a truly Edward G.Robinson/James Cagney-like gangster),Tiny Ron(as a monstrous Nazi thug)and Jon Polito(as a sleazy promoter)add to the kind of brash,retro charm of this film. A somewhat rare bird of a film,it is(as one other commenter noted)a tribute to the type of Two-fisted serials of the past,and co-writers Danny Bilson and Paul DeMeo off of a comic book(graphic novel?)by Dave Stevens unabashedly period and straight-forward. The good guys and bad guys are easily identifiable,and the action is as sweeping as it is linear and eye-popping!The producers wisely chose to keep the cast somewhat anonymous and therefore allow the movie to be itself instead of being carried by some A-list celebrity. Kind of Indiana JOnes if they'd gone with someone OTHER than Steven Spielberg and Harrison Ford.People who either long for movies from the past or enjoy a good,uncluttered action film with nostalgia really need to rent (and perhaps own) this movie. "},{"Title":"An amazing period piece!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is truly underrated and too often overlooked in the discussions concerning classics. Joe Johnston (Jumanji, Honey I shrunk the kids) has a knack for these sort of sci-fi sleeper hits, and The Rocketeer is no exception. Weaving that very famous aviation mogul Howard Hughes into the main plot, the film which is set circa the 1930s centers around a stolen jet pack, the mobsters that are after it, the man (Howard Hughes) it was stolen from, and the man who discovers it (Bill Campbell in his major HOTTIE hay-day) and ultimately becomes the Rocketeer, a local superhero. Jennifer Connelly plays a budding actress who would do and believe just about anything if it would get her a role in the next big Hollywood picture or production. She is also the girlfriend of Bill Campbell's character and they make one heck of a smashing couple. Their chemistry is through the roof! Timothy Dalton plays the typical British bad-guy/#1 Hollywood actor but with a twist that would have you hating his guts even more. The graphics and CGI stuff looks mediocre now considering the age of the film but that does not stand in the way of the joyride the movie turns out to be. A+++ "},{"Title":"A cool flying hero, a villainous version of Errol Flynn as the main villain, Paul Sorvino as a gangster boss, Nazi's fighting in Los Angeles. Yes, it's entertainment alright!","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to say that I was both surprised and disappointed to see that this movie only has a 'low' 5.9 rating on here, at the moment. This movie is pure and good entertainment, how someone could not enjoy this movie really puzzles me. It has all the elements in it to make a movie entertaining.Perhaps to the most important element to make a movie entertaining are the characters. The characters have to be fun, likable and stereotypical over-the-top. The Rocketeer has characters like that. Bruce Campbell is a great heroic leading man and Timothy Dalton for once plays the main villain. He is a villainous version of action/adventure from the '30's and '40's superstar Errol Flynn. His fun and almost indestructible henchman is a Rondo Hatton like character, who takes on a small army of feds with just only his 2 guns. Other great character in the movie are the gangster boss Eddie Valentine played by Paul Sorvino, Howard Hughes played by Terry O'Quinn, Alan Arkin as A. 'Peevy' Peabody and a young Jennifer Connelly as the love interest and dame in distress.The story involves flying stunts, Nazi's, feds, gangsters and Hollywood. It all forms a perfect combination in the story and together it makes The Rocketeer an entertaining movie, that in terms of entertainment is on the same level as the Indiana Jones movies. Joe Johnston surely doesn't make 'great' movies but yet he knows how to make a movie entertaining, which still makes him one of the better directors. The movie is beautifully crafted and told. The time period the movie is set in (the late '30's) work wonderful for the story and gives the movie a great adventurous atmosphere. The sets and costumes also contribute to this. The great musical score by James Horner makes the movie even better than it already is and it is still one of his better works.The movie has some great action and adventurous sequences that are highly original. Also the 'early' special effects are above par and still look acceptable enough by todays standards. The ending sequences in the zeppelin is especially great, spectacular and unforgettableGranted that the story and acting performances are all quite simple but that at the very same time is part of the charm of this movie.Delicious over-the-top entertainment.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"a loved the little touches","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie had a lot of hype around it before it was released. So much, I think, that many people were disappointed when it finally arrived in theaters. There were posters galore and rumors that Jennifer Connelly and Bill Campbell were dating, etc., etc.It's too bad, as it's a nifty little film with LOTS of special little touches. What I really appreciated were wonderful little homages to the 1930s and 1940s--such as showing Campbell flying a Gee Bee Racer (how they did this scene I don't know), extensive Art Deco styling in the movie, the zeppelin and the villain on the zeppelin that was made to look exactly like Rondo Hatton--a very seldom talked about actor who starred in just a handful of horror-suspense movies of that era. After all, how many would remember Hatton and the Gee Bee Racer? I like these little touches.Aside from all this, it's a good film. Great, maybe not, but very different and a nice tribute to the Commander Cody films (which featured a jet packed hero in movie serials). "},{"Title":"This is a fun tribute to the Saturday Serials","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you've read any of my other comments, you know I grew up in the motion picture business. My first on the set experience was with King of the Rocketmen, the serial that this film pays homage. It's a wonderful experience, not to be taken too seriously. The acting is consistently good, Paul Sorvino's turn is a gem. Jennifer Connelly is simply gorgeous and Alan Arkin once again proves he's one of the most versatile actors around. Like all films about flying, the story doesn't really take off until Cliff dons the Rocket Suit and makes his first flight. The f/x are superior (Superman fans take note, they are far better than have ever been provided for the man of steel). A top notch musical score compliments what should have been a better performing picture, but forget the numbers, if you've ever dreamed about flying, this movie will capture your imagination. One last bit of trivia, Tim Dalton's portrayal of Errol Flynn was the first on screen hint of Flynn's involvement with the Nazi's during WWII. Books have been written on the subject, but nobody, until this picture, dared to dramatize it. Get the DVD, put it on your 5.1 system, and prepare to lose yourself.  "},{"Title":"How fantasy thrillers should be made","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Talented actors who care more about performance than their own star power, charming characters, an insidiously evil bad guy with an unnerving henchman, and a plot that screams excitement, this is a stunning and somewhat forgotten example of how to make a great blockbuster. Why it wasn't as big as 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' is a mystery and a tragedy... "},{"Title":"Great for a B-rate movie","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  B-rate acting overall.  Don't know if it was the script or the acting but not very inspiring.  A good movie to watch if you're a fan of the old movie serials. But if you're a fan of the Dave Steven's comic, it won't live up to expectations "},{"Title":"A great family film","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE ROCKETEER is a great, exciting, retro movie that simply had to be made; it's a thrill ride for people of all ages. What makes this movie really special is its spin on the American Dream - a working-class man during the Depression finds a rocket pack that turns him into a hero. Soon he's battling gangsters, Nazis, and an actor/spy played by Timothy Dalton. Well-done by everyone involved, and without a lot of the cruel irony and mean-spiritedness of so many other action movies. If you want to see a high-octane action film that never compromises its innocence, delight, or humor, see this one.   "}{"Title":"Wonderful serial-style throwback...","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot in Rocketeer doesn't work for most people, which is understandable. However, I think Joe Johnstons throwback style (essentially copying a lot of Commander Cody serials from the 40's) works very well overall.  The cast are all incredibly accurate, if not stereotypical, metaphors for the type of characters they need to be.  The special effects and art design are clevery conservative so as not to overwhelm the period.  And there's little doubt that Lothar is supposed to be a reference to 40's/50's horror icon Rondo Hatton. The whole thing works well when viewed by a film buff/cult fanbase audience.  Perhaps, this is it's most serious problem...movies with a lot of in jokes and throwback material tend to ignore the larger picture that more people will see it than just the people you're speaking to.  As a result, Rocketeers datedness and lack of intense action leaves many people just wondering what the hell was going on.  All that aside, the film is a fantastic job at re-visiting rocket-man serials with modern effects. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fast, funny, exciting, and most wonderful of all these - original - this film is a total delight.  With some really terrific plot twists and solid characters with lives beyond the events of the movie.  Based upon Dave Stevens' award winning comic books, you can't get much better than this.  A pure delight! "},{"Title":"Meh!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is going to sound shallow, but I'm being honest.  I only liked the 1940's classic Hollywood look that Jennifer Connelly and the Hollywood landscape had.The rest was boring. "},{"Title":"Amazing and full of action and adventure","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer is an amazing action packed superhero adventure and as amazing as Indiana Jones. It's about a man named Cliff who started out as a racing pilot and then becomes a superhero when he finds a rocket which was stolen from a factory by a gang of crooks led by Nazi agent named Neville Sinclair. It also has a really good love story in it and like in all superhero movies the good guy always gets the girl. In the end of this film Cliff aka the Rockteer saves the world from the Nazi's and gets the woman of his dreams Jenny Blake. This film was worth watching and this came out the year I was born just like Terminator 2 and Beauty and the Beast. The Rocketeer also reminds me of Iron Man cause the Rocketeer and Iron Man both wear iron helmets and use rockets to fly. Amazing and thrilling here. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rocket Knight","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've always had a knacks for the pulp heroes/comics like Doc Savage, The Phantom, Agent Carter, MacGyver, Doctor Who, you name it. To me it was just how colorful they were in content and each of the heroes always represented the possibility of becoming something more and that anything is possible.This film is another one of my favorite films of all time and it's another childhood gem of mine, I've seen this when I was about 10, it blew me away then and it still does now. In fact this film was the first time I ever really came across pulp adventure/hero subgenere.The production value is great, it's all practical there is no CGI bull crap. I really love how they captured the late 1930's America making this film also kinda a period piece. The 1930's are a great setting for the pulp adventures as it was a time when the world was at war but it was also the rise for new ideas and innovations. The music by James Horner is fantastic, this film has one of my favorite theme songs of all time which of course is the Rocketeer theme, it fits so well as it has an adventurous tune to it.I really like the story which is a stretch but that's what I love about it and it's true to the pulps most of those stories always had colorful simple outlandish plots. This plot line could of been an episode for the TV Show Agent Carter.I really like the characters, Timmaty Dalton one of my favorite actors is solid as the antagonist Neville Sinclair whom is basically an evil Errol Flynn that is really a Nazi spy. I really love that concept which I think is creative idea an enemy spy hiding in plain sight by being an celebrity. Yeah it's kinda a stretch from the odds it takes anyone to even reach celeb status in their acting careers. But that is part of the fun and whose to say it's might not be possible. Jennifer Conolly one of my favorite actresses is great as Jenny, I remember having a crush on her when I was a kid. She is just so fraking hot and beautiful with the persona to boot. I really liked seeing back and forth between both Cliff and her, I like the fact these are two people that are in a relationship which to me makes the romance all the more interesting. Despite being opposites you can see both are right for each other just like the after burners on the rocket pack both are hot enough for one another to fire up and fly. But they do have two things in common as both are people struggling to make their dreams come true and support each other personally but also in dire circumstances.Bill Cambell whom is an underrated actor is great as Clifford Secord/The Rocketeer and this is my favorite role from him. He's an all American guy whom is idealistic and he is an underdog as he is constantly struggling to make his dreams in aviation come true as well as things with his significant other work out. That's why we like him and we're on his side because he's a guy we can easily relate to, because that's something well all do everyday. The action is solid the sequences with the rocket are awesome, the cinematography and effects really capture the illusion of flight perfectly I was practically moving at my seat, just seeing that rocket in action I wanted one. Though it's true there is an inconsistence or two, like where the heck the fuel gage is for the rocket, isn't it important to know that if you want to stay up in the air, let alone not fall. Also why is it his pants aren't on fire when the after burners are on, are they made of some fireproof fiber? But I think that was probably intentional and what made it true to the pulp adventure stories, where they were always more concerned with story and the fun of it and left logic on the shelf.It's true that Clifford isn't too smooth with the rocket flight but that makes the action a bit more realistic if you can believe that. When you think about it in physics/aerodynamics logic it would be pretty darn hard to control.I also really like that there is a bit of a parallel contrast between both Cliff and Nevelle Sinclair. Nevelle Sinclair is by his nature a counterfeit person he is an actor that plays heroes but really isn't one. When it comes to being nice and charm you can easily see in his face it's not really in his nature to be nice at all and when he put it on it seems like he's trying a bit too hard. Also the guy a bit narcissistic as he is concerned about looks, in one scene we see him checking if there's something between his teeth.Cliff is a true hero because he is truthful about himself and his own ideals. Yeah, he doesn't have all the breaks as Nevelle has but he's not asking for them. And throughout the film most of the time he gets dirty and has kicks and scrapes but he still looks good much as Lara Croft does in the Tomb Raider games. And he does what any hero should to which is his job.The only bad thing about the film is that Cliff/The Rocketeer doesn't get to kick enough ass. It would of been cool seeing in the shootout scene him taking a machine gun or even using the hand gun and flying around shooting at Nazis. But then again Cliff isn't a trained fighter, so oh well.The Rocketeer flies high.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Fun throwback","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THE ROCKETEER is a fun, lightly-plotted throwback to the old-fashioned serials of the 1930s, featuring a hero fighting against a Nazi plot via his jet pack and plenty of two-fisted action. It sounds like fun and it is, at least to a degree; it's also a light, insubstantial, wishy-washy piece of Hollywood filmmaking that comes across as a sub-par Indiana Jones.Certainly there's little of substance here if you're looking for proper characters or plotting. The Nazis are bad, the heroes are good, and a series of outlandish fight scenes, betrayals, and criminal plots fill up the running time. Joe Johnston does almost exactly the same job as director as he did with HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS, creating an effects-heavy adventure in which he's more focused on stylistics and visuals than he is on real 'meat'.Inevitably comparisons can be made to the modern-day superhero likes of IRON-MAN, although inevitably the special effects of THE ROCKETEER aren't so great, although they're still pretty good for their era. I was surprised, actually, at how little in-flight action there is; 90% of the story takes place on the ground as various factions fight for possession of some super technology. The movie suffers a fair bit from Bill Campbell's ultra-bland lead - bad guy Timothy Dalton would have been much better - although there's fun to be had from the Rondo Hatton tribute and a still-gorgeous Jennifer Connelly as the love interest. "},{"Title":"Underrated, Under Appreciated Family Adventure With Style","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is One of Those that Everybody Missed. Critics and Audiences were Lukewarm About This Fantastic Family Fun Film. What it Lacks in Edge it Makes Up for in Warm, Vibrant, Stylish, Retro Art Deco Appeal.Nostalgia Plays an Important Part in the Enjoyment of the Movie. Dave Stevens Comics were All About Nostalgia. The Thirties Serials, Hollywood Stars, and of Course Betty Page. Jennifer Connelly Plays Bettie Page the Rocketeer's Girlfriend (although the name was changed) the Curvacious Pin-Up Queen.The Rest of the Cast is Highlighted by Some Good Actors Like Timothy Dalton as an Errol Flynn Type, Paul Sorvino as a Patriotic Gangster, and Alan Arkin as the Titular Character's Mentor and Friend. Kudos Must Also be Awarded to Terry O' Quinn as Howard Hughes.Billy Campbell Makes for a Stiff Lead, but it is the Production Design and Innocent Appeal that is the Charm of the Underrated Film. It Looks Great and Captures the Time Precisely. Even the Mood is Right. Maybe Not the Mood of the Real World of the Late Thirties but Certainly the Mood of Hollywood Films at the Time.There are Nazis, Hydrogen Blimps, Spitting Machine Guns, Cool and Sleek Little Airplanes Zipping About, and of Course the Rocket Pack that was On the Minds of Inventors and Pulp Sci-Fi Fanatics of the Era. There are Other Details Thrown in for Fun, Like a Rondo Hatton (The Creeper) Lookalike, the Hollywoodland, OOOPS, Hollywood Sign, and More for the Discovering Movie Goer. This Film Along with Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow (2004) are Noble Failures that are Sure to, and Have, Found Additional Fans as the Years Tick By. Because They are Entertaining Films with a Quality and Wide Appeal that are Not as Common as They Should Be. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones meets Iron Man","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer is a surprisingly good action/adventure film with wonderful pulp nostalgia. The film is based on an old comic book character and that's exactly how it feels, in the best possible way. It simply just reeks that old American nostalgia where men were men and woman had enough sass and spunk to power whole steamboats.For me it's the characters that make this film. Timothy Dalton plays the perfect guile villain, Neville Sinclair, the most charismatically slimy Hollywood lead actor of all time. Every time he flashed that billion dollar toothpaste smile of his, you just want to punch the guy, while hiding your girlfriend and shaking his hand. In a sense, a villain you love to hate and hate to love. Wonderful role performance, easily the best in the whole film.I was also pleasantly surprised by the side characters. Alan Arkin's Peevy Peabody is what I would imagine a poor and more down to earth Tony Stark to be like. A genius engineer, yet his presence fills the screen and when he starts talking, you stop and listen. The same with Jennifer Connelly's Jenny Blake, but in a whole different way. I can see why Neville falls for the girl instantly, and not just because she has some information that he wants. I mean that face and that smile... Good heavens.Unfortunately pretty much the only character that did very little to me is the main character, The Rocketeer himself, played by Billy Campbell. He has this whole nice neighborhood guy thing going for him, but it's a bit too nice, if you follow. The man leaves very small impression and isn't quite identifiable or unique enough to stand apart from other adventure stock characters just like him.But luckily the rest of the cast and the rest of the movie as a whole are more than capable to keep your interests raised and to provide you with a charming adventure with surprisingly decent special effects for their time, some great action sequences and that whole early 20th century charisma. If you like pulp settings, great adventure films and charismatic actors, this is definitely a film worth checking out. "},{"Title":"loved the Rocket scenes","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Bill Campbell looks like a cartoon too. In fact everyone in the movie looks like a cartoon except the guy playing the huge thug working for Paul Sorvino. That guy doesn't look like a cartoon. He looks exactly like Rondo Hatten, an acromegalic actor from a few 40s horror flicks. But, it must be admitted, Rondo Hatten looked like a cartoon. And, well, if A = C and B = C, then A = B, no? It's a conundrum alright.The movie is filled with delicious 1938 atmosphere. I wasn't around to enjoy it but it's always struck a resonant chord in me when I glimpse it in movies or listen to recordings from the period. Here we have an Artie Shaw sort of band playing Begin the Beguine with a close simulation of that famous arrangement that made it such a hit. A smiling singer who looks like Nicole Kidman stands on the stage and sings without rolling around or smashing a guitar. Call me retro, but I prefer it to Snoop Dog Eeeze 2 Dudes. All seriousness aside, what happened to pop music anyway? Where are our Cole Porters and Ira Gershwins. Somebody hand me a hankie.The production designer deserves a medal for capturing the exhilarating vulgarity of Southern California. I think I glimpsed a reproduction of Benvenuto Cellini's Apollo amidst the faux Egyptian columns.I enjoyed the airplanes too. The one in the beginning of the movie was built exclusively for racing. (I forget its designation.) It was a horror to fly because it was hardly more than a huge engine with a tiny airplane built around it, as unstable a craft as ever took wing. Scary news footage exists of one of them zipping along at a tremendous rate and then, out of nowhere, kaboom, spinning deliriously into the ground at full speed. The 1930s were famous for their air races, like NASCAR is today. Heroes were made out of aviators. Airplanes that later became famous as fighters in WWII were first configured as racers -- Curtis P-40s, for instance, and the British Spitfires. "},{"Title":"A fun, if not excellent, cult superhero movie with a nostalgic value to adults","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just a brief note, I haven't heard of this film before nor read the comic book it was based on, but due to my very interest, I decided to watch it to see if it was good due to the reviews I've read. Later, it did and I think I agree to those who still love it that this is in fact of the better superhero movies of the decade beyond the early and late 2000s.The story is pretty interesting and I heard that the users loved it for reminding the adults about the pulp film serials from the 1930s and that it also captured that same feel which was the reason why it received a cult following over the years. Sure, it's marketing was completely lackluster (but not as terrible as John Carter's marketing) and the story's narrative was the epitome of tepid, but those flaws are outweighed by everything else to like about.The characters are hard not to forget. Bruce Campbell played the role of Cliff Secord really well, Alan Arkin is terrific as Peabody, and Jennifer Connelly is a lovely Jenny Blake while Timothy Dalton did a fantastic job as Neville Sinclair, whose charm will soon seduce all of the girls in the world. The 1930s settings in which the comic book took place is realistic and amazing to look at and the special effects are the epitome of magnificence. The action is also pretty good too especially the flying moments with the Rocketeer which are one of the highlights of the film.You also have some flawless directing from Joe Johnston, the same person who was a visual effects supervisor for the original Star Wars films and later made his first directing debut in Honey, I Shrunk The Kids The Pagemaster, Jumanji October Sky, and the later film Captain America The First Avenger. He built a lot of tense and atmosphere which is a good thing. The best aspect, however, would have to go to the music score from James Horner. It's orchestra is well made with a light-hearted tone to it and the theme song is undeniably memorable to listen to much like The Phantom, whose theme song, although different, defines the character.Overall, The Rocketeer may not be a smart or groundbreaking masterpiece, but it's attempt to bring back the 1930s pulp feel reminded the adults of that time and looks like they will be sure to always remember it. Despite it's planned sequels being aborted due to it's under-performance at the box office, there are plans for a reboot. Some fans are excited while others aren't because it turns that some remakes aren't as good as the original counterparts. Since I liked it, however, I think I'm OK with Disney to go ahead with it. So, all-in-all, this movie is a fun superhero ride that will always appeal to children young and old. "}{"Title":"A fun retro hero flick.","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It wasn't lies, Jenny. It was acting.The Rocketeer, seen in 2012, is understandably a little cheesy and a little old-fashioned. But, in a good way. In 1991, something as simple as a small-town guy with a jet-pack still sounded like an idea exciting enough to make a movie about, and a pretty enjoyable one, at that. Billy Campbell (Cliff) is likable as a young pilot, desperate to make his mark on the world and show his girl (Jennifer Connelly, at the height of her amazing beauty), that he's a man who's going places. He stumbles onto a rocket-pack that's being pursued by all sorts unsavory characters, and the entire town and his girlfriend end up getting caught between the FBI, gangsters, shady actors, and even more unsavory characters as Cliff tries to save the day and get his girl back. The Rocketeer is basically a moderately fun action-adventure family movie that won't blow any minds or drop any jaws these days, but it's definitely good for a viewing. Especially for Jennifer Connelly fans, because wow, she's impossibly lovely in this one. It's nice to be reminded that once, all you needed to be a hero was a jet-pack, a solid right punch, a girl you loved, and a desire to do the right thing.  "},{"Title":"Vibrant, Stylish Throwback With a Flat Personality","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cheery family-friendly adventures in the same vein as Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. Set during the waning years of the great depression, it's a snapshot of a very specific period when America was beginning to pick itself up by the bootstraps, the atomic age was looming and not even the sky was the limit. At heart it's a silly, grinning action gimmick that's backed by a tried-and-true storyline and a stylish, art-deco-meets-dusty-barnstormer sense of fashion. Although the plot is inherently cheesy and predictable, it's straight-laced and innocent enough, a clear homage to '30s adventure serials, that I was willing to let most of those shortcomings slide. The special effects haven't aged well at all, though, with several obvious green screens and a few rough, quick cuts sticking out in all the wrong ways. Timothy Dalton is disappointing as the pencil-stached villainous saboteur, but Jennifer Connelly and leading man Bill Campbell fully commit to the premise, picking up the slack adequately. Inoffensive and silly, it's as good as it was ever going to be; a wild kids' ride that the parents won't mind tagging along for. "},{"Title":"improves on the graphic novel","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The hero of this big screen comic book adventure is a brash young test pilot in pre-World War II Los Angeles who finds a stolen rocket pack and, just as quickly, finds himself the target of both an FBI manhunt and a syndicate of Nazi spies. The film has all the expected ingredients of a summertime blockbuster action, excitement, and (of course) state-of-the-art special effects (circa 1990). Add some early aviation nostalgia, a little tongue-in-cheek patriotism, and a mock-Hindenburg disaster climax, and the result is a certified crowd pleaser with more heart than most. The plot loses steam when it stalls on a routine damsel-in-distress formula, but the script neatly fills in some of the more awkward gaps in the original graphic novel (most of us would call it a comic book), and offers a better defined set of villains, including Timothy Dalton as a swashbuckling movie star/enemy agent modeled after Errol Flynn. The convincing period flavor was achieved by substituting the town of Santa Maria for pre-war (i.e. pre-smog) LA. "},{"Title":"The Score","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is not much to say about this movie that the other comments have not covered. It is done in a deliberately dated style, intended to invoke memories of the old serials and adventure movies of the 30's. It is an extremely engaging movie, not terribly important, but impossible to dislike.I am writing this comment simply to single out the score. Opening titles and ending credits are just wonderful, some of the best work ever done by James Horner - loud, noisy, tuneful, and utterly irresistible. It has been recorded several times, and with good reason. Almost worth the price of admission all on its own/ "},{"Title":"Exciting, Good-Natured, Thirties Hollywood Comic-Book Adventure","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Cliff and Peevy are a couple of flyboys in California in 1938 who get unwittingly mixed up with a stolen prototype rocket-pack, some mobsters, the feds, an egomaniacal film-star and his gigantic henchman, and reclusive billionaire tycoon Howard Hughes. And would you believe it, the fate of the free world may be at stake ...Whilst not on a par with the best comic-book movies, this enjoyably romantic adaptation of Dave Stevens' graphic novel is a lot of fun and a sumptuous Disney production. It does a fabulous job of creating a lovingly stylised thirties Hollywood, filled with gangster cadillacs, swanky nightclubs, Dream Factory backlots, sharp-suited G-men, sinister secret-agents and all-American heroes. The cast are all terrific, in as much for the way they look as their performances; Sorvino, Lauter and O'Quinn look as if they've stepped out of the era, Dalton makes a fine suavely amoral Errol Flynn, Tiny Ron is a scream as the villainous Lothar (whose look was designed by Rick Baker and based on Rondo Hatton in The Pearl Of Death), and Connelly's sexy, raven-haired, head-busting damsel is a dead ringer for the inimitable Bettie Page (and also Brinke Stevens, the author's ex-wife, a knockout horror/comic actress with a hundred B-movies to her credit). Whilst the movie doesn't exactly go for dramatic depth, it keeps coming up with funny scenes, particularly in the second-half where there's a dancehall fracas, a slimy seduction, a three-way cops-hoods-Nazis gun-battle and a fiery finale aboard a zeppelin. With a lavish and exciting score by James Horner, this a minor-league superhero flick perhaps, but an eye-pleasing and enjoyable one all the same. "},{"Title":"Homage to the Saturday Serials.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Vastly entertaining and exciting in the tradition of Indiana Jones, The Rocketeer is one of Disney's greatest live-action masterpieces. Pilot Bill Campbell and best friend Alan Arkin discover a rocket pack in the late-1930s which is wanted by the Nazis. Now the chase is on as European actor Timothy Dalton and American mafia boss Paul Sorvino start trying to get the pack back. Jennifer Connelly is also along for the thrill-ride as Campbell's beautiful girlfriend. A great piece of entertainment that never feels dated. 5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Decently Fun Movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *****Minor Spoilers******The Rocketeer manages to recapture the look and feel of the thirties serials without making fun of them, and provides some pretty good if moderately Disney-fied entertainment.  It has all the elements right in place, bright eyed young hero who flies planes and is as straight arrow as they come, his great looking girlfriend and the old mentor he hangs around with.  The story could very well have been written in the thirties, save the appearance late in the move of Nazis as bad guys.  We didn't start making movies about those guys until World War Two.Homages abound from Timothy Dalton's Errol Flynn-esque villain to the wise cracking mobsters and several old style pylon racing airplanes for historical buffs.  (This is the only movie I know of that had one of the Gee Bees in it.  Gee Bee the airplane, not the seventies Bee Gees disco guys.) Thirties style buildings and ambience are also to be had in plenty.  My favorite set was the Bull Dog restaurant that looks just like a big dog squatting on it's haunches.  At the time I thought it would be cool to start a little eatery along those lines, period era dining but I'm wandering.....  Suffice to say the style is pretty good for what was meant to be a popcorn movie. Sadly one of the lines in the movie captures it's place in the realm of film--The Rocke-who?  Bill Campbell as the lead is a little too generic good-guy and is ultimately forgettable, he doesn't have the charisma of say Harrison Ford.  The stunts and plot are both a little too sanitized and geared towards the kids, nothing wrong in that except adventures usually have some more thrills and chills.  Jennifer Connelly was seriously hot as the romantic interest, if in a role that mostly required her to look pretty.  I really liked her at the time, and looked forward to seeing her other movies.  Her career has done well, however ever since her biological clock went off she's gotten so wrapped up in herself and her personal journey in life that I can't stand to watch her in anything now.   Anyways, The Rocketeer is just a simple fun movie and doesn't try to be much more than that.   "},{"Title":"High-flying fun!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, set just before WWII, is a great movie! I love action, mixed with love and surprises. It is an absolute must-see! The actors, story, and theme are always good. I wonder how many times you can see it before you hate it. Thank goodness I never will. Be prepared for major plot twists, but it is still amazing. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS JUST DANDY !","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fun! Its an origanal story about Cliff Secord in 1938, who is a pilot and spent all his time and money into making his one plane, but during the test flight a gang escaping from the police shot thier guns in the air and wrecked the plane! The gang hides a rocket (that you can strap on yer back and fly) in a plane in the hangar. Now that Cliff's plane is ruined, hes all mad and stuff until he finds the rocket...he borrows it for a while at first to make a bit of money....but turns out that the rocket was stolen from the creator to be sold to german nazis to help take over the world....thats about it! Timothy Dalton and Alan Arkin's performance were much better than expected!  I never thought I would see Timothy Dalton in a comedy! He usually acts in very serious roles!I really recommend this to everyone...like I said before....it's a very fun movie!  MY VOTE  8/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated...this should be one of the best adventure movies!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dave Stevens created one of the best adventure comic book. It has everything nazi spies, a Betty Page look-alike, pulp-style action, an interesting time in history, and a guy who fly into trouble with a rocket attached to his back. The movie is not 100% faithful to the comics but at least it has kept the spirit of the characters and the themes of the strip intact. All in all,this is still the best adaptation of a comic book character in films (followed not to far by SUPERMAN).  "}{"Title":"30's come to life in 90's","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked this film, thought the look, effects, acting and whole tone was just right, with Alan Arkin being the best part. There aren't many movies like this; sort of between Raiders and something like either Congo or the Mummy, you have the Rocketeer. Nostalgic, fun, not a documentary; moves right along. It made 50M in '91 but was expected to do much more; too bad they never did bother with a sequel. I would rate this *** stars outta 4, it is well worth a look. "},{"Title":"If you take it for what it is, it's a blast","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally enjoy very much period adventures such as this that try to recapture the fun and innocence and pulse-pounding action of the old 30's and 40's serials.  The Rocketeer makes a better stab than most.  It really is a lot of fun.  I especially liked Alan Arkin, who was perfectly cast. Jennifer Connelly is gorgeous, perfectly capturing the 40's look, the time when it seemed that all women were beautiful.  I did notice Melora Hardin in a small role as the singer in the South Seas Club.  I've had a small crush on her since she was on the 70's Saturday morning kids' show, Thunder, the Super Horse.  I figure she tried out for Connelly's role but didn't get it. She would have been great in the lead female role though. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am 15, and this is one of the first movies I can remember seeing in a theater.  It is a great Indiana Jones-style action adventure that needs to be taken as good fun, excitement, action.  The characters are fairly convincing, the plot moves along at a good clip, and the blimp finale is incredible.  The most memorable scene, however, has to be that great moment when the Feds and the gangsters team up to fight the Nazis.   The main gangster and the main FBI agent are both standing side by side shooting at Nazis.  Suddenly both of them stop and exchange a look that says it all about American patriotism.  Almost brings a tear to my eye thinking about it.   "},{"Title":"The Rocketeer is Great Fun","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer is a great film. Fun for all ages. Highly Entertaining. Alan Arkin is great. Timothy Dalton is marvelous. One of the best movies of 1991.  "},{"Title":"Good?","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  no not good, great, it's got everything from apples to zebes, well actually it doesn't have that, but this is classic. "},{"Title":"A outdated period superhero flick","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Now I liked the pulp and noir vibe of this movie and the fact that it takes place during the late 1930's is another plus. It even has the pretty and attractive Jennifer Connelly during her prime. I would have really dug this movie if I saw it as a kid or even a youngster back in the day. So it might be a bit unfair for me to critic a superhero movie from the early 90's. But it's just a bland, dull, narrow and predictable superhero movie. When it comes to the plot, half of the movie is focused on a jetpack or rocket pack. And how everyone is trying to find and get their hands on it. The superhero part comes very later and is very very very few in between. I kind of wanted a sequel since the build up is so slow. It just might have had room for what The Rocketeer is really capable of in the sequel. Since the second installment usually has the most room for that, especially for a trilogy. Unfortunately this one did poor when it came to box office so a sequel never came about. Which is also understandable, because this one despite trying to put in some spirit, just lacked the cool superhero entertainment value.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great fun, and a masterpiece of its genre.","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer is easily one of my favorite adventure movies. For me, it is one of the most enjoyable movies of all time, a magical experience. In my opinion, it rivals the Indiana Jones movies. The actors all did a terrific job. They gave one of the most accurate modern portrayals of people from the 1930s I have seen in years. This movie got the mannerisms, speech, and slang of the 1930s exactly right. It is one of the few that has the characters speaking exactly the way they would in the 1930s. That in itself is a feat of scriptwriting and acting.Cliff Secord is a very likable character. He is pretty much your average Joe, the type of guy you see every day. The villain, Neville Sinclair is brilliantly portrayed by Timothy Dalton.The plot, well is quite simple, as were the plots of the serials it is inspired by.The music is just plain terrific. The score is one of the most magical I have ever heard. This was back in the day when James Horner was still among the greatest composers around. Don't expect a huge, action-packed extravaganza. In 1991, CGI was just starting out, and The Rocketeer contains none. All of the effects are achieved with old-fashioned methods, such as stop-motion.Overall, The Rocketeer is one of the most faithful modern imitations of a 1930s movie. It captures the spirit perfectly, and takes the sources it pays homage to seriously (but not too seriously). "},{"Title":"Not Indiana Jones, But Fun","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" THE ROCKETEER is a perfect, but not great, movie. It is NOT a tribute to the cliffhanger movie serials of the 1930s, its an homage to the B-movies of the '40s think SANTA FE TRAIL or CAPTAINS OF THE CLOUDS. Our swell hero and his wisecracking sidekick take some digs from his girl but, after standing up to the swings of the action heavy, close in for the K.O. in the final reel.This is an affectionate reproduction of a simpler time in film-making and you'll love it if you're not expecting the wrong kind of thing. The critics (abetted by the studio) typecast this as another cliffhanger-tribute movie, but if you're expecting a non-stop thrill-ride like INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE or Brendan Fraser's THE MUMMY, you're going to be disappointed (as many were) because the pacing of this film is totally different. Fighting a Nazi on a zeppelin? You're almost through THE ROCKETEER, but LAST CRUSADE is just warming up.I loved CRUSADE and MUMMY, but hyperactive duds like THE WILD, WILD WEST and THE MUMMY RETURNS show the limitations of the non-stop-pacing school. I wish there were more fun adventure flicks paced like THE ROCKETEER; it works if you give it a chance! I'd describe this as a very warm film; at heart it's all about love. Not just love of flying; Cliff and Peevy's comradely love, Hughes' love of innovation, Valentine's love of country - but most importantly, Jenny's love of the movies! And the filmmakers' love of the period shines through in the little details, not spotlighted but carefully there. Plus you get a neat plot and some fine actors having a lot of fun! Pop in the DVD, break out the popcorn, and get ready for a pleasant good time. "},{"Title":"Sure holds up well","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never saw this in theaters which I understand was pretty much what happened to it when it first debuted. I discovered it later as a rental. I loved it then and still love it now years later. I guess since it is a deliberate retro it can't really get dated like other movies.I had no real problems with any of the acting jobs, each actor filled the role he/she played well. I always wondered why Bill Campbell didn't seem to go much further after this? Fun to see Terry O'Quinn as Howard Hughes before his Lost years.This movie makes you feel good. An unpretentious and straightforward action flick, one of the best in that category. It is so amazing how movies like this can be made without needing overwhelming effects, big-name stars, sexual suggestions, or gore. I wish Hollywood could do this more often (and who would've expected this from Disney? - not any more).The soundtrack main theme was wonderful as well, I think I've even heard it in some other movie (not sure how that could've happened). Rent this and watch it with the family, it is well worth it. "},{"Title":"Thrills Chills and spills and ACTION","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Rocketeer by Dave Stevens was a Comic book that captivated almost nobody but a small group of Rabid fans. The Writers of this movie were incredibly Rabid about the Rocketeer so much that they met with Dave Stevens and Wrote the Rocketeer movie. The love the three of them have for that era(1920s-1940s) is very evident as they know the scene even if it happened long before they were born. The Rocketeer is a love letter to a old bygone age where a man could fly if only had a rocket pack. And of course the hero needs a wonderful woman and he has one. The movie concerns the invention of the Cirrus X-3 a experimental Rocket pack dreamed up and built by Howard Hughes. The Nazis want it and hired the local mob to get it from there things go from bad to worse. And the Rocket ends up in the possession of Cliff Secord. Cliff is a dreamer a pilot looking for adventure and he finds it as the Rocketeer. The thrills come fast and the heroics look noble and the stunts are very convincing. The Best thing about the Rocketeer are two actors who mostly chew the scenery Alan Arkin and Terry O'Quinn both Actors give delightful performances Bill Campbell's Cliff Secord is wonderfully brave naive and Adventurous . This movie has everything a Adventure fan wants. "}{"Title":"Jet-packs into old-fashioned, rip-snorting adventure.","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take A ripping, old-fashioned comic book adventure with crackling wit, terrific special effects and charming characters. Dating back to old vintage comic books comes this enjoyable tongue-in-cheek adventure THE ROCKETEER. Whether it's a simple boy turning into a jet-packed superhero, inventors and their flying machines, Nazis as the ultimate baddies, spies, giant henchmen, old boyish charms and Howard Hughes, THE ROCKETEER is a terrific throwback to the old days of Saturday-matinée adventures. While it isn't especially as relishing as RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, a film this one wants to be, it gets the job done, and it's a heck of a lot of fun.Bill Campbell is the hero of this tale, he's daring pilot Cliff Secord, who turns into a superhero overnight when he, and his buddy inventor (Alan Arkin) finds a jet-pack stolen by thugs from the legendary Howard Hughes (Terry O'Quinn) himself. While his heroics makes an impression amongst the masses, he becomes a target of Nazis and sleek spy Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton in top form), who want the jet-pack for themselves to obtain the key to global domination (as shown in a short animated video clip). Of course, the story isn't complete without providing a damsel for Secord. This in case is a young Jennifer Connelly, sorrily underused as DID (damsel-in-distress) Jenny Blake.Like RAIDERS and the other Indiana Jones films behind it, THE ROCKETEER is a festive of stunts, action scenes and special effects. There's a dozen number of scenes showing Campbell as the title hero gliding past airplanes, as well as a finally climaxing atop a Hindenburg-like zeppelin (not forgetting the face-offs and big explosions). And like it should have been, it has a lot of fun, almost as much as the audience has a lot of fun with it. Director Joe Johnston is the right director for this energetic film, who keeps everything from the action to the silliness all intact. As a former effects wizard, Johnston has a joy with special effects, but he never leaves behind imagination. Actors provide their best, even if their roles aren't especially elevating. In tradition of it's roots, THE ROCKETEER is silly and a whole lot of fun, but it doesn't insult the audience altogether.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"I'd give it an 11 if I could.","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the most perfectly written, narrated, lensed, directed, played films of the last two decades. I've watched it over two dozen times and still am not tired of it. And one of the very few films where James Horner did not spread his music over the whole thing like plaster, instead delivering a score that from the very first sequence enters your ear and never leaves it anymore. Delicious the characterization even of the very small roles (eg W.C. Fields in the second act). Timothy Dalton delivers a wonderfully naughty and Nazi bad guy in one of his best performances. Jenny Connelly is just delicious, Arkin the quintessential engineer-genius, LOST's Terry O'Quinn plays a charismatic Howard Hughes, and Bill Campbell a believable hero. Beautiful the overall irony about Hollywood of the thirties (bit not only). A small masterpiece of popcorn cinema, a good alternative to the Spielberg-Lucas way of doing it. Pure entertainment at its very very best, really. "},{"Title":"Most Underrated action/adventure films ever made!!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is, simply put, pure FUN. The story is a timeless tale of one man who becomes a HERO.Full of wonderful action, great characters, and dazzling Special Effects. ILM did a brilliant job bringing flying scenes to life.No spider bites, no gamma radiation, just pure heroism straight from the heart. If the scene where Cliff confesses that he couldn't live without his girlfriend (Played by the beyond beautiful Jennifer Connelly)doesn't completely disarm you speak directly to your deepest feelings. You're not human. I loved the Rocketeer movie since I saw it on TV as a kid and will forever see it as one of our greatest and most under-appreciated film of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Sky-High Adventure","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film, when I was a child, at my local cinema.My family took me to see the film as it was my birthday, and it was raining.I recalled that it was fun and exciting but it wasn't until I got the DVD yesterday that I recalled just how much I enjoyed it.Even today, I find the action thrilling, the music moving and the acting impeccable. The story is one which could apply to any time and any place, and serves in reflecting dilemmas that could be presented to us in that situation. In looking back at my original viewing of this film, I could even let myself believe that it was due to films such as this that I wound up with my personal beliefs in responsibility, right and wrong and my sense of moral duty. I would recommend this not only for youngsters, but for all fans of films in any measure.10/10  "},{"Title":"Honor -in all the right places...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"         When this movie first hit the theaters, I was bracing myself for a remake of a forgotten genre but with only modern expressions and jokes.  This is NOT that type of movie !  In fact I find few others to compare it to. Even Raiders does not have the same kind of innocence that makes this film believable, charm yes, but not the same escapism level that The Rocketeer provides.  That said, there are still a few scenes of violence that I will not let my children see for a few more years, but without these scenes it would be hard to tell who the bad guys are. It is the definition of the word Honor that is displayed, by more than just the lead characters through out the movie.  Rocketeer manages to single handedly present a convincing story line, a period piece that doesn't over dramatize, nor treat the plot so lightly that you tempted to run to the kitchen without hitting the pause button.  You know the set up, you know the good guys are supposed to win, You know its going to look tense ,and yet the one liners are still delivered flawlessly ( one of my favorite scenes depicts the lead gangster showing old fashioned patriotism that even ( spoiler alert ! )led some of the bad guys to team up with the FBI during one of the final shoot out scenes against the Nazis ! Honor, in all the right places. 'Nough said . "},{"Title":"A love letter to Aviation and Old-Time Hollywood Adventure.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The decidedly low rating for this movie on this site at the time I write this is just appalling. The majority of the comments seem positive yet they are not reflected in the film's overall score of 5.8. 5.8? Shameful. Who doesn't appreciate the old fashioned charm of this perfectly plotted and well acted tribute to the serial heroes of yesteryear. Anyone who doesn't enjoy it on the level it was meant to be enjoyed just doesn't have an interest in nostalgia or an appreciation for pure - and rare - adventure. The film succeeds on every level, if you suspend your disbelief for a couple hours. It was meant to be just a good natured movie movie and it's a crime how it was so overlooked when first released. Star power truly does motivate audiences as a rule and it's a shame because this was one of the most entertaining movies of the 90's. Harrison Ford might not have sold Raiders of the Lost Ark had Spielberg and Lucas' names not featured so prominently on the advertising material at the time. From the creators of Jaws and Star Wars tag line on the poster assured it opened to huge line-ups. Rightfully so, but just because The Rocketeer didn't have such big names behind the production and because it starred mainly a B list cast, doesn't mean it can't stand right there on the shelf alongside the Indiana Jones trilogy and not look out of place. People should not have dismissed it. The score is memorable (albeit slightly reminiscent of Randy Newman's score for The Natural) and The cast is excellent, especially Alan Arkin in a role which fits him like a second skin. Who wouldn't want him as your mechanic. Timothy Dalton is even quite good as the Errol Flynn (poor Errol) inspired villain, while Jennifer Connelly proves she should have stayed in mainstream studio movies. She is a good actress and we'd like to see her looking glamorous more often. Paul Sorvino is solid as the gangster heavy and Terry Quinn plays a good Howard Hughes. Bill Campbell is spot on as the aw heck, squeaky clean, all-American hero of the title. The role needed the right actor to bravely carry the role off with a straight face and Campbell's performance never gets corny or tongue-in-cheek. It's just...believable. Credit also to the writers who devised a quick moving and clever screenplay. This picture was crafted by people who have a love for the period and the material. No mishandled junk here, just a good time at the movies. You can't ask for more. "},{"Title":"Occasionally I allow myself dessert.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite fantasy movie--makes me nostalgic for a USA I never knew and where I might not have been welcome, but what a place it might have been.  Full of anticipation, the movie suggests a country and its people on the verge of greatness--the same story of our country retold many times.  Rocketeer and pioneer--synonymous with the excitement of an unfolding adventure and, in this case, filled with the daily customs and familiarities of those who were either the protagonists or their witnesses. Powerful components dazzle the viewer  melodic, brassy and triumphant music; luscious photography one could almost taste; comic book sets more intimate and more grand than real life; action-packed direction to beat the second hand; and a near-perfect cast (imagine actors other than Bill Campbell and Alan Arkin) for one of the ultimate feel good movies.Admittedly, the Dave Stevens graphic novel offered more gristle, stronger counterpoint and puzzles to titillate, but it had to pass the Disney taste test to be allowed to emerge as a full blown movie--and at Disney everything must be sweet.  Occasionally I allow myself dessert. "},{"Title":"Take another look!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer deserves much more recognition than it is getting! This is a high quality Disney production that has all of the elements of a perfect Hollywood production. The dashing hero, the evil megalomaniac, the damsel in distress, the wise mentor and other fantastic characters that are well cast and developed. The action and effects are excellent as well. If you like the Indiana Jones series, you'll find the look and feel of the Rocketeer to be similar. And if you're a Jennifer Connelly fan- well, she's never looked better! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Dave Stevens character comes to life!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is another Joe Johnston classic film! Adapted from the Dave Stevens graphic novel, THE ROCKETEER springs vividly to life. This is a magic blend of sight and sound woven around a solid story with great characters, relationships, wonderful visual effects and James Horner's best score. Top notch direction, production, script, actors, photography, and exciting effects from ILM.Although the story is based on Stevens work it was molded to be a Disney instead of a Touchstone release so there are changes -- but it works well despite all that. So I must give credit to those who worked on this and managed to pull it off so well.This film is solid fun and an uplifting experience.Thank you Dave Stevens and Joe Johnston! "},{"Title":"Move over, Indiana Jones","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Back in the '70s, I used to love watching the old Flash Gordon serials on PBS station WNET. So what if the effects were really bad, the acting nearly so, and the dialogue uproarious. They were fun! In the spirit of those sci-fi cliffhangers of old comes the Rocketeer. The Rocketeer was unfairly denied the attention it deserved in the theaters. Much of that can and has been blamed on bad marketing by Disney and a little to its period competitor, Indiana Jones.The Art Deco production design is very impressive. The South Seas Club set puts Club Obi Wan (from Indy and the Temple of Doom) to shame by the sheer size of its dance floor, bandstand, and mezzanine, not to mention its poshness. Also convincingly nostalgic was the coffee shop shaped like a giant bulldog. It may not be as the real '30s were, but it's the way we'd like to think they were.The soundtrack is quite good. It's one of the better and more original James Horner scores. Horner usually has a bad habit of reusing music he wrote for other movies. Melora Hardin as the chanteuse in the South Seas Club does a great rendition of Cole Porter's Begin the Beguine, better to my ear than even Sinatra's.The effects were spectacular. To borrow the tagline from another great movie, You'll believe a man can fly. And the fight atop the Zeppelin Luxembourg was much more convincing than the fight atop the blimp in Black Sunday or the Hindenburg scenes in Indy and the Last Crusade.Bill Campbell was the perfect choice for the title role - ruggedly handsome with just the right amount of youthful vulnerability. Jennifer Connolly made a beautiful, young bombshell. However, the on-screen chemistry between the two were not quite right despite them being an off-screen item at the time. Maybe it just seemed that way because the two barely shared any screen time. "}{"Title":"A film that does not take off","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I suspect that the people who made The Rocketeer were going for good clean entertainment of the 1950s genre. In that context, Bill Campbell's Cliff is meant to be the handsome, moralistic all-American hero who comes from a small town and shares all the American values that make the United States the greatest country in the world (i.e., he is like superman). He one day finds a rocket in his warehouse (which was left there by some mafia guys) and, with a little of that good old American ingenuity, he tests the rocket, perfects it, uses it and is transformed into an all-American hero overnight. Then a few days later, Cliff learns that the bad guys want their rocket back. We know they are bad guys because they all have foreign accents and, as a certain segment of American society frequently tells us, foreigners don't like our country very much and they hate us because of our freedom. By the end of the film, Cliff or the rocketeer beats all the bad guys and walks all with an all-American girl Jenny (Jennifer Connelly) in the bargain. If you like to watch movies about a hero with small town American values who beats up foreigners who hate us for our freedom, then The Rocketeer is the film for you. But if you expect more from a film than a few people who share our small town, white suburban American values, then give this film a miss. When I saw passed this all-American hero nonsense (and it did not take me very long), I realized that The Rocketeer does not have much going for it. The characters are all two-dimensional and static. I challenge anyone to find a single character in this film who has any depth or who grows as a person. There is not a single one. Bill Campbell's Cliff is just a dull fellow; even more dull in fact that George Lazenby's James Bond in 1969 -- and Lazenby is a hard act to beat as far as dullness is concerned. The all-American girl Jenny (Connelly) is beautiful and (as one reviewer put it) can do a lot for a man's fantasies, but the film makers don't really give her much to do in this film other than to look pretty with bright red lipstick. Alan Arkin, who is usually so good in other films, is also dull and forgettable as the mechanic who perfects the rocket for Cliff. Paul Sorvino, who was brilliant in Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas, is a two dimension mob boss in this film. The only scene I found Sorvino funny in was the one when he told the villain Neville Sinclar (Timophy Dalton) that he was 100% American and will not serve any Nazi. Then he finds himself firing his machine gun at some Germans alongside an FBI agent. Terry O'Quinn, meanwhile, plays Howard Hughes straight, which is absolutely the wrong way to play him. Hughes, who is one of the great eccentric aviators of his time, is reduced here to a boring, down to earth, aw shucks American in this film. The only interesting character in this entire film is the suave and evil Neville Sinclair (Timophy Dalton) who kills his co-star by accident on a set that looks eerily familiar to the set of The Adventures of Robin Hood with Errol Flynn, Basil Rathbone, Claude Rains and Olivia De Havilland. But once again, poor Dalton is given little opportunity to develop his villain image. In short, none of the characters really work in this film, largely because the script lets them down.As for the plot, the film-makers really have nothing new here. The formula is as simple as  man finds rocket left behind by bad guys, man tests rocket, man uses rocket, bad guys try to get rocket back from man, and man saves world with rocket and gets girl. That this plot is spiced up with a swanky night club and stunts doesn't make the slightest bit of difference, because the screenplay was just not ready for production even with some of the gloss. Furthermore, there is very little excitement in this film. I think the problem is that the Rocketeer is notable only for his rocket. Batman at least had cool gadgets to play with. Superman had special powers. Steven Seagal had martial art moves and a confident charisma. But the rocketeer only has the rocket. So unless the film-makers can come up with interesting ideas for how the rocketeer can use his rocket or unless they can make the character of the rocketeer more interesting and charismatic, then there is very little about this film to get excited about. I do not want to say that this film is a complete disaster. There were a couple of funny parts. The first one (which I think was unintentionally funny) was Howard Hughes' claim that an American died trying to get this intelligence out of Germany. Then he shows his audience one of the silliest cartoons ever of Nazi rocketeer flying to the United States and burning down the White House. The other was Neville Sinclair's quip that he does his own stunts and then proceeds to almost beat up the rocketeer. But these little things are few and far between in a movie that is bankrupt of ideas and vision. "},{"Title":"Largely Uninspiring","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From the director of Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, comes a routine hero picture about the adventures of all American boy Cliff Secord (The Rocketeer).Special effects whiz Joe Johnston takes us through a run of the mill, predictable plot. Secord (played by newcomer Bill Campbell) must stop the Nazis getting their hands on the amazing rocket-pack, and thus save the world.While The Rocketeer is a new and exciting hero, the film is anything but and is largely uninspiring. Performances are average and the music is poor. Okay for the kids maybe.Tuesday, January 14, 1992 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie takes place in 1938 Los Angeles. Pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) is in love with struggling actress Jenny Blake (Jennifer Connelly) but he can't seem to hold down a job and is always thinking of big plans that never work out. Meanwhile some gangsters steal a rocket powered jet backpack from the government but it ends up with Secord and his scientist friend (Alan Arkin)...but the government and gangsters want it...and the evil Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton) will do anything to get it.This film has a lot going for it. It looks beautiful--the costumes and sets look exactly like the late 30s were (I think). The South Seas club especially is a dazzler. The movie never takes itself too seriously (when Campbell sees the helmet he's supposed to wear he says, He's got to be kidding), the special effects are good and I got a kick out of the bad guy made out to look like Rondo Hatton. Also Arkin nicely underplays his role and Terry O'Quinn (as Howard Hughes) and Dalton are obviously enjoying themselves. Still it doesn't work.The script is on the level of a very dumb comic book and the story just isn't engaging enough. Also Campbell is good--he's tall, handsome and has the gee-whiz enthusiasm down--but he's too old for the role. He's was in his early 30s when he did this and looks it. However Connelly is worse--she's very beautiful and can be good but she's a total blank here. Also the costume is kind of cool...but why don't his pants ever catch on fire? No way he could use that rocket device without burning his legs off. That bothered me during the whole movie. The movie also goes veering out of control at the end (Nazis?? A ZEPPELIN???). So it was a good try but misses the mark.Disney spent a LOT of money on this. It was expected to be a huge hit and Disney actually sent out a memo when this was in production--they said every movie they were making was to be kept on a strict budget--except for the Rocketeer. Then it came out and bombed quickly. Why it did is not quite clear and it's really too bad. This could have been the big break for Campbell but it wasn't and Connelly would have to wait a few more years till she hit it big.So not as bad as I have heard but no unsung masterpiece. And again--WHY didn't his legs get burnt? "},{"Title":"Rocketeer","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great film, mostly because of what it isn't. The Disney name probably turned some off to it. I watched it in theater and would probably stop surfing if I caught it on TV. It had a good script, good characters, good acting, and uuhhhh...oh yeah a guy with a rocketpack and a snazzy helmet. You can't take this film too seriously, but that's the point. If you try then you ruin the movie experience for yourself. Naturally if the guy straps an actual rocketpack to his back and fires er up then he's gonna set his pants on fire. It's all part of the show If you like sci/fi, action, or superhero type movies and you haven't seen this movie then do yourself a favor and rent it. I think you'll like it. "},{"Title":"incredible!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" how how how could anyone not enjoy this film? First off, Bill Campbell, 14 years ago ) plus it is actually really funny, through the action there are comedy moments too biiiiig gopher! it shows the darker side of Hollywood (oooh that smarmy git, Neville Sinclair!) and it has a cheesy ending! and it's anti-Nazi I can't say I've ever been called pro-American but a Nazi is not what I am.but I'm not here to discuss politics, I'm talking about an awesome film ooh, romance, and friendship, and a huge big ugly guy (please tell me his face wasn't real?) and action...PLUS 1991 was, as it happens a very good year! if you are stupid you will put a bad review up here! "},{"Title":"Wasn't Lies, it was Acting","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Nearly all films are about other films. This one is more explicit than most is about films of the thirties. Instead of characters per se, we have genres as characters the gangster genre, the scifi genre, the fighter pilot genre, and the spy film. Along the way, certain of these have avatars, especially the characters of Errol Flynn and Howard Hughes (himself a filmmaker during this period). No one knows how to engineer metacharacters like Disney. Too bad they felt like they had to deliver a story, because the other side of Disney doesn't understand all this meta-stuff. They take story very seriously and tried to deliver. Two warring factions keep this from working.There's incidentally a way cool Spruce Goose reference.Jennifer does here what she did for `Beautiful Mind' simply react.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Raining on the Parade","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was so sold on this movie by the reviews on this site. Everyone LOVES it! I bought a copy, settled down with my popcorn and a chock-ice and turned up the surroundosound and snuggled down on the sofa for a good entertaining romp.Great music! Great opening sequence!- 40 minutes later I was bored stupid. It takes SO long to set up what are (intentionaly) very simple situations and very 2 dimensional characters. It looks great; don't get me wrong. Lighting, sets, costumes, make-up - terrific! Jennifer Connelly's breasts? Stunning! Script? OK I guess, there are some nice lines and the story is very predictable - but Gods above! the plod plod plod pacing! I'm amazed to see this movie ran for only 104 minutes, it felt a lot longer. "},{"Title":"# 58  How does he manage to not put his pants on fire ? (web)","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In addition to this very intelligent question, i can write some more lines&#x85; The story is interesting, the production is awesome, the score is symphonic, the action sequences are thrilling, there is a bunch of great performances (Jenny, 007, Sorvino,&#x85;) and at the end, i felt bored however ! I can't exactly pinpoint what's wrong but here some ideas  first, it's totally serious and it's unexpected from a Californian super-hero ! It happens in the 30s so it's a bit faraway for a modern geek ! Then, the lead actor is maybe not the best choice&#x85; So i don't have great fun with it and the definitive fact is that i don't read the comics either ! "},{"Title":"Typical Disney Movie","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Typical Disney Fluff. If you are a Disney Fan - go for it. I - however - would much rather watch King of the Rocket Men (1949) - because despite all of these years I still find it enjoyable. Special Effects - Nazi Zeppelins and Exploding Rocket Packs - don't always make for a superior movie. The plot was not too technical - because - I suspect that if one were to use one's head as a rudder - (rudder built into helmet) - while zooming along at 100 miles an hour - one would snap one's head off. But - it is what it is and probably would be a nice film for kids. The acting was understandably restrained with the actors holding back - probably due to its PG-13 rating. A nice family film - but - give King of the Rocket Men a try some rainy Saturday Afternoon. "},{"Title":"Formulaic and mostly dull","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Formulaic and mostly dull. Pretty much your standard action-adventure story. Has a few interesting / odd diversions here and there but mostly fairly standard stuff. Plot, while seemingly sci fi, is actually pretty much a conventional boys-own action-adventure story.Action sequences are OK, but, once again, nothing special. The final scenes are decent though.Kids will probably like it it has the don't-worry-about-the-plot holes- and-implausibilities thing going for it that children like.For adults, well adult males, the only reason to watch this is Jennifer Connelly... "}{"Title":"Rocketeer","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I knew about this film mainly because I had seen a clip of the fourth James Bond 007 actor as the bad guy with a moustache, and I was interested to see a Disney film based on a comic book, from director Joe Johnston (Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Jumanji, Jurassic Park III). Basically, set in 1938, Los Angeles, as World War II is beginning, stunt pilot Cliff Secord (Bill Campbell) has his plane hit in midair when he is caught in the middle of a shootout between gangsters and FBI agents, so his best friend and trusted mechanic A. 'Peevy' Peabody (Alan Arkin) tries to fix an old plane for an exhibition show to raise money. One night however they find a package, that was hidden by a gangster, almost in the middle of nowhere, and it contains a rocket with back belts, and testing this out it gives the wearer the ability to fly. While Cliff perfects his skills of flying with this rocket pack on his back, and given a newly designed safety helmet (hiding his identity), his aspiring actress girlfriend Jenny Blake (Jennifer Connelly) has succeeded in getting a small part in a new movie, working alongside third ranking box office star Neville Sinclair (Timothy Dalton). At a flight exhibition an accident occurs with mechanic Malcolm (Eddie Jones), and Cliff puts on his helmet and the rocket pack to save him, and saving the man's life he is branded a hero by the public and named The Rocketeer. Sinclair, who has a double life and a darker side, has been looking for the rocket himself, and when he overhears a conversation between Cliff and Jenny, he decides to charm the young woman in the hope of finding out more about how to get to the rocket. Cliff and his alter ego are being targeted by the FBI, gangsters and German Nazi spies, and Sinclair eventually reveals himself as a Nazi villain himself, and kidnaps Jenny in order to get the rocket he wants back. In the end The Rocketeer rescues Jenny, Sinclair is defeated and the rocket destroyed together, and having revealed his identity to filmmaker and aviator Howard Hughes (Terry O'Quinn), who invented the rocket, Cliff is rewarded for doing good with a new plane. Also starring Paul Sorvino as Eddie Valentine, Ed Lauter as Fitch, James Handy as Wooly, Jon Polito as Bigelow and William Sanderson as Skeets. The acting is all fine, particularly Connelly as the sweet young woman caught in the middle of the hero and the villain, and Dalton is great as the charming but lovably evil Nazi villain, it is a simple enough story of a good guy using something sought by others to do good deeds, and there are some fun action scenes, a fun fantasy adventure. Good! "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocketeer, telling the story of a young country lad who, having found an experimental rocket pack, ends up fighting a Nazi plot and rescuing his girl, doesn't quite work.Perhaps this is due to Bill Campbell in the lead. He is personable enough, but he never grabs the audience with the type of charisma you need in a leading man.Or perhaps it is due to the structure and events in the film. It seems to take an awfully long time to deal with initial set up, and there doesn't seem to be that much use made of the rocket pack in putting things to rights. We came to this film to see some bloke flying around with a rocket pack so let's have some of that, please! Because, make no mistake, the flying sequences are superb. Following the Superman movies (you'll believe a man can fly with grainy back projection or a thick matte line round him), this was the first of a new generation of movies where a man flying looked like a man flying and not a special effect.Alan Arkin is great. Jennifer Connelly is, sadly, not called upon to do very much beyond looking gorgeous. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but too soft for a hero flick","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If it doesn't do anything else, at least The Rocketeer will make the 1981 fantasy Dragonslayer sound more interesting or promising when I tell you that it proves not everything which comes out of Disney's pocket is dumbed down, amateurish or child friendly. The Rocketeer unfortunately is.It suffers from a fairly bad case of the gimmick syndrome. There is a reason why its box office success was middling. People twenty years ago (just as they do today) wanna see more inventive material, like T2 or Jurassic Park. Films like the Rocketeer with their, cliché story lines and poor special effects don't seem to cut it. I won't say the film is without merit. It is definitely watchable, but it is more cute than it is exciting. For a superhero movie, that isn't so good.I suppose it would be easier to identify with the Rockeeter than it would be with say Batman, Superman, Iron Man and the rest of the gang. What we have here is not someone who gets bit by a radioactive animal or born in a Kryptonite world, or anything else that feels extraordinary or make-believe. The Rocketer feels much more....umm....ordinary. What would you do if you found and attempted to use a secret prototype military jet pack, only to get yourself mixed up with bad people and subsequently putting your loved ones in jeopardy. In the end, The Rocketeer has its charms and an occasionally self-mocking sense of humour, but it is only worth watching if you catch it on TV and nothing else is on. If anything, it may make a good family movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie Classic","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit that I'm kinda sentimental for a 16 year old but dude the movies that come out these days in the 21 century for some reason dont have the same affect on me that the old classics of late 80s through mid 90s had on me.The rocketeer just has this feeling that most movies dont have, the classic unlikely hero beating back the odds to save the girl and the rest of the world for that matter. Anyways just because its old and the special effects may not be like the matrix, you should still give it a shot, classics are well worth the viewing just for the fact that they shaped the movies we see today. LAte for now dudes, DMan "},{"Title":"Great movie from a old comic book","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love the movie how it took place in hollywood and how two men find a Rocket also the Nazi are geeting it. The movie had great acting like Billy Campbell did a good job but more I love the movie now is Jennifer Connelly who is so Beautiful and she look more Beautiful in that white dress she had make a great job in the movie also other like Timothy Dalton and Alan Arkin. I will soon get the movie on DVD but for now we had this great Disney. 7.8 of 10 "},{"Title":"Good, but I wasn't a real fan.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie in Aerospace class almost 10 years ago,(memories....) and I remember not being too impressed w/ it, but it was OK all the same, even though it was hard to tell us gutter children why the lead character is such pansy and why he don't just give his womyn good lovin'. I provided the answer,(Satan himself)Disney!!!!(Personally, she should've gone w/ Timothy Dalton, provided she didn't know he was a Nazi) I still it found it to be interesting, you've got more than one plot going on w/ an interesting array of characters(which overshadowed the cheesy stereotype-casting, like I said, I'm not a fan.) I also learned that they used real Nazi footage for the scenes that were projected and that we really did almost figure out how to get rocket-packs that could actually harness it's user from certain death (that is, if you can keep it from bursting vs. the power to be actually airborne vs. the ability of the user to fly acrobatically w/out breaking their neck, etc.) I'll give it a 7, hey does anybody notice that these movies don't point out why Nazi's are bad, assuming you didn't know (they didn't back in the 40's), irony and non-fandom are something you should take to this movie.   "},{"Title":"You'd pay to see a man fly, wouldn't ya?","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS MILD SPOILERSSadly, people didn't, and The Rocketeer was, if not quite a flop, then a disappointment at the box office.Set in 1938, The Rocketeer exists to evoke memories of all those glory days. You know, like outdoor toilets, butter rations and rickets. Although based on a graphic novel of the same name, it's source text would really seem to be the old '49 serial King of the Rocket Men, starring the bizarrely-named Tristram Coffin. This is even name-checked in the film.More pastiche than genuine recreation, the script is all fly boy, What'll we tell the President? and It must be the maid's day off. Timothy Dalton, the only RSC actor to play James Bond, is cast as the lead villain and Errol Flynn spoof. Clearly enjoying himself, Dalton, perhaps not normally known for his charisma, outacts everyone in sight with his pure intensity. Bloody amateurs! he hisses at the assembled cast members in his house. He could just as easily be talking about his co-stars.For Jennifer Connelly is very pleasing on the eye but also wooden and uninvolved. And while the narrative picks up with the fun Rocketeer scenes, Bill Campbell gives too starched a performance to ever really click.The incidental music is overblown, distancing the viewer from the action. Your eyes see underplayed/lacklustre acting (delete as applicable), but your ears hear a full brass orchestra. It jars badly in places, almost as if you're listening to a soundtrack from a different movie. Satires on Hollywood (Such as The Adventures of Robin Hood parody, The Laughing Bandit) are nice, but would have more credence if this was a good film in itself.The emergence of the Rocketeer gets the central characters embroiled in a clash between crooks, (stereotypical) Nazis and the FBI. The best scene is a real showstopper, with Campbell inadvertently demolishing an entire club, including a giant sculpted snail. Another nice touch is Dalton claiming I'll miss Hollywood. I don't think so, says Campbell, as he crash-lands right on top of the Hollywood(land) sign.If all this sounds like a good romp, then yes, it's passable entertainment. It's just a shame the acting isn't more assured, the direction less flat, and the concept less limited, as it could have been so much more. "},{"Title":"Fun, but not good","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer captures the look of the 30's serials wonderfully, and the feel, too.... unfortunately.  Most of those old stories were powered by expository dialogue and a couple of snappy stunts --  no real story, no real characters, and that's the problem here.  A story almost happens, when Terry O'Quinn emerges as Howard Hughes, but instead we are carried through a series of cliches and near misses that leave you smiling and intrigued, but never breathless and thrilled.  I like this movie, largely because of the cast and my fond remembrances of the comic book, but I fear it falls well short of its promise.  It remains a tribute to the 30's instead of trying to fulfil the period's fondest wishes. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Seeing this film again after many years, I am reminded why it was a bust. Disney decided to do an update of KING OF THE ROCKETMEN and ZOMBIES OF THE STRATOSPHERE, two exciting serials from the 1940s. Problem is, Disney turned the lead character from a two-fisted crime fighter into a farm boy/stunt pilot (Campbell) who stumbles across the suit and basically bumbles his way through a series of comic encounters with gangsters and Nazis after the suit. Not nearly enough action, way too much palaver. And a Brendan Fraser-type hero who isn't particularly heroic, just fumbling much like TV's THE GREATEST American HERO.. Much of the movie has to do with Howard Hughes and 1930s aviation, which will be of little interest to the general audience. Strong supporting cast, including Alan Arkin as Campbell's partner, late 1970s-type special effects, bland musical score. The love interest is played by Jennifer Connolly well before her DARK WATER days. As silly and primitive as those two old ROCKETMAN serials were, they packed much more of a punch. "},{"Title":"whoopty do","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It seems like much of The Rocketeer was just yanked out of the Indiana Jones movies, what with the stunts and all. It's kinda fun (especially the blimp scene), but there's not much that we haven't seen before. I don't know much about Bill Campbell, but the presence of Jennifer Connelly, Alan Arkin, Timothy Dalton and Paul Sorvino should have improved the movie a lot more. Then again, it is a Disney movie, so we probably shouldn't expect anything really high quality.So, there are much better movies out there. This is the sort of thing that you watch when there's absolutely nothing else available. Still, Jennifer Connelly is pretty hot. "}{"Title":"I grew up with this movie.","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How can anybody give this a low rating? I remember going to the movies with my dad to see this, and at the age of 9 I thought it was outstanding! Let alone today when I watch it the special effects are still second to none for '91, this is truly a great movie. The story and plot are terrific, let alone the acting. Out of nowhere comes Billy Campbell which hits the mark on the spot, I cant see anybody else playing this part but him. The supporting cast is awesome as well. I really believe Joe Johnston hits the mark with the nostalgic look of the 1930's, the set designs are miraculous and really put you into the feel of an older time era. So with everybody's help maybe we could raise the ratings on this classic. LONG LIVE THE ROCKETEER!!!!! "},{"Title":"Typically Disney adventure for older kids but certainly not adults or older teenagers","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having had their plane destroyed during an FBI pursuit of a criminal, Cliff Secord and mechanic Peevy think their luck is up, until, that is, they recover the item the feds were chasing &#150; a rocket powered back pack. Ignoring the danger Cliff decides it draws paying crowds and plans to use it at their show to recoup their losses. However, before he can do that he has to intervene to rescue another pilot in front of the media and soon the Rocketeer is the talk of the top. The publicity is unwelcome though as it brings the feds after them as well as the mob working for matinée idol The main thing that sticks in my mind about this film is the irony of a Walt Disney film that sees an American taking on the evil of the Nazi's just before the second world war was declared and it didn't help that this was probably the best thing about a fairly uninspiring if distracting adventure. The plot is fairly obvious and goes where you expect it to; this would be fine if it managed to inject pace, excitement and enjoyment into the story. As it is it doesn't really ever get going in the way that the best adventure films do, I never felt any danger or any energy in the film, all it really did was keep going. As a homage it was actually pretty good because it captured the wholesome feel of the genre and the period.The cast pretty much do the same as the rest of the film &#150; do well with the mood and feel but only so-so at everything else. Campbell is a bit too much of the period and lacks a character of his own, a bit of swagger and humour would have been appreciated &#150; more of a Han Solo perhaps? Connelly plays it similarly straight with a heroine that at least has a bit of spunk to her. Dalton has fun and is enjoyable for his rouge, while Arkin enjoys a comic boffin type role. Sorvino is the usual mobster and the support cast all do well enough for the mood and tone.Overall this is a solid adventure film but doesn't do anything that well other than tone and feel. The plot will please older children but will be unlikely to do much more to anyone older than that. The lack of energy, passion, danger and tension is a real let down and it could have been much more than it was. Nice touches along the way keep it watchable and distracting but it is unlikely to be that memorable. "},{"Title":"A good movie!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is great! Great acting from Timothy Dalton! Good action and music by James Horner. Jennifer Connelly looked fine! Alan Arkin and Paul Sorvino was good and Bill Campbell was a good pick to play the titled hero. Tiny Ron was excellent as Lothar! If you like old time action and Timothy Dalton then see this good film today! "},{"Title":"Joe Johnston does it again!!!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer is a fun movie to watch. Director Joe Johnston (October Sky,Jumanji,Honey I Shrunk the Kids) has a real winner on his hands from the get go. This film has a great story to it as well as enough action & thrills to please almost anyone. A well done film.      "},{"Title":"waste","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How can something with so much going for it be so totally devoid of fun? That's what keeps me up at night. (spoilers)Nazi's - Hollywood &#150; Flying Machines &#150; sets to die for - Timmy & Jenny have done such outstanding werk else where. & Disney has built up the reputation of making things fun. How could it all fall so flat? I'm going to have to go with the little jarring things that take you right out of the fantasy. The Mafia guy &#150; the little girl in the restaurant scene &#150; the way the blimp explodes &#150; the metal of the Backpack &#150; distance traveled by flying objects V. cars in about the same amount of time &#133; Painful to watch. Then again maybe I need a nap. "},{"Title":"To da Fadderland!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To da Fadderland!  They are in a blimp.  It is above LA.  Da Fadderland is in Europe.  Blimps are slow.  The US Army, the FBI, everybody knows what's aboard the blimp, the most top secret technology imaginable, on which the war's outcome will turn.  God, I hated this movie. "},{"Title":"A cash-in of the Indiana Jones films.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer tries its best to cash in on the Indiana Jones type film, but where as Indiana Jones used the 1930's as a model, the Rocketeer tried not only to emulate it, but to use it as its own premise.Sadly this does not work, it makes the film slower and its take ages for it to get off the ground.The plot is about a Rocket (presumably made by the Nazis, although this is never made clear) that could lead the Nazis to victory - because Rocketmen could take over the world (yeah - sure).If you ignore the plot and the useless blonde hero who walks around feeling down or remorseless all the time...then you'll soon find that the villain, played excellently by Timothy Dalton, steals the show - literally.His charm, presence and indeed acting lifts the whole film and its rather sluggish pace.  Dalton's bad guy is a Nazi agent trying at all costs to get the Rocket, unfortunately the hero has the rocket, and Dalton's men who are the mafia seem reluctant to get this rocket.The way in which Dalton used his character's acting to get to Jeffier I do nothing but smile pretty and wear revealing clothing Connolley was eye candy and you knew he was the bad guy.Anyway, the film ends in an over-the-top styled ending on a Hydrogen hot air ship over the sign Hollywoodland and gives an idea of how the word land disappeared from the Hollywood landscape.The film is a good yarn that can be enjoyed by all the family, but I wouldn't recommend that you watch the film because you'll probably fall asleep too early to see Dalton stealing the show. "},{"Title":"Big boring rip-off","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When this first came out in theaters, I searched and searched reviews and promo on the film to find one - just even one- reference to the film it rips off, the last of the great serials, Commando Cody and the Radar Men From the Moon.That serial made an easy transition to television, and was played every Saturday - some years every day - on television throughout the early 1960s. I sat glued whenever it was on. Commando Cody actually did look like he was flying! - But more importantly, being the last of the great serial heroes, his writers had learned from previous mistakes, not to let Cody or his friends - or his enemies - do any much talking. The serial was just one fist-fight, shoot-em-up-explosion after another; but, what made this important is that Cody thus had no time to doubt, to question, even to pose - he had to take decisive action at every minute - and he did! - this was no typical wimp (which by the mid-'60s were cluttering up comics, books, and films), this was a Man Of Action! And the second I recall ever seeing from popular culture (after Eliot Ness in the Untouchables).So I was originally pleased when it became obvious that the Disney/Spielberg people were going to put together a remake ... until I started noticing in all the hype, that nobody talked about it as a remake. In fact, nobody was mentioning Radarmen from the Moon at all. And by the time it was 'playing theaters everywhere', the horrible truth had sunk in - Hollywood was going to pretend that its real past - which was also part of my own history - never happened.Well, it DID happen. Which makes this remake - and a BAD remake at that.This is everything that Radarmen avoided - SLOW as mud; unnecessary pseudo-scientific explanations; a real wimp for a 'hero'; wretchedly mis-cast actors trying to come up with a good reason for being there; over-bloated cinematography and special-effects; uninteresting, mushy romance subplot; banalized nostalgia; patronizing to young viewers - everything that I loathed on television that drove me to watch Commando Cody to begin with.This is not an action movie; Radarmen from the Moon is an action-movie; this was just a bad excuse to print up promotional paper-cups at fast-food restaurants.Skip it. "},{"Title":"Production values and no soul","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Rocketeer looks fantastic. LA in 1938 is colorful and convincing.  All the characters look like they were chiseled from marble to play their roles - Campbell as the dashing, all-American hero, Dalton as the Errol Flynn-like Nazi villain.  Paul Sorvino looks great in great big gangster suits. Jennifer Connelly fits the period costumes perfectly.  Alan Arkin adds good comic relief as the mechanical genius Peevy.  None of the leads has a problem with acting, either.So why does this feel like it's just pretty cardboard cutouts?  The script zooms along and then loses momentum when they hide the rocket pack and the gangsters shake down the diner.  The big finale looks great but looks aren't everything.  Somewhere in here is a film lacking in soul.  I don't know if it's the actors, the writing, the direction...  They certainly put the effort into it, and there's no reason not to enjoy the film, but somehow Indiana Jones and Star Wars grab you on the inside, and this one sits outside and just shows pretty colors.  The production is so slick and well done it's a pleasure to watch.  You could get a lot less out of a movie, but when they put so much effort into making it look this good it should feel good too. Funny movie alchemy. "},{"Title":"Old-time hero film set in 1938, Jennifer Connelly was only 20 years old and beautiful.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw The Rocketeer several years ago on VHS.  I bought a copy of the DVD last year and just dropped it into my DVD file without watching it. But tonight I did. What a wonderful little gem of a movie. And the DVD is in Dolby 5.1 sound with a widescreen presentation. The soundtrack is brilliant, young Jennifer Connelly is beautiful, Bill Campbell plays the innocent young test pilot just right. Alan Arkin is also just right as the old inventor. Tim Dalton makes a fine Nazi spy. The film even has Howard Hughes and a reference to the Spruce Goose. No nudity, no bad language, only moderate violence, you know the good guys will prevail, and the whole movie is just fun to watch to see how they end up doing it. I rate it a strong 8 of 10. "}{"Title":"should be rated at least PG-13","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the rating on this movie is 6/10 on this site.but it's not as good as i had expected or hoped.that rating is about 2 stars too high for me.for one thing,i found it too insubstantial,with a pretty weak story.the potential was there,but it just wasn't realized.there also existed the possibility of some humour in the movie,but that doesn't really develop either.it's also slow,with only intermittent scenes of action.there's almost no character development.as a matter of a fact,there were a few characters that had almost nothing to do.this movie runs about 104 minutes without end credits,but i had to stop it,to break up the monotony.the American and Canadian rating on this movie is PG,but i think it should be at least PG-13.i think it's a bit too intense for any under 13,but that's just me.nevertheless,parents should use their discretion.my vote for The Rocketeer is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Rock-a-who?  This ones forgettable  except Jennifer","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe SpoilersThe Rock-a-who? As said by the incredibly hot, Jennifer Connelly, the hottest woman in the movies.That is pretty much the extent of what I remember about this movie. Well I also do recall the mobsters and the chewing gum. Outside of the fantasies that Jennifer can produce in a guy, I really can not recommend this one. But she is definitely worth a view for you guys.What else can I say, Jenny's character battles with her hero boyfriend and goes after the wrong guy, who well winds up being the villain. After you see this, you'll probably recall Jennifer saying The Rockawho also. "}]