[{"Title":"This one is worth it","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's funny. It's not Arthur Miller or T.S. Elliot, but man this is funny. Kline and Fields are great. (Her toss-off line God, you are so disGUSting as she climbs in his window - great! Kline's running into the door after scoping out Teri Hatcher - great too!) Robert Downey Jr. and Kathy Moriarty work together flawlessly - until he finds out who she really is... a soap opera turn if there every was one!The scene near the end in the chinese dining area had my kids and I rolling on the floor - that scene alone is worth the rental price.Doesn't solve any world problems or show the seemy underbelly of daytime T.V. (I hope). Just a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Best of the Best","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It really is a shame that films like this never snag Best Picture nominations, because this one is simply a winner.  This is by far the most consistently hilarious comedy I have ever seen.  Its screenplay and design are impeccable, not to mention the incredible cast.  I can quote this movie for hours on end.  Watch it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant !","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best comedy ever ! The writing of this parody of soap is brilliant and the cast, well just look at the names of the cast and you'll understand why it is so great. If you're a Kevin Kline fan, he does (as always) an fantastic performance, and Robert Downey Jr is perfect. If you don't laugh while seen this movie, you don't have any sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Such an enjoyable film","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Years ago I did follow a soap on TV.  So I was curious about this movie, and I was so rewarded for finding it.  It's a marvelous spoof of soaps, with jealousies, the usual actors' insecurities, and all sorts of lovely excesses.  But more than anything - an amazing cast and an incredible script.  How did someone get all those top-notch actors to play in such a silly sort of movie?  And how did this little movie get writers to write the perfect lines?  I never hear anyone talk about this movie or even admit hearing of it, but it's marvelous and I highly recommend seeing it. Sometimes I'll throw it on while doing housecleaning, and end up sitting on the couch, watching, laughing and thoroughly enjoying the whole wonderful thing.  Many congrats to all who made it. "},{"Title":"It's very funny, has a great cast, and it is the best film of 1991.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's very funny. It has a great cast who each give great performances. Especially Sally Field and Kevin Kline. It's a well written screenplay by Andrew Bergman (Honeymoon In Vegas). I don't like soap operas, even though I never watch them. But I do love this film because it's so crazy and off the wall, that it beats the hell out of any stupid soap that they have on daytime television. In my opinion, it's the best film of 1991. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think that this is possibly the funniest movie I have ever seen. Robert Harling's script is near perfect, just check out the quotes section; on second thought, just rent the DVD, since it's the delivery that really makes the lines sing.Sally Field gives a comic, over-the-top performance like you've never seen from her anywhere else, and Kevin Kline is effortlessly hilarious. Robert Downey, Jr. is typically brilliant, and in a very small role, Kathy Najimy is a riot as the beleaguered costumer. I was never much of a fan of Elisabeth Shue, but she's great here as the one *real* person surrounded by a bevy of cartoon characters on the set of The Sun Also Sets -- that rumbling you feel beneath you is Hemingway rolling over in his grave. Either that, or he's laughing really hard.Five stars. Funny, funny, funny. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  From the opening credits to and through the final credits ballroom cast celebration, this movie had me laughing and applauding the nonsense and hysterical plot.  What a cast of stellar performers in certainly an ensemble approach to this flick.  For they all seemed to have fun along the way and shared in the carrying out of a deliciously funny film. With Sally Field who can do no wrong Kevin Kline a master of a line and expression Robert Downey Jr. brilliant and who can forget the other side of the coin and his performance as Charlie Chaplin and Whoopi Goldberg her one liners are a treasure I'll say amen But let us not forget the supporting cast who stand out on their own, not to be overshadowed by the stars.  Cathy Moriarty very imposing and having a surprise for us all later in the plot working flawlessly along side of Downey Elisabeth Shue who can bring honesty along with humor in her performance Paul Johansson gorgeous hunk playing the soap hero bringing some very funny moments on his own the delightful Kathy Najimy who steals every scene she's in as the costumer who keeps dragging smokes throughout the film Carrie Fisher small role of casting agent on the lust for Rob Camilletti, an actor auditioning for a one liner as waiter and the delectable Terri Hatcher as one of the stars of the soap who spends most of her time pushing up her breasts for the camera and for off camera.  Put all of these terrific performers in one film and you have terrific comedy and a fast paced film.  Hats off to you all.  I have the VHS and never tire from watching this little treasure. "},{"Title":"A crackling sendup of the daytime TV world.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The scene where Sally Field and Whoopi Goldberg go to the mall to revive Sally's flagging spirits is enough reason alone to enjoy this movie, but wait! There's more!  This is a crackling good sendup of daytime TV, movie stars on the way down, (and up) and the horrors of love. Robert Downey Jr shows the lighter side of his genius, and Cathy Moriarty is splendid.  The dialogue is witty, and the physical humor done with consummate skill. This is a movie that will appeal to those who really enjoy the arts of acting, directing, and writing. "},{"Title":"Sorry, no clever puns here - just a glowing review","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This has to be, hands down, hats off, one of the most uproarious comedies ever made. Starting with the animated blowing, popping bubbles, the entrance to the Daytime Awards, the usual phony drivel spewed by the stars on the red carpet, the rehearsed and badly acted acceptance speech, the venomous comments uttered by the actor's jealous co-stars and producer, under phony smiles. Now THAT is only in the first few minutes. Then, all hell breaks loose from there and it only gets more frantic and ridiculous. Ridiculous in a good way, no, make that a great way. This was the first time I'd seen the always charming Teri Hatcher. While I may not be a follower of Desperate Housewives, she herself is always watchable - same goes for Lois & Clark. Not a huge follower, but if I run across an episode I'd watch it. Robert Downey, jr., does a great turn as slimy, smarmy, snaky, sycophantic David Seaton Barnes, the producer who'd give his right eye to see Sally Field's Celeste Talbert leave the show, if only to finally get to get it on with Cathy Moriarty's Montana Moorehead.Moriarty absolutely shines in this movie, just as she had everywhere else she's appeared. Here, all she has to do is scream I HATE YOU I HATE YOU YOU CREEP! or give one of her anti-Celeste-co-conspirators an evil grin, and she has me rolling in the aisles. Yes, Cathy Moriarty is a very gifted actress, and one hell of a comedienne. Sally Field gratefully departs from the usual 70-MM-sized Lifetime Tragedy of the Week movies, and we're all reminded why she is who she is today, having started off in comedy afraid of nothing. Her ensuing years of drama had hidden her sense of humor, but like a caterpillar in a cocoon, the brilliant comedienne she is had blossomed and it was joyous to see her as hilarious as she was. The thing with dramatic actors and actresses is that you see in such heavy, serious roles, that you associate them with their character and you can't believe it when you see them finally having some fun on screen.How lucky were the producers to land Carrie Fisher, if only for a glorified cameo. She doesn't realize what a presence she bears on screen. She takes a role which, in the hands of a lesser actress, could easily have been forgotten, but she owns the character and it seems as if she wrote it herself.How lucky was Elisabeth Shue to get thrown in the middle of all this! At the time, she wasn't really known for much. Adventures in Babysitting was kind of cute (yes, I was dragged to an evening show for which I had to pay full price), but she didn't hold my attention - - much. But here, she makes the most of her character - star's niece who falls in love with the star's ex-co-star-and-lover who, of course, turns out to be the niece's father, and the star turns out to be the poor girl's mother.I'll stop there - I feel I practically wrote a book about this brilliant screwball comedy, or at least a novela. If you've seen it, then reminisce. If you haven't, you've missed a real classic, but not really. The DVD's are made of a material that'll last for at least 25 years, and this movie is timeless, so what the hell. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Comedy Classic","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Soapdish' is one of the best, yet least well remembered comedies of the 1990's. The film revolves around the various off-camera drama's that occur behind the scenes of a cheaply produced Daytime Soap Opera. The first of the film's various impressive strengths is it's fantastic A-List cast. 'Soapdish' features some of the greatest actors and actresses of it's era.The film is superbly led by Sally Field, as the neurotic ageing actress Celeste Talbert (She famously throws a tantrum when put in a costume that makes her look like Gloria F*CKING Swanson!). Her supporting cast reads like a who's-who of 90's Movie Greats! Whoopi Goldberg, Robert Downey Jr, Teri Hatcher, Kevin Kline and Kathy Najimy all elevate the film greatly. Goldberg is predictably excellent, whilst Downey Jr.'s and Hatcher's performances hint at the comedic excellence they would later achieve.In terms of writing, the film is outstanding. There is a really modern edge to the script, which strays into the wonderfully bizarre on several occasions. There also several visual gags that are quite ahead of their time. In some ways, the film is reminiscent of Mel Brooks at his best and frequently reminded this reviewer of 'High Anxiety' (1977). Much of the film's humour hinges on it's often scathing, but pretty accurate, representations of daytime television and of neurotic and pretentious actors. For example, The extras casting session featuring the exploitative executive played by Carrie Fisher, is both hilarious and honest.'Soapdish' is, for my money, one of the very best comedies Hollywood produced during the 1990's. It's excellent script and A-Class cast make it a must-see. It's hard not to love this film after it's kept you laughing for 90 minutes. "}{"Title":"Genuinely funny movie","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Soapdish may go down as one of the single most under-rated movies ever made.A stellar, unselfish cast who understood exactly where the movie was going and the roles they played in it. While everyone hammed it up, there was no one-upmanship. Kline showed wit and great physical comedy, Goldberg and Downey knew how to carry on a funny conversation while someone else was talking, I could just go on.Do not pass this movie by! "},{"Title":"At last, drama!","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Fast paced and funny satire about that original reality TV, the soap opera. The script by playwright Robert Harling is packed with one liners and ridiculous situations. The best of them is the climax, a live broadcast that quickly deteriorates into bad improv and a brain transplant. Keven Kline's murdering of his lines, due to not wearing his glasses, is hilarious. Her brain will laterally explore within the next few houses. The brilliant cast is on the same page as Kline. Sally Field, Elizabeth Shue, Cathy Moriarty, Robert Downey Jr., Whoopi Goldberg, Teri Hatcher, Garry Marshall, and Kathy Najimy are all perfect. It is a treat to see a cast click like it does in this movie. This is a classic that has somehow slipped through the cracks.P.S. The score by Alan Silvestri is an added bonus. It fits the soap opera with it's flamboyant and melodramatic air. "},{"Title":"The Sun Does NOT Also Suck ! A gem, get addicted !","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS (but not really - keep reading). Ahhh, there are so many reasons to become utterly addicted to this spoof gem that I won't have room to list them all. The opening credits set the playful scene with kitsch late 1950s cartoon stills; an enchanting Peres 'Prez' Prado mambo theme which appears to be curiously uncredited (but his grunts are unmistakable, and no-one else did them); and with familiar cast names, including Kathy Najimi a full year before she hit with Sister Acts 1 & 2 plus Teri Hatcher from TV's Superman.Every scene is imbued with shallow injustices flung at various actors, actresses and producers in daytime TV. Peeking behind the careers of these people is all just an excuse for an old-fashioned, delicious farce. Robert Harling penned this riotous spoof that plays like an issue of MAD Magazine, but feels like a gift to us in the audience. Some of the cliched characters are a bit dim, but everyone is drizzling with high jealousy, especially against Celeste Talbert (Sally Field) who is the show's perennial award-winning lead, nicknamed America's Sweetheart. The daytime Emmies-like awards opening does introduce us to Celeste's show, The Sun Also Sets. Against all vain fears to the contrary, Celeste wins again. She is overjoyed, because it's always such a genuine thrill Adam, did you watch?  I won! Well, nguh... The reason for Adam's absence soon becomes the justification for the entire plot, and we're instantly off on a trip with Celeste's neuroses. She cries, screeches, and wrings her hands though the rest of the movie while her dresser Tawnee (Kathy Najimi, constantly waddling after Celeste, unseen through Celeste's fog of paranoia) indulges a taste for Tammy Faye Baker, for which Tawnee had been in fact specifically hired.Rosie Schwartz (Whoopi Goldberg) has seen it all before. She is the head writer of the show, and she and Celeste have been excellent support networks to each other for 15 years. So when Celeste freaks, Rosie offers to write her off the show for six months We'll just say that Maggie went to visit with the Dalai Lama. But Celeste has doubts I thought that the Dalai Lama moved to LA. -Well, then, some other lama, Fernando Lamas, come on!. Such a skewering line must be rather affronting to still living beefcake actor Lorenzo Lamas, son of aforementioned Fernando Lamas (d. 1982).Those who can remember the economics teacher (Ben Stein) in Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986) as he deadeningly calls the roll (Bueller. Bueller. Bueller), will take secret pleasure from seeing him again as a nitwit writer. Other well hidden member of the cast include Garry Marshall (in real life Mr Happy Days and brother of Penny), who gets paid $1.2 million to make the command decisions on The Sun Also Sets - he says he definitely likes peppy and cheap; and Carrie Fisher as Betsy Faye Sharon, who's a bitch.Geoffrey Anderson (Kevin Kline) is the yummy-with-a-spoon (and he is, by the way) dinner theater actor now rescued from his Hell by David Seaton Barnes (Robert Downey Jr), and brought back to the same show he was canned from 20 years earlier. Of course this presents some logical challenges for the current scriptwriters because his character, Rod Randall, was supposed to have been decapitated all those years ago. Somehow they work out the logical difficulties, and Geoffrey Anderson steps off the choo-choo.Celeste can now only get worse, and her trick of going across the Washington bridge no longer helps. First, her hands shake as she tries to put on mascara, but she soon degenerates into a stalker. Unfortunately, she cannot get rid of Geoffrey Anderson so easily. Geoffrey's been promised development of his one-man play about Hamlet, and he means to hold the producer to that promise. I'm not going back to Florida no-how!, argues Geoffrey. You try playing Willie Loman in front of a bunch of old farts eating meatloaf ! And indeed, seeing Geoffrey's dinner theater lifestyle amongst all the hocking and accidents is hilarious. Back in Florida in his Willie Loman fat suit in his room, Geoffrey Anderson used to chafe at being called to stage as Mr Loman. He was forced to splat whatever cockroaches crawled across his TV with a shoe, and to use pliers instead of the broken analog channel changer. Now he find himself as the yummy surgeon dating Laurie Craven, the show's new ingenue; so he's not leaving.Beautiful Elizabeth Shue (as Laurie) rounds out the amazing ensemble cast who all do the fantastic job of those who know the stereotypes all too well. But, of course, the course to true love never did run smoothly. Montana Moorehead (Cathy Moriarty) is getting impatient waiting for her star to rise, and is getting desperate for some publicity.Will her plots finally succeed? Will Celeste settle her nerves, or will she kill Tawnee first? Will the producer get Mr Fuzzy? -You'll just have to watch * the  second half * of this utterly lovable, farcically malicious riot.And you'll really have to see to believe how the short-sighted Geoffrey reads his lines without glasses live off the TelePrompter. If you are not in stitches with stomach-heaving laughter and tears pouring down your face, feel free to demand your money back for the video rental. Soapdish (1991) is an unmissable gem that you will need to see again and again, because it's not often that a movie can deliver so amply with so many hilarious lines. This is very well-crafted humor, almost all of it in the writing. A draw with Blazing Saddles (1974) for uproarious apoplexy value, although otherwise dissimilar. Watch it and weep. A happy source for anyone's video addiction. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"great soap opera comedy!!have fun with it!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a fictional soap opera. It is very fast and funny. To say anything else would ruin the movie. There are several plots and sub plots in the movie. This movie has ensemble cast with today's hottest stars. They all gives over the top performances. This movie is favorite of mine from the year 1991. Soapdish is perfect for fans of either daytime soap opera /or prime time soap opera!!!If you watch soap go check this movie it's hilarious!!! "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a romantic comedy with the emphasis on comedy for a change. As usual the lovers--Sally Field as almost-over-the-hill soap opera queen, Celeste Talbert; and Kevin Kline as marginally employed and marginally talented actor, Jeffrey Anderson--are working at cross purposes, seemingly unaware that they are madly in love, etc. Owing a little to Bette Davis's Margo Channing in All About Eve (1950) and a whole lot to the slapstick theatrical tradition, Sally Field goes over the top towards hilarity as she malaprops her way to love and happiness. Kevin Kline, one of the more underrated leading men of recent years, is also very good and very winning as he manages to be handsome, vulnerable, egotistical and lovable all at the same time.The misadventures center around Celeste's fear of losing her audience as she has entered her forties, and reach the crisis point with the arrival of her niece, aspiring actress Cori Craven (Elisabeth Shue) who turns out NOT to be her niece, with ensuing plot complications. Cori manages to get a small part in the soap opera as a homeless deaf mute before discovering her true relationship to Celeste (and to Jeffrey Anderson as well)--but never mind.As a romantic counterpoint or foil to the leads are Robert Downey Jr. (soap opera director, David Barnes) and Cathy Moriarty (Montana and Nurse Nan). David Barnes is oh so hot for her, but she cares only about one thing getting rid of Celeste so that she might shine more brightly on the set. To this end she gets Barnes to do all sorts of things to wreck Celeste's career, but through happenstance and/or a perverse logic, all his attempts go awry, much to the delight of the viewer.Whoopie Goldberg plays Rose Schwartz, the show's chief writer and Celeste's alter-ego and confidant while Carrie Fisher has a modest part as the hard-as-nails producer of the show.I thought this was funnier than the only other spoof of the soap opera world that I have seen (Young Doctors in Love 1982 which burlesqued TV's General Hospital and was pretty good). Soapdish is funnier with a daffy script and plenty of laugh-out-loud one-liners and terrific performances by Field, Kline and Downy, Jr. But see this for Sally Field who is outstanding.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"A gotta see every so often movie.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies - like Dave, American Dreamer and Local Hero - that holds a viewer's interest time and again. Lightweight movies seldom win Oscars, but whoever did the casting for Soapdish deserves one. Even after one has seen the movie and knows what is coming, it's still enjoyable to watch how the various plot facets develop. True, all the drama is melodrama; but that's entirely fitting for a movie with a soap opera background. My favorite line comes from Whoopi Goldberg Now why can't I write sh*t like that? I think it's unfortunate that the TV and website censors insist on all this unnecessary sanitation. "},{"Title":"Good Clean Funny Movie","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't watch soaps. My grandmother still watches that one with the hour glass. I made fun of them it when I was ten (it was so easy).But this movie takes parody and spells it a new way. I found the story pretty damn funny. The fashions of the 80's - shoulder pads, sequins, and polyester - just top it off. The huge hair, the high heels, and the histrionics - what a combination.And all the actors just go to town, chewing up their parts and spitting them out in a big well scripted pile. Sally, Kevin, Elisabeth - wonderful! Whoopi - great! Robert Downey - refreshing to see him back when he had such potential, before the tabloids. And Garry why did we have to wait so long to see him on film? Leesa Gibbons - hadn't been missing her, but nice to include her as a real life entertainment reporter (and where do you apply for THAT job, anyway?).Admittedly, I could have done without Sally climbing the drainpipe. Lucy Ricardo did it, how many times?, as has every comedienne from Carol Burnett to I don't know who and I'm so done with it now, I could spit peanuts if I had them. Apparently it's what you do when you're being funny in a tall building in New York. I'm just thankful they didn't pull out the flagpole bit.But it was cute, it was funny, it had plot twists, it had an after credits ending before that was common, it had clothes worthy of a second glance, it had a great cast and it's got personal memories for me. Really, what more do you need? "},{"Title":"One of the better satires about daytime TV shows.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Way back in 1955, the British made a comedy called Simon and Laura, with Peter Finch and the brilliant Kay Kendall. To this day, it stands as one of the finest examples of British comedy and, more particularly, about how television sitcoms become so popular. It was, and is, an excellent example also of self-referential cinema.So also Soapdish, a film I'd never heard about until a few nights ago when I caught it on late TV. I was a bit dubious at first simply because comedy is so difficult to do well, as you know.However, I was pleasantly surprised and delighted to watch a very clever satire about daytime American TV. In fact, it's been a while since I laughed so heartily. So, if you like satire, I'd recommend you see it.The main actors &#150; Sally Field, Kevin Kline, Robert Downey and Cathy Moriarty &#150; quite simply do an excellent job, revealing just how bitchy and shallow the business of acting is. As I watched it, I kept thinking to myself just how much of this bitchiness carries over into real life? That is, if actors ever do have a real life? As you probably know, Peter Sellers, for example, was notorious for hiding his true persona behind a multitude of characters, so that nobody really knew the real person. So, as I watched Sally Field playing Celeste Talbot playing Maggie, I thought again about that earlier British film with Kay Kendall playing Laura playing a character in a TV sitcom opposite Peter Finch...Is it any wonder that some actors have nervous breakdowns? And that feeling was crystallized when Celeste finally confronts her daughter (Lori, played by Elizabeth Shue) and, in an emotional moment, repeats the fictional lines she'd used, on a prior episode of her daytime soap, when confronting her fictional daughter in that show! Are you confused? Well, it's not all like that, but the dialog is stunning for originality, comedy, bitchiness, anger, depravity, duplicity, and even...love.The story? Well, there are many stories in this film, all interwoven, and which all come together at the end (of course &#150; but not like a Robert Altman film, okay!), and not all of them are resolved finally. Life's not like that anyway, right? The pace is almost frenetic, and you really do have to watch and listen carefully to catch all the sight gags and subtle jokes. Spend the 97 minutes from your life and watch it; you won't regret the time usage.The rest of the cast all perform well, although I've never taken much to Whoopi Goldberg. Perhaps the funniest exchanges are between Robert Downey and Cathy Moriarty and, for my money, the latter steals so many scenes from others, she gets my vote as the outstanding player. I kid you not, she gives the term bitch an entirely new face... "},{"Title":"I forgot how much I loved this movie...","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" till HBO began rerunning it this month. I remember laughing out loud in the theater back in 1991, and now again in my living room. If I see that it's on, I have to watch it. There's just no question. This is so much more entertaining to me than other, more popular spoofs like Airplane! (which I really like, BTW). Cathy Moriarty steals the show in my opinion. Quotes like Sudden speech! The last symptoms of brain fever! She could blow at any moment! put me over the edge. And Whoopie Goldberg hasn't been this funny since 'Jumpin' Jack Flash'. Kevin Klein, Sally Field, Robert Downey Jr. all turn in superb performances as expected. I started out giving this 9 out of 10 stars, but then I realized that for the type of film it's supposed to be, there isn't one thing I'd change or improve upon. So 10 it is. I have to get this on DVD, that's just all there is to it. "},{"Title":"Day time TV send up","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very funny comedy from director Michael Hoffman and writer Robert Harling about a group of people whose 'soap opera' lives are more dramatic and interesting than the ones they portray in their daytime TV show, The Sun Also Sets.The whole huge cast, including Sally Field, Kevin Kline, Elisabeth Shue, Robert Downey Jnr, Carrie Fisher, Teri Hatcher, Garry Marshall, Kathy Najimy and Cathy Moriarty, play off each other well, producing some very funny moments, while Whoopi Goldberg is delightful. Not of the great script select, however Soapdish is all good fun as it sends up that institution of daytime T.V., soap opera!Friday, October 18, 1991 - Knox District Centre "}{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Anyone who doesn't laugh all through this movie has been embalmed. I have watched it at least twenty times and I still get tears in my eyes at many of the scenes. Sally Field is absolutely perfect as Celest Talbert, a fading soap star whose supporting cast is trying to get her replaced in hopes that their own star will rise. Fields, at 45, still has that wonderful and beautiful pixie quality and a perfect figure that belies her having had three children. I'm biased, I'm in love with her.The cast of Soapdish is filled with stars who perform their roles to perfection. Kevin Kline is flawless, as are Robert Downey Jr., an ingénue Elizabeth Shue, Whoopi Goldberg, Teri Hatcher in one of her early roles, Carrie Fisher as the oversexed casting director who auditions an actor for a small part as a waiter without his shirt on. Kathy Najimy is wonderful as the hapless costume designer, and best of all, Cathy Moriarty as Nurse Nan who leads the plot to get Fields character removed from the show is hilarious.This movie should have won Oscars for best comedy, best leading lady in a comedy, best leading man in a comedy and myriad other bests, including writing, directing and supporting actors and actresses. Get the DVD so you can watch it over and over for the next twenty five years. You will still be laughing at it when the disc wears out. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been a fan of this movie for years and years. Because of Teri Hatchers move into the forefront, I had to take the movie off the shelf and watch it. Why people back in 1991 did not see how wonderful this movie was in beyond me? Sally Field and Kevin Kline are beyond fabulous. Although I never have watching daytime soap operas, this movie kills me every time I watch it. The acting is second to none for a comedy and the writing is so smart. I highly recommend that you watch this if you haven't already. You will get to see Elizabeth Shue, Whoopi Goldberg, Teri Hatcher, and Carrie Fisher...to name a few...all give splendid performances. "},{"Title":"Screwball comedy of the nineties. Soooo funny!!!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are few comedies like this, where almost every line and every character come close to flawless. This is soooo funny!! And it has quite a bit of satire there to. Sally Field is heading the field of truly outstanding actors and does a good, if not perfect, job with her daytime tv-diva. Sometimes her acting is just a little to broad and over the top, but 90 % of the time she is a riot! In the same league is Kevin Kline, Robert Downey Jr and Whoopy Goldberg (who unfortunately has too little to do here). Downey jr may not convince entirely as a comedian and has not the timing right all the time, but he struggles with his part which is, to be honest, the most ungrateful one. But the shining star here is Cathy Moriarty as Celeste, a true bitch if there ever was one with more than one nasty secret (you will see in the absolutely stunning finale!). Sadly Elisabeth Shue never seems to be quite comfortable in her part. I normally like Ms Shue, but here she acts as a fish out of water and sometimes seems to be in a different movie. But it is not something damaging and for the most part she is at least adequate. Otherwise, brimming with memorable lines and situations, this is a comedy to watch whenever it is on TV or wherever.  "},{"Title":"It dished out laughs in heaps","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Excellent cast, amazing comic timing, hilarious situations yet humane emotions. Couldn't stop chucking and giggling throughout. I've always seen this movie in bits and pieces. Today, I got the chance to see the complete movie. What a gem! D I revisited this movie mainly for Downey. Although he is a support character, he holds his own among the other heavyweights in the movie. The plot is simple, an ambitious supporting actress wants to bump off the TV soaps long-time star. She comes up with a conniving plan and takes the help of the show's producer to execute her plan. But, she is in for a surprise when nothing goes as planned. Soapdish gives a glimpse of the personal dramas and life of the people in the TV world, and how easily the line between the reel & real can blur. Nothing in this movie is remotely vulgar or obscene. It played safe yet the comedy is highly effective in evoking laughs. Brownie points for the actors to be able to pull this off with élan. "},{"Title":"Brilliant of brilliance","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There isn't an area of this gem that isn't exciting or brilliant.Terrific cast, and wonderful 'sub plot' (as Elisabeth Shue puts it). Everyone is at their comical best, and Field and Kline beautifully play off each other as the former star-crossed screen/off-screen lovers, turned passion-rivals. Cathy Moriarty is deliciously *beep* as Montana/Myron, and this is by far probably Robert Downey Jr's greatest comic performance in a role. For any Daytime (and former) fan, this movie is a must; it tastefully highlights and mocks every bit of gossip, raw, and glamor behind the scenes. **Of course I'm an 'ego-maniac'... I've got America's Sweetheart climbing up my drainpipe!!!** "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Comedy!","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Soapdish' is one good laugh! An Entertaining Comedy, that ranks amongst the better films from the early 1990's. Its got the wit & the humor, working on its advantage.'Soapdish' Synopsis An ambitious TV soap actress connives with her producer to scuttle the career of the show's long-time star, but nothing works as they plan.'Soapdish' is amusing, rib-tickling & arresting. The characters are absurd, but their journey together is graspingly funny. Robert Harling & Andrew Bergman's Screenplay balances humor & wit, commendably. Michael Hoffman's Direction is perfect. Cinematography is spacious. Editing is decent. Performance-Wise Kevin Kline is exceptional, as always. He's the scene-stealer! Sally Field is stupendous. A super act! Elisabeth Shue is extremely cute. Whoopi Goldberg is spunky, while Robert Downey, Jr. is another topper. Cathy Moriarty & Carrie Fisher are adequate. On the whole, 'Soapdish' works. "},{"Title":"Sally Field goes crazy manic","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The drama of a soap opera on screen and off. Celeste Talbert (Sally Field) is queen of the soaps. Montana Moorehead (Cathy Moriarty) wants to be top dog. She gets the help of David Seton Barnes (Robert Downey Jr) to try and write difficulties for Celeste. They even bring back her old flame Jeffrey Anderson (Kevin Kline) to get under her skin. Only when her niece (Elisabeth Shue) comes on the show, it gets more complicated than even her most hated enemy could hope for.There is a lot of crazy characters going around in this. Some of them get quite hilarious. Sally Field is going off on this character. She's a lot of fun. The amount of acting talent here is amazing. The story off the screen is even more hilarious. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen!","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is brutally underrated. It has a brilliant script and the cast is amazing! Almost every little details in this movie contributes to its hilariousness. Sally Field and Kevin Kline, together they bought a melodramatic -and - crazy - funny look to the film. And the rest of the cast did a great job, too! You will find yourself eager to find out what Robert and Cathy's characters are up to next. The movie is so soapdishly good! I've watched it so many times and yet I can't stop laughing out loud. I think some people don't like it as they think it is absurd and ridiculous but they just don't get its wits. If I want to watch something pleasant and joyful for a Saturday night, I'll definitely choose Soapdish! "},{"Title":"As Our General Hospital's Doctor's World Turns, the Young and the Restless search for tomorrow and the days of their lives.","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As a student of daytime soap history, I went into this with great anticipation, and did not come out unhappy with the results. Sally Field is Celeste Talbert, a daytime diva of Susan Lucci proportions that actually has an Emmy (or four) and comes off closer to Erika Slezak's One Life to Live character as the queen of misery as daytime network head Gary Marshall describes her as. She's as melodramatic off the set as she is on, and when a former leading man (Kevin Kline) returns to the show, she's ripe for ripping as secrets from her past prepare to turn her own world upside down, turning off her guiding light as she moves into her own edge of night.She's surrounded by a series of wacko characters-producer Robert Downey Jr., his friend with benefits and jealous supporting player Cathy Moriarty (who has secrets of her own, revealed through her hatred of practically everybody around her), sardonic writer Whoopie Goldberg, and nervous costume designer Kathy Najimy who creates outrageous hats for the cast that threaten to make Celeste look like Gloria F'in Swanson! and new cast member Elizabeth Shue resemble Tweetie Bird.You have to go into this film realizing that this soap opera parody isn't necessarily reflective of early 1990's soap opera. The sets are too glamorous for most soaps of this time (at the time, only The Bold and the Beautiful and Santa Barbara were really close to as lavish as this was) and some of the plot lines even inside the soaps reek of dialog far worse than anything heard on daytime. But to watch it for Field's tour-de-force performance (she parodies her infamous Oscar speech as Celeste picks up her umpteenth daytime Emmy) is to find delight in seeing Field out of her usual comfort zone set with her more dramatic films. Even her early sitcom appearances were far from outrageous, and she proves herself to be a good sport as she hams it up deliciously.Second to Field in overall performance is Moriarty, perfectly cast as an Amazon-like woman whose frizzed hair and overly short nurses' uniform are only overshadowed by her Elaine Stritch like raspy voice. Moriarty is obviously an actress who decided that with her bigger-than-life qualities in real life, she'd never make it as an ingénue, and just went all out to camp up. Kline, too, is very funny, screaming Don't call me Mr. Loman! when his Florida dinner theater performance of Death of a Salesman is preparing for its curtain rise for its Geritol-guzzling audience. This is a film meant mainly for fun, not only for soap fans, but for those who just simply want to laugh at the ridiculousness of the drama of life and see their own problems in perspective. "},{"Title":"It's hilarious and underrated all on the same level","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Comedies like Soapdish, even though were made more than 20 years ago, are such a standout from what's going on with the genre nowadays that we keep wondering what happened with movies like this? It's nice to see things like this now to see how good those movies were back in days, yet with some sadness since it wasn't much of a hit back in the days but now it might be a little more popular because of the cast involved, people really track down those flicks and now Soapdish is a Broadway musical. The soap opera world musn't be ashamed of Soapdish. Its portrayal of TV divas, the craziness, the egos and the jealous among stars, all the rivalry and all the mess involving the behind the scenes of a soap opera is fairly and hilariously presented in the film that knows how present some realism of what happens in those shows. It's all about real drama recreating fictional drama and the crowds love them...as long it's on the screen with actors playing in both, the drama of their lives and the drama of the characters they play. Here we follow the many attempts of supporting player Montana Moorehead (Cathy Moriarty) in to convince TV producer David Barnes (Robert Downey Jr.) to find ways of replacing America's Sweetheart Celeste Talbert (Sally Field, in her most comical role since Punchlines) from the leading role of a huge hit that gained her several Daytime Awards. But those attempts keeps failing again and again. One of the latest involves bringing back to TV an old lover of Celeste (both on TV and in real life) that now is a decadent performer of Willy Loman on a poor theater, the charming Jeffrey Anderson (Kevin Kline) that now is on his way to finally resurrect his career. There's the show's writer (Whoopi Goldberg) who not only tries to help Celeste, her best friend, during her crisis, but also has to deal with the constant changes on her creation (The man's dead. He was decapitated, I checked. How am I supposed to bring him back on the show?). And there's Talbert's niece (Elisabeth Shue) who decides to join in the steps of her famous aunt and becomes an actress in a instant. There's some secrets involving her that are best to not present them here for obvious reasons. Confusion is set up and lots of laughs as well. With first rate humor, an energetically funny soundtrack composed of mambo themes by Alan Silvestri, Soapdish gives a curious and detailed look into the TV world, the people behind it, their lives and their personal dramas and how those gets easily intertwined yet it's a movie filled with laughs. And there's time for a sensitive moment when Whoopi's character cheers the mood of her friend who was in a complete wrecked mood. That moment, the shopping mall scene, is a good reminder that comedy not always must go for the laughters, thoughtful special sequences like those must be encouraged, they make the film memorable. Humor of best quality is reserved to absurdest parts like the one that involves the last chapter of the show broadcast live with the actors reading their lines from teleprompter (Jeffrey barely manages to read his already confuse lines) and often actors confuse the plot and the characters with their real self; or Barnes attempts to put his hands on Montana; the scene at the hotel with Celeste spying on Jeffrey has to be one of the best parts ever. Performances were amazing, the script was fabulous and very well written. It's quite an shock to understand why this hasn't got the bigger audience it deserves and the awards it should've gotten. Rare times that I laughed so hard with a movie. Soapdish is a truly must-see. 10/10 "}{"Title":"A POMO cult classic","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A great film.The only reason it doesn't have higher ratings on IMDb is because audiences are too stupid to get the humor. Their loss.Star studded cast - I want to say how great Kevin Klein's character is, but to do that wouldn't be fair because all the other talented actors in this film who play their characters perfectly. The artwork, set and costume designs are really good too. In the same way that the Cohen brothers did a period piece in the making of The Big Lebowski (even though the move was made only a few years after it was set), the same consideration was paid here. My guess is that all the actors who worked on this still look back on this as one of their favorite projects. Surely that's a good thing. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera Satire","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Soapdish is a comedy film that tells a backstage story of the cast and crew of a popular fictional television soap opera. It stars Sally Field as an aging soap star, together with Kevin Kline, Robert Downey, Jr., Elisabeth Shue, Whoopi Goldberg, Teri Hatcher, Cathy Moriarty, Garry Marshall, Kathy Najimy, and Carrie Fisher. It was directed by Michael Hoffman from a screenplay written by Robert Harling and Andrew Bergman.In the comedic Soapdish,the behind-the-scenes lives of several soap opera actors are just as melodramatic as those of their television counterparts. Sally Field stars as Celeste Talbert, the star of a declining TV show. To make matters worse, Talbert's career is thrown into turmoil when her rival, Montana Moorehead, tries to persuade producer David Barnes to write Talbert off the show. Smitten by Moorehead, Barnes comes up with a scheme to get Talbert off the show by hiring her niece Lori and then Jeffrey, an old flame and cast member who was written out of the show 20 years prior. Soon, mayhem rules on the set as the cast and crew tangle, culminating in a special episode.The movie was surprisingly fun and enjoyable.It is pure joy, a lemon- fresh spoof of daytime drama that does the dishing and may even soften your hands.It was a funny and sharply-written film.But inspite of the talented ensemble cast and talent behind the film,it turned out just to be an entertaining film that would serve a guilty pleasure for a weekend night. "},{"Title":"Superlative praise...","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...for this semi-forgotten gem of a comedy. I can't for the life of me understand why this wasn't a gigantic hit back when it came out. Written to perfection, with a stellar cast putting in stellar performances, this is non-stop laughter from beginning to end. Fields and Kline especially are glorious. Downey Jr. and Hatcher are adorable, Shue a little bland, Goldberg charming, if not at her best.The only bad thing I can say about Soapdish has to do with the casual abuse of a rare minority (doing my best to avoid spoilers here) during a few moments in the concluding minutes of the movie. Watching this for the first time in 2011, I found it pretty cruel and offensive, but this sort of thing was par for the course back in the eighties and early nineties, and like sexism and racism in pre-1960 films, it's simply a reflection of the times and no reason not to enjoy an otherwise great movie. Especially since this brief offense is Soapdish's only real flaw. I'm only really mentioning it in an attempt to balance out my fan-girlish raving.I found Soapdish exceptionally enjoyable, not only for the intriguing plot (snort) and the plentiful laughs, but for the trip down memory lane, for the memorable performances by wonderful actors, and for the surprising number of familiar faces which kept popping up in tiny roles all through the movie. For example, if you blink, you might miss Willie Garson's one line. He used to have hair, btw. Who knew?Twenty years really isn't a very long time, but this movie already has the feel of an unfairly overlooked classic. See it. "},{"Title":"Adorable, funny, charming, and fun!","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an absolutely entertaining film from open to close. Fine for your 12 and up kids, hilarious, and oh so charming. It is a classic at our house! Kevin Kline and Sally Field are magic together. The film's premise, characters, script, and direction are simply delightful.This is the kind of movie that SHOULD have been nominated for some Academy Awards, but wasn't. You can watch it time after time and laugh again, and share it with new friends and family members.If you enjoy comedy, and if you've ever seen even five minutes of a real daytime soap opera, you'll enjoy this funny, sweet comedy. It's one of our favorites. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK the plot is that these people are fed up with actress Celeste Talbert after winning an award and Montana Moorhead and David Barnes are more than sick of seeing her get all the hype so what happens is they hire an actor that plays in a nowhere-near-successful-play-theatre Death of A Salesman who is named Jeffrey Anderson so what David here does is hire them when also a subplot goes around about actress Lori Craven which made me actually realise that Elizabeth Shue isn't a bad actress after all just made some horrid choices. eventually she acts on the soap opera (which soap opera's are about as much fun as thorns through your skin) the acting (on the set of the soap opera) is in the category of so bad its funny. The twist makes the movie even funnier. When it comes to bad writing the writers were trying to make the soap opera bad...at least it would be better than the crap that gets praised on TV that is in the Bad category. The writing full stop is good. The acting enough said (You have a cast that won Oscars back in the day they gave their awards to popular movies). All in all a great movie.She's A BoyDon't Ask "},{"Title":"Delightfully Funny","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Every aspect of this film is exaggerated but Sally Field, Kevin Kline, Whoopi Goldberg and Matthew Broderick perform delightfully and Elizabeth Shue is wonderful as (well, I don't want to spoil the plot for anyone who hasn't seen the film by explaining her role).Is the story credible? No. Are the characters believable? No. Is the script especially good? No. Is the outcome even remotely worthy of suspended belief? No, no, no.But Kline, Goldberg and Broderick are major talents, and this may be Sally Field's best film performance ever.Leave your critical instincts in a lower drawer and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Comedy Nirvana","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I was a kid of 8, I always watched movies and television that i wasn't supposed to, and this was one of them. It's one of my favorite movies of all time, and it has to be the funniest movie I have ever seen in my life, the acting is excellent, they Don't Make Comedies Like This Anymore these days (movies that are ACTUALLY funny and make you laugh without resorting to excrement or some type of vomit-inducing body fluid as in those retarded Judd Apatow movies starring unfunny non-actors like Seth Rogen, barf).This movie is a classic with actors who can actually act, and deserve all the accolades. "},{"Title":"A Bubbly Tale About TV Scum","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's very very funny. You know, just like a comedy is supposed to be. It also looks very very good, like a Hollywood Spectacular should. So, what more do you want? Howz about a very VERY good Sally Fields. She is so much better here than in anything else I've ever seen her in, and she looks so damn good. This movie is all you need to understand why she's a Star. Those eyes! Like a silent movie star, but better. In fact, everyone's eyes are so good. I used to pretend to be a bad TV soap actor with my girlfriend. We'd do that thing where you look real fast from one eye to the other of your partner. They don't do that at all in Soap Dish. Great. The Eyes Have It! (sorry) There's so many terrific performances, its fun just waiting for each of them to reappear. There's a whole workshop going on with Kevin Kline on how to Overact very very subtly. Got that? Yeah, he's damn good. So is Robert Downey, Jr. who has since made sumthin of a career of playing the Slick, Slimy Executive. Cathy Moriarity, while not the most gifted actress, is so charismatic and riveting, especially when she's angry. And even Whoopi Goldberg is decent, her natural timing giving here somewhat flat delivery a little Zing. OK, no Whoopi Bashing, I hear ya.And then, there's the Hair. Soap Dish was made at the end of the BIG Hair Eighties, so the ridiculous doos are like a great character in themselves. They get bigger and sillier, just like your's did. Yeah, we got pictures.Soap Dish is better than I thought it'd be, better that I wanted it to be. I'm sick of Movies that tell me I'm supposed to care about shallow, self centered, semi-talented egomaniacs, ie. TV Soap Actors. Soap Dish seems happy just to have me laugh at 'em. Thank You. "},{"Title":"hilarious 4 the crew","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure that this comment contains an actual spoiler, but I'm playing it safe, so don't read this if you haven't seen the movie.I adore this movie, and so does everyone I work with -- and that is the point. I spent a large part of my working life in cinema, without being an actor. Such people are the _sung_ heroes of this movie the gaffers, the pullers, the on-air directors, the lighters and writers, the costume people etc etc, and the whole thing is told from their point of view, at least to a great extent. Most actors are nuts and self-absorbed to the point of absurdity, which is what this movie spoofs so well, but you have to have worked with actors to recognize that this movie is real-life drama! Possible spoiler alert in one great scene, the two leads, both actors, are _discussing_ how to _discuss_ something personal, something entirely 'out-of-script', with another actor, and they start making up lines, rehearsing them, and critiquing each other's performance.Since this movie appeared in, what was it, '91, it has become fashionable to do this, especially on TV. But hardly anyone has done it so well. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this in the movie theater when it came out, and the crowd was really into the movie which made the experience all the more fun. This is a great cast of characters, many big names in it, a few of which were not as recognized then as they are now. I think it's a great idea if you follow any of these actors, or have loved them in other movies, to add it to your watched list. Some of the scenes actually remind me of the type of well-done comedy as in The Birdcage or even The Clue, kind of odd spontaneous-appearing comedy, with some really professional delivery from these beloved actors. The movie did a great job at giving you some insight, perhaps even very realistic, into the culture of a daytime soap. "}{"Title":"And the award for best daytime soap goes to....","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only part lacking in this movie is Shue's part as the daughter wanting to follow in her aunt's footsteps as a daytime soap star. Otherwise it would be a perfect 10.It seems that every actor enjoyed their parts and overacting to fulfill their own enjoyment as well as the script - I have to wonder if a little ad lib'ing wasn't taking place in parts. It was well cast and there are some classic lines that will stick with you.It's a fantastic movie everyone should see at least once. I'd recommend not drinking anything that would sting coming out your nose.You'll definitely want to watch the last scene closely, 'Nurse Nan' has a little secret she'd rather not have shared with you.If you love daytime soaps or despise them, this move pokes fun in all the right places. "},{"Title":"My wife, teenage daughter, and I laughed out loud A LOT!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a delightful movie that is so over-the-top that my wife, daughter, and I found it irresistible. The plot is just crazy but rings true to the world of soap operas in all its outrageous improbabilities and impossibilities. I particularly enjoyed Kevin Kline's and Sally Field's performances. I don't anyone better than Kline at playing THICKheaded. Field's character's truly desperate need for attention and affirmation -- and her almost bipolar swings in mood -- played nicely against the background of Field's famous (infamous?) You like me! Oscar exclamation. People who can take themselves with such a large grain of salt are all too rare in this world. I think this is the only movie where I didn't find myself impatient with Whoopi Goldberg characterization; I thought she was spot on in every note she struck. Robert Downey Jr., Teri Hatcher, Cathy Moriarty, and Elizabeth Shue were also first-rate as well. Just a great movie if you're in the mood to go along for the ride and LAUGH! "},{"Title":"Soapdish is THE dish!!!!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Its Hollywood imitating Daytiem Soap Operas at its finest! Its the fun that we never see. Great characters and great lines. Whoopi is hilarious.....Sally Field is so over the top....Gary Marshalls lines are a riot....this is what I love about good comedies. Never afraid to poke fun at themselves!!!!!!The sets were great....wardrobe was on point and the backstabbing Montana Morehead was a devilish delight. Terri Hatcher as Dr. Monica Demonico didn't have enough lines but none the less still gorgeous and fun when on screen. I would love to know how the idea for this movie came up. Never have I seen a cast of people have so much fun in making comedy work! Soapdish is a must have and I am waiting for the DVD!!! "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a really fun movie. One of those you can sit and mindlessly watch as the plot gets more and more twisted; more and more funny. Sally Field, Teri Hatcher (in her hey-day), Kevin Klein, Elisabeth Shue, Robert Downey, Jr...It's all these well-known, quality actors acting as if they are soap opera stars/producers. If you have ever watched a soap opera and thought, How on earth did they come up with THIS idea??, you will LOVE this movie. I have seen it multiple times; and each time I watch it, the more I appreciate the humor, the more I realize just how well-acted it really is. Don't expect Oscar quality. This is a fun movie to entertain, not some artsy attempt at finding man's inner man, etc. Sit back, relax, and laugh. "},{"Title":"This is a funny movie","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm giving this movie a 10 out of 10 because it is a hoot. Cleverly written and well acted, it is a couple of hours of just plain pointless humor, refreshing because it has no underlying message. Sally Fields is perfectly cast as America's melodramatic sweetheart who has a secret from her past; Kevin Kline is cute, funny, and suave, all at the same time; and Robert Downey, Jr. is always worth looking at (he is so handsome). As a writer, I particularly enjoyed how they made the story behind the story -- the true lives of the characters of the soap opera on television -- even more like a soap opera than the soap, itself, then integrated it into the live broadcast. Garry Marshall almost seems to play himself and is, as always, witty. The other stars -- Whoopi Goldberg, Teri Hatcher, and some others whose faces were familiar but I don't know their names -- brought great chemistry to the set, so that the whole thing works so you can just enjoy this movie just for the fun it is! "},{"Title":"A Tour de Farce!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a fun movie, and not just for fans of daytime soaps, either (although there are more than a few inside jokes thrown in to please). The writing is top-notch farce.  The performances are so over-the-top hilarious that I'm not sure how the cast and director were able to get through their any of their takes.  Of course, Sally Field and Kevin Klein are terrific, but it's the supporting cast makes this movie one of the funniest all-around laugh-out-loud comedies ever made.  From Kathy Moriarty's scheming virago, to Whoopi Goldberg's and Robert Downey, Jr.'s turns as the fictional soap's writer and producer, respectively, this is one helluva fun time to pass an evening.  Everything about the behind the scenes milieu of the fictional soap is played for gags, from the character's alliterative names (Nurse Nan, Dr.'s Monica De Monico and Rod Randall), to the melodramatic music which queues up at every ridiculously dramatic moment.  In short, this movie is a true comedic tour de force in the same vain as screw ball comedies of the Forties. "},{"Title":"An Amusing Lampoon of the World of Daytime Drama","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Though nowhere near as good as TOOTSIE, SOAPDISH is an amusing spoof of the world of daytime drama with a funny story and an impressive all-star cast. Sally Field, who unveils a skill for slapstick comedy that she had shelved for many years, is on target as Celeste, the aging soap diva of THE SUN ALSO SETS, afraid that she is past her prime and constantly complaining about her story lines, co-stars, wardrobe and anything else she can think of. Kevin Kline is charming, as always, as Celeste's ex-husband, who is tracked down at a dinner theater in Florida playing Willy Loman, to come onto the soap to make trouble for Celeste. Robert Downey Jr. steals every scene he is in as one of the producers of the show, who is being cuckolded by another cast member (a wonderfully bitchy Cathy Moriarty)to get Celeste off the show. Whoopi Goldberg plays the show's head writer and Celeste's best friend, who has one very amusing scene at a New Jersey mall where she pretends to recognize Celeste from the soap and fawns all over her, apparently something she and Celeste do from time to time to massage Celeste's delicate ego. Elisabeth Shue also charms as an actress with a secret who joins the show and there are also funny bits from Kathy Najimy, Carrie Fisher, and Teri Hatcher. Despite manic direction and an uneven screenplay, SOAPDISH is still a lot of fun and worth checking out, whether or not you watch soaps. "},{"Title":"Almodóvar Lite!","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Watching Soapdish for the first time tonight I had an ever increasing sense of deja vu. I had seen this before - yet I knew I hadn't. It was all weirdly, strangely familiar but all new too. About half way through the film it clicked. I realised I was watching a Pedro Almodóvar film - made by Americans.It's all there the frantic over the top relentless pace, the rapid line delivery, the over-the-top emotion and outrageous plot twists played out with the subtlety of a daytime soap. Even the Almodóvar visual trademark of having a strong red element in frame wherever possible is on show.I like Almodóvar's films. I didn't particularly like Soapdish. It lacked the edge that Almodóvar's films have, an edge that skirts, and often tips over into, downright vulgarity. His films are blatantly Soap Operatic but they are played straight. His films have contained all sorts of disturbing characters and situations heroin-using nuns, people making (quite funny) jokes in the middle of a rape scene, carers having sex with their coma patients... the list goes on. Quite often in his films you find yourself laughing at things, or condoning things, which you KNOW you should find repellent but somehow... there you are... laughing.It's what makes him such a great film maker.At no point was anything even vaguely threatening or vulgar going to happen in Soapdish. It played safe. And strictly for laughs. Then, just to make sure, just in case the audience didn't get it, placed the grotesque soap operatics of the story into the setting of the studios of a daytime soap. Signalled to the audience as loudly as it could that this was not to be taken seriously and the style was deliberate. Corporate film making. They took the veneer of Almadovar's style - even the opening credits are familiar - and applied it wholesale to an acceptable fast-paced Hollywood farce.The real thing is much better. "},{"Title":"A lathering good time","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Soapdish is one of those movies that you see again & again. I have done that. It gets better every time. Sally Field stars as Celeste Talbert, the star of a daytime soap opera. Everyone involved with the show wants to get rid of her & her dirty laundry. They bring in an old costar & former flame, Jeffrey Anderson (the versatile Kevin Kline), to drive her nuts & off the show. Talbert's niece, Lori, also joins the cast & that is when the suds are rinsed off. The truth about everything comes out & what ensues is nothing but hilarity. Sponge in Robert Downey, Jr as the self-loving producer David Seton Barnes, Teri Hatcher as costar Ariel, & Cathy Moriarty as Montana Moorehead & you have a bubble bath. This movie is pure fun, pure laughs & a great time. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies!!!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a while ago and loved it, but it was on TV this weekend and I can't stop thinking about it.  I always passed it when I was at the video store but gosh- if you're there go rent it!!  Sally Field is so wonderful in this movie.  She and Kevin Kline are great together.  I love it!! "}{"Title":"I always laugh at this movie!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the best comedies ever.  The person who wrote that they walked out on this movie must not have any sense of humor.  I would like to know what they find funny.  Anyone who has ever watched a daytime soap will love it, but even if you have not seen a soap you will still enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Soapdish","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Constant laugh ride highlighted by over the top performances from Field and Kline. I wonder what Susan Lucci thought of it.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very funny movie with a fantastic cast who give it their all! Standouts include Moriarty and Carrie Fisher.  I guarantee you will laugh! "},{"Title":"Nurse Sally","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Nurse Betty' is something special, a high watermark in the abstract reasoning it  demands of an audience. The complexities of what is real and fiction are pretty folded.`Betty' relies on this, and this relies on `Tootsie.' But of the three, this is the only one  that is actually fun to watch. That's because it is structured to encourage the sort of  hammy acting it satirizes. And these players know what to do Kline is always clever in  his narrow way (he had actually just done a `Hamlet' of the type he goofs about), but  Whoopie and Sally are at the top of their game in an Almodovar-ian way. That's where  you reflect the layering of the plot (a soap about a soap) on the style of acting.Sally deserved better roles. She knows how to do folded acting, even the kind where one  fold is serious and the simultaneous other is comedic. Here, the whole cast - especially  Downey - is in on the joke.I am convinced that most of the players, and especially Sally, were doped up.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Funny and Fabulous.","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film does what films rarely do, which is parody something successfully. Take a look at the broad humor displayed by the Scary Movie franchise. The humor in this film is clever and out-of-the-blue, (like Celest pouring bleach into the plants) without rubbing it in your face.With an all-star cast, Soapdish does very well. The story revolves around Celest Talbert, an over-the-hill soap opera queen (played by Sally Field), Jeffery Anderson (a down on his luck actor played by Kevin Kline), David Seton Barnes (the writer on the show who is in hot water with one of the actors, played by Robert Downey Jr.) Montana Moorehead, (the jealous co-star, played by Cathy Moriarty), and Celeste's neice Lori Craven (played by Elisabeth Shue). All the performances are great, especially from Field and Kline.The plot goes around in circles, and has zany, (but not over the top) situations. It could almost be considered a farce.All and all, the movie is very funny, and light hearted. It's a delight to watch, and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An acquired taste of a movie...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I personally love this movie, and believe most definately that its not for everyone. Kevin Kline is great in it, as is Sally Field.  Robert Downey, Jr. is hilarious.  If you love soap operas, give this movie a chance.  If you hate soap operas, give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"And that's the way it is, folks.","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A tongue-in-cheek look at soap operas, Soapdish portrays a series of events involving several people in the TV world. Specifically, some of these people don't even know about each other, but they're all about to crash head-on into each other. Sally Field, as star Celeste Talbert/Maggie, almost seems to be channeling her Flying Nun persona, but she does a great job with it. Kevin Kline, as stage actor Jeffrey Anderson/Dr. Rod Randall, is his normal self an average Joe who has some unusual comments. Cathy Moriarty, as unctuous Montana Moorehead/Nurse Nan, is a REAL bitch. Whoopi Goldberg, Elisabeth Shue, and Robert Downey Jr. also provide some great roles. A very interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious The Soap Opera Behind The Soap Opera","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This 1991 film is absolutely funny and well-written, with a cast that can't be beat. It is a funny look at the lives of daytime soap opera stars. The premise aging soap opera star from The Sun Also Sets is the target of the plot of a jealous producer bent on becoming the next star. One thing leads to another and her machinations never work out as she plans and instead our heroine discovers she has a long-lost daughter and achieves further publicity in one way or another. This is an incredibly funny film that stars Sally Field, Kevin Kline, Robert Downey Jr., Whoopi Goldberg, Cathy Moriarty, Elisabeth Shue, Gary Marshall, Kathy Najimi and Carrie Fisher among others. Celeste Talbert (Sally Field) is a hilarious parody of a soap star diva and Sally Field has genuine fun performing the role. Her hairstylist, played by Whoopi Goldberg, is devoted, insightful and hilarious. This movie is quintessentially 90's and it shows, not only from the movie stars themselves but from the fun feel-good mood which is becoming rare these days, also because of the well-written script. The director is Michael Hoffman. Teri Hatcher (of Desperate Housewives fame) plays one of the soap stars Ariel Maloney. It is refreshing to see Teri Hatcher's earlier work. She was virtually a no-name actress till she made it big in the hot Desperate Housewives show, as did all the other stars from that show, except Marcia Cross who had already did nightime soaps like Melrose Place. When you can, look for films starring Nicolette Sheridan, who did several as well as Eva Longoria. This is a hilarious, enjoyable film and I highly recommend it. With apologies to actual daytime soaps. They are is nothing like this! The dialogues are cheesy and sickly romantic and the characters are over-the-top and melodramatic. I love it! A funny movie with a great cast and great writing. "},{"Title":"a great premise but  not as humorous as I'd expected.","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie, and this is just my opinion, was not involving and that was rather disappointing. At one point in my life I happened to have loved soap operas, watched them daily. And so a spoof on them seemed like a great idea and a funny one to boot!I had really looked forward to this movie but did not become involved. Where was the Funniness? I could not find much humor and in addition to the surprising lack of hilarity, it was just so slow moving! it just seemed to meander with nothing much really happening. I'm not sure if I expected to much or what but this movie was not anything like what I thought it would be.Through the whole thing, I was waiting for something to happen and resisting the impulse to say to the screenhey-make us laugh! It was a letdown for me because being a former soap opera fanatic I was sure I'd like this and because the premise is SO creative and good. But I don't think comedies, of all types of movies should drag. I also I prefer comedies that are constantly funny throughout, and move quickly or at least quicker then this one. I also do know people who love this,(and cannot believe I don't.) I have thought about giving this another chance. I think I was particularly disappointed with this because I was expecting so much. I felt it could have been so good. Anyway maybe I'll try seeing it again sometime but for now I'd say this was disappointing. "},{"Title":"Have always enjoyed this film.  With 1 cast exception","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have always enjoyed this film.MOST of the cast was good in their roles.The exceptions? Shue, waste in the role. Other than being dressed like Tweety Bird. A nothing part in my opinion.AND, THE MAJOR CASTING ERROR IN THE FILM???????????.Drugs Downy Jr. EEGH!!!!! Excuse me, I had to throw up.Carrie should have been given more to do, she could have done more with the role.Whoopi was very good.Course, changing apartment numbers to you as well!! Inside joke on the little error filmmakers did here. "}{"Title":"A dismal flop thanks to the star-studded egos of all involved.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Television is among the most easy of targets to satirize, so when a big-budget mess like this fails, it's all the more disappointing.  Witless and filled with poorly-timed performances, it was a major box-office flop. As simpleminded and crass as the soap operas it supposedly spoofs.  "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only movie I have ever walked out on. Don't waste your time. This movie belongs down the drain like used bath water. I want my money back. "},{"Title":"This dog should be soaped thoroughly and then washed down the drain","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The writer of this drivel must have slipped on the Irish Spring while showering and cracked his noodle. The thing made no sense, it just rambled thoughtlessly about from one boring, asinine scene to the next. About as funny as finding a roach in your soup. "}]