[{"Title":"Still a Classic Gem Twelve Years Later","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, I was raised in the LA area, so I appreciate LA Story more than many might, but it's still just an incredibly wonderful romantic comedy regardless of where you grew up.  The script is fabulous, and the soundtrack featuring the music of Enya is the perfect counterpoint to this wonderfully wicked lampoon of Southern California culture.The humor is much more intelligent than early Steve Martin features such as The Jerk, but it isn't snobbish.  It has wit, charm, and pure satirical funniness.  Whether it's watching Martin roller-skate through a museum of Old Masters, seeing a restaurant full of jaded Californians casually ride out a minor earthquake as their tables gracefully vibrate across the room, or the absurdity of a freeway sign giving out cryptic personal messages that change the course of the principal character's lives, the movie simply works.Steve Martin is at his best here, equal to his wonderful performance in Roxanne.  Victoria Tennant is the perfect choice as the off-beat, tuba-playing British journalist Martin's character falls for.  Sarah Jessica Parker is absolutely priceless as SanDeE* (that's her spelling, not a typo), the young would-be spokesmodel/bimbette who likes to point.  Even Rick Moranis as the comedic Cockney grave digger is wonderful, despite his having one of the least believable accents since Dick van Dyck as the chimneysweep Bert in Mary Poppins.  Forget the comment about Moranis' accent... you'll enjoy him anyway.Overall, this is one of my two favorite movies of all time, and considering how many I've enjoyed, that's saying volumes. "},{"Title":"an oddly charming story","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Outwardly, it's a ridiculous plot line. Steve Martin as the sensitive, wacky weatherman... falling in love with a British woman and somehow accidentally getting involved with the Sex in the City girl along the way. The reality of it is, though, there are so many charming details in the movie... vivid images and pictures painted in various scenes alluding to the childlike innocence of falling in love, the magic of letting yourself go and following the advice of an electric traffic sign... this movie become more enjoyable as you watch it more and shouldn't that be how a movie should be? Shouldn't it get more enjoyable instead of LESS enjoyable like most movies made today, that start with a shock and go downhill? Steve Martin shines throughout this movie and you share his gleeful moments... for example after he's tickled to find that his wife is having an affair with his agent and he converts his make-believe-shock into a dance as he approaches his then-a-symbol-of-affluence LeBaron in the street... when he tosses his hat to himself after he sets up another way to see the woman he is falling for... Simultaneously, though, you share his confusion as to how to handle the relationship with the over-energetic, giddy 23 year old he's accidentally fallen into bed with along the way. This is a complex movie that presents itself so innocently, you can't help but enjoy it. And, as a tribute to the brilliance of The Man With Two Brains, he even manages to insert a portion of the (now legendary) Pointy Birds poem. In all, this is a worthwhile experience if you're willing to watch it all the way through. This is a movie for Steve Martin fans, because his unique, sensitive, accessible brand of humor and (more importantly) of life is apparent throughout.  "},{"Title":"Nostalgic and very witty tale. A bit uneven but will serve well in the memory.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA Story is a funny and very inventive comedy drama, even though the real love affair is with LA itself. When looking at the storyline, it does look a bit odd, (man receiving love advice from a freeway sign?) but this helps give it a more surreal and somewhat magical edge. The acting is very good all across the board, even from a non-man-eating Sarah Jessica Parker. It has a lot of quotable dialogue, (she's not young she'll be 27 in 4 years) and some passable cameos from Rick Moranis, Patrick Stewart and Chevy Chase. Perhaps some scenes get a bit too sentimental and make the film seem a bit uneven. But I think this helps improve the shape of its overall atmosphere, and make it heart-warming and not just a bit of gas. LA Story is an underrated classic. It's consistently enjoyable, nicely acted and highly memorable. 7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Martin at His Best","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When Steve Martin is hot, he's really hot.  L.A. Story, written by Steve Martin, is hot.  The entire film keeps you in a state of constant chuckling.  And, the movie has more than a few moments of comedic genius.  It's the cumulative effect of little jokes littered throughout the film, both verbal and visual, that keeps you in stitches.  On top of that, it piques your interest.  Here's what I mean  while Martin mercilessly it pokes fun of L.A. for it's flakiness, it's love and tolerance of idiosyncrasies, it's constant preoccupation with image, it's narcissism, the humor is never vulgar, crass, or shallow.  For example, one scene takes place in the municipal art museum.  We see Harry Telemacher (Steve Martin), with his friends, rapt in admiration for a painting.  The camera angle comes from the canvas itself, where we watch Harry, deep in thought, dissertate on the subjects in the portrait, their motives, actions, and hidden agendas.  He moves forward, backward, forward again, as if in active dialogue with the lacquer.  At last, moving backward, he concludes his remarks by wrinkling his nose in disgust and saying `Look at the way he's holding her  it's almost filthy!'  And then the camera moves around to Telemacher's perspective.  The painting's a total abstraction.  There isn't a distinct line in the entire rectangular frame.  In the argot of Postmodernism, one might call it a `readerly' work of art.  It's the perfect metaphor for L.A., where you may interpret anything, any way you like.  There's no standard, except one's own `personal reality.'  No one can use social norms as a personal club to tell someone else, `You're wrong,' because there is none.  It's all `what-E-verrrr.' Best of all, L.A. Story is a love story, the kind of love that adores someone as much for their faults as for their virtues.  Martin's satire is so effective because he loves the city so much.    "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read that this movie was Steve Martin's homage to a city he loves. Certainly, it feels like that.  The whole movie has been crafted with the utmost care and delight - a feeling that is conveyed so well to the viewer.I've watched this film many many times and as yet have been utterly unable to find a single mistake, wrongly placed moment, person or prop anywhere. What I have found is a sense of deeply placed pleasure at watching the unfolding of an old story told beautifully and never strained by being told in the 20th Century. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever in its own way","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this film in the theater, I remember the complete emotional reaction I had to it. I had to watch it several more times to really grasp all of the many complicated levels it contains. This film has more layers than a Vadallia Onion, and each one is as sweet and intricate as the next. This film is in many ways the best work Steve Martin has ever done. It reflects the best of his intellectually complicated and sophisticated silliness while also delivering a deeply emotional and spiritual message of self discovery and the eternal hope of love and life. At times poignant and funny concurrently, at other times silly and spiritual together, this film is an entrancing journey into a vision of a better, more hopeful, world. The music used in the film, particularly Enya's contributions, add an profound element of power and beauty to the overall effort. Indeed, the music, and the way it is employed throughout, is a complex layer of the film in and of itself. This film covers the gamut of humanity without being arrogant, and mixes Shakespeare, Saturday Night Live and Existential Philosophy in a VERY entertaining and at the same time inspiring journey. This was one of the few films I have ever seen that made me laugh, cry, smile knowingly and get chills all across my spine virtually at the same time. You will need to watch this remarkable effort more than once to appreciate all of its levels and beauty, its message and musings, its hope and glory while you are laughing and being inspired beyond what seems reasonable for a film all at the same time. This film was never appreciated as it should have been, and it is a rare gem. You will never forget this sweet journey into what could be, and maybe what should be, the real world. "},{"Title":"An amazing satirical snapshot!","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA Story is arguably one of the smartest comedies of the early nineties. It never once stops to fall into the sacharine depths that romantic comedies are plagued with, nimbly skipping over them by never leaving the skewed world that it has created. Apart from being a sharp jab at life in LA, it still has a story with heart, and manages to get you interested and involved in all the important characters. And really, nothing tops a talking electronic road sign. "},{"Title":"Fascinatingly weird, but ultimately enjoyable","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA STORY is one of those films that leaves you feeling like maybe you shouldn't have enjoyed the movie as much as you did. Looking back on the film, the plot is absolutely preposterous, the characters are entirely one-dimensional and the acting questionable. Yet I don't think there is anyone out there that wouldn't ultimately enjoy this fantasy.Steve Martin is in top form (maybe the last decent film he did before BOWFINGER), and the wacky charm throughout makes the comedy fresh and exciting. Tremendous cameo support from the likes of Chevy Chase, Rick Moranis and Woody Harrellson add to make LA STORY a fresh comedy with lots of appeal. "},{"Title":"A story well told","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays Harris K. Telemacher, a funny weatherman who's in a relationship with Trudi (Marilu Henner) but falls for a British journalist Sara McDowel (Victoria Tennant).He also meets an energetic young woman SanDeE (Sarah Jessica Parker) on the way.He gets some important messages from a freeway sign like that the weather will change his life in two ways.L.A. Story (1991) is a great romantic fantasy comedy from Mick Jackson.It's written by Steve Martin, who also gives an amazing performance in the lead.This 59 year old comedian has made us laughed in many hilarious movies in the past.Hopefully he still will do so in the future.Let's see how he can fill the shoes of Peter Sellers in the upcoming Pink Panther movie.Other actors do a great job as well.Sarah Jessica Parker can be seen there before she was a huge star.This year she stopped working in Sex and the City after six years.You can also see, more or less, people like Richard E. Grant, Iman, Rick Moranis, Chevy Chase, Kevin Pollak, Patrick Stewart and Woody Harrelson.L.A. Story is a declaration of love to Los Angeles like Woody Allen has made many to New York.This movie is full of extremely funny scenes.I found myself laughing many times watching this movie.Isn't that what makes a good comedy? "},{"Title":"Still Delightful and Witty after so Many Years","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In Los Angeles, the meteorologist Harris K. Telemacher (Steve Martin) is the wacky weatherman of television news. He has a wasted relationship with his obnoxious girlfriend Trudi (Marilu Henner) and he feel that he lives a boring life.When Harris meets the Londoner journalist Sara McDowell (Victoria Tennant), who has come to LA to write en article for the London Times, in a brunch party with her ex-husband Roland Mackey (Richard E. Grant) and other friends, he believes that she is the woman of his life. Harris does not know how to seduce her and he discovers that Trudi has been cheating him with his agent for three years. Then Harry dates the younger aspirant spokesmodel SanDeE* (Sarah Jessica Parker) because he believes that Sara is interested in her ex-husband. However a freeway signpost helps Harry to woo Sara.L.A. Story is a romantic comedy that is still delightful and witty after so many years from the release. The chemistry between Steve Martin and his wife is perfect and there are hilarious dialogs and situations, like for example, when Harris tells Sara that he would like to take her on a cultural tour of L.A., and Sara replies that this would be the first fifteen minutes. Or when he tells to SanDeE* that her breasts are weird and she answers that it is because they are real. Or when SanDeE* and Roland fantasize with Mel Gibson. In addition, there are cameos of many actors and famous people. The music score by Enya is awesome and fits perfectly to the conclusion. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) L.A. Story "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  classic romantic comedy","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" L.A. Story is a tremendous romantic comedy just a notch below Moulon Rouge or High Fidelity, and similar to Roxanne. There are a lot of in-jokes for Californians, but I found the comedy accessible. The film is really stronger on the romance side, and has something to say about people who are somewhat phony and put up barriers to the world. As with Roxanne there is a little classic literature dropped in. There are quite a few cheesy moments where the lack of sophistication in the characters and plot does show. But there are also powerful, moving scenes, such as linking falling in love to the awe and wonder of childhood, and the airplane scene which brought tears to my eyes. And that's quite something; I almost never cry at the movies!And of course, I loved the music by Enya! Check it out.Who should see this film-- romantic comedy goers, a must see-- action film guys like me, it's OK to see it with your SO (but see if you can get her to see Enemy at the Gate, too)I'll give L.A. Story a surpassed-its-original-expectations 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Paean of L'Amour to both LA and his then Lady )","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A kiss may not be the truth, but it is what we wish were true. I gave this movie a 10/10 after seeing it for the umpteenth time. I have lived in LA, and loved and lost in LA. I have had flings in LA, but have not as yet made it to Tail O' The Pup or Pink's. And if I ever find the shop on Melrose where Harris and Sarah become little children and the stone lions bow their heads, I would enter and never leave. *sigh* I'm a Steve Martin fan anyway, and an LA fan as well. The weird and wonderful, and love conquering all, also resound deeply within me. I'm sorry things didn't work out IRL for Steve and Victoria because of how much this film touches me. I know it's 14 years old and they were portraying characters, but every time I watch it, the way they communicate their burgeoning connection and then flee it, only for the weather to save them at the last, I am awed. It is now becoming a period piece, but that does not tarnish it in my eyes. If you would like to delight in daffiness and devotion for 95 minutes, then do yourself a favour and watch LA Story ) "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's love letter to his home town...","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Steve Martin's paean to his home city is complicated, bizarre, earnest and ridiculous. It is really a series of skits surrounding a few scenes from a romantic movie. Some of the skits are amusing, some dated and some fall flat, but at all times it is clear that while LA is far from perfect Steve Martin has embraced everything about it.Martin is Harris K Telemacher, a wacky TV weatherman who pre-tapes his segments days in advance as it's always sunny in LA.Harris hangs out with a similarly fake crowd of so-called friends and acquaintances, going to fake places where your income and status are badges of honour &#x96; and in the case of one restaurant determine whether you are even able to get a reservation.Over a busy couple of days Harris meets two women, a British journalist named Sarah who is honest, charming and genuine, and SanDeE (her spelling not mine) who is fake, superficial&#x85; and willing to bonk him.When Harris finds out that his current bitch of a girlfriend is cheating on him he must make a choice &#x96; did I mention one of the women is willing to bonk him??? Guess who he ends up with.A young Sarah Jessica Parker plays SanDeE is ditzy, vibrant and energetic, it might&#x85; no IS the only role I have ever seen her in where she was even vaguely likable, and thanks to some bike pants momentarily hot&#x85; That might be L.A. Story's main achievement right there, they should market it Sarah Jessica Parker as you've never seen her &#x96; sort of hot.Anyway Harris and Sarah keep bumping into each other and their mutual attraction grows, Harris is told by an automated freeway sign that his life will be changed soon (you heard me) and from there the film almost follows a more standard rom-com formula to the conclusion.Richard E. Grant plays Sarah's ex-husband in a far more low key manner than his scenery chewing turn in Hudson Hawk, in between the skits and sightgags Martin proves once again that he can act, I've already mentioned SJP's moment in the sun and there are too many minor cameos and bit parts played by famous people to count.L.A. Story is part love letter, part hate mail to Los Angeles, it covers fashionable lateness, casual crime and shows just how uncaring and unthinking the average citizen of the city can be, but to contrast it seems to suggest that LA has an element of mystery and magic, and that anything can happen there.Like most of Steve Martin's movies I want to like this film more than I actually do, ultimately though this proves an unfocused vanity project, an at times hilarious but mostly just amusing jab at Steve's adopted hometown.Final Rating &#x96; 7.5 / 10. The few inspired moments more than cover up for the flat spots and missed jokes, and of course Steve Martin makes anything slightly better just because of his presence. "},{"Title":"How Daddy is Doing?","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If one wanted to do a mural for the town you grew up in, the town you experienced life within, the tow you call home, how would it happen? Would paint and a blank canvass be the conventional and only method? Steve Martin, comedian at large, thinks not. In 1991 he wrote and starred in a Hollywood vehicle that shows his love for that western part of America &#150; specifically the town he resides &#150; Los Angeles. Continuing my quest through LA (which began with LA Confidential and continues with LA Takedown and LA Without a Map), Martin's film was a welcomed trip into the honesty of comedy, the ability to create smart jokes for audiences, and finally, be able to pull emotion from a story which involves a riddled electronic billboard. With characters centered in depth, comedy that sparks from the absurd and transforms into chaotic, and finally that underlying sense of fantasy &#150; Martin proves again (beginning with Roxanne) that he is more than just a zany comic, but an endearing member of Hollywood with true talent hidden behind the Pink Panther façade.Why does LA Story work and remain an unsung hero within the era of 90s cinema? This is one of those films that when walking through the video store, or randomly thumbing through the television stations, may just pass you by. It is a subtle box with Steve Martin merely wearing skates in what seems to be a mid-dance pose. It isn't a grabbing photo, but then again, this isn't a grabbing film. This is subtle, smooth, and relaxing &#150; LA Story is a film that requires numerous viewings, not because it is a deep story, but because of the scope of what Martin is trying to say. If the phrase How Daddy is Doing doesn't mean anything to do, than you need to reexamine this film. Everything fits in this movie. The actors are superb, playing into the world of absurd coupled with common, the acting is direct and whimsical, and the music enhances the experience. This is the perfect film for rainy days, spring afternoons, cold winters, or just about any other moment of life. There are jokes that will make you laugh out loud and others that will make you think. This is a film about falling in love &#150; and it works.As I write this review, I cannot wait to watch this movie again. This is a film I watched in the mid-90s and continue to watch, recommend, buy, and dedicate to friends and family &#150; which is a rarity in today's standards.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A warm, wonderful witty tribute to LA's ways","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" LA Story was one of the rare films Steve Martin wrote a screenplay for. Something he should do more often. His writing style is often fresh and engaging. Its unfortunate that he spends all his time nowadays churning out mediocre stuff in front of the camera, when his work on the printed page really crackles with wit. Look no further than the underrated Shopgirl. Martin's best film in ages, and all because he was acting from a script he wrote.LA Story is quite possibly the one worthy film of Steve Martin's in the 1990s, because right after, he started the gradual decline of his career. Unchallenging, soft-headed fluff that were a waste of Martin's talents. Beginning with the trite and terrible Father of the Bride. And it only got worse from there.But LA Story had Steve Martin at the pinnacle of his powers. It is to Los Angeles what Woody Allen's Manhattan was to New York. LA Story is a film bound to sharply divide people. If you can swallow the film's pill (and its a pretty big pill I'll admit), you'll find much to enjoy. If you can't, LA Story will most likely leave you cold. Look no further than Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel's opposite sides of the spectrum regarding this film.Martin plays wacky weatherman Harris K. Telemacher. Harris takes the daily grindings of LA life in his stride. He's come to expect the random muggings, the snooty restaurants and the dull as dishwater art museums that are all part of the wonderful world of Los Angeles. But he couldn't possibly have expected help in his lovelife from an electronic road sign. Before long, Harris is caught between two women in his life, the free spirited SanDeE* (Sarah Jessica Parker, brilliant!) and the prim English rose, Sara (Victoria Tennant).The success of LA Story rides upon how much you're willing to give in to the film's conceit. After all the very idea of a freeway sign being a possible oracle of the ages is bound to raise more than a few eyebrows. But I put disbelief aside, and was swept away by the film's dazzling turns and delightful wit. As I said before, Steve Martin's skills as a writer have often been undervalued, and his rich and accessible screenplay makes LA Story an astonishing, powerful ode to the city of Los Angeles.Steve Martin's feelings about the city can often seem ambivalent. On the one hand he doesn't resist the temptation to satirise LA's shallow, superficial side (who wouldn't?!). But on the other, buried within the film's jokes and opinions, there does seem a gentle affection for the city. Perhaps even an admiration. The different people we meet all seem to ennoble a particular facet. To the point that the city of Los Angeles almost takes on a life of its own and becomes a character in of itself.Steve Martin's trademark manic energy is relatively restrained here (barring his hilarious weather forecasts, always wrong), but his enthusiasm for the role shines just as bright as LA itself! He never misses an opportunity to make a glib quip about LA. There are really too many to mention, but none of them feel unwelcome. And he's supported himself with a fine cast.In a brief but very memorable role, Marilu Henner plays Harris' vain, upwardly mobile girlfriend Trudie. A woman that embodies everything wrong with LA. Even when stuck in traffic, she's more concerned with outward appearance. Her relationship with Harris is hilarious, and when he learns she's been cheating on him for three years, his response is priceless (this has been going on since the 80s!).The scene stealer of the whole film is Sarah Jessica Parker. What a wonderful performance! Although she plays the role of a typical ditzy, LA valley girl, she brings so much energy and enthusiasm she walks away with the entire movie. Never has SJP had such fun in a film. Clearly enjoying herself immensely, she hops, skips and cartwheels her way from one end of the screen to the next. If she stood still for more then ten seconds she would probably explode! The crux of the film is the blossoming love between Harris and Sara, but I was secretly hoping he would wind up with SanDeE*!But no. That could never be. Victoria Tennant is Steve Martin's true love (ironically three years before they divorced). I'm not convinced Tennant is all that much of an actress, but her straight-faced style of acting is appropriate when confronted with the outlandish city streets of LA. She's as baffled by its wackiness as Harris is.And things don't get much wackier than the ending, where it seems LA itself steps in to play matchmaker between Harris and Sara. Its an ending of such cosmic proportions it will either leave you completely awed or cursing the heavens. I chose the former. The ending could seem ridiculous, but not when you take the rest of the film into account beforehand. The emotional climax is earned the way it pieces it together from lots of different elements scattered throughout the film. But that's something you couldn't possibly know until you've seen the film a few dozen times.LA Story is a true classic. Mick Jackson's direction is so whimsical and lush, every frame bursts out with a joy and exuberance not often found in Hollywood entertainment. I felt flattened by the film's finale, helped no end by the exhilarating Exile, sung hauntingly by Enya. It all adds up to a rather delectable confection. They say Los Angeles is the City of Angels. I think of it more as a City of Dreamers. And LA Story shows how the dreams of the few can sometimes come true. "},{"Title":"??? Manhattan??","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Has anyone else been reminded of Woody Allen's Manhattan?-- a homage to a city,framed in a very personal way,reflecting the main man's personality. Angst-ridden male lead with all-knowing female leads,reliance on music,male confusion--even art galleries!Comparing the 2,I found 'LA'a slow grower,whereas I was overwhelmed by 'Manhattan'immediately. If you can compare the 2,I think I prefer LA. I can imagine that Steve Martin fans maybe being disappointed by the lack of slapstick & Woody Allen fans being totally dismissive. The failure of 'LA' must have been a major body blow to Steve,as soon after,his marriage to Victoria Tennant failed. "},{"Title":"I recommend it ...","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If your are familiar with Steve Martin's language you will find this movie as one of his best. As a not-American person who is more or less familiar with American culture, I believe that Steve Martin is one of the best and this film is one of his best. The jokes and the melodramatic tune of the film are coped well and you laugh, cry, breeze and feel warm while watching this movie. The reality and fiction are mixed in a believable way and you really like it when the miracle happens. Also it really is humorous about the L.A. people and L.A culture.You like it to be true like a kiss!! "},{"Title":"A Great Feel-Good Movie","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film really surprised me. Why? Because it turned out to be one of the best Romantic Comedy films I've ever seen. This is a sharp, witty and very sarcastic film that most audiences will really enjoy. L.A. Story also contains some brilliant performances from it's cast, and for me Sarah Jessica Parker steals the movie as the adorable SaNdEe*. Steve Martin is very good, as you expect him to be. The rest of the cast do a good, solid job without any other real stand-out performances. But that doesn't matter because everything else in the movie is right on the money.A feel-good film, sharply written and delivered. Also it's a must see for fans of Sarah Jessica Parker as this is one of her best performances from her starlet days. There are several laugh-out-loud moments, including the hilarious earthquake scene, and on the whole the film is a real winner. A great movie that I really enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Fable about love and L.A.","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Steve Martin as an actor is for the most part the rather ordinary looking man who behaves like a raving lunatic. This movie has him do some rather eccentric things, like driving his car two houses down the road to see his friend and rollerskating in an art museum but this time it is played more for philosophical reasons.The movie L.A. Story was written by Martin and besides Martin there is also a good performance by his then wife Victoria Tennant. The rather surreal way they meet and fall for each other is truly unique to see in a film that is supposed to be a comedy. Other than the love story the movie looks at life in L.A. in a most satirical way and the best scenes are the ones that show the L.A.'rs doing what others might think is a bit shallow like ordering expensive decaf coffee or shopping in hip department stores.Richard E. Grant gives what I would consider to be his most mannered performance, just watch him in Hudson Hawk to compare, as Tennant's ex who thinks that L.A. is a place for the idiots and Sarah Jessica Parker plays a valley girl who is always spinning and bouncing. The two of them don't have a lot of screen time because there is an enormous amount of material that is shot at the screen in an hour and a half. The film is therefore never boring but you kind of get the idea of Yeah, Martin may poke fun at the L.A. but deep down it's all show and very little substance since he is part of it.Other than that this is a better than average comedy and to say that Martin has had many great roles since then would be a lie. "},{"Title":"By and starring Steve Martin, 'L.A. Story' is a funny and whimsical movie through and through.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had seen 'L.A. Story' several years ago and I only remembered two things clearly -- the scene where everyone was ordering different kinds of coffees, decafs, half-cafs, and latte' with a twist of lemon, and the scene where Sarah Jessica Parker jumps into Steve Martin's arms. Everyone in the movie is perfectly cast, the writing, which is a thorough parody of Los Angeles life, is sharp and witty, and the whole thing comes together. Too many movies start out great, but don't know how to end. This one does not suffer from that malady. Fine, entertaining movie!SPOILERS follow, you might want to decide to quit reading at any word now.  Martin is in a lackluster relationship with a woman (Henner) when he meets a pretty British journalist in town to do a story on Los Angeles. Martin is a wacky weatherman, falls for the British lady and, while stalled on the freeway encounters a road conditions message board that begins to communicate with him, helps him start on the road to getting his life straightened out, then starts his car so he can get on his way. He meets Parker, perfect spacy valley girl, while buying a new pair of pants. He and the young girl end up in the motel room adjacent to the British lady and her ex-husband, staying at the 'Chicken of the Sea' motel. However, with the help of the lighted road sign, he figures out what to do and gets together with the British lady. "}{"Title":"There's no place like LA...","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To anyone who's ever lived in LA at one time or another, this is a must see.  If you've never lived or visited LA, it's still a funny movie, but the humor may seem a little strange or subtle.  It's a great story with some funny scenes, Steve Martin is his goofy self, which works well in his role.  Sarah Jessica Parker is also very funny as the ditsy shallow blond who can't stop moving, and plays her role well too.  The other characters also played their parts well but Martin and Sarah really steal the show.  Even though the movie is over 10 years old, it holds its value well and has good replay ability.  It's in my classics collection. "},{"Title":"Silliness, Satire and Love in La La Land","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Why hasn't Steve Martin, as gifted a comedian as anyone in the last thirty odd years (and one of the few who is very good at playing both smart and dumb) made a lot of great movies?  I don't know, but it usually seems that while his movies are good, they are seldom as good as he is. (Something he himself has occassionally acknowledged.) He seems to be aiming quite high in this one, and as star and writer is clearly responsible for most of its success. In this movie Martin is facing a mid-life crisis, as a wacky weatherman in a city where the weather is always the same.  He falls in and out of love, all the while satirizing life in the City of Angeles. This is a very funny, well constructed movie.  Martin is, mostly, playing smart here. There are some scenes where he just acts silly (some work, some don't), but almost all the smart comedy works. This is reminescent of the movies Woody Allen made in the early 1970s, like Love and Death or Manhattan.  The cast is great -- this movie really assisted Sarah Jessica Parker's career, and she does a great job as an airhead.  Many well known actors appear in brief cameos (e.g., Woody Harrison) and are quite funny too.  Only Victoria Tenant, Martin's then wife (now former) seems a bit out of place.  (But there is no explaining love, is there?)  Ultimately, although it lacks the grand overriding serious message of a Manhattan, at least Martin is swinging for the fences.  And if when the dust clears he is only standing on third, that's pretty darn good, and watching him get there is a wonderfully funny experience. "},{"Title":"Superb acting again!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Once again Steve Martin shows that he's the king of comedy. LA Story is a beautifull mixture of romance and comedy. I like the funny cinic' Hollywood scene. The music is beautiful (sort of Clannad..) and gives a dreamy fairytail feeling. Got the DVD and played it again and again and again....Love the swimming pool entry of the movie (....La mer...).favourit line R.U.O.K.?  "},{"Title":"Probably helps to know la la land...","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The LA humor is a bit extreme, which is clearly the point.  Even so, it's not far off the mark, which makes it that much funnier.  Those who know LA will be better served by the jokes.  In spite of the pot shots, this really is a bit of a love letter to the city.As such, at its heart, LA Story is a unique, very original and surprisingly atmospheric romance.  The film is full of joy and unexpected moments, touching, funny, and all completely smile inducing.In 2003, certainly a little dated -- but that's part of its charm as a comedy/romance.  Give it a chance - it's a beautiful little film. "},{"Title":"A true modern fairy tale.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin has made a few gems in his life, but this might be he best movie.  Its not his funniest or his most ambitious, but it is his most sincere and sweetest.  Martin plays a weatherman that wants more out of life, but doesn't know how to go about getting it.  Forces beyond his understanding conspire to force him to change himself.  Sarah Jessica Parker steals every scene she is involved in, as a bubbly California blonde, while Marilu Henner does an outstanding job playing a superficial bitch.  Victoria Tennant is very good as Martins object of desire, and Martin is supposed to have written the movie as a love ode to her.  (Tennant later left Martin, so apparently the love ode was not good enough) Despite the real life sad ending to this tale, the movie itself holds up incredibly well as a look at superficiality and finding what is most important in life.  This movie is a rare gem, and well worth any effort to find and watch. "},{"Title":"A Charming Fable...","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A long-time fan of Steve Martin, I fell in love with this ode to a city that is at turns, crazy, violent and confusing, but at the same time, imbued with a underlying aura of magic and wonderment.   The opening of the film, from the credits set to a wonderful French rendition of the old Bobby Darrin hit Beyond The Sea and Steve Martin's short-cut to work are truly priceless. I know this sounds corny, but this beautiful, romantic fairy-tale of a film would be great to watch with that special someone one evening (or during brunch, for that matter)...FilmWolf "},{"Title":"Magical realism, southern California style","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You can thank Steve Martin for writing one of the most beautiful, intelligent and hilarious films ever.  L.A. Story speaks to the erudite and the daffy.  Like Shakespeare's Tempest, which the film is essentially based upon, L.A. Story finds romance in idiosyncracies and self revelation. (It's funny, you'll like it) "},{"Title":"Wow...Steve Martin's brilliance shines through.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This Film is not simply about the great city, but about love on many different levels  art, L.A., sunshine, life, people, literature, philosophy, and of course, relationships (aka true love).  Artfully depicted are passion, searching, and the play of serendipitous events coupled will sheer willpower, on our mortal existences.  The direction of L.A. Story is incredible, but the real art of this film is in the writing.  Steve Martin is a subtle genius whose profundity is such that only a few can see beyond his proverbial surface.  For he who is larger than life, this film best captures at least some of his facets.  I close my eyes and dream... "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Quite similar to Woody Allen's Manhattan, and not quite as good, but pretty close to it. Steve Martin stands for comedy, and this movie is filled with jokes; some very funny others pretty stupid. What I like the most with this film is the acting of Sarah Jessica Parker; she is SO great. Overall, highly watchable.7 or 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Still my favorite","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've got three favorite movies, all of which are equally adored, but one takes the lead over the other two based on what kind of mood I'm in.LA Story is technically a romance, although it's not something that would hurt someone who's having difficult times romantically. The movie seems a little off balance, I'll admit.  There are scenes that seem very out of place at first.  But the dialogue is actually better written than most scripts are.  Martin condenses dialogue very well, and he manages to say exactly what's right.I have seen people who think this is the dumbest, most unfunny movie they've seen.  But most of those people are looking at it in comparison to what's considered funny nowadays (Kevin Smith movies).  These same people are bored with Some Like It Hot since they don't understand how it's funny.This movie is shot in a beautiful way.  And music - even the brief pop music (and Fats Domino's Ain't That A Shame) - is very well selected and placed in a manner which doesn't get in the way of the picture.I've memorized this movie...and I'm still picking up subtle aspects of the dialogue. "}{"Title":"What a charm!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really love this movie! The humor of Steve Martin is so loving, not trying to hurt. It's obvious how much he loves this city! In my opinion no other comedian has that kind of charm. I could watch Steve playing golf for two hours and just love it to see him, he is simply great! Thank you for that movie, Steve, I watched it many times and will continue doing so. "},{"Title":"Watch closely","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in 1991 and did not think too much of it. Seeing it now, in 2002, a more adult me enjoys the upbeat comedic editorial on life and romance in Los Angeles that stands as a novel tribute to Woody Allen and his New York.If you don't watch closely, much of the fun will be missed.  Worth seeing twice. "},{"Title":"An unusual signpost on the cinematic landscape","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  Sure, it's a predictable love story and the characters may be caricatures... yet, who else but Steve Martin could have pulled off something like this?  It's a purely joyful movie experience, with enough pretentious literary allusions and over-the-top surrealism to provide delightfully indulgent smiles throughout. In that sense, it seems to thumb its nose at the Hollywood formula machine. No Big Message, but a movie with a lot of heart. "},{"Title":"A must-see if you've ever lived in LA","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a big enough fan of movies to be checking out this website, then you need to see this film.  The basic idea of the film is a romantic comedy written over a critical look at LA.  Personally I do not like romantic comedies very much, but with all the pointed critiques of ever having been to LA, just to visit, much less live there, this film had me rolling on the floor laughing.  It really is a funny, funny movie. "},{"Title":"If only LA was really like this!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  PIGLET ONCE SAID, `No one can be uncheered by a balloon.'  It is impossible for me to be anything but cheerful (and silly) after I've seen this movie. Not only is it funny and romantic, but it captures the imagination too.  I wish that happened with a little more frequency... "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely one of my favorite comedies. Steve Martin, always funny, gives a wonderful performance and there are just some scenes that are hard to forget. I loved the 'de-caf' scene, it's just so typically LA. I also loved the Museum scenes, especially where he's explaining how emotional and deep a certain picture is. Also being an Enya fan, I was very pleased with the score (not only the Enya songs, but especially her). A wonderful LA romantic-comedy. Worthy of being in my video collection (and so it is). Everytime I watch it I miss LA so much, I feel like running to the airport and getting on the next plane to, what I think is one of the most amazing cities in the world.  "},{"Title":"Manages to be both hilarious and romantic","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not being a fan of romantic movies due to them frequently being mushy tearjerkers, I was pleasantly surprised by LA Story. If I absolutely had to pick my top 25 movies ever, which would be very difficult, this would be amongst them. It pays homage to all things Los Angeles while poking particularly clever fun at it at the exact same time. And it has some of the sweetest, most magical romantic moments I have *ever* seen in a movie. Definitely Steve Martin's best. He and Victoria Tennant made this at the beginning of their romance, and it shows. "},{"Title":"Great movie, all around.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA Story is an intellectual comedy.  The satire of the So-Cal lifestyle, mixed with the subtle Shakepearean references makes for a very wonderful, magical movie.  The Enya soundtrack gives this movie a very mystical feeling that will leave you feeling good about yourself. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin Skewers LA","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  OK.  I've seen a lot of comments hailing this movie as the perfect satire of LA life and culture, and as a native of LA, I have to sayThey're absolutely right.There are far too many witty and perfectly aimed spoofs of the celebrity-driven culture of my native land to mention them all here, and I'm watching the movie as I write this, but there is a great throw-away line about diet floss that sums up life there perfectly.   If you've ever eaten in Los Angeles, the scenes of the restaurants are dead-on.This is a rare satire and love story that is not mean-spirited in any way; in a weird sense, this is a love letter to LA.  The romantic rival is a perfectly likeable fellow, all of the protagonists have their flaws, and the only one who is truly unlikable is Marilu Henner, doing a great turn as Martin's catty girlfriend.  The cinematography is as excellent as the writing, and if the ending gets a little schmaltzy, well, by that time it's okay.  I highly recommend this to people who will pay attention during the whole film.  It's the little moments that make this film special,and this film is the rare one that demands your attention and your intelligence.9/10 "},{"Title":"Capitalizing on society's little quirks...","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Many films attempt to capture life in a parody, but none of them comes close to LA Story.In this charming film, Steve Martin brilliantly plays Harris K. Tellemacher, who quotes Shakespeare, does the wacky weather report, and has had seven heart attacks.  He also claims that he was unhappy, but didn't realize it because he was just too busy being happy.  The story is told from his point of view, as he moves about in daily life.  Early on, he goes to meet his girlfriend Trudy (Marilu Henner, who was fantastic) for brunch.  The scene in which everyone is ordering their meal is particularly hillarious and interesting all in its own, just a great quirk.  Then beautiful british journalist Sarah (Victoria Tennant, who I considered a slut in All of Me) comes into the picture, and Harris goes head over heels in love with her.  Harris then finds out that Trudy had an affair with his agent that began in the 80s (!!).I also thought the LA Freeway Sign attempting to help him by telling him that the weather will change his life twice was funny.  It certainly did change his life, and for the better.This movie had some good scenes and some funny lines, including I would hate being a woman.  I would just sit at home all day and play with my breats.This film was very cute, and Martin and Tennant were excellent.  Look for a cameo by everyone's favorite amigo, chevy Chase.  This movie was well-written and well-done! "}{"Title":"I loved it!!!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  How can anyone not like this movie?  Perhaps if someone is reading into it too much, I can see it but for face value, its wonderful!  The Enya score enhanced the film so much more.  It really took it to a higher emotional level.  Especially the scene when they walk through the garden.   Its just a wacky movie, about wacky lives in a wacky city.  But its not overkill. Just rent it and see for yourself "},{"Title":"Get into the details","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA Story is one of my favorite films.  You don't hear that about this film too often but the nods towards Shakespere, magical realism and a host of other very well woven into the story line.  This movie should be viewed for fun.  Steve Martin does a wonderful job at being a bit nuty and thoughtful at the same time.  Enjoy this great film. "},{"Title":"I can see how you might hate it, but I love it","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Quirky and laid back.  A rare example of how Americans can make fun of themselves without slapstick and without making the emotion sickly.One of the best films for those times when you just want to smile gently (and be somewhat puzzled). "},{"Title":"The best American satire of the 90's.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If Mark Twain made movies, I think the results would be lot like LA Story. It is a keen satire that does not take itself too seriously.  The supporting cast is great.  Some of the bits seem a little dated today, but the classic references and romance are not dulled a bit by time.  It inspires a steady chuckle and ultimately an ear to ear grin. "},{"Title":"LA Story underrated modern classic","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LA Story is one of my favorite films.  Steve Martin employs a masterful understanding of language, storytelling, and magic in this modern fairy tale that follows a confused weather man through several romantic relationships and finally into true love.  Emboldened by Enya's score and Martin's earnest Shakespearian - referenced voice-overs, this movie makes me cry - and I'm a very hardened critic - there is genuine passion and emotion here.  The satire on southern California is also brilliant.  Make sure to see LA Story.  "},{"Title":"Best, Funniest movie ever made","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has no equals. From the beginning to the end, the farce on LA living is excellent.  And Steve Martin being a simple weatherman going through his mid-life crises works so well.  The soundtrack is superb; this was Enya's first major movie deal, and her music complements it amazingly.  I have never laughed so much in my whole life as when I watch this movie.  Steve Martin wrote this movie, and it shows.  There are more memorable quotes in this movie than in a book about memorable quotes.  His narrarating of the movie adds so much to the story and scenes.  Many cameo appearances prove this movie is of the highest caliber.  This movie pokes fun at every aspect of living in LA.  From the health craze, to the shootouts on the freeway, to the snobby attitudes of some of the locals, this movie hazes them all.  I will always view this movie as the funniest movie of all time, while at the same time delivering a message that we need to not take life so seriously, and that love rules over everything else.  The supernatural aspect of this movie is not overplayed, once again in complements the rest of the plot, and who knows, maybe there are things out there that we'll never understand, and let's hope that they help us on our way when we run into them. This movie has affected me more than any other, and I just want to say, Thanks Steve!  And of course to everyone else, go see this movie, and then again, and again! "},{"Title":"Steve Martin at his best.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of the most original and memorable that I've seen.  The fact that Steve Martin wrote this as well as starred in it shows just how talented he is, this is much better than his newer films such as 'The Man With Two Brains' or 'House sitter'.The story is interesting and flows smoothly, it's likely that you'll be interested until the end.  Nice touches such as the talking road sign, the most amusing way to answer the telephone ever and some clever gags make this film both enjoyable and unique. "},{"Title":"Magical, totally blown away","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If they would let me, I would have given this movie an 11.  It is one of the most profound, beautiful movies in all of creation.  Watch it immediately "},{"Title":"A good story dramedy","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If it's Steve Martin's early attempt to star in a drama then you're going to get a bit of comedy mixed in for free. Which makes this mutated film a delightful and funny look at life in Los Angeles from the point of view of Martin's character, a wacky weatherman who is more concerned about his personal life then his celebrity status on TV (or anything else).Plenty of Shakespeare references, both dramatic and comedic, lots of great cameos as expected in this town, plus a few soundtrack songs by Enya sets the mood for the whole movie.Martin's character paraphrases Life is a tale, told by an idiot. Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing which excuses the film to do just that.If it wasn't for the fictional story, LA Story would be better classified as documentary, very educational about exotic life in a town of celebrity wannabes.Why don't we walk, it's only a few blocks from here? Walk? HA HA HAExcellent film. One of Martin's best. A definite must if you enjoy intellectual comedies. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin at his best!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is destined to become a classic as more people come to realise its strengths. This is top comedy courtesy of genius Steve Martin, and although there is a sweet romance somewhere in the screenplay, the film's raison d'etre is the hilarious depiction of life in LA. There are numerous standout moments, and some interesting cameos from the likes of Patrick Stewart (as a fascist restaurateur), Chevvy Chase (turned away from the restaurant by Stewart) and Woody Harrelson as an evil producer.  "}{"Title":"Funny, Romantic, and Deep.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I liked it.  The second time I saw it, I loved it.The movie is much deeper than it seems on the surface, and it sinks in a bit more when viewed for the second time.  Now that I live in LA, the movie becomes even larger, as you see what he was trying to express about this bizarre metropolis.If you want to laugh, learn, and be moved; watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Romantic Comedy","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably one of the best romantic comedies of the early 90's.  It has a cute clever wit that anyone, even a non-resident of L.A. can appreciate, tempered with a very romantic story.  Loosely based on Shakespeare's A Midsummers' Night Dream This film is an excellent display of Steve Martin's wit, charm, and humor that has made him one of the most established comedic actors of the 20th Century.I highly recommend that anyone who has any intention of being in a romantic relationship watch this movie.Some of the one-liners are classic and worth remembering. "},{"Title":"Martin at his whimsical best.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Next to his screenplay for Roxanne, Steve Martin's best mature work to date is L.A. Story.Like all great movies, L.A. Story is a layered movie.  The most obvious story layer is the love story between Martin's character and Tennant's character.The next layer is Martin's tribute to the city of Los Angeles.  That is the real story in this movie.  Everything that happens to the characters happens because of the backdrop of L.A..  The movie's most important character is the city.  This is perhaps most telling when you understand that the most powerful character is the Freeway Sign.  The Freeway Sign is the only character that can create change and is not subject to fate.  The Sign is part of the city's infrastructure, hence it is the city that is changing the other characters' fates.The final layer is the personal changes experienced by Martin's character, Harris Telemacher.This movie is quiet and slow moving.  It has some of Martin's trademark surreality (rollerskating through art museums and Shakespeare in the cemetery), but it lacks the nutty antics he displayed in The Jerk and All of Me.All in all, it is a wonderful love story, a quiet comedy, and a great tribute to L.A.. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie on all levels","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie with great sarcastic humour and a wonderful love story to boot.  Steve Martin plays a Wacky TV Weatherman who is Bored Beyond Belief of his stereotypical L.A. lifestyle.  He meets a slightly-spacy London news journalist with whom he falls madly in love and is forced to reconcile the shallow personality he has to front to survive in his society with his desire for something meaningful in his life.  There's roller-skating in the museum, a talking traffic sign (who was a bagpipes in a former life), earthquakes, high colostomies and enough double-decaf latte half-capp (with a twist of lemon) for everyone. "},{"Title":"modern day romantic fable","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin at his funniest and most clever.  This is a very effective, very funny fable that says quite a bit about the magical power of love...at least as it relates to the movies.  Every critical response I remember reading about this movie focused way too much on the Los Angeles aspects of the film.  Yes, L.A. is in the title and it is important to the narrative, but really all of the L.A. stuff is only there for detail and background. The STORY is a very charming magical romance that shows how being in love can feel truly magical.  Steve Martin gives his finest performance since Roxanne, and the supporting cast truly supports, especially Richard E. Grant and Sarah Jessica Parker. There are parts of this movie that are just perfect, my favorite being the museum roller-skating sequence.  Very funny and very sweet without being sappy.  Two very rare things in romantic comedies these days. "},{"Title":"A weatherman in LA. Fun? Actually... yes","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin as a wacky weatherman in LA that falls in love with a British reporter.Driving one evening on the freeway, Harry Telemacher gets a flat tyre and pulls over by a signpost. The signpost communicates with him (!) and gives him a riddle to solve. Plenty of amusing situations and interesting places. Music by Enya lifts the movie a few steps. An overall watchable comedy if you don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"You have to have lived in LA","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Everyone I have ever met who has lived in LA thinks this is one of the funniest movies ever made. The drive-to-work sequence is a perfect example. EVERYONE who commutes in LA has some back road ways of getting around freeway traffic. Martin merely exaggerates (and less so than non-LA people would think) for humorous effect. Everyone in LA is surrounded by Spanish names, but few know and no one seems to pay any attention to what they mean -- hence, the Pollo Del Mar resort, a background gag reminiscent of Jack D. Ripper in Dr. Strangelove. (Just in case, it means Chicken of the Sea.) High colonics? If it hasn't been a fad in LA, it could be and probably will be. A comedian as the weatherman -- based on reality, no stretch there. Angelenos can drive 80 mph in bumper to bumper traffic while combing their hair or putting on their makeup but cannot navigate a four-way stop. Martin exaggerates only slightly in his scene at the four-way stop. Walk? Walk in LA? As the song says, nobody walks in LA and Martin makes this abundantly clear with perhaps the shortest drive in history.Understandably, those who have never lived in, or more accurately been trapped in, LA cannot fully understand the movie. Undoubtedly, it probably often seems stupid if one hasn't lived in LA but, as I say, no one I have ever met who has lived in LA thinks this movie is anything less than outrageously funny.The underlying story is clearly autobiographical and among the laughs there is a serious theme and a touching love story. The ending is just slightly surreal, the music by Enya perfect and the idea of using the freeway sign as the messenger of God is inspired. Sara Jessica Parker steals the movie with her portrayal of SanDeE*. It's almost worth living in LA just to fully understand this great movie. Almost. "},{"Title":"Three Thumbs Up","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I ran into this movie back when Microsoft was sending us everything for free, including Cinemania, and I queried their databases for the movies which both Maltin and Ebert put at the top of their lists. LA Story came up. I was no fan of Martin's at all. I was perplexed, but I rented it just the same and it blew my mind away. Movie critics commonly say that the US doesn't have its cinematic auteurs in abundance but Martin is one in this movie. The tragedy of course is that this is basically a true story, and that real life couple Martin and Tennant broke up shortly after this movie was completed. "},{"Title":"Very funny.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  L.A. Story is a very funny film. Steve Martin's screenplay and performance are top notch. The only real weakness is that it slows down in spots. Overall it's really a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"A Rare Find.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Steve Martin, could be one of the greatest comedians out there, and don't get me wrong, he is, but he has had his share of bad movies such as Cheaper by the Dozen and ¡Three Amigos! and a few others. L.A. Story on the other hand is where he shows his best. This goes on Steve Martin's A list. The main thing I liked about this movie was the talking highway billboard. I think that was very creative and very cool. It was funny when it made the car move on its own. Romance movies are usually to sappy, but this one was much didn't have any of that and it had good actors and actresses. If you want a good romance see L.A. Story. "}{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 94 % on Rotten Tomatoes? Full four stars from Roger Ebert? What am I missing here? What am I not seeing that makes this such a beloved Los Angeles experience for everyone else? Because, frankly, I thought this to be one of the most boring movies I've ever seen.Where to start. Steve Martin is not funny in this one. I get that they tried to go for a more surreal tone, and to convey his love for the city, instead of just making a straight up slapstick comedy. But I can still see that it was meant to be at least partially comedic. The only problem being that I didn't even smile, not once. Every single joke at the expense of the typical Los Angeles stereotypes I had already seen, numerous times, over and over again. The dialogues were obviously meant to sound forced and shallow in order to make us laugh, but to me they come across only as painful.The story was riddled with clichés, obvious stereotypes, age old situations and just straight corniness. And even the surreal elements didn't make it any less boring, because they didn't connect with anything. A billboard? What is that even meant to represent? Our dependence on advertising? The only saving grace was the fact that Sarah Jessica Parker's character was at least perky and cute to watch. And that's it.Perhaps it's the fact that I've never been to Los Angeles, or even USA, for that matter. Perhaps I'm just incapable of getting it. Nevertheless, this was an awful experience for me and I cannot in good conscience recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"L.A. gets a salty tribute","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Several years back, when I first sat down to watch L.A. Story, my in-laws remarked that I was fortunate to be seeing this while living in that particular region (the jokes would make more sense). And they were spot-on. All of the movie's funniest gags are L.A. in-jokes (they're just surreal to outsiders) the angst-ridden 4-way stop, the smog, shrugging off earthquakes, the vapid lifestyles - these help the otherwise absurd freeway shootout and socially acceptable muggings work as comedy.The movie functions pretty well as a romantic comedy/fantasy between Steve Martin and Vitoria Tennant, but it works a lot better when Martin see free-spirited (and charming as all get out) Sarah Jessica Parker).But it works best as Martin's snide valentine to the culture.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie even after nearly 25 years ago","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Hmmm I must say I love this movie. The Story of this Movie is well told. The Lovestory inside this Story is so nice. Steve Martin proved that he is not only a jerk but can play in funny romantic movies as well. Maybe it is I went to the film back in the early 90s with a love of myself but every time I see this movie with the Music of Enya I get chilles all over. If you grew up during this time you will love it and even after nearly 25 years !!! Yes ! Since the Movie came out in '91 we are nearly 25 years later .. I hope the studio will bring out this nice little gem with some Extras. One of you greatest Movie Steve Martin ... Also for the Director who did Bodyguard with Whitney and Costner afterwards. He really had it at this time .... If you don't know it and you are in the mid 40s now please see it you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"A Wacky California Adventure!","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" L.A Story is a much better film than I thought and quite frankly, a film that Steve Martin should have made more of. I really liked the film because sometimes, it is over-the-top crazy and hilarious. I really loved the fantasy aspects of the film, especially when there is a talking billboard involved. My favorite scene is when they are traveling down the freeway and drivers shoot each other because that's just the way it is. I loved that satirical concept. Of course, the film has good themes involving finding true love and trying to bring meaning in your life.This film is a about a wacky weatherman named Harris who lives a cliché-ridden life in L.A. He has a girlfriend who loves to spend money, but he isn't truly happy. When he has a chance encounter with a billboard that seemingly has a mind like Dr. Phil, he realizes there is fish in the sea for him, and in particular one fish from England who is visiting L.A and trying to find sense in this weird world.Steve Martin was very good in the film. When given the right material, Martin can be the funniest guy in the world. He shows off that side in this movie, but he also shows a tender side to himself. Even the wacky personalities can love and be saddened when they don't get the love of their dreams. I also liked the young Sarah Jessica Parker who played a love interest of Harris.Overall, L.A Story is a truly wonderful film that is funny, seemingly original, well-written, and quite romantic. The offbeat humor may turn away some people, but this is the kind of role that Steve needs. He was born for these roles. If it wasn't for him, I'm not sure if this film would have worked. A very amusing film.My Grade A "},{"Title":"Steve Martin Magic!","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 'L.A. Story' is a yet another film, that showcases the astounding talent of Steve Martin. The Honorary Oscar-Winner is a delight to watch here & he, singe handedly, leads the film with a performance that's purely enjoyable. 'L.A. Story' Synopsis With the help of a talking freeway billboard, a wacky weatherman tries to win the heart of an English newspaper reporter, who is struggling to make sense of the strange world of early-90s Los Angeles.'L.A. Story' is an entertaining fantasy romantic-comedy, that narrates a story informatively. The Screenplay, which is Written by Martin himself, is a lovely mix of romance & situational humor, as well as capturing the true essence of Los Angeles in the early 1990's. A Special Mention for the delightfully real dialogue. Mick Jackson's Direction is appropriate. Cinematography & Editing are excellent.Performance-Wise Its Martin all the way. He doesn't miss one single beat. An Impeccable Performance! Victoria Tennant is cute. Sarah Jessica Parker is fantastic. Her scenes are full of energy, thanks to her superior act. Richard E. Grant is first-rate. Marilu Henner is equally competent. Among Cameos, Patrick Stewart stands out.On the whole, Watch 'L.A. Story' for its innovative story & Martin's performance. "},{"Title":"Loved it - again","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of my favorite things about this movie - is it is original. Although I pretty much like everything Steve Martin has ever done, I thought this was one of his most clever works. It pokes fun at L.A. and everything to do with it. Written by someone who actually lives there. The cinematography is top notch with some very clever designed scenes. The cast is all excellent - especially Sarah Jessica Parker who plays Steve' somewhat love interest. She can't stop bouncing - up, down, sideways, all around. We all know a girl like that. The dialogue is well planned with some zany stuff thrown in and the references to Shakespeare are clever. Love this movie. "},{"Title":"Alternative interpretation","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a film about the interface between the neurotypical world and that of autism. It is essentially about the absurdity of the normal world in which people say what they don't mean and live lives according to the bizarre protocols that frame what is considered to be normal. Mr Martin sees both worlds but is more comfortable with the 'abnormal'. He has a unique perspective on the discontinuity between the two. The Freeway sign helps his character to interpret what is happening in a environment in which he feels that he does not quite belong and it is a masterful commentary on the awkwardness that exists between the logical Spock-like world of ASD and what LA represents (the epitome of NT existence). I think. "},{"Title":"hilarious quirky spoof of life in LA - metaphysical comedy romance","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this spoof of life in LA, it's clever comedy and iconic in so many ways and a slice of early 90s LA. Like some much quotable classics of modern film, this film is either loved or not-understood, but it's so funny. It's one of Sarah Jessica Parker's best and most-liked roles and she's just so cute, infectiously fun and quirky in it, and it's one of my favourite Steve Martin roles too. He's typical Steve Martin; obsessive, anxious and rather crazy whilst following the clues set by the road sign in this metaphysical search for true love where a newly divorced whacky weather man tries to win the heart of lovely English newspaper reporter.There are so many famous face cameo roles to look out for in this giggle-fest, Shakespeare reference, bagpipes, colonic irrigation gags and one-liner's a-plenty. It's fun, bright and sunny (set in LA), quirky and original, and Steve Martin is perfect to watch in it. I like that whilst being a Hollywood Romance it IS realistic about the unlikeliness of a man like Steve Martin's character being compatible with a woman like SJP's character and it pokes fun at that and I love that Steve Martin wrote it himself, probably from his own observations and inside his own head jokes. Victoria Tennant and Richard E Grant also star. It's a sweet story, about how sometimes the universe does conspire to bring two people together, and a real feel good film. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's love song to LA","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This might not be the most laugh out loud funny of Steve Martin's films but it is my favourite. Martin plays LA weatherman Harris Telemacher; he thinks he is happy but really he is depressed; everything about his life is a cliché; his girlfriend Trudi clearly holds him in contempt, the people he associates with are all the same and even the weather he forecasts is always 72° and sunny. Then one day he meets Sarah, an English journalist writing a piece about Los Angeles&#x85; after that his life won't be the same again. Of course it won't be simple; he is still with Trudi and Sarah is giving her ex one last chance. Soon strange things start to happen; he breaks down in front of a freeway sign and it starts to address him; he finds himself single and dating SanDeE*; a girl who will be twenty seven in four years time&#x85; still he dreams of Sarah.L.A. Story is one of those films that make me smile from start to finish; it is funny, it is surreal and it is packed with little things that make it charming. Highlights include the way he keeps (mis)quoting Shakespeare as though he was referring to Los Angeles, his attempts to book a table at a fancy restaurant and his long and detailed description of how a painting is almost erotic then we see it just a canvas painted in various shades of red. Martin is on top form as he gives this love song to LA while simultaneously gently mocking it. He is ably supported by Victoria Tennant, Richard E, Grant and Sarah Jessica Parker as well as some well known actors in cameo roles. The film is accompanied by a selection of music that fits perfectly including 'La Mer', 'Do Wad Diddy, Diddy' and even 'Amazing Grace' performed by the road sign. If you are a fan of Steve Martin or like the city of Los Angeles then I think this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Steve Martin's ultimate feel good comedy","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Basically I go to the movies to be entertained and if I walk out at the end of the movie with a warm satisfied feeling I feel that the film has done its job. LA story is completely in this category.I've seen LA story several times since it first came out and I've always felt thoroughly entertained. The best way to categorize it would be as a romantic comedy with some extremely zany humor. It's about Harris K Telemacher (Martin) who runs the weather segment on a LA TV news channel. The LA weather doesn't change very much so he just mostly clowns it up, in fact the segment is called the wacky weather guy. In the course of the film he meets and falls in love with a UK news reporter (Tennant - his wife at the time) and has a fling with a delightfully air-headed shop girl (Sarah Jessica Parker).Most of the humor arises from a light hearted look at the California life style. Probably my favourite joke is the scene at the ATM with two queues but there is so much more. I've always been a Monty Python fan and much of the humor is in this category. There is a fantasy element involving a freeway sign and a soundtrack with some hauntingly beautiful Enya melodies.I can see from the other reviews that some people didn't get the humor and I can recall showing the film to two friends who sat through it with mostly straight faces. All I can say is that it totally worked for me and I would rate it as Martin's finest work. Sadly he was never this funny again.If you haven't seen LA Story then give it a try. I think you may be pleasantly surprised. It's 10/10 for me. "}{"Title":"This is superb!","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The way this movie is put together, with all the little things ( like he drives to work in that Chrysler with the Garfield doll on the rear window? Or the famous one liners? If I was a woman, I would stay home and play with my brests all day! Hilarious! I still use it to date.The music of Enya makes the romance complete. At the end, that song gives me goose bumps...I think this is the best one Steve has ever made.I wish I could tell it to him some day.There is just something about this movie that you just can not grasp.......it's sheer magic! "},{"Title":"Funny, but not the same!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw it again on DVD and have to say I really like how Martin succeeded in adding a sense of poetry to his comedy in this amazing movie! Watch it and again and again and again and again and aaarrrrrgggghhh... "},{"Title":"Predictable, with highlights","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Predictable in that it's another Steve Martin southern California send-up (Bowfinger comes later but is more blatantly Hollywood-oriented), and once again he plays his patented droll, knowing outsider.  However, the movie does have some unexpected high points, one being Richard E. Grant's performance, and another is Sarah Jessica Parker's portrayal of the ridiculous and adorable SanDeE*.  Worth watching for the brief, hysterical earthquake scene.  "},{"Title":"Fantasy Romance","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  L.A.Story, written by Martin as cinematic ode to Tennant....is a surreal and engaging examination of the nature of Love (in L.A.).  Reminiscent in many ways of Pennys from Heaven, it captures (sometimes exquisitely) the transcendence of the feelings, typically unexpressed, that his Weatherman holds for Sara...expressed in the film by lingering, glowing close-ups, the moonlit garden transformation, and Enya's haunting voice.  The film is a celebration of Love made more poignant by the real-life dissolution of the relationship between Martin & Tennant. "},{"Title":"Satire","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Satire.  This film is chalk full of it.  Steve Martin's only other film that compares to the smartness of 'LA Story' would have to be 'Bowfinger'.LA Story is smart, funny, and at times a little on the slow side, but the film is defiantly worth at least one viewing.  A second one is helpful to catch all the clever background lines.If you liked this film, you will love Martin's 1999 critical success, 'Bowfinger.'All in all a fun movie.'LA Story' ***(7) 10'Bowfinger' (8) 10***1/2  "},{"Title":"A magical film with a perfect score!","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For some reason, while browsing among Steve Martins movie, I felt like commenting on this little wonderful film. Maybe I am nostalgic right now. I normally hate comedy/romance - take a look at the films I have commended on and am fond of - I am usually after strange, cruel, extreme, original, somewhat cold, unpleasant films. This is no original film. But it's a magical one. Dunno. After all these years in which I have seen it a few times, it occupies a great place in my heart. There IS chemistry between the leads, and good acting. Embrassment and alienation, feelings - watch it this is no drama, but it can be satyrically laughing at the goofs of humanity and make a serious point at the same time. Comedy/romance with deeper meaning? Well, not quite, but there IS depth. Somewhere in there, there is this beautiful, magical score by ENYA, a touching climax, overall an INTELLIGENT comedy/romance. I love this film! From this genre, the only other film I dig is As Good as It Gets (1997)  "},{"Title":"Hope and love in the land of absurdity","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin uses L.A. as a backdrop to depict the human condition, in which our foolishness serves only to distract us from our fear of reality. When we choose to release ourselves to love, we tap into a force much greater than ourselves. Victoria Tennent plays opposite Mr. Martin, turning in an exquisite performance as an uptight writer from London. She sees the reality behind the facade, but can't bring herself to embrace it. It takes Harris' crazy abandon to reach her. In a sense, the road sign is a metaphor for God, and Harris is a metaphor for L.A.culture, and how it stands in relation to mainstream American culture. We the viewer stand in for Victoria's character, invited to take a chance, and step into reality.  "},{"Title":"The missing scene","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A few years ago, Showtime had one of its free weekends. John Lithgow appeared and introduced the famous Harry Zell missing scene....it had me on the floor, laughing. A shame the movie was too long and they had to cut something out to get back on time. While the Harris meets Harry Zell scene was not essential to the plot, it is one of the funniest things I've ever seen. Thank God my VCR was running, and I dig it out every time I watch the movie and laugh my butt off. Harry Zell appears in one of those one-person helicopters back at the same double-caf decaf restaurant.....suddenly, you're Harris while Harris sings the obscene lyrics he's proposing for a new musical, or pitching Harris become a parade celebrity to replace the regular guy who is about to be attacked in the press.....part of the new cruelty. The only cruelty is that this movie has not been reproduced in a special edition with the deleted scenes to be reinserted. I suspect it would make money for WB. There's enough drek out on DVD....it would be delightful to see a new version of L.A. Story produced.  "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There is so much to say about this movie, I hardly know where to start. The opening of the movie seems to be a portrayal of LA as a place of wonderment and unique people (& attitudes), while also showing the less attractive side of traffic gridlock and open season on the LA freeway.  As the characters come into play, some seem as shallow as can be, while others seem to possess a near bottomless depth of character and feeling (some actually possess both).  These characters, along with great filming, unbelievably beautiful music and Steve Martin's acting (and writing) make this a movie I will continue to watch (and enjoy) over and over again. My hat is off to everyone involved and . . . PLEASE MAKE ANOTHER LIKE THIS ONE! "},{"Title":"Not as good as Planes, Trains and Automobiles, but one of Martin's best!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Nobody does comedy like Steve Martin, and nobody writes comedy like Steve Martin, either. His comedy is borderline wacky, and he is the expert at physical humor, but unlike Jim Carrey he knows when to contain himself, how to make a real character, and how to make those zany qualities work just right.His writing is dazzling and offbeat and wacky and outrageous. Part of my computer's harddrive is dedicated to old Steve Martin albums from Saturday Night Live and his standup routines. I give him credit for coming up with the word Google in his Googlephonics skit. But anyway.L.A. Story (1991) is Martin's homage to Los Angeles. It's a slapstick comedy and a touching romance story. Sometimes we get jokes nearing ridiculous, and sometimes we get moments of pure reality. Normally this uneven blending of two very different genres would never work, but give the guy credit for making it work splendidly well.In L.A. Story, Martin plays Wacky Weatherman Harris K. Telemacher, the type of loony guy you sometimes wish would take the place of those boring meterologists on your local news channel that point at their boards and seem as if they're about to fall asleep. Harris has got it all, living the highlife in rich L.A. with a beautiful gal (Marilu Henner) and a great job. But then, one day, he's fired, his girlfriend dumps him for his agent (Kevin Pollack), and he's got nowhere to go in life.That's when he meets Sara (Victoria Tennant, Martin's real-life wife), a British journalist researching L.A. for a news article. Harris takes her on a tour of L.A. Some of these buildings are over twenty years old, he says.Harris also sparks a relationship with a young ditz named SanDeE* (Sarah Jessica Parker), who doesn't care if she's being used as long as she's having fun. She twirls around and does cartwheels and makes Harris feel young again.And thrown together with all this is an electronic highway sign. The sign gives Harris a riddle to unscramble throughout the film, and when the answer is finally revealed it's pure Steve Martin humor.Steve Martin has a way of parodying anything. I laughed so hard at L.A. Story I cried; but then the movie takes a break from being silly and throws in lots of romance and such. But, unlike other movies, it seems to fit perfectly. It's beautiful and offbeat. It sort of reminds me of last year's Punch-Drunk Love, only L.A. Story seems to have a bit more purpose and the characters are a lot more likable. It's also a lot funnier.This is probably one of the most quotable films of all time. It's not as good as Martin's Planes, Trains and Automobiles (1987), but I'll admit that Martin's writing lends better one-liners than the former (which is strangely funnier, though). I just can't get enough of Steve Martin's wonderful wit. Every time you think that L.A. Story is settling down to go into the typical romantic comedy cliches, such as the slow-motion shower scene with the beautiful woman splashing her wet hair over the camera, something happens. (In this case, we see Harris in HIS shower, bathing himself and glancing down at the tap. One knob says Slow Motion, he turns it, and suddenly he's splashing over his hair and the camera in slow motion.)The movie features cameos ranging from Rick Moranis (who has starred in four films with Martin), Patrick Stewart, Woody Harrelson and even Chevy Chase. The best is undoubtedly Moranis' British gravedigger (Finally, Harris says, a funny gravedigger!) I wouldn't want to ruin some of the scenes or quotes, but the beginning sequence with Harris in his car, swerving through neighbors' backyards and sidewalks and down stairs to avoid rush hour traffic, had me laughing hysterically, and so did a scene where he grabs a handgun from his glove compartment and gets in a road duel with a delivery truck.They key to all this humor, I think, is how delightfully over the top and realistic it is. Martin finds a funny social topic -- such as restaurant booking procedures -- and stretches it out into the absurd. And you know what? It works. Because it's Steve Martin. And Steve Martin has hit gold with L.A. Story. Fans and non-fans alike will love this movie. And I'm going to end with a quote from the filmSitting there at that moment I thought of something else Shakespeare said. He said, 'Hey...life is pretty stupid; with lots of hubbub to keep you busy, but really not amounting to much.' Of course, I'm paraphrasing 'Life is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.'I love that wild wit.4.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Steve Martin delivers...","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin delivers a wonderful performance in this intriguing comedy about a - weatherman? I don't remember - who finds a sign on an L.A. highway that has some interesting things to say. A bit odd and devoid of humor at times but the always-enjoyable Steve Martin makes this a sweet comedy with a heart.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Very funny / interesting comedy film.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I would definitely call L.A. Story an odd comedy.  I say this because the film contains various types of comedy within it.  What I mean is that the film has intelligent comedy along with stupid/slap-stick comedy, which I think is somewhat rare in a film.  Surprisingly it actually works well.The story in this film is rather odd, somewhat similar to a fair tale of sorts.  What other film has a guy talking to a street sign in the middle of a freeway?  All in all, the story is quite good and very entertaining.  This is one of those films that you need to give a second viewing.The cast and the acting are all very good.  Steve Martin pulls off yet another excellent performance.  Sarah Jessica Parker plays one of the most interesting characters in the film, and looks fantastic as well.  Kevin Pollack plays a rather small role, but does a good job nonetheless.  The rest of the cast is very good as well.  There are also a number of cameos to keep an eye out for, such as Patrick Stewart, Rick Moranis, Chevy Chase, and Woody Harrelson.If you are a fan of Steve Martin's other excellent films, then you ought to give this one a shot, I think you'll like it.  Even if you aren't a huge fan of Steve Martin, check it out.  I hope you enjoy the film,-Chris "},{"Title":"Steve Martin in top form","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Steve Martin plays Harris K. Telemacher, a wacky TV weatherman in the wackiest of places on earth, Los Angeles.It's marked as comedy, but despite some hilarious comic moments (and dead-on social commentary), it does have a serious love story at its heart, melding the comedy and romance perfectly toward the end... it's really just a juxtaposition of the beauty of Falling in Love with that perfect someone, and the insanity that is L.A. culture, an insanity that never lets up, even in the most serious of situations.Manic camera work and directing from Mick Jackson, who may not be a household name but certainly does good work, if you'll look at his filmography.  First-rate script from Martin, and wonderful performaces from Sarah Jessica Parker as the L.A. airhead, Victoria Tennant as the British/journalist/divorcee of Martin's affections, and Richard E. Grant as her horny ex-husband.Though the film borders on the surreal in some places, it all seems eerily real, which is exactly what Martin was trying to get across.  Great job all around. "},{"Title":"Amazing, one of my favourite Steve Martin films for sure!","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'd say Planes, Trains and Automobiles, The Jerk and The Man with Two Brains are marginally better as far as Steve Martin films go, but LA Story is a true gem and not only one of Martin's better films but I think one of his better performances too. The film is very warm-hearted, touching and quirky, and Martin plays his part absolutely beautifully, it is a slight departure to some of his other roles but there are enough ingredients there to please fans. The script is both funny and charming, the soundtrack is absolutely stunning, there are some truly lovely comic set pieces, the direction is fine, the pacing is brisk and the story is never dull and like the film is warm-hearted. Martin is supported solidly by Sarah Jessica Parker and Richard E. Grant, and Rick Moranis and Patrick Stewart's cameos were a delight too. Overall, amazing film, definitely worth seeing. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Kind of clunky","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched L.A. story for the first time last night. Currently, I'm reading a biography of Woody Allen.It's impossible for me to watch L.A. story without interpreting it as an attempt at Woodying L.A. In this regard, the movie suceeds at times because obviously it reminded me of Konigberg's New York efforts. Apparently Martin has a similar affection for L.A. What particularly struck me, however, was the apparent love between Martin and Tennant who at that time were married.I checked tennant's bio and learned that she and Martin were divorced in 1994 which adds another level of drama to the romance portrayed on the film. Perhaps L.A. story was in fact one last attempt at rekindling a flame that was going out.The movie itself lacked the grace of Allen's work with a couple of especially jarring moments. The road rage bit failed and so did the Hamlet thing. so for that matter did the free way sign as pyschic. All of that said, I did enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Short synopsis An eccentric weatherman falls in love in crazy Los Angeles.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Long synopsis An eccentric weatherman falls in love in crazy Los Angeles. Add filler material.I rented LA STORY because it seemed to undergo a critical reappraisal ten years after dying on initial release. Unfortunately it hasn't aged into a good film. It just appears so in comparison with SGT BILKO.There is no doubting LA STORY is a labour of love for its writer and star, Steve Martin. He obviously has great affection for the city and that is half the problem. There is a romantic gloss he paints over the Hard Rock café and trendy Hollywood restaurants which doesn't hold true. Having never been to LA (or the Hard Rock for that matter), I'll reserve judgement. But the Beverly Hills of this picture is shallow and boring, and the movie feels that way too. Romantic comedies don't have to be inspired but LA STORY is insipid. Why up the ante with highbrow humour when you can't even deliver likeable characters? Rick Moranis turns up to embarrassing effect in a spoof of the comical gravedigger scene from HAMLET. In the hands of this comic titan the timeless words of Shakespeare play like an outtake from The Martin Short Show.`They took a desert and turned it into a land of dreams'. `Love can blossom in the heart of crazy Los Angeles'. LA STORY is choc-a-bloc with such pearls of poetry. The film would be pretentious but Martin doesn't aspire to create art, just lightweight, immediately forgettable comedy like this. "},{"Title":"magical realism","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" L.A. Story is a number of things a tribute to/mockery of the City of Angels, a look at relationships, and an exercise in magical realism (a recurrent theme in Latin American literature). Harris K. Telemacher (Steve Martin) is The Wacky Weatherman who one day learns about how his life will change. And he gets this most unusual lesson from...a freeway sign. Yep, you read that right; after all, not only is LA one big freeway (apologies to Dionne Warwick), but this is Steve Martin here! This is one movie that will not only make you further appreciate Steve Martin's comic genius, but will also make you truly admire Los Angeles (I think). You'll most likely also spend the next few days singing Doo Wah Diddy. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite Steve Martin flick","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like I said, I'm getting into the Steve Martin flicks, and since my mom has all of his films, I decided my next film journey to be for comedy and see what the hype is that is Steve Martin. I loved his films like Bringing Down the House, Bowfinger, and Roxanne. They had great humor and a touching story that anyone could fall in love with. L.A. Story was next on my list, and while it is a cute movie, I felt that it was a little too cheesy and not up to par with Steve Martin's humor, or at least not the kind of humor that I know he can perform.Harris, played by Martin, is a weatherman in L.A., he's in a pretty dysfunctional relationship with a very fake and shallow woman. But when he pulls over to fix his car on the road, an electronic road sign tells him the way to find his true love leading him to Sarah Jessica Parker, but she's a bit of a ditz. But the sign eventually points him to the lovely Sara, a British and intelligent woman, but she is taken. It's a matter of seeing if the sign is right and is this the woman of his dreams? L.A. Story is a cute little romantic story that deserves a look, but like I said, I just didn't get into it. I guess I was just expecting something more since it's a Steve Martin flick, but it's all good. I wouldn't say no to recommending this, because you might enjoy it. But just don't expect the humor from Bowfinger or Bringing Down the House or The Jerk or... well, you get the idea.5/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting performances but no chemistry...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll keep it short. Please watch out for spoilers! I watched this movie because my friend loves it but there really isn't anything special in it.Steve Martin is funny...some of the time. Frankly, I thought that the script had him making too many one liners. But that didn't mean that this movie was completely unoriginal! No, on the contrary! The attention payed to detail was amazing and was what kept this movie afloat. L.A Story mocks California-girl/yuppy stereotypes tastefully.So, see it for a few laughs but don't be surprised by the hum drum plot. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Too self-congratulatory","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" L.A. Story is like The Jerk, another Steve Martin movie, in the sense that it tries so hard to assure the audience that it is a great movie, a fabulous fantasy, that one simply wants to run for cover. Steve Martin comedies are best when pulled off with a lighter touch (this has only happened twice Roxanne and Parenthood). The film wants to be to L.A. inhabitants what Manhattan is to New Yorkers; it even copies Woody Allen's formula of the neurotic guy who is juggling relationships. Most of the running gags go too far and the film is self-congratulatory to the extent of predictability though (when the magic electric street sign tells Martin that the meaning of life is a pop song-I won't give away which one-we just know it will be played at the end credits). Martin has charm, though, and there are quite a few funny moments. "}{"Title":"L.A. Story","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't know anything about this film's plot or story, but for the leading comedy star, and being rated four stars, I gave it a chance, from director Mick Jackson (The Bodyguard, Volcano). Basically Wacky Weather reporter Harris K. Telemacher (Steve Martin, also writing and producing) is undergoing a mild mid-life crisis and needs to find something meaningful in the insane chaos that is Los Angeles. One night driving on the freeway he pulls over, and a lit-up sign starts talking to him, and it gives him a riddle he must solve to change his life. Soon after Harris meets visiting British journalist Sara McDowel (Victoria Tennant), and it is apparent that they are falling for each other, and the sign could see this coming, and in the end she helps him solve the riddle. Also starring Richard E. Grant as Roland Mackey, Marilu Henner as Trudi, Sarah Jessica Parker as SanDeE*, Susan Forristal as Ariel, A Few Good Men's Kevin Pollak as Frank Swan, Sam McMurray as Morris Frost and Patrick Stewart as Mr. Perdue - Maitre D' at L'Idiot, with cameos by Chevy Chase as Carlo Christopher, Woody Harrelson as Harris' Boss, Terry Jones as Sara's Mother, Rick Moranis as Gravedigger and Star Trek Voyager's Robert Picardo as Voicephone. I may not have paid full attention at times, but there were some amusing moments that really satirise life in Los Angeles, accompanied with some scripting, a likable romantic comedy. Good! "},{"Title":"Story of L.A.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are a lot of home truths in this quite often funny send up of life in Los Angeles, California, USA. This Mick Jackson film, written by and starring Saturday Night Live star Steve Martin, is based on the silly idea of a talking freeway sign (well not talking, but supposedly intelligent freeway sign that had been reincarnated, previously having been a bagpipe).Apart from this, LA Story is very entertaining throughout. There are moments of hilarity in this movie that balance well with the drama. Steve Martin was ably supported by British actors Victoria Tennant and Richard E. Grant.Friday, May 31, 1991 - Knox District CentreSecond viewing of this 'story of LA' does not hold up nearly as well. The comedy is fairly flat as is the whole storyline. Definitely a once only movie.Sunday, April 5, 1992 "},{"Title":"A good very bad movie","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my favorite movies, but I can't deny that it is a very bad one. The more I watch it the more I recognize how flat the characters are, how unmotivated the dialogue is, and how contrived the story is. Yet, I still watch it because of it's good intentions - and for Patrick Stewart. "},{"Title":"Good Movie.  Could Have Been Great.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Problem a guy gets bored with his life, job and girlfriend.  Solution? Fall in love with an attractive new girl from out of town.  Oh, and he gets another job.How nice.  And convenient.  Okay, so there are a few naggling strings from past lives here and there as well as a missed connection or two.  And some neat yuks about L.A. (the white, affluent parts.)  But no character really changes.  Harris himself spells out Bored Beyond Belief on his window - nothing worse is really happening to him.  Nor to anybody else.  The road sign has all the personality;  even the mugger who robs Harris at the ATM has a better attitude.I liked this movie.  I wanted to love it.  It could have been Annie Hall or When Harry Met Sally . set in L.A.  But let's face it  it ain't.  It has a sense of humor about its setting but not about itself, mostly because neither it nor the characters have any real selves to have fun with - Road Sign excepted.  The heavy-schmaltz ending can't make up for the flavorless flick;  it's like a lot of mass-produced pastries you find on the supermarket shelf.Martin and Tennant made an attractive couple on and off the screen - as of 1998, interviewers were still asking Martin about their marriage.  But guess what ...?  Yes!  Real life (Don'cha hate when that happens?)  They split up a year after L.A. Story was released. "},{"Title":"Great for Los Angelinos and those who like this style of humor--otherwise, beware","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My wife and I have some friends who raved about this movie again and again until we were compelled to see it just to shut them up and leave us alone! And while we sat there with them, listening to them laugh, my wife and I just looked at each other and we knew exactly what the other was thinking--this just isn't funny and these two have suckered us into seeing a dull film AGAIN. In fact, while they laughed and laughed, I only remember laughing one time during the film and that was during the wonderful highway scene. Sure, there were a few other cute moments here and there that were nice commentaries on life in L.A., but the rest of the film just put me to sleep. In particular, the relationship between Martin and bubble-headed Sarah Jessica Parker just killed the movie, as did the romance between Martin and his then wife, Victoria Tennant. Had the film just stuck to social commentary, then it might have scored a 6 or 7, but with being bogged down by meaningless and dull romances, the whole thing just seemed like a chore to finish. Sorry. Maybe this is your cup of tea, but for this pretty average Joe, it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Too hollow, convenient and underdeveloped to really work but still quite funny at times","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Harris Telemacher is a wacky TV weatherman in the sprawling metropolis of Los Angeles. He is in a difficult relationship in a crazy city and a slightly demeaning job and not entirely sure where he is heading. Meeting Sara McDowel through a friend sees him enthralled by her to the point of longing and things look great when his partner then dumps him for another man. However, being a man, he also feels the need to chase a young piece of skirt in the shape of shop assistant SanDee*. With happiness so close can Harris manage to grasp it &#150; maybe with the help of a freeway information board he can.From the opening credits and throughout, this film marks itself out as wanting to be to LA what Woody Allen is to New York and really it is in this regard that it actually succeeds pretty well. The gentle jokes made at LA's expense are the film's strength and the vast majority of them are well pitched so as to be funny even if you have no firsthand experience of LA. However outside of this aspect of it the film is less than convincing with a narrative that is pure fantasy (as if that is an excuse) and so little character development that a roadside signpost comes off as the most memorable character. The romantic plot is not one that many viewers will buy into, even if it is nice and sweet it is still far from being anything that many of us will see as a problem or anything difficult. I suppose to some regards the script acknowledges this by having Harris confess his boredom &#150; the worst thing that really happens to him; but this doesn't help the fact that, outside of the jokes, the film is far too shallow and basic to really engage or emotionally involve &#150; of course I smiled at the sweetness of the thing at times but this is not the same thing.The character development is a problem as they never really grow or even start out at a point I could really appreciate; even the central character is as difficult to recognise as could have been &#150; basically Martin but with a certain amount of wish fulfilment. Despite this he actually does quite well although it is in the jokey moments that he is at his best. Tennant is OK but has the narrative to help carry and thus suffers a bit. Parker just spins and is sexy but does it very well even if her character is about as well developed as slime. The comedy is helped by some smaller roles including nice work from Stewart, Pollack and others.Overall this is a comedic love-letter to LA and in this regard it works as it is funny and pretty entertaining. The main narrative is pure fantasy but this doesn't excuse how basic and underdeveloped it is; it didn't carry me along well enough and was far too slight to work as a story. Luckily I was chuckling enough to forgive it and the final product was nice and sweet enough to entertain me when I was just looking for something simple to do ironing in front of! "},{"Title":"Stupid Story - Boy, I Was SO Terribly Disappointed!!!!!!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting to be disappointed either cos I heard it was good, but I was.  I only liked Sarah Jessica Parker's bubbly character, Sande! Everything else was boring!  To me, the movie didn't really say much to me! I kept on thinking, What is the point to this movie anyway?Of course, there is a point, but if there is, I didn't catch...also I don't think I would want to.  I saw no taste in any of the characters whatsoever. Steve Martin's character should've had a much better occupation than a weather forecaster...like maybe an actor or director or something more tasteful.  And why would you want to roller-skate in an art museum anyway?I totally disliked L.A. Story! "}]