[{"Title":"Great Guns!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leave it to the ZAZ boys (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker) to bring back the stupidity, insanity and downright madness of Leslie Nielsen and company while also deflating cop films, government conspiracies the movie Ghost and the grace of ballroom dancing.In The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear, Det. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) and his fellow cop cronies (Kennedy, Simpson) discover the lovely Jane (Presley) while protecting energy expert Professor Mainheimer (Griffiths) from evil guy Quentin Hapsburg (Goulet!) and his nefarious plans....But you don't care about the plot, do you?  No, and well you shouldn't; the gags are the thing in these films and they not only come fast and furious but wild and wooly, down and dirty and good and dumb.Just the way I like them.You'll lose count of the sight gags, double over at the double-entendres and guffaw at the puns and wonder, thought it all, why it is that all sequels can't be as good as this.  Especially sequels that contain Barabara Bush abuse.Another good case, Drebin!Ten stars and a gold copy of Unchained Melody for The Naked Gun 2 1/2, where Fear never Smelled so funny. "},{"Title":"I loved this one...I really did!!!!","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just saw this film with a couple of friends and some beers and man we laughed so damn hard at it..It had some gags i didn't even remembered, The one that got us crying in laughter is at the very ending when a bunch of people are asleep and one of them is all arched in a weird way sleeping in a table..you gotta see it to get it...How ridiculous and funny it was!!!!! Leslie Nielson is a great guy I'm so sorry about his performance in Scarymovie 3 and those movies that squashed the good and funny memories movies like these gave us fans. Priscila Presley is Gorgeous...she looks fine...but this movie dates back to 1992..so i guess now a days she must look very old..I guess. Anyhow the film was great and i remember good as yesterday the time this film came out, it came out a week before The Terminator 2 and Leslie Nielsen used to do this television spots saying Hasta la vista..baby...they were so damn funny..I hope someone remembers them...Or someone gets them for a DVD. its a definite 10 out of 10 on Comedy.  "},{"Title":"The mariachis","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" David Zucker, the director of this spoof, shows he can give the viewer a fun time because the way he gave the right touch to this funny movie. The Naked Gun 2-1/2 is a film which makes fun of other movies about an inept police detective who does everything wrong, but in doing so, he gives us an occasion for laughter that in most of the situations work.Of course, one wouldn't imagine anyone playing this Lt. Frank Drebin, but Leslie Nielsen. This actor with the rubber face, is a natural for this type of comedy. The opening sequence with the White House dinner with the older Bushies is a hoot. Poor Barbara Bush is the butt of all the visual jokes as she is seated next to Drebin. But the best moment in the film is the rendition of Besame Mucho by Mr. Nielsen and George Kennedy dressed in mariachi costumes. It is a riot!The leading lady, Priscilla Presley, seems to be the perfect match for Mr. Nielsen. They play well together. The others in the film, George Kennedy, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffiths, and the rest, do an excellent job in their clowning around to produce the laughter and good time we experience.This is a film to recommend to anyone suffering depression. "},{"Title":"How do they come up with these things?!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This one has Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) trying to stop villain Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet) from kidnapping a solar power advocate. That's the plot, but the movie is of course an excuse for a series of gags, many of which just pop out from the sides. And of course there's Frank's relationship with seductive Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley). One of their scenes might make you recall a certain scene from Ghost, and then what follows...well, all that I can say is HOW DO THEY COME UP WITH THESE THINGS?!!!!!!!!!!!!! I guess that the movie's only weird aspect is seeing O.J. Simpson as Nordberg. But if we can ignore that, the rest is a hoot, especially the opening sequence, the outlines of people's bodies, and the zoo scene. Just great. "},{"Title":"Consistently amusing with a hatful of belly laughs &#150; fans of the genre and the series will love it","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When a bomb goes off in the offices of a research body looking an alternative energy sources, Lieutenant Frank Drebin is put on the case. Things are made harder when he finds that his ex-girlfriend (Jane) is one of the staff there. As unlikely as it seems, Drebin uncovers a sinister plot involving the heavy fuel lobby to kidnap the President's adviser and replace him with a look-alike that will say what they want. However, with nobody believing him, Frank is forced to take action to expose the leader of the plot &#150; Jane's new lover, Quentin Hapsburg.Following on from the success of the first film, Frank Drebin is given a second outing and, as before, the humour is silly but comes in heavy doses, creating a pretty consistent tone to the film. The plot is, of course, nonsense and all you really need to know is that, as before, Drebin uncovers a plot that nobody believes while at the same time having love life problems &#150; but surely nobody will be watching this for the plot (and don't call me Shirley). Instead you will come to this for the steady delivery of absurdly silly jokes, all delivered with straight faces from all the cast. It is rather hit and miss but mostly the jokes are amusing even if there aren't as many laugh out loud moments as I would have liked. The addition of a lot of crude material didn't help and I felt it sucked a bit of the sense of fun out of the film.That is not to say that I didn't laugh out loud (I did) but most of the time I was just chuckling &#150; which is good enough for my money. A big reason the film is funny is the cast. As always, Nielsen is brilliant at this sort of thing when he is given the material. Here he is not as good as his best stuff (due to the material) but he is still the core of this film and is consistently good. Presley has less to do but is good at the straight-faced stuff. OJ and Kennedy have small roles but they are funny with what they have. Goulet is not as good as Montalban from the first film but he has some nice moments.Overall this is very funny if you are in the mood and, even if you're not, there is still much to enjoy here and it is consistently pretty funny with a real hatful of belly laughs. Not the most high brow of entertainment then but, if you're a fan of the genre then you should love this.  "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear 8/10","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Abrahams and David and Jerry Zucker learned something from 1982. Their sequel to Airplane!, their smash hit, was named Airplane 2 The Sequel, but to their sequel to The Naked Gun was something that would be copied forever Naked Gun 2 ½ The Smell of Fear. From now on, sequels never were just had `2' after it, it's always `2 ½' or `2.33'. And, thankfully, the title's shorter.Leslie Nielsen's hilarious character of Frank Drebin is back for more adventures. He and his girlfriend Jane (Priscilla Presley) have broken up; he hasn't gotten over it, while she's going out with Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet). What she doesn't know is that Hapsburg is in a conspiracy to avoid solar energy by doing a whole kidnapping scheme. It's up to Drebin, Nordberg (O.J. Simpson), and Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) to save the day!Amazingly enough, many of the jokes from the first one (which I admit I don't remember much about) weren't repeated in this sequel. It would be hard to repeat much of those jokes, which would be impossible to change in any ways. Therefore, most of the jokes were fresh and hilarious. It did take a little while to get started, though, for there was about a fifteen minute stretch where there were no laughs, it was just for exposition, which I guess was OK, but I wanted more humor to start off with.Nielsen was perfect for the part. I'm glad that he hasn't `sold out' like other comedians and gone on to dramatic roles. He delivers his lines almost like he didn't know he was in a comedy, which is always funnier than any other types. Many times, he misunderstands what is said, and other times he says something that you wouldn't expect him to say in 100 years. One of the funniest sequences in the film is a parody of Bond-ish films, when Drebin and someone else are fighting in a bathroom, and seem to be having trouble fighting when a towel is thrown on their heads, etc.For once, a film has a formidable sequel. Amazingly enough, it's a film that's just as funny as the first.My rating 8/10Rated PG-13 for sexual humor. "},{"Title":"Entertaining sequel with some big laughs.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is now working in Washington D.C. with his two partners (Oscar-WinnerGeorge Kennedy and O.J. Simpson). Their job is see if everything goes smooth for Dr. Albert Meinheimer (Richard Griffiths) speech for the President of the United States (John Roarke). His speech could be highly controversial for the whole world, since it involves the country's energy program. Quentin Haspburg (Robert Goulet) kidnaps Dr. Albert Meinheimer before the speech by using a look-like, which he doesn't want the world industry of fossil and nuclear fuels instead of the environmental ones. But Frank is still heartbroken after he left his girlfriend Jane (Priscilla Presley), who's now working for Dr. Meinherimer.Directed by David Zucker (Airplane!, BASEketball, Ruthless People) made an enjoyable sequel to the original. The cast seems to be having an great time and there's some original new gags as well. This sequel was just as big at the box office like the original did. Although the film critics had mixed opinions with this one. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an good digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes the teaser trailer, original theatrical trailer and an humorous commentary track by the director, producerRobert K. Weiss and HostPeter Tilder. The Naked Gun 2 1/2The Smell of Fear perphas lacks some of the great gags of the original. But if you enjoy spoof comedies, don't miss this one. TV Version adds some additional footage. Written by the director and Pat Proft (Bachelor Party, Hot Shots!, Police Academy). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Hilarious sequel to 'The Naked Gun From The Files of Police Squad'   **** out of *****","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From the files of Police Squad was a huge hit back in 1988, so three years later, everyone returns for this funny sequel.LT. Frank Drebin is back (The legend that is Leslie Nielsen) he's now split from Girlfriend Jane (Pricilla Presley) whose now involved romantically with shady Businessman Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet). Drebin and his cop buddies, Capt Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) & Det. Norberg (O.J.Simpson) investigate when a Scientist Dr Meinheimer (Richard Griffiths) who advocates Solar Energy ahead of Oil,Coal & Nuclear prepares to publish his report to the President, Is suddenly kidnapped and a doppelganger (Griffiths Again) is put in his place. So LT Drebin once again hilariously saves the day.The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear, while does have a quick cash-in feel, is actually a really good sequel which is almost as good as the original, With funny Gags throughout, The Zucker Brothers and Pat Proft are on top form again.**** out of *****Follwed by The Naked Gun 33 1/3  The Final Insult, while still good and a masterpiece compared to Diasater Movie (2008) or Epic Movie (2007) is slightly inferior to it's predecessors "},{"Title":"Still crackin'","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first Naked Gun movie is one of the best spoofs of all time. I'm not a huge fan of the genre but even I think it's incredibly, side-splittingly outrageous - this last time I saw it I laughed so hard I cried.The sequels of course were intended to cash in on the surprise success of the original (which was based on the ZAZ trio's failed TV show, Police Squad, hence the subtitle on the film). For the most part, both sequels were entertaining and funny. Although it's nowhere near as good as the original, Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear is a worthy continuation of the epic saga (just kidding about the epic bit) - all in all it's just good fun.Leslie Nielsen returns as Lt. Frank Drebin, this time out to foil the plans of a mad industrialist (Robert Goulet). It seems a respected doctor has found a new method of preserving earth's natural resources and foregoing oils, gasoline, and other elements. Fearing financial bankruptcy, the companies kidnap the doctor and replace him with an identical clone of sorts, so the truth cannot come out.However, the doctor's assistant is Frank's old flame (played by Priscilla Presley). Frank looks into the case while rekindling a relationship with the woman of his dreams.David Zucker returned to direct this film with the help of brother Jerry and pal Jim Abrahams. If I recall correctly, the third film was not made by them, so it's interesting to see them tackling a sequel to a film of theirs - something they don't usually do (they also passed on Airplane 2).For the most part this film is quite funny and has some really good gags, but it's also littered with some mediocre ones, as many spoofs of these sorts are.Nielsen is still hilarious as Drebin and all around him act simply to accommodate his talents. George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson also return to their roles.If you enjoyed the first film, chances are you'll also enjoy this. Basically it's in the same vein of the first film and delivers a good range of slapstick gags, some of which will have you in a fit. But you won't be gasping for breath like you did when you saw the first Naked Gun movie. "},{"Title":"Return Agent Frank Debrin with several laughters and similar elements of the predecessor film","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Debrin(Leslie Nielsen) again in this second part, this time is abducted a politician(Richard Griffiths) and the lieutenant must to resolve the conflict when a scheme by different powers centers try the taking rule for adoption a new policy.Meanwhile he goes on enamored of his anterior girlfriend(Pricilla Priestley)who keeps away herself from him. The film has been planned by ZAZ  Jim Abrahams,Jerry Zucker and David Zucker(besides in the film is as screenwriter Pat Proft),they are American satirists with successful work and longtime collaborators and made their own comedy troupe,the Kentucky Fried Theather.¨Airplane¨along with ¨Naked gun¨series remains as their most commercial work with the exception of Jerry Zucker's ¨Ghost¨. Nielsen makes other genre spoof with great loads of gags,slapdash and slapstick.He's the dumber police officer from Peter Sellers Inspector Clouseau.The parody is continuous,hilarious,surrealist,absurd and sometimes is gross-out but in some moments here and there is also bold and intelligent.As always are the habituals cinematographic references,being an amusement to find out them,thus a homage by director David Zucker to his brother Jerry with the film¨Ghost¨ (Nielsen and Priscilla making of Swayze and Moore with smile to roar with laughter) and and images of getting up pyramid in ¨Ten commandments¨simulating a sexual scene.Plus there are sketches incorrect politically as the jokes at a paralytic and to Barbara Bush . Usuals cameos and invited actors is reduced ,thus only is appeared Zsa Zsa Gabor.The motion picture will like to Leslie Nielsen fans and lunatic humor lovers. Rating  Average but entertained and amused. "}{"Title":"Sequel as worthy of its equal side-splitting silliness!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE NAKED GUN 2 1/2 THE SMELL OF FEAR (1991) ***1/2 Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, OJ Simpson, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffiths.  Uproarious sequel to the first Naked Gun with daft Frank Drebin out to stop an evil environmental terrorist with some hysterical results.  Watch those credits!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent sequel, can never deny it","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" People say most sequels to hit comedies do bad, and ruin the amazing feeling of a good funny movie. In my opinion, Naked Gun 2 1/2 doesn't fall into that category. Leslie Nielson is back, as detective Frank Drebin, with Elvis's wife. I laughed nearly as hard as I did for the first one, because it's genius. It's not stupid, pointless or disappointing. I don't see how anyone can't laugh and be satisfied with this film. I watched this one exactly as I did with the first one. With pizza and Coke, I laughed and spat out because I couldn't help it. My friend actually told me to pause the movie so he can laugh everything out. Watch this film, you won't be disappointed with this amazing and funny sequel. Many laughs you won't forget. "},{"Title":"Could anyone else make ineptitude so funny?","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a bit difficult to review a Naked Gun film objectively, without getting side-tracked into talking about all the little things that I find funny about this film. It is said that a comedy is the hardest type of script to write, so I take my hat off to the writers of Naked Gun 2 1/2. I don't know how they have the creative power to generate so much visual humour.Naked Gun 2 1/2 - as with all the Naked Gun films - is as much about the spoken lines as it is the visual comedy, which is particularly thick on the ground. Catastrophe and disaster follow Frank Drebin like a shadow - especially in the opening sequence when he slams a door in the face of Mrs. Bush twice, before causing her to hit her head on the table as he holds a chair out at a dinner party. There is a lot worth looking out for in this film that is imaginative particularly because it is incidental - the contorted chalk outlines on the floor of a crime scene, Jane wringing her handkerchief out into a practically full bucket, the background as Frank drives through Little Italy, the discussion about boxing and the woman taking a shower behind his office door are all priceless.The reason why I think Leslie Nielsen pulls off the character of Frank Drebin so fantastically well is his incredible facial expressions - they truly make his character. His incompetence is breathtaking and yet also breathtakingly funny - when he's in a group of three people wearing hard hats, his is the only one that manages to fall off and become mangled in machinery. He can't even manage to get the trouser section of a wetsuit on without difficulty. He has a fight with an intruder that involves a hairdryer and an electric toothbrush.I also love the number of spoofs you can find in this film - the ship Hapsburg Valdez, Dr. Meinheimer's ET moment as he is catapulted through the sky, the parody of the famous scene from Ghost - and the losers' bar sequence with the incredibly depressing cabaret singer is just inspired. It takes a lot of talent to write comedy and parody, and Naked Gun is proof that when it's well done, it can be fantastic. "},{"Title":"Yeah, it's a sequel","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  and I really miss how Frank parks his car. But this one is one of the all time great comedys. Worth the money for the look on Nielsens face alone.Hint The dvd audio commentary is almost as funny as the movie itself.Aw, they don't make them any more like this... "},{"Title":"Very, very funny!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are a few jokes, inevitably, that don't seem quite as fresh as in the first film, but this is still, to quote myself, 'very very funny'.  The gag's with the presidents wife are hilarious, as is Dr. Meinheimer's knock(s) on the head. Also Neilson is on top form again as the not so wise cop, and i love Kennedy in these films. Well done again ZAZ! "},{"Title":"it still funny.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was very hilarious and remained to be well written and acted. If you've liked these naked gun films you should try to watch the show. Its just as funny as the films. Leslie Nielsen does a good job in this sequel. Overall I'd give it 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"When bumblers make good","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My one complaint with NG 2 1/2 is that a number of jokes that could have gone someplace even funnier seem to have gotten dumbed down somewhere along the line.(WARNING  exceedingly minor spoilers concerning individual gags follow over the next two paragraphs.)For instance, there's a scene in which Drebin shows up at Jane's apartment with what starts off as the world's largest bouquet of flowers. Unfortunately, his clumsiness on the way up causes him to slam the bouquet into one door after  another -- so that by the time he gets to her door, he's left with a tiny handful of pitiful, mangled stalks.  He notices this at the last moment and tosses the bouquet aside into the hallway.  Kinda funny...but wouldn't it have been funnier to have him wind up with a bouquet that, precisely because of his absurd over exuberance earlier on, was both still beautiful and now exactly the right size? It's the kind of thing that I'm willing to bet the ZAZ team thought of, but dispensed with because they thought it would be too subtle.  There are several such moments to be found here. On the other hand, plenty of truly inspired sequences make it through.  For example, there's a scene in which a bad guy miraculously survives a fall caused by the bumbling of the Police Squad team, only to be mauled to death by a lion.  It could just have been the kind of random gag that the ZAZ team has employed successfully a hundred times, with intentionally no attempt made to explain what a lion is doing wandering the streets of Washington. Yet it's even funnier once we remember those zoo animals which were released by Drebin's escapades with a tank -- almost an hour earlier in the movie. Ultimately, it'll always be easy for viewers to have fun with a character like Frank Drebin, who paradoxically succeeds precisely because of his near-total oblivious incompetence (except perhaps at delivering some of the more memorable put-downs on the planet).  The Naked Gun movies are at their best when they're remembering this and providing Drebin with perfect occasions to play the brilliant fool, whether or not he ever recognizes the real reason for his success.  They suffer only when they cheapen themselves by making the easier ha ha, look at this idiot jokes at his expense. As an aside, NG 2 1/2 actually made me think a bit more carefully about the conspiracy against renewable energy, in which politicians and fossil-fuel magnates play a ludicrously expensive game of mutual back-scratching.  Not bad for a series that never exactly claimed to have anything important to say, especially since ZAZ found a way to pull it off without ever seeming heavy-handed. I'll give it a B+. "},{"Title":"nearly as funny as the first!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the naked gun 2 1/2 is very funny, very close to being as funny as the first one. there are some unbelievable jokes in this movie. if you liked the first one then you'll have to like this one.i give it *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Just as much fun as the first Naked Gun!","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recently just saw Scary Movie 4, I judged Zucker pretty harshly on that because he just recycled his humor. While The Naked Gun 2 has the same humor, it was very original for it's time and is very on the floor hilarious. I always preferred the slap stick humor compared to today's potty humor. The Naked Gun series is perfect for those who feel the same.Naked Gun 2 parodies classic film noir movies and a very memorable and great scene from Ghost. If you enjoy the Three Stooges, Airplane, or the first Naked Gun, I would highly recommend the second Naked Gun, it's so funny.8/10 "},{"Title":"the funniest","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rank this as the funniest of the Naked Gun trilogy. By the end of the first scene, my cheeks were sore from laughter. The movie features non-stop laughter throughout, terrific sight gags, and a great cast. Stay through for the ending credits, though!*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Not As Good As The First,But Still A Lot Of Fun And Laughs,","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell Of Fear is a great movie with a hilarious story line,a good cast (except for Leslie Nielsen,who is brilliant!) and brilliant characters,Frank Drebin being one of my favourite movie characters of all time.The movie certainly isn't as good as the first Naked Gun,but its still a lot of fun,and the first is hard to compete with,its comedy gold.It still manages to be a good fresh sequel,with lots of laughs from start to finish.Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is back and must save a kidnapped scientist who has been taken by his ex-girlfriends new love interest,who Frank still has feelings for. "},{"Title":"More laugh out loud antics from Det. Lt. Frank Drebin","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When a bomb goes off at the offices of Dr Mainheimer, the energy expert who has just been given the task of devising the United States energy policy it isn't long before Det. Lt. Frank Drebin of the Police Squad is in the case. Matters are complicated somewhat when Frank meets his ex-wife again; she is now working for Dr Mainheimer and dating Quentin Hapsburg, the man determined to prevent Mainheimer giving a speech critical of vested interests in the energy business; oil, coal and nuclear. The bombing may have failed to kill the doctor but Hapsburg has a second plan; he has the doctor kidnapped and has an impostor take his place. If Frank is to prevent an ecological disaster he will have to reconcile things with his wife and expose Hapsburg's dastardly scheme.That may describe the plot but it gives no hint of what the film is really about&#x85; to make the viewer laugh&#x85; a lot!! For the most part the gags are fairly silly but that doesn't stop them being hilarious and if you don't find a joke amusing another one will be along in a few seconds; it would take a heart of stone not to laugh at all during this film. The jokes vary from slapstick to innuendo to having Drebin try to prove a man's real birthmark is a fake by attacking his bare backside with an electric sander! Leslie Nielsen does a fine job as Lt. Drebin and he is ably supported by Priscilla Presley as his ex-wife Priscilla Presley and George Kennedy as his boss Capt. Hocken. There are a few gags that some parents might not want their children watching but nothing too offensive; there is a sex scene but it is entirely comic and nothing 'naughty' is shown. If you enjoyed the 'Airplane' films I'm sure you will like this too! If you haven't seen the first 'Naked Gun' film you can still enjoy this but if you get the chance watch all three! "},{"Title":"You just can't forget him, can you? Who?","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 2 years ago, Jane(Presley) dumped hard-ass cop Frank(Nielsen; so where the first one had fun with them falling for each other, this does the same with them reconnecting, such as the classic, dramatic scene(from every movie of this kind ever made) where they dance sensually together as allegations fly back and forth... only here, they do some of the most hysterical steps you can think of), and her new beau, Quentin(Goulet, great new blood... he has this signature of furrowing his brow, usually in response to yet another of Drebin's terrible attempts at a comeback insult) may be involved in a plot to prevent the expert on energy, Meinheimer(Griffiths), a man of integrity, from giving a speech that president Bush(H. W., not Dubya) has promised to stick to. The theme is environmentalism, so this is surprisingly... and sadly... not dated. This is again a spoof of action/crime thrillers with tough police officers, and it fits in numerous clichés from such. There are gags and jokes that return, or get callbacks, and the style and feel is the same, but the material is largely new. The main cast all return in this almost-as-good-as-the-first sequel, and they're ready for more. We have silliness, slapstick, plays on words, taking sayings too literally, etc., and good use is made of having only one element be off and everything around that reacting naturally to it, telegraphing the punchline and even surprisingly long, at one point, between a setup(that you didn't think to be one) and payoff. Not quite breaking 80 minutes(unless you count the end credits), this doesn't overstay its welcome. And like the original, it makes you care, and you want to see our heroes win and the villains lose. There is a bit of pretty direct(if no on-screen nudity of actual humans, only... erotic toys) sexual content and a little moderate to strong language in this. I recommend this to any fan of the genre it's referencing, and parody films in general. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very Amusing Comedy.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a sequel to The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad with the same lead actors.When you see sequel in a description of a movie, it's usually a bad sign, like Cheynes-Stokes breathing. In this case, the sequel is so funny that there isn't time enough for its weaknesses to register. One gag follows another so quickly that the viewer is overwhelmed.There IS some repetition. What was funny and surprising in the original is no longer surprising but still funny. Well, I'll give an example. In the end credits of the first movie we see the name of the Best Boy, and it's followed by a credit for the Worst Boy (Adolf Hitler). Here, the end credits give us the name of the Set Painter, followed by the names of Impressionist Painters, Vincent van Gogh and Edgar (Skip) Degas.The story, which doesn't count for much, is organized around an evil cabal of oil and coal millionaires who want to defeat any efforts to switch to renewable energy sources. I can imagine some among us being offended. More socialist propaganda. And the actor who plays George H. W. Bush comes off as rather a dull bulb but, as far as that goes, I don't know whether the writers have humiliated him more than they humiliated Queen Elizabeth II in the original.Much of the humor is fresh and a lot of it takes place in the background. When Frank Drebbin is depressed he winds up drinking in a bar specializing in depression. While a singer moans out lines about wishing she could wake up dead, we see large photographs of disasters on the walls -- the San Francisco earthquake, the Hindenberg explosion, the sinking of the Titanic, the Ford Edsel, and Michael Dukakis.The cast is as good as it was in the original. Leslie Nielson handles the part of Drebbin well, although he's a little old for Priscilla Presley. Though -- I don't know -- if her IMDb.com biography and my arithmetic is correct, she was in her mid-30s when this was shot, and could pass for someone ten years younger. George Kennedy, always affable, provides excellent support. Seeing O. J. Simpson is depressing, even when he's involved in one of the gags.One of the funniest gags, really outrageous, is when Richard Griffiths is bound to his wheelchair against some metal shelving. The shelving is being shaken by accident. The objects that fall from the top shelf and hit him unerringly on the head are hilarious -- a bowling ball, an anvil, a can of oil followed by a carton of Styrofoam peanuts.I don't want to spell anymore out but must mention that the dialog is as sharp as the action. Presley is describing a suspect -- A white guy. Big mustache. Six feet. And Drebbin remarks That's a pretty big mustache. It's really very funny. "},{"Title":"The Legendary Leslie Nielsen!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear', the sequel to' The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!', proves one fact very clearly Leslie Nielsen is an immortal star-actor. He can never die, in the eyes of cinema-fans! 'The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear' Synopsis Lieutenant Drebin discovers that his ex-girlfriend's new beau is involved in a plot to kidnap a scientist who advocates solar energy.'The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear' is non-stop non-sense, but terrific entertainment nonetheless. The humor is over-the-top, senseless & yet hugely appealing & most memorable. David Zucker & Pat Proft's Screenplay is full of hilarious & zany moments, that manage to hold your interest from start to end. Zucker's direction, on the other-hand, is energetic. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are passable.Performance-Wise Nielsen returns as the comically bumbling Police Lt. Frank Drebin of Police Squad, and he is absolutely legendary in here as well. The star-actor manages to make you laugh without making morbid faces. It's one of the finest comic performances of it's time. Also terrific is George Kennedy as Nielsen's Captain. Priscilla Presley is good. O.J. Simpson does fairly well, while Richard Griffiths is superb. Robert Goulet, Anthony James & Jacqueline Brookes support well. On the whole, 'The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear' is Nielsen at his very best! Go for this joyride! "},{"Title":"Paradox, surprise, structural hysteria, scathing satire.","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Abrahams/Zucker films are some of the best pure-bred comedies we have, and this is one of the best in that paradoxical oeuvre. I think a lot of their talent comes from the fact that they are film-literate, they know film and can reference from interesting places.Some of this is the Three Stooges, a lot of it is the surrealism of Tex Avery, so a lot of paradox and surprise, a lot of nonsequitur and absurd mayhem; then film noir - the snappy wisecracks always deliberately stupid, the voice-over always pondering the obvious; classic Hollywood for the romance; capers for the secret agencies pulling the strings; action flicks.All of it intentionally distasteful, and so wonderfully inventive. This is not art for the salons after all. But art all the same; the love scene is consummated across a dozen different platforms, rockets firing, towers rising, oil derricks, fireworks in the sky.The fact it also references then contemporary stuff - for example a love scene involving pottery that is taken from a Demi Moore film - that is now more or less lost to us only adds to the absurdity.Eventually our guy saves the day by tripping. Like so many times before, he's the wrong man in the right place. The right guys after all - voted there, elected through committees - have failed us so often.If you know Abrahams/Zucker, and I have to question the sincerity of anyone who has gone through life without stumbling on one of their films, you know what this is all about. This is not about subtle build-up to a witty punch-line, they don't dawdle semi-seriously with story as the jokes are cooked. Punch-lines are spilling from every image, often more than one. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable sequel to a classic","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When it comes to comedy, the original Naked Gun is a classic. This sequel may not quite be up to par, it is too short for my tastes and one or two of the gags come so fast you are in danger of missing them, such as the items on the hostess's tray,in the blues' cafe but it is very funny and enjoyable.The production values are crisp as usual, with good photography and editing and striking location work. The dialogue is dumb, but in a good way, this is not the dumb humour where it is so stupid you forget to laugh, this is the dumb humour that is silly but still makes you smile and laugh.The story is quickly paced and never fails to interest me, while the gags on the whole are superbly timed and there are lots of them. My personal favourites are the wonderful send-up of the pottery scene from Ghost and the headline proclaiming that Elvis is alive and well, also the beginning sets the tone of the film very well. With most of the original cast returning and some new faces along the way, the cast are a delight, and the characters are fun. Leslie Nielson once again gives an inspired performance, and Priscilla Presley and George Kennedy give nice support. Also strong are Robert Goulet(as the villain) and Lloyd Bochner, and seeing Richard Griffiths was fun too.All in all, very enjoyable. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I accepted the fact this iconic movie character is back","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 2 1/2 is what you would call a worthy successor to the original film. Rarely do I get a sequel where I call it almost as good as the original, but this one lives up to the name. It's formula is almost identical to his predecessor, a bumbling yet lovable cop tries to do a task he is clearly not capable of, but somehow does a great job by being his naive, idiotic self. I love it. If it makes you laugh, enjoy it. Don't find reasons to nitpick it to death. Admit you laughed, and I'm sure, you're not the only one who found quite a few things to laugh at in this must see sequel.I was a bit skeptical pressing play on this film since it seemed like it was identical in plot to the original film. Could this be a dreary, worthless remake of a highly respected parody film? Nope. It's the same old jokes, but they are used in a tireless manor. Too bad movies like these don't have as many sequels as movies like Saw. I'd rather see Nielsen play a hilarious cop rather than watched torture porn consistently.Leslie Nielsen reprises his role as Frank Drebbin, the bumbling police officer who tries to do right, but does much wrong. Drebbin's ex-girlfriend (Patricia Presley, too reprising her role) is found to be apart of a scientist who is using solar energy for harm. Drebbin must win back his ex, whom he still has feelings for, and stop the scientist.Besides Nielsen being the highlight of the film, O.J. Simpson does a great job here as well. I enjoyed him very much in the original film, but for some reason I appreciated him more in this film. I think he had a bigger effect on this movie than the original. Patricia Presley returned as well, so the casting gets a thumbs up right there.Whenever I watch a sequel, I hope for the original cast to return as their original roles. American Pie, Back to the Future Part II, and Clerks II may not have been perfect, but they all get a good cast review from me since almost all of the originals had come back. Not like just doing a sequel for the money over ten years late like Ace Ventura Jr Pet Detective and Son of the Mask. The Naked Gun 2 1/2 is now welcomed to this category thanks to Nielsen, Presley, and Simpson returning.As far as the movie goes, there isn't too much to say that I didn't say before. That's the main reason why reviewing parody movies is a bit difficult is because you want to avoid redundancy and try to think of new things to talk about without dragging points on and adding things for filler. It's a great parody film, and a great film all together. While not recognized as much as the first film, it deserves a couple of watches in a lifetime.Starring Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, O.J. Simpson, and George Kennedy. Directed by David Zucker. "},{"Title":"Not as funny this go around, but that doesn't mean the Smell of Fear is a stinker.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I though this Naked Gun had its moments, but overall it was not as funny as the first film or even the less popularly received third film. I just think parts of the story were a bit weaker and there were a few to many recycled jokes from the old television show these films came from. However, one constant in this film is Leslie Nielson as Frank Drebin, he steals the show for the most part. In this one, big energy wants to bomb a dude giving a speech on cleaner and efficient fuels. The villain here is played by Robert Gould and he is not as good as Ricardo from the previous film, though I have to say I enjoyed Gould's demise about as much as Ricardo's. O.J. once again gets beat up too and once again that is funny to see. I also enjoyed the bomb sequence at the end which is a parody of the bomb in the James Bond film Goldfinger, that bomb like this one looks like the most complicated piece of machinery ever made, both though were rather simplistic to deactivate. There is also a good scene where Drebin is trying to cut ropes tied to his wrist and he ends up doing more harm than good which leads to another funny scene involving George Kennedy. So it does have some funny things going on, but a lot of the jokes in this one also kind of falter. "},{"Title":"Frank Drebin returns and that means we are all in serious danger.","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The greatest comedy trilogy of all time continues with more jokes that are sure to make you bend from laughter.This time Frank discovers that his ex, Jane's, new boyfriend, Quentin Hapsburg, is involved in an evil plan to kidnap Dr. Albert S. Meinheimer, a scientist whom President George Bush has chosen to start a new national energy policy. Quentin Hapsburg plans to kidnap the real Dr. Meinheimer and replace him with a look-a-like, named Earl Hacker who will endorse an energy policy according to the dictates of the energy lobby.The opening scene with Frank is a classic.I won't spoil it for you but it is hilarious.Again there are laughs at every turn.Leslie Nielsen's most iconic role for sure.The director of the 1st Naked Gun David Zucker returns once again and shows his comedy genius not only at directing but at the writing chair too.I wonder how he came up with so many gags.Again a brilliant film just as good as the 1st movie.Watch immediately. "}{"Title":"A hilarious sequel to a hilarious original...how did they manage that?","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another day, another review for IMDb. For my 12th, I'll review this film maturely like the responsible person I am. Isn't that right, Mr... Poopy Pants!The Positives -There are only two things about a spoof that I can review it on the actors' ability to sell the film's jokes and parodies, and (more importantly) how much the film makes you laugh. Well, this is one sequel that, like the original, made me laugh a lot, no matter how dumb the joke was. And of course for that to work, the actors would have to be able to convincingly sell the jokes. And with the possible exception of O.J., every actor succeeds admirably. Leslie Nielsen has truly created a classic comedy character in the form of Lt. Frank Drebin. -This sequel (very fortunately) resists the temptation to reuse jokes from the previous film, and gives us something fresh to laugh hysterically at. I wouldn't count the opening sequence against it because it's a staple of the series. Plus, it's still a riot.The Negatives -I noted in my review of the first film in the series that there were a few jokes that were so juvenile and dumb that you felt guilty for laughing so hard at them. well, that's present in the sequel as well, though more so. But this shouldn't be a very big problem for you if you just throw any cares about it off a blimp over the orange bowl on New Years Eve (wait, that joke's from the first film!). -O.J. Simpson doesn't provide quite as many laughs as I'd like, and most of the time he really isn't given too much to do. Maybe that's a good thing, though, especially considering that he won a Razzie for his performance in the third film (I haven't seen it yet, but expect a review to come... eventually...).My 3 choice words Hilarious, Silly, Nieliffic "},{"Title":"Just below the original in terms of quality, The Smell of Fear is one of the better comedies of the 1990s, with a hint of politics involved","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Can a film like Naked Gun exist in today's world? Can a fast-paced, visual gag frenzied deadpan spoof survive in today's world of silly comedies full of improvisation and one-liners? The Naked Gun 2 ½ is one of those films that has to be viewed more than once to catch every single gag contained within the 80-something minutes. Upon discovering all the jokes and hidden humor results in this becoming one of the best comedies of the 1990s, and easily a worthy successor to the original masterpiece. Unlike the first one and eventually the third one though, this one contains a hint of political and social commentary and has a well-written plot involving a rather interesting diabolical plan. Following in the footsteps of the original, as well as Airplane and Top Secret, Naked Gun 2 ½ is one of the last great comedies that requires plenty of special attention to catch everything.The second installment finds us with Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) trying to locate the bomber and his/her reasons for attempting to kill off Dr Mainheimer, a man that in a few days is about to speak about how the United States will not need power plants, oil, and coal, much to the disapproval of the leading manufacturers of the supplies. What is worse is that the clues point to Drebin's ex-girlfriend's new lover, a suave Quentin Hapsburg. What's a cop to do? Aided by his trusty partners Captain Ed and Nordberg (George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson respectively), they set out to find who is responsible for the bombing that left many severely injured (Watch the scene then you'll understand).What runs the Naked Gun movies is this sort of silly deadpan humor that has the characters all talking serious in tone and engaging in conflict, but has the audience laughing because of its absurd premise. Airplane started this trend, and the writers have yet to lose any of their comedic magic over a decade since the instant hit. What also helps is its variety of humor, ranging from slapstick, to silly comebacks, to pop culture references, to hilarious imagery, to witty dialogue, to surprising and unexpected moments, and finally, the visual jokes practically all over the place. The best scene in the film is after the explosion and the police heads to the scene of the crime. The only catch is, you need a keen eye to catch it all. The humor does not just pop right in front of the camera, it can be located in the background, behind someone, or even right at the corner.The reason why this film could not possibly be successful today is because of just how fast it is. At a rather short 85 minutes, Naked Gun 2 ½ packs such a punch, that most jokes will be flying over people's heads at an alarming rate. At one viewing, one half of the audience that has experience watching older comedies (especially those of the Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker trio) was laughing at quick gag after gag, and the other half had trouble figuring out what happened, why the others are laughing. Unlike the slow-paced Napoleon Dynamite, and the in-your-face comedies of today, the makers of the Naked Gun movies bombards you with comical moments, and they are not all easy to find. Nowadays, it just wouldn't work well with the movie-going audience; even the makers themselves realized this as their humor stopped being so fast-paced (citing Scary Movie 3 and 4 as examples). Few also were able to catch the political humor sprinkled throughout.The writing is not the only area that deserves credit. With an Oscar-winner, a veteran actor, and an athlete-turned-actor running the show, they all carry a bit on chemistry that resembles that of buddy comedies and the now-infamous Frat Pack that is all over the place in the box office. O.J. Simpson stands as one of the few decent actors that originally were a sports star. Knowing his limits, his scenes are kept to a minimum, and he walks around with a comic timing that just isn't present in any athletes in comedies. Nielsen and Kennedy are fine actors with plenty of experience, and it shows as they once again deliver most of the laughs, with Nielsen performing most of the best lines (Isn't that the fault of the voters?) Everyone else does a good job as well, most notably Priscilla Presley as the grief-stricken lead female.Bottom Line While this isn't groundbreaking film-making or that worthy of Oscars, it's still a superb comedy with all kinds of humor and all kinds of fun scenes everywhere. Never dragging too long and never depending on one brand of comedy, Naked Gun 2 ½ is another great film from the trio that delivered classics like Airplane, Hot Shots, Top Secret, Kentucky Fried Movie, Ruthless People, among others. Nielsen runs the show but doesn't steal the entire spotlight, and everyone has a chance to shine, even the not-so-loved O.J. Simpson. Not containing a throwaway plot, The Smell of Fear also has a message that stands true in the politics of today. Highly recommend, as long as your eyes are fast enough to see it all. "},{"Title":"This movie seems to say, Hey! Look at this!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's no doubt about it; this movie definitely lives up to it's predecessor. They're back, and ready for more stupidity! Its silly nature make this movie a must see.I found that I took a particular liking to the movie's literal jokes. Leslie Nielson, as in any other Abrahams, Zucker & Zucker movie I've seen him in, brings his perfect straight face while delivering probably some of the stupidest things I've ever heard!The scene with Priscilla Presley and Leslie Nielson that spoofed Jerry Zucker's movie Ghost, has got to be the best scene in the entire movie. It's hilarious use of metaphors describes the moment well and is pure genius.Seeing Richard Griffiths in this movie actually came to a surprise to me. Since I've seen the Harry Potter movies before I saw this one, I was astonished to see Uncle Vernon in a wheelchair. But his role in this movie just made me love it even more.If you love satire, then you'll want...no wait...NEED to see this roll-around-on-the-floor-laughing-your-arm-off spoof! "},{"Title":"Hilarious stuff","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hilarious stuff, both wry understated comedy, as well as the slapstick physical comedy. And let's not forget the sight gags. Leslie Nielsen and the Zuckers started this out in Airplane!, and it will never get any better than that. But still this one is funny. Priscilla Presley was so beautiful in this film. We all know Elvis was a bit of a perv about young girls, but Priscilla became much more beautiful as a mature woman than she ever was as a child-bride. And we have O.J. Simpson in the days before he started ventilating people. A lot of the stuff is quite dated, but funny still for those who were around and paying attention in those days. I recommend both of the first 2 NG movies. (I don't recall having seen the third) "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the funniest of the 3 Naked Gun films. I think Leslie Neilsen is one the funniest comedic actors out there and I'm very happy he's still making films (Scary Movie 3 was only that much funnier because he was in it). This film really balances a real story with laugh-out funny gags and great comedic acting. Not to spoil anything, pay attention to the Blues Bar where Ed and Frank have a conversation, it's hilarious to see the dynamic between these two great actors. And since I'm such a film music fan, I also have to mention Ira Newborn's scores for the 3 films - the main theme is unique and hilarious and makes each film, especially this one, all the more better. Highly recommended 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The greatest sequel to the greatest comedy ever!","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" First came Naked Gun which was the funniest movie ever but then came the funniest sequel ever! I just happened to snag a copy of Naked Gun 2 1/2 and I must say it is ten times better then the original! The whole original cast returns with Leslie as the star Frank Drebin of Police Squad! The plot is a lot fresher with an evil corporate manager, a man named Haspburg, wavering a wager to all the world energy corporates that if they pay him a certain amount of cash, he will ruin the life of Dr. Meinhimer, the man who has shown the world that their energy company's are destroying the world! And much to Franks displease, the evil corporate manager Hapsburg is his ex-girlfriends new boyfriend!Now when Hapsburg kidnaps Dr. Meinhimer, it's up to Frank to save him. The jokes are back in great form, some old ones reused, but they never get old! The acting is perfect from Frank all the way to a screaming community member with a book shouting It's a cook book! It's a cook book! Any fans of the original Naked Gun will love this sequel. Go out and get yourself a copy and laugh till you wet your pants! This film is a perfect 10, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Not Quite As Funny As The 1st, But It's Still An Extremely Hilarious Sequel That I Loved!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not quite as good or funny as the 1st,however it's still an extremely hilarious sequel that i loved!. The film constantly has you laughing, and all the returning characters were great, plus Leslie and Priscilla Presley, had awesome chemistry once again!. There are very few misses, as most of the gags are downright hilarious, or will at least have you chuckling. however i had did have a couple problems with this, 1, Robert Goulet is very weak as the main villain, and also very bland as well, 2 some of the returning characters from the original are somewhat wasted in my opinion(Presley, Kennedy,and O.J). However those are minor complaints as the film,will provide you with tons of belly laughs throughout, as i loved this sequel, and think you will too!.The Direction is Very good. David Zucker does a very good job here, with good camera work, good angles, keeping the gags always funny, and he kept the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Leslie Nielsen is AMAZING as always, and is extremely hilarious here!. he is extremely likable, always hilarious,has great one liners, had very good chemistry with Priscilla Presley once again, and was just a lot of fun to watch! (Leslie rules!). Priscilla Presley is very good here once again, she is beautiful, had very good chemistry with Leslie, and played it straight!, however she has much less to do. George Kennedy is very good as Captain Ed Hocken once again, he is funny, and had good chemistry with Leslie, however he also has a lot less to do. O.J. Simpson is very funny here again when on screen. Robert Goulet is very weak and bland as the main villain, i didn't like him at all, he bored me to tears. Richard Griffiths is hilarious in his 2 roles i loved him!.Peter Mark Richman is good in his limited role. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Still hilarious!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leslie Nielson is back as Lieutenant Frank Drebin, the hilarious cop who has to save the day.  It's still very funny and you should definitely go see it if you've either seen the first, or just like movies.Overall the movie is once again excellent from beginning to end and you will love it.  Rating BIG 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great and funny sequel. Full of slapstick and plenty of gags. The Smell of Fear out-did the first Naked Gun movie.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest movies of all-time you find laughs from start to finish. The lines are clever and worded just to make you think of the best jokes to tell a person. Every scene is done with so much slapstick that you see the form of parody so well it is just like every scene is pertaining to everyday life. I know the plot is not the greatest or interesting who would really find an energy scheme plot to have high entertainment or drama value. Anyway you should love The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear for the great comedy laughs. Leslie Nielsen is once again his lovable self as the funny but dedicated Lt. Frank Drebin laugh after laugh is produced from Nielsen he definitely qualifies himself as an all-time great comedy actor. If you must watch any movies or anything of the beautiful Priscilla Presley then make this the movie you watch. Priscilla gives a sexy performance as Jane Spencer this redhead in this movie is sure one to watch. This was the moment of time to watch Priscilla as this was the best she ever looked in front of the TV camera. The Naked Gun series would get better with the third movie but enjoy 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear you will have plenty of fun laughs and enjoy watching the lovely Priscilla Presley. "},{"Title":"Very funny first sequel","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear is the second movie in The Naked Gun series. It's a little less funnier than the other two Naked Gun movies, but it's does have it's share of big laughs. Leslie Nielsen returns as the dim-witted Lt. Frank Drebin of Police Squad. Nielsen is perfect in this role. It's a shame that the movies that he has appeared since the third Naked Gun movie (Dracula Dead and Loving It, Spy Hard, and Wrongfully Accused) aren't as funny as these are. Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, and O.J. Simpson return as well, with singer Robert Goulet taking on the role of the bad guy. Jokes come in with one in the foreground, another in the background, one on the left, another on the right. You get the idea. ***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"Wonderful Comedy  Film","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you have missed this film, you will definitely want to see this great comedy. In the film, President & Mrs. Bush are a great part of story and are imitated to perfection with plenty of laughs. In one scene in a police station you can see a young gal taking a shower through an office door window. Your eyes and ears will see and hear all kinds of double meaning jokes and plenty of grabbing here and there. Through out the entire film, all I could do is burst out laughing right to the very end. There are great actors in this film and they all gave an awesome performance along with the top star comedian. Even O. J. Simpson gave a great supporting role, although in rather brief scenes under a car and a bus, which was very funny. "},{"Title":"David Zucker, solo film maker.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear (1991) was a decent sequel to the laugh out loud The Naked Gun. Lt. Frank Drebin returns as he relocates to Washington D.C. Whilst investigating a routine murder case, he meets his ex-girlfriend (Priscella Pressley). He still has a crush on her and wants to re-kindle their old romance. But this time she's seeing a new man (whom she also works with) Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet). The two men have an instant dislike for each other. Can Lt. Frank Drebin once again save the day? You'll have to find out when you watch THE NAKED GUN 2 1/2 THE SMELL OF FEAR!! Also returning are George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson.Not a laugh out loud classic like the first film. But it's a funny movie none the less. This was the first project that Z.A.Z. has contributed in the past but with only one person at the helm. The screenplay was co-written with Pat Proft instead of his usual collaborates. I have to slightly recommend this movie. Not as great as the first film but it's way better than the useless sequel that was soon to follow.Recommended. "},{"Title":"A sequel that delivers!","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In my opinion, this movie's almost as funny as the first Naked Gun. It also contains a good deal of belly laughs. My favorite gag is the one in which Leslie Nielsen tries to climb over the roof with a grappling hook and accidentally catches onto the collar of a Doberman. Everything that made the first movie work made this one work as well. I have no complaints. Even Robert Goulet delivers a good performance as the villain. I'm always suspicious of musicians, since most of them do turn out to be horrendous actors, but not in this case. If you enjoyed the original, you'll enjoy the sequel! Unfortunately, it's hard to find comedies this funny nowadays. "},{"Title":"Can 22,011 IMDb readers be wrong?","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes. That's how many readers currently rate this movie lower than the first Naked Gun movie. This one opened bigger, lasted longer, and made more money, showing that millions of moviegoers are smarter than 22,011 IMDb readers. Like Austin Powers, most people who actually watch the movies find the second better than the first. NG2.5 kept me laughing almost continuously throughout the movie. The satire was biting, with SPILL (Society for Petroleum Industry Leaders), SMOKE (Society for More Coal Energy) and to a lesser extent KABOOM (Key Asset Benefits Office Of Mankind, the nukular industry) having dominated politics from 2001-2008. Anybody who remembers $5/gallon gasoline will realize how prescient this movie was. "},{"Title":"The gang is all here and so are the laughs","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear (1991) D David Zucker. Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, OJ Simpson, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffiths, Jacqueline Brookes, Lloyd Bochner, Tim O'Connor. Silly sequel has Lt. Frank Drebin returning, this time to save the environment from the energy businesses. The gang is all here and so are the laughs, although not nearly as funny as its predecessor. RATING 6 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for sexual innuendoes, slapstick violence, and profanity.  "},{"Title":"This film is all about sarcasm.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is all about sarcasm. Sarcasm at its best. Even with regards to that conspiracy against the renewable resource energy proponents, the intent was to make fun of the stereotypes in our society of who's supposed to be perceived as good and who's the bogey. It's all about making fun of the modern stereotypes, of the modern cinema, of all the taboos that you are usually not inclined to make fun of. The only message in this movie if there is one, is that the world has gone crazy, that trying is not worth it and it's better just to go with the trends, that stupidity rules, and that anyone who takes anything seriously in this movie is especially stupid. "},{"Title":"I smell a sequel coming on.....","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" That's what I said in 1988 when the first Naked Gun movie was released, an enjoyable popcorn film that had audiences laughing so hard in the movies that often the audience missed a joke or two. Watching all three movies in sequence, I can't help but notice that the first one is by far the best, that the slight plot is simply a Hellzapoppin' collection of gags, both visually and verbally, and some work while others land like a thud. The second one is decent, no more than good, and while many gags are hysterically funny, you just wonder how far can they take this thing before it begins to get redundant. Leslie Nielsen is back as Lt. Drebbin of Police Squad, celebrating his 1000th killing of a drug dealer (although the last two were accidents; He ran them over with his car, but fortunately, they turned out to be drug dealers), and now he is in Washington D.C. for an energy convention where a terrorist threat has erupted and world money men are determined to get their hands on the scientist whose energy plans are solidly helpful to the environment but also have elements that could cause mass destruction as well.Nielsen is surrounded once again by beautiful Priscilla Presley whose relationship and declaration of love ended the first film but has somehow soured over the past few years in between the first two movies, as well as partners O.J. Simpson and George Kennedy, both basically getting the same kind of gags that were hysterical in the first film, but manage only moderate chuckles here. Taking over for Nancy Marchand's L.A. mayor here is stage veteran Jacqueline Brookes as Washington's D.A., equally as imperious and definitely not a Drebbin fan. Taking over for Queen Elizabeth as far as being in the wrong place at the wrong time is first lady Barbara Bush who gets knocked around by Drebbin, while Brookes' D.A. gets the pinch of her life from Nielsen's lobster. Stage veteran Richard Griffiths (best known to Harry Potter fans as his nasty uncle) plays a dual role, and gets a wheelchair ride that will delight E.T. fans.Three villains of note here include legendary stage actor/singer Robert Goulet who takes over for Ricardo Montalban, and two veterans of Dynasty Lloyd Bochner and Peter Mark Richman, ironically both cast as C.C. Capwell on Santa Barbara (only Richman would air; Bochner had to leave the part before the first episode was filmed due to a heart attack), and Bochner gets to spoof an early T.V. appearance in one of the film's best gags. The movie opens once again with a very slap- happy final shot in its credits that might seem dated now, but back when this came out, was very timely and spoofed many times in films and on T.V. John Roarke and Margery Ross are dead-on as George and Barbara Bush, and the gags are so funny that you just know that the then first family must have been highly amused by it. 'Weird Al' Yankovic, after his cameo in the first one as himself, was back as another character, and in keeping with tradition, would be back in the third installment as well!I wouldn't call this one a classic by any means, but during this era of movie going, movie audiences weren't craving noisy sound effects or end of the world spectacles that dominate the summer cinemas of today. A good box of popcorn, a large soda and a ton of laughs at a comedy like this were all that my college age crowd wanted when going to the theater, and in retrospect, this is all very nostalgic, reminding me of what was probably overdone but yet fun as p.c. politics began to try to control the minds of a country that has seemed to have forgotten how to laugh. I can't help but admit that for as repetitive and over-done that these spoofs were in the late 1980's/early-mid 1990's that they certainly were a lot of fun, and for that, I can't help but recommend these films simply for that. "},{"Title":"More of the hilarious","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OMG! I don't even know where to begin on this hilarious sequel to Naked Gun. The first one was immensely funny, and this one too. In the 80s and early 90s, Hollywood got these spoof movies right. Totally hilarious and awesome ( Airplane, Top secret, Hot shots 1 and 2, and the Naked gun movies). In the mid to late 90s, the quality of spoof movies began to slip and lose some of their appeal ( Spy hard, Scary Movie 1). And since 2000, the spoof movies just slid further down to the level of awful. They became painfully stupid, annoying, disturbing, and disgusting ( Scary movies 2,3,4, Disaster movie, Epic movie, Date movie, Meet the spartins) This just shows more examples of how quality in Hollywood has been taking a steady nosedive for some time. Anyway, Naked Gun 2, smell of fear is great, and was made when spoofs were still great. It stars Leslie Neilson again as Lt. Frank Drebin with more of his bumbling, amusing, and priceless antics. This time, Drebin is caught up again trying to solve another hot crime with more murders involved. The bad guy, Quentin, is, like in the first film, charming Drebin's woman Presilla Presley with her again blissfully unaware of who the man really is. Again, Drebin tries to convince Presilla that he is no good, and again, Presilla disbelieves Drebin, calling him jealous. This idea was already used in the first film, but it doesn't really matter because it's done again with such style, humor, and wit. It's not about what they're doing but how it's done. And all of the zany terrific jokes inserted along the way is what makes this film such a joy and so funny your sides will hurt. I know my sides have hurt from laughing so hard at this movie. Such a large amount of good jokes, humorous visuals, and wickedly funny lines, just continuously throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious sequel, and a great pick-me-up","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When a comedy frequently makes you laugh so much that you cry, it kind of transcends the typical critical analysis, and that's the case for me and Naked Gun 2 & 1/2. All I can say is that this crazy, wild spoof has a higher hits-over-misses ratio than most of the other films in this genre that I've seen so far. The gags are well-thought-out - notice, for example, the one where George Bush (yes, George Bush) is talking about oil energy and budget cuts while the action we are seeing parallels his words. But besides all that, the film actually has a plot (!), and a remarkably topical and progressive political edge! They truly don't make them like this anymore. *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Stronger Than the First","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lieutenant Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) discovers that his ex-girlfriend's new beau is involved in a plot to kidnap a scientist who advocates solar energy.It's not very often a sequel is better than the original. This may be one of those rare occasions, though. The first was good, but never seemed to fully reach its full potential. Here, we have a complete film, maybe the strongest of the trilogy. A good villain, some nice cameos, and a terrible George Bush impersonation. (Barbara Bush is much more realistic.) The humor is grand, and you have to respect the casting of Robert Goulet. I mean, gee, he is suave, smooth, and really could be a great hero or likable villain. Sadly, he is no longer with us. "}{"Title":"Smell the Fear!","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 2 ½ The Smell of Fear (1991) Dir Jim Abrahams, David Zucker, Jerry Zucker / Cast Leslie Nielsen, Prescilla Presley, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffith, George Kennedy Hilarious sequel with mock title indicating practical threat. Leslie Nielsen is back as Lieutenant Frank Drebin, lonely after his breakup with Jane. Robert Goulet plays the villain who is courting her. The speaker for national policy for ecology is kidnapped leaving Drebin to investigate. Effective plot with numerous verbal jokes. Directed by Jim Abrahams with Jerry and David Zucker who not only made the original Naked Gun comedy but also Airplane and Top Secret. Nielsen is hilarious torn between work and love. Prescilla Presley as Jane can literally fit inside her fridge. She battles her feelings towards Frank while slowly becoming webbed into a deceitful relationship. Robert Goulet is appropriately sly as a villain who gets his just desserts in the most unexpected way. Richard Griffith plays the naïve Dr. Meinheimer who is kidnapped and subjected to a great sight joke that transpires when Drebin struggles to free himself. Meinheimer's speeches are the thing of hibernation as a seminar discovers. George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson play the sidekicks who assist or blunder the case, whichever comes first. Numerous celebrities appear in cameo including weekend guests from out of town. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"more of the same","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" President George H.W. Bush announces that the new energy policy will be based on renewable advocate Dr. Albert Meinheimer's (Richard Griffiths)'s recommendations. It's been 2 years since Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) left Lt. Frank Drebbin (Leslie Nielsen) for his insensitivity. Jane is now working for Meinheimer and her new boyfriend is Hexagon Oil executive Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet). Frank is sent to investigate a bombing at Meinheimer's facility along with Captain Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) and detective Nordberg (O.J. Simpson). Quentin reveals to an energy cabal that he has kidnapped Meinheimer and replaced him with impostor Earl Hacker.Comedy is the most subjective of film genres. This is a pretty simple movie to critique. If you like the original, this is more of the same. The gang is back. Leslie Nielsen is as silly as ever. There is nothing too small to spoof. Priscilla Presley is still beautiful and willing to have fun. Some people may be tired of this genre after the first one. That would certainly explain some of the declining support as the franchise goes on. The energy subject matter is a bit ill-fitting for a crime spoof. I would prefer something else since the central subject is of little importance anyways. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly pretty funny","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was way better than I expected. Generally, sequels tend to be not that great, so I was surprised when I actually found myself chuckling in this movie. It doesn't even come close to the original, though. Really, it's just a rehash of the first one, but it does it right. It has clever, humorous lines thrown in there with some good 'ol slapstick. It could have been much, much worse, and I'm grateful that they put this much care into this one. I can forgive it for most of it's flaws because, in the end, all I need from a comedy is for it to make me laugh and have fun. I don't need a intricate plot and complex characters, I just need to laugh, this movie meets those requirements. I say give it a watch. I hope Zuckerburg can keep bringing the laughs in the 3rd movie "},{"Title":"Goofy entertainment","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The three Naked Gun movies from 1988, 1991 and 1994 are all extremely goofy comedies starring Lesley Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy and OJ Simpson. They're consistently amusing and, pretty much, interchangeable. The first two were hugely successful at the box office; the third one didn't do bad, but nowhere near as good as the first two. Whether or not you prefer one to another depends on the story and guest stars.As far as the two sequels go, I slightly prefer part 3, but all three come in handy when you want to turn off your brain and enjoy something silly. Priscilla was one of the most beautiful women to walk the planet in her prime and looks great these films.The film runs 85 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area and Washington DC.GRADE B "},{"Title":"The best of its kind.","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My personal favorite of the series, The Naked Gun 2 1/2 starts off with a hilarious sequence of mostly slapstick violence toward Barbara Bush and the inspired stunt casting of a villainous Robert Goulet is nothing short of brilliant. It's hard to imagine a more worthy foe to the ever clueless Frank Drebin. Despite the usual Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker team producing, David Zucker wrote this with Pat Proft and the man was firing on all ridiculous cylinders and this could arguably be his best work. Reviewing a film like this is damn near impossible, because the plot is intentionally absurd and simplistic and it's the visual gags that are relentlessly thrown at the viewer where you'll either get a belly ache from laughing or roll your eyes. This is the best of its kind, nonsensical comedy played with a straight face. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Drebin discovers that his ex-girlfriend's new beau is involved in a plot to kidnap a scientist who advocates solar energy. Nothing to laugh at as there are fisticuffs back and forth with those who claim to work for justice. Nielson carries this movie and saves it from being a disaster with his physical slapstick. Nielson's is not the restrained performance that the critics have described. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. The effects are very good for 1991. But nothing to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Decent sequel","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Decent sequel, especially as far as comedy movies go, as the drop-off in originality and quality is normally quite steep from the original to the first sequel.Admittedly, not as good as the original, mainly because by now you know what to expect. Plus, it would have been difficult to match the originality and hilarity of the first.Still, very entertaining and funny. Clever, witty dialogue and good sight-gags. Very quotable. As with the first movie, great performance by Leslie Nielsen in the lead role. Can't think of too many other comedians or actors who could have pulled off the role. George Kennedy is solid as the straight man to Nielsen's clown "},{"Title":"Better  Than Most Sequels. Must be seen uncut!","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A better sequel than most, as it makes fun of several old movies. Great impressions of George Bush Sr., Mandela and Winnie, etc. The opening White House Reception is hilarious, as Drebin knocks out Barbara Bush, and his lobster's claw attacks the police commissioner at the dinner table. Bob Goulet makes a great villain as the evil head of Kaboom! Prof. Meinheimer almost puts everyone to sleep as he explains his anti-nuclear energy policy to a distinguished audience. The best of all is the send-up of Zucker's own production of Ghost, as Drebin and his girlfriend Jane (Priscilla Presley) spoof the pottery wheel love-making scene, complete with the obligatory Righteous Bros. songs and Drebin's huge, fake barrel chest! Every sexual cliché in the book is used here trains going thru tunnels, rockets going off, gushing fire hydrants, pointed obelisk monuments raising up (a 1953 Ten Commandments clip!). Drebin wrecks The city zoo with the police assault tank, and all the animals escape. Several mentions of bodily functions, a few t&a shots (mostly rear ends), most of which are cut out of the broadcast version. Other goodies Zsa Zsa Gabor's famous police-cussing scene. Nordburg gets thrown under a bus (on it's way to Detroit!) The shower scene (not exactly as Hitchcock did it.) The It's a Cookbook reference to the old Twilight Zone To Serve Man episode. The Goldfinger time-bomb gimmick. A relatively weak ending, as Drebin pushes Mrs. Bush off the balcony and she moons everybody. Far better than the third movie, however. "},{"Title":"Just as funny as the first!","Date":"19 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the sequel to David and Jerry Zucker and Jim Abrahams' first Naked Gun movie, a film bringing back Leslie Nielson as Lt. Frank Drebin, where we get to see the Los Angeles police detective in his funny blundering ways again, out to foil evil businessman and his ex-girlfriend's new beau Quentin Hapsburg's (Robert Goulet) plan to escape solar-energy advocate Dr Mainheimer (Richard Griffith).Like the first film, it's non-stop laughs from start to finish that that will result in tears in your eyes and side-splitting stomaches. The characters are calm and serious in their demeanor, but delivering outrageously humorous dialog and slapstick action. Drebin and Jane Spencer's (Priscilla Presley) wacky dance scene and the hilarious portrayals of George H.W. and Barbara Bush are my favorites scenes in the movie. The famous love scene from the movie Ghost is parodied here by Drebin and Spencer, humorously done. Unlike the first one, there is a political tone to this sequel, but it pokes fun at both sides of the spectrum.The jokes, one-liners and gags are endless, helped by the fast-paced plot and great acting. Pure entertainment! Grade A "},{"Title":"not a patch on the first one, but still very funny","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" naked gun 2 is is not as funny as the first naked gun, it just isn't. but there are enough laugh out loud moments here that it remains a good sequel as leslie nielsen plays frank drebin again as is hilereous as ever, once again there is no point going into plot about these movies, there all about the sight gags and one liners, and naked gun 2 has them aplenty. i think my main problem with part 2 is that it just tries too hard to be funnier than the first movie, and doesn't succeed, but never the less it is still a very funny movie and above average as far as comedy sequels go. so all in all not as good as the first naked gun, it remains a decent sequel none the less. "}{"Title":"The Naked Gun 2 is better then the original.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 2 is one of those extremely rare movies that is better then the original and while not having the same smart silly jokes( It is hard to understand but it is true) has more laughs and jokes altogether. The movie is good for so many reasons which are 1. It has about 50 laughs in just 85 minutes which is an extremely high laugh rate as most comedy's have only around 30 laughs or so and they are only very good comedy's that have even that number 2. It is a film you can watch over and over again and 3. It has all the good characters from the first one even if they do not have much to say. Overall I think this movie is undoubtedly better then the first one. I rate it 96%. So if you have not seen this one and you are looking for a good comedy then The Naked Gun 2 is for you. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel.","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very good film but not as good as the first. If you have read my Police Squad comments then you will know that I did a couple of funny lines from the film so here are a few from this oneWhy do you think some one did this?-Frank to Ed Sex Frank!-Ed Er not right now Ed-Frank. So good. Do you know what you have done?-Commissoner No-Frank Now because of you this city is being overrun by Baboons Well isn't that the fault of the voters-Frank. Best line ever. I did'nt see your name on the list-Hapsberg It's nothing to be ashamed of I some times go by my maiden name. Mega clever. Now after the Baboon joke here is the second best line What would you like to drink, sir-Waiter Give me the strongest thing you've got-Frank, then the waiter calls over a body builder, In fact I think I will have a black Russian. Hilarious!8/10 "},{"Title":"not as sharp or downright funny as the original","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lieutenant Frank Drebin is up to his old tricks again in this follow-up. The leaders of the city's chief energy suppliers, Oil ('S.P.I.L.L.'), Coal ('S.M.O.K.E.'), and Nuclear ('K.A.B.O.O.M.') are devising a treacherous scheme to stop the citizens of Washington, D.C. from adopting a new energy conservation program. Lt. Drebin, still suffering from his fizzled-out romance with Jane Spencer, is on the trail of a corrupt tycoon who instigates the kidnapping of the lead proponent of the conservation program. To complicate matters further, that same tycoon just happens to be Jane's newest love interest. Tepid sequel has some solid laughs here and there, but the majority of the gags are redundant or fall flat, and it never feels as playful or mischievous as the original. Nielsen is in good form though, and fun to watch as he endures his constant pitfalls. ** "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the first","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The creative geniuses of Zucker/Abrahams/Zucker are back for another Naked Gun installment. And the super-funny, multi-talented Leslie Nielsen is great as Frank Drebin. And Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, and O.J. play their roles perfectly once again. Robert Goulet is perfect as the bad guy. When I saw the Super Bowl commercial with him, I thought it was just like watching this. And there are some funny cameos by Zsa Zsa Gabor and Mel Torme. Other funny lines also (Is this some kind of a bust? Well yes, it is impressive, but we need to talk to you). If you loved the first one, the you'll definitely want to see this one. "},{"Title":"a daft but enjoyable funny film","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" You hear the plot outline, see the movie posters and hear the names of the cast, resulting in knowledge that this action comedy will be a spoof, and it was a really enjoyable one.Neilson (Scary movie 3 and 4) stars as the dim-witted central protagonist detective Frank.As a spoof the idea is to take the Mick out of other films, which it does well. Ghost, E.T are just a few of the skits encoded to justify the spoof genre. The intertextuality is pulled off well and audiences can feel a familiarisation with the text.Its predictable throughout but that's the idea. It is quite funny even if the stupidity does get extremely annoying at times. However the cheesy jokes are standable on the most scenes.The characters are annoying stereotypes of detectives, mean and women, murderers and victims. Encoding these characters into a pretty dismal story allows for great humour and silly scenes (especially towards the end) but regardless this film is classed as one for 'a bit of fun'.The story gets boring at most turns because it is that predictable and annoying but it is still interesting to observe.It's the concept of the genre, a run out of ideas? Do we enjoy watching films making fun of the clichés in modern society? It's a shame that we do. They are funny to see what the film industry has come to when watching this kind of film, a complete and utter rage against predictability.Its interesting to watch, a good laugh. Not really a proper film but nothing of this genre really is. Nevertheless predictable cheesy but still laughable jokes, stereotypes, a good story line, funny scenes (the road scenes).7/10 "},{"Title":"Slightly dated but still worth watching today - 83%","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Feeling somewhat deflated after the closing of the London Olympics, I found it difficult to think of something to watch to lift my spirits. Not for the first time, Sky helped me out by showing a familiar classic. I've seen this many times before but it never stops providing the laughs, maintaining the usual ZAZ gag pace as seen in earlier films like Airplane! and the first Naked Gun. It might lack a little of the zing of the first film but this is still a brilliantly absurd spoof of not just cop films but action movies, political figures, Ghost and just about anything else you can think of. Hell, even Weird Al Yankovic is in there...Frank Drebin (the great Leslie Nielsen) is back in Washington DC, on the eve of an important speech to be given by US Government Energy adviser, Dr. Meinheimer (Richard Griffith). Fearing that Dr Meinheimer may urge the President (George Bush Sn. lookalike John Roarke) to back environmentally friendly measures, representatives of the oil, coal and nuclear industries work together with the villainous Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet) in order to prevent the speech being delivered. But after a botched bombing at the Meinheimer Institute, Drebin and his partners Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) and Nordberg (OJ Simpson) start sniffing around and soon run across Drebin's old flame Jane (Priscilla Presley) who is now seeing Hapsburg...The plot, in truth, is not the reason to watch The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell Of Fear. Like all ZAZ pictures, you watch it (and re-watch it again) to catch every last joke, sight gag and one-liner which are provided at a machine-gun frequency. But unlike more modern efforts like the Scary Movie series, the overwhelming majority of jokes do hit the mark although there is some repetition of some material. If the cast were mugging it up then it wouldn't be as funny but Nielsen's perfectly straight-faced delivery as the bumbling Drebin makes you realise just how much you miss him. He is just brilliant and well worth watching on his own, although you're doing the rest of the cast a grave disservice.It might be slightly dated in places (seeing OJ Simpson in a comedy seems almost unthinkable these days) but to deny that The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell Of Fear is anything other than riotous entertainment is stupidity on a scale that Drebin himself would be proud of. Yes, it isn't as funny as The Naked Gun but this is still a strong entry in the series - it's certainly stronger than the slightly forced third film which only just missed the mark. But this remains, after all this time, a highly recommended comedy which, tragically, we don't see that much of these days. I'd be happy to sit down and watch this again and again - honestly, I caught stuff today that I hadn't seen or heard before and at times, I was still laughing out loud and it's a rare film indeed to make me do that. "},{"Title":"funnier and fresher than the original","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't understand his mission really, but it involves his old girlfriend.When I rented this, I had already seen the 1st, and the 3rd. I was thinking this was gonna be my least favorite, because when I read the plot's for all 3, this sounded the most boring. But I'd have to admit, this was funnier than the 1st, but not the 3rd. This was very funny. Most of the jokes work, but a few are just gross, and I didn't laugh.This is my 2nd favorite out of the 3. Here's the rank... 1. The 3rd 2. The 2nd 3. The 1st. Ya, I know, kind of weird, but It's true!!!Overall- ***/****PG-13 some crude sexual humor and images of comic violence. "},{"Title":"Frank Drebin returns...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this sequel to the Naked Gun Leslie Nielsen returns as the deadpan lt Drebin..This time he is after Robert Goulet who has not only stolen his woman (Presley) but is also out to destroy the environment!Not as funny as the first but still some good moments. on a scale of one to ten...6 "},{"Title":"You love it or you hate it","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ever since I've seen what he did with Scary Movie 3, I'm convinced that David Zucker has some potential when it comes to comedies. The previous sequel of that series was pretty awful, but he managed to get it all back on the right track. Knowing this and knowing the reputation of Leslie Nielsen I was really looking forward to this movie.When you have seen the first Naked Gun movie, than I will not have to introduce you to Lt. Frank Drebbin who is always right on time (or at least close enough) to save the day. This time he will have to keep the energy business on the right track. When Dr Mainheimer is about to publish his report on the energy supplies for the future, things aren't looking too good for the traditional suppliers. The oil, coal and nuclear manufacturers decide to kidnap the brilliant scientist and will replace him with a decoy with a more favorable report. But as long as Lt. Frank Drebbin is around that will not happen, at least not when he is able to keep his hands of his ex for a moment. She's the secretary of the doctor and it doesn't take long before they are reviving their passionate love affair...When you don't like this kind of parodies with rather absurd humor, you better leave this movie alone, because this is Leslie Nielsen at his best. Together with George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson and Priscilla Presley he makes sure that your jaw muscles will be stretched further than you can imagine. But not because you were yawning all the time. It will be because you will not be able to stop laughing. Do you have to watch this movie for the excellent acting or the great story? No, certainly not. You will not get anything of that and normally that would bother me enormously. But not this time. I just love this kind of absurd comedies so much, that I can easily forget about those flaws. This movie is a very fine sequel and that's why I give it a score in between 7.5/10 and 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good sequel that is as funny as the original in My opinion!","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The sequel is very funny! All of the returning cast is great but Robert Goulet's villain is great! Anthony James was good and it was sad to see Gina Mastrogiacomo. Look for some familiar faces too! This is a great funny movie is arguably funnier that the first one! If you like silly and funny films and like the Naked gun first film or the series then check this good sequel out!  "}{"Title":"The smell of a good movie","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ***Starring Leslie Nielson, Priscilla Presley, Robert Goulet, and George Kennedy.Frank Drebin, the bumbling cop you know and love, is back to foil Robert Goulet (yep, you heard me) from yet another evil plot.  Goulet kidnaps a wheelchair energy guy and puts an evil decoy in his place.  The movie, I'm sad to say, is the worst in the series (I give it three stars and it's the worst in its series, that has to tell you something) but it still delivers some high quality laughs. "},{"Title":"More of the same, but it's welcome","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not a big fan of spoof comedy. It's hard to spoof something effectively as there's lots of room for error, and I find that most of them don't do the job effectively. However, the original Naked Gun is one huge exception, and I found myself laughing throughout. Through it's big gags, coupled with smaller, subtler humour; The Naked Gun is a success that's fun for everyone. The sequel is pretty much more of the same, and although there isn't as many gags that work as there were in the first one; I don't doubt that this will delight most viewers. The plot? What plot? Well, there is one (sort of) and it deals with a maniacal madman that owns nuclear power and kidnaps an environmentalist so he cant tell the president of a new way to help the environment by utilising solar power. Or something.As you probably guessed, the plot is completely irrelevant and only serves as a springboard for a tour-de-force of gag-based comedy. Naturally, the movie is completely forgettable and even though I only saw it a couple of hours ago; I've forgotten most of it already. I haven't forgotten everything though, and the big gag highlights included the accident prone 'Nordberg' finding himself on the way to Detroit while stuck under a bus and a hilarious sequence that sees Leslie Nielson unwittingly unleash a load of animals from the zoo. However, as was the case with the last film; it's the smaller gags that are funnier, some of which are rib-tickling hilarious. Leslie Nielson, as you might expect, approaches his role with gusto and obviously had a good time making the movie. He's on top form as the rather silly police officer at the centre of the tale, and this is definitely the part he was born to play.Like I say, this movie isn't brilliant and it's largely forgettable. However, it's also a lot of fun and will be liked by anyone that doesn't go into it expecting a life-affirming piece of poetry. "},{"Title":"Still funny","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This might not be the highlight of the ZAZ team career, but at least it's somewhat inspired (I loved the gags involving Barbara Bush, Nordberg and Robert Goulet as a villain).  The zany plot follows Lt. Drebin (Nielson who is always hilarious no matter where he is) against oil energy tycoons who wants to deplete energy.  Or is that right?  I guess a Naked Gun movie shouldn't be mixed with a smart plot, just go for the gags, which there are. Big liability, not as fresh as the original.  A- "},{"Title":"My least favourite in the series.....","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ....i just didn't find myself laughing as much as i did during 1 & 33 1/3 but it's still a very enjoyable film!I dunno where to start, this film is funny, Leslie Nielsen at his best, there are some genuinely funny jokes here, and some which i didn't laugh at, but we all find some funny, some not!I'm not going to spoil any of the jokes, you'll have to buy the film or catch it on TV, and if you don't laugh at least once, GET OUT MORE!!!I don't really have much else to say except that i'd recommend this film to any Leslie Nielsen fan or anyone in need of a laugh or two (or three, or four.....) and would make a great addition to anyones DVD (or VHS if your old fashioned) collection.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first film based on the short-lived TV series Police Squad is a fantastically funny spy spoof from the makers of Airplane!, and the critics gave this sequel a good rating, and I had to see it. Basically Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is this time getting involved in a case relating to the energy business and the supply of it for the future. Top scientist Dr. Albert S. Meinheimer (Richard Griffiths) is getting ready to make a big speech at some convention or gathering about his ideas for the future of oil, coal and nuclear energy, but he gets kidnapped. The plan by the villains, led by Quentin Hapsburg (Beetle Juice's Robert Goulet), is to kidnap the doctor and replace him with a replica replacement Earl Hacker (also Griffiths) to make a more favourable report speech. While Frank investigates the case involving the decoy plan, he also reconnects with his old flame Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley), and she also is involved as she works for the scientist. At the big report event the real scientist is returned to the location, at the same time as the decoy, so disaster is occurring with these events and the discovery of a nuclear bomb, but Frank saves the day in the end. Also starring George Kennedy as Captain Ed Hocken, O.J. Simpson as Nordberg, Jacqueline Brookes as Commissioner Anabell Brumford and Anthony James as Hector Savage. Nielsen is still great fun as the idiotic police spy who still says and does the stupidest things and you can't help but like him, from the opening theme tune scene, and onwards with the witty script, the slapstick, sight gags and gross out gags are very funny, a most watchable comedy sequel. Detective Frank Drebin was number 47 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters. Very good! "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun 2½, The (1991) *** (out of 4) Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is back, this time working in Washington D.C. when he uncovers a plot to kidnap an important scientist so that evil businessmen can push their products onto the American public. This sequel certainly isn't as good as the original film but there are still enough laughs here to make it highly entertaining. The 80's and 90's were full of sequels but what's so amazing about this one is that there isn't a single joke lifted from the previous movie and instead we get a fresh group of jokes. Whereas most sequels were simple remakes of the previous one, this here goes to the limit to create something different. This might be why it took three years for it to come out instead of following the original the next year. Being released a year before an election it's easy to spot all the political jokes with George and Barbara Bush taking quite a few potshots but they are all very funny. The abuse poor Barbara gets from the fists of Drebin are priceless as is the spoof of Ghost and another great sequence where Drebin and Hocken (George Kennedy) visit a sex shop. Once again a lot of the credit must go to Nielsen who owns this character from his speech to his walk. It's really amazing to watch Nielson work through this character that tries so hard yet it never quite ready to understand what's going on. Kennedy, Priscilla Presley and O.J. Simpson are all back and offer up nice support. The screenplay is full of silly situations and dumb dialogue, which makes you laugh and then you end up laughing at yourself for laughing in the first place. The movie might have dumb things in it but it's still very smart at what it's trying to do. "},{"Title":"Funny, but stupid","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The gags in this 'The Naked Gun'-sequel are so stupid that they become funny because of that. They are not really funny, I guess, but stupidity is something laughable sometimes. I had a pretty good time, some very hard laughs, but I can understand you will hate a movie like this. In fact, there is a really good chance you will.To tell you the story would be stupid as well. There is one, kind of, but every scene is simply a set-up for another stupid gag. Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is the main character and he is probably the worst cop ever. Despite that he keeps doing sort of good things. There is also a love story between him and Jane (Priscilla Presley), and the best moments in the movie have to do with that part. Of course, if you don't like anything about it you will not agree.If you like this kind of movies you will probably like this one as well, although it is not as funny as the original 'The Naked Gun', 'Airplane' or the 'Hot Shots!'-movies. "},{"Title":"Almost a different type of movie than the first, but still funny.","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielson movies have only gone downhill from the first Naked Gun movie, but that doesn't mean they aren't still good. The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear is a hilarious, witty (in it's stupidity) piece of entertainment.Frank Drebin (Nielson) is back fighting crime, this time stopping a kidnapper who's trying to stop solar power from taking over the other resources. And of course, Drebin is also trying to woo his former lover back to him (Pricilla Presley). Though this was a really funny movie, it's nowhere near as hilarious as the first. It seems like a different type of comedy, with less gags and more slapstick humor, and the humor is at a slower rate. Nonetheless, it's still great, and Leslie Nielson's serious attitude in the stupidest of situations, and stupid lines in the most serious of situations makes this a sequel worthy of carrying the Naked Gun name.My rating *** out of ****. 80 mins. PG-13 for sexual humor and language. "},{"Title":"More forced than usual, but that same distinct subtle gag humor","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" No brand of humor has its own unique fingerprint like that of David and Jerry Zucker, Jim Abrahams and Pat Proft. Their one-of-a-kind spoofs leave a distinct comic stamp and while it might not be the funniest stuff out there, it's certainly in a league of its own. The sight gags, background jokes and literalistic humor abound once more in the second film based on their Police Squad! series entitled The Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear. It might try and squeeze a bit more than called for in attempt to outdo the original Naked Gun, but it still remains an entertaining and painless 85 minutes.Lt. Frank Drebbin (Nielsen) and the love of his life, Jane (Priscilla Presley) return once more and this time -- it's political. Drebbin must stop an oil and nuclear energy pundit played by legendary singer Robert Goulet from thwarting a doctor's (Richard Griffiths) recommendation to President George H.W. Bush for investment in alternative energy sources, namely solar ones. It's beyond hysterical nearly 20 years later that this film tackles an issue with even the slightest relevancy to today.In the background is the ongoing love story between Frank and Jane, and awkward romance has long been the staple of Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker comedy. Zucker and longtime collaborator Proft cram in as much as possible and cross their fingers that they'll get more laughs than eye rolls. The one knock on this sequel as compared to its predecessor is the forced-ness. Whereas the plot of the original really took its time to set up the gags and tie them closely to the plot, there's a lot of joke-manufacturing. The plot has entirely become secondary in this movie.There is a sense that Zucker and Proft recognize this, which helps the film a lot. When Frank is at The Blue Note, a night club for pathetic lonely people, he orders the strongest thing they have, so of course the waiter brings him a body builder. Frank sees the man and of course changes his mind, saying he'll just have a Black Russian instead. The waiter nods, but then looks at the camera, quickly shakes his head no and the film continues. That's all the indication you need that these writers know exactly what they're doing.Nielsen, however, continues to be what makes The Naked Gun series stand out above other multi-sequel spoof movies. No one sells the spoof humor like Nielsen can. He turns your typical lame dad pun into actual comedy. For every forced gag that goes rotten, he manages to keep things moving and distract the audience from them with his first rate deadpan.~Steven CVisit my site http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"ZAZzzzzz","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As so the story goes after every great comedy comes the fall.The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear has more of a fear of disaster as it trends lightly on humor, but juuust enough for a recommendation. Some jokes work, most don't, unfortunately.Drebin's (Nielsen) back, but now (like Die Hard 2) he's in D.C. Wait, the first Naked Gun also took place in L.A. like Die Hard 1, hmmm. Well, next on my list is Naked Gun 33 1/3, so I'll see if that one takes place in New York City. (Nope, thanks IMDb&#x85;it's back to L.A. for the Oscars, which that movie certainly didn't win any.)But I digress, Drebin's now suffering his loss of love of Jane (Presley) who's moved on to another psycho, Hapsburg (Goulet) who's body switching an environmentalist, Meinheimer (Griffiths) in order to keep the planet burning up like&#x85;GORE WOULD PREDICT!Will Drebin, his trusty sidekick, Hocken (Kennedy) and a now more used Nordberg (Simpson) win the day and in turn, the heart of Jane? Well, duh, but, it's just an exercise in patience with the now-tired old jokes.I just recently re-watched this movie about a week ago, first time in more than a decade, and it's already starting to fade from my memory. That's not to say it was horrible, as some of it was kick-ass hilarious, such as how they stop the bomb. But other scenes, such as the ridicule of George Bush the First and his First Lady was, well, far below any SNL skit. And speaking of which, why didn't they get Dana Carvey?Watch as a far inferior follow-up to the smash original, but don't expect much. "}{"Title":"A number of hilarious scenes, but it eventually wears a bit thin","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sequels being inferior to their predecessors is not something that is uncommon in the movie industry, and seeing that the IMDb rating for this Naked Gun sequel was ten points lower than that of the original, I was convinced that it was no exception. However, since I liked the original Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!, and I could see that The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear was reasonably popular, that didn't stop me from watching it. I found myself once again amused, but eventually, I started getting disappointed.After a bomb goes off at a research facility, Lt. Frank Drebin is assigned to investigate. While on the case, he meets his ex-girlfriend, Jane Spencer, and her current boyfriend, Quentin Hapsburg, causing him to grow jealous. Drebin uncovers a plot, which Hapsburg is part of, to kidnap scientist Dr. Mainheimer, who has ideas for alternative sources of energy, and replace him with an impostor, to keep the traditional sources of energy going, so the industries won't go under! Unfortunately, Drebin will once again find that it won't be easy trying to convince people of this sinister plot he knows of, including Jane, who thinks that he is just saying this because he is jealous of Hapsburg! Now, as with the original Naked Gun, this sequel contains some hilarious gags, and is full of slapstick. When I saw the first gag, with Drebin hitting Barbara Bush with the door as he enters the White House, I laughed pretty hard, and continued to do so as more slapstick just kept on coming. However, I eventually found that the movie doesn't stay as consistent as its predecessor, even though the original isn't the most consistent slapstick comedy, in my opinion. Also, I eventually found that it eventually wears a bit thin, with quite a few lacklustre gags. Is The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear worth watching for fans of The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!? Well, it's probably worth a try, but I wouldn't have super-high expectations. "},{"Title":"two writers try to do the work of four...","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...and the result, as you can imagine, is a lot less effective this time around.  While more mayhem and gags fill the screen than in the first Naked Gun, the resulting humor is more predictable and a lot less funny.  You'll be one step ahead the whole way, which is poison for this type of parody.  On the plus side, the ZAZ team delivers some wicked jabs at George and Barbara Bush, not to mention a hilarious scene involving a birthmark that looks like Whistler's Mother.  Another surprising redeeming factor is O.J. Simpson, who plays his character (Nordberg) even dumber than before, but his timing is right on (That's it.  Everybody relax.  Nobody will be harmed by the huge bomb that's going to blow up any minute now.  Priceless!).  Other than that, this sequel is a pretty dry affair.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not very good at all.","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another painful installment of the Naked Gun series. I was not impressed with the first movie but thought I would give the second one a try just in case I missed something. I can't help it, something inside me makes me need to see out the series to the end.I had maybe one or two laugh moments and like maybe one suspense moment but all-in-all another stinker. It was interesting to say the least to see Priscilla Presley in a movie, especially before all the work she has had. Oh and the pottery scene, you know what I am talking about. It was quite possibly one of the most disgusting scenes I have ever seen. I'm glad I watched it cause now I don't have to watch it ever again. "},{"Title":"Back to the Bottom.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun was so unique in the fact that it was actually funny and entertaining, very rare for this genre. However, the Naked Gun 2 1/2 is a disappointment as Leslie Nielsen and his standard crew try to stop a madman played by Robert Goulet who wants to control the world's energy resources. A few of the gags are pretty good, but overall this is far from anything even remotely special. 2 stars out of 5. "}]