[{"Title":"Simple, Effective & Fun","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This horror flick doesn't pretend to be anything but a simple revenge story, and I like that. There are no pretensions. Toulon (Guy Rolfe, replacing William Hickey who played the role the first two films) is the puppeteer-extraordinaire whose creations are literally lifelike.Rolfe and his deadly puppets go after the Nazis after they seek him out for his scientific genius of reanimating puppets. They want that information to use for their evil purposes so Toulon and his puppets fight back. It's sort of a do-it-to-them- before-they-do-it-to-us mentality. The head Nazi is played by Richard Lynch and the man reminded me facially of Rutger Hauer.We see the Mr. Clean-type puppet with the little head and massive body; the puppet who screws everyone; the femme fatale and the cowboy Six Shooter. There is probably someone I forgot, too. All are fun to watch.The plot is secondary to the puppets doing their thing, eliminating all the bad guys one-by-one and it's all entertaining and done with in less than an hour- and-a-half. I have found the first three in this series all to be good but this is my only keeper. I sure wish this was available on DVD.Note It's rated R not just for the violence. There are a couple of quick sex scenes showing bare breasts. Although the film in general might not be considered grade-A quality, it's not as dumb as you might think, either. "},{"Title":"The best in the series","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Toulon's Revenge is the best in the whole Puppet Master series (With the exception of part 1 of course. This one goes back to World War II where the Nazi's are p****d off because of Aundre Toulon's puppet shows giving negative buzz about the Gustopo. And soon they discover that his puppets are actully alive and decide to use Toulon's technology to revive soldiers that were dead to replenish their army. Needless to say everything goes south and puppets spring into action to protect their master.What makes this movie great is it tells who the puppets are and shows the making and birth of leech woman I give it a 10 "},{"Title":"Really?  I thought this was one of the best...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Full Moon's attempt at a World War II flick on a low budget is ambitious. Yeah, the acting is a little wooden (what do you expect from puppets? heh), but Lynch, Wolfe, Abercrombie, and Gottell all do okay.  Setting up Lynch's character as a puppet is a cute touch since Blade does look like him. This gives some background to the puppets, and sets them up as the potential good guys for subsequent sequels and to take advantage of their popularity. Overall, entertaining. "},{"Title":"Fun historic  war-time Puppet Master tale","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third Puppet Master movie is a prequel to the original two movies, showing events occurring in war-time Germany involving Andre Toulon, his wife Elsa and his band of merry wooden men (the puppets not the actors). This time, we see what happens when Good Puppets Go Bad as the ensemble of 12 killer characters seek revenge against the Nazis.Puppet Master III - Toulon's Revenge is another building block in the series' mythology, filling in some of the back-story of the main protagonists. There's a continuity error with the timeframe, however, as this film is set in 1941 and, in the original, Toulon committed suicide in 1939! As expected, this is a really fun movie - the film's cast includes the late Walter Gotell as the Nazi general who commands his men with an iron fist but who also has a soft-spot for the local brothel. Gotell's best known for playing the Russian equivalent of M in numerous Bond movies. Sarah Douglas who plays Elsa Toulon will be familiar to genre fans as the evil Ursa from Superman and Superman II. Guy Rolfe (Toulon), Richard Lynch (Major Krauss) and Ian Abercrombie (Doctor Hess) also deliver strong performances.I was surprised at how high budget this film looks. Due to the season in which the film was made, the director settled on filming the external shots over 3 days on the Universal backlot rather than shoot on location in Europe. The results are impressively convincing.My only complaint was that on the DVD I watched, the Ultra-Stereo soundtrack mixing had a heavy bias to the left channel.Puppet Master 3 is something of a rarity thesedays but it's well worth tracking down if you're a fan of the series. "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most imaginative and best-acted title in the long-running PUPPETMASTER series, Part 3 is actually a prequel that details how Andrte Toulon came to create his puppets during the dark days of World War II. The Nazis wants to use Toulon's secrets to create an army of the undead, and that's when the fun begins. Toulon sics his killer puppets on the Nazis, to spectacularly bloody effect. The puppets are the good guys in this one. What also makes a huge difference here is the introduction of Guy Mr. Sardonicus Rolfe as Toulon, a role he would essay in two more sequels. Rolfe is a great Toulon, a charismatic and even sympathetic character who loves his deadly puppets as only a papa creator could. Rolfe lent an air of integrity and distinction to the series. Part 3 is a great little B-horror addition to the series that was shot on the Universal back lot instead of Europe to surprisingly solid effect. A must-see. "},{"Title":"The best Puppet Master in the series","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well when I saw Puppet Master 3 in the video store I thought to myself just another stupid sequel. I was fooled this was a great Puppet Master movie. It gives you alot of background information about Toulan and his puppets. The WW2 plot was good too. Alot of people like this one cause it was the most creative. Come on nazis getting slained by little tiny puppets. You also find out how Leech Woman came about. There is some crazy parts like the beginning where the guy awakes on the morgue table burnt to a crisp. Oh yea you find out how every puppet is based on. This movie is a great Full Moon flick. Buy it if you have the money. Or just rent it. It will not dissapoint you.Rated R for Nudity, Horror Violence, and some language "},{"Title":"The plot is a bit much for a PUPPET MASTER movie...","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  During the pre-war era of Berlin in 1941, the Nazi regime is working at creating a drug which will reanimate the dead.  Their intent is to use the serum on fallen soldiers in order to render their army invincible.  After many failed attempts, Dr. Hess soon learns that the local puppet master Andre Toulon holds the ancient secret of giving life to inanimate objects.  Toulon and his legion of puppets must now defend themselves and flee from the pursuing Nazis as they try to capture him and use his powers for evil.  This is an exciting and adequately-scripted entry in the still-continuing Puppet Master series, even though the story suffers from a gaping, inexcusable plot hole the original movie has Toulon committing suicide in 1939, two years before the events in this film.  All imperfections aside, however, this still is a decent little flick. "},{"Title":"A Really Good Sequel","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third part in the Puppet Master films is quite a surprise actually. It might even be better than the first in story telling! The acting is superb, the story is superb and the movie well...it's superb as well! This is actually a prequel to the original films, introducing the characters to us, including a new one named Six Shooter.This film, without spoiling anything is about killing Nazi's who have destroyed the Puppet Master. It is a very interesting look at events from World War II.A great installment in the series and well worth watching for the story alone! "},{"Title":"Nazis vs. Puppets.  Can't go wrong.","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the very best movie in the whole series...and it's still a total pile. I love these movies for the puppets themselves (Blade, Six-Shooter, Torch, etc) and this movie in particular gives you the lovable team of misfits killing Nazis during WWII. Andre' Toulon's wife is murdered by a SS officer for some reason, so he uses his creations to get revenge...hence the title. This movie still sucks but is very fun. Again, cool puppets kill Nazis. As a bonus, this third entry in the series introduces the first appearance of the gunslinging puppet Six-Shooter, which doesn't make sense because this takes place during WWII and the previous, Six-Shooterless two movies take place in present time. But whatever. What makes this movie stand out above the rest is that the cast, most of all Toulon himself and the main villain, seem to be actually trying to make their characters cool. The lead Nazi is an interesting enough villain for a cheap horror movie and he has a small bit of charisma to keep him going. Toulon himself...at least has an interesting look and voice. The story seems to have a much better construction than any of the other titles. (By the way, do NOT watch Retro Puppet Master. You will hate yourself for it.) So, this is my favorite. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"B-movie gets a B-plus","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe this isn't the Citizen Kane of rampaging puppet movies, but it's hard to deny the appeal of Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge as an extremely entertaining B-movie.A prequel to the imaginative series, Toulon's Revenge recounts how Andre Toulon brought his puppets to life, how the Nazis tried to steal his experiments to raise their dead, and how Toulon struck back with the help of his puppets &#151; Six-Shooter, Blade, Tunneler, Pin Head and Ms. Leech. The film features above-average acting for a Full Moon production, and Guy Rolfe convincingly portrays Toulon. Especially notable is Ian Abercrombie, who played Mr. Pitt in Seinfeld, as Dr. Hess.Of course, the highlight of this series is the puppets, and Toulon's Revenge does not disappoint. Both the live-action and stop-motion sequences are well-crafted and downright creepy.Don't ask too many questions, like why the Germans speak English or why Toulon is presented as a good guy when the first Puppetmaster painted a much different picture. Just enjoy Toulon's Revenge for what it is an entertaining prequel, no strings attached. "}{"Title":"Entertaining puppet horror.","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Above average entry in this series is a prequel, set in WWII Berlin as puppet master Andre Toulon (Guy Rolfe) is sought out by the Nazis. They're trying in vain to reanimate dead soldiers, and are intrigued by his ability to create puppets that move without strings. The sinister Major Kraus (Richard Lynch) murders Andres' wife Elsa (Sarah Douglas), and Andre escapes Nazi captivity to hide out and plan his revenge. Carrying out Andres' dirty work will be his family of puppets Tunneller, Pinhead, and new creations such as Six Shooter (a six armed cowboy), Ms. Leech, and Blade.Toulon's Revenge benefits from better than usual production values; it looks like a reasonable chunk of money was spent on this prequel. At the core is an entertaining, involving, if familiar story, with Andre the kind of guy for whom you do feel sorry. David DeCoteaus' direction actually isn't bad, and he gets good performances out of this well chosen cast. David Allens' effects are still very impressive, and the puppet characters are quite memorable, especially Six Shooter. (You don't see much of Blade in this entry.)Lynch is at his villainous best - you can't WAIT for this guy to get what he deserves. Ian Abercrombie is fine as the basically well meaning Dr. Hess, as is Walter Gotell as a top Nazi official. Matthew Faison and Aron Eisenberg are a fugitive father and son, and Michelle Bauer has a small role. Rolfe of Mr. Sardonicus fame is wonderful as Andre.A good, fun outing from the folks at Full Moon.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intriguing prequel","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After an average opener and one needless sequel in PUPPET MASTER II, PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE is something of a surprise. The producers are still trying to find out a way to continue the franchise after the actor who played Toulon in the original died, so they opt here for a prequel format set in Nazi Germany, no less.The biggest twist this time around is that Toulon and his puppets are presented as the good guys - I guess those Nazis trump everybody in terms of 'evilness', even homicidal mass murderers. Yeah, it's best to forget about the first two films when watching this. In TOULON'S REVENGE, the puppet master has his wife murdered by the corrupt regime, so he sends his dolls on a rampage of revenge against the Nazis.Most of the film consists of various Nazis being murdered by the dolls in creative ways. The special effects are shoddy but mildly charming, and there seems to be a little more originality here than in other B-movies; this is a huge step up from the previous movie, for example. The cast is studded with the expected likes of Richard Lynch and Michelle Bauer, although the most surprising scene comes when Bond's Walter Gotell shares a bath with a bevy of topless beauties. There's something else you weren't expecting... "},{"Title":"Clever and interesting","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE🌕🌕🌕🌖🌑 3.9 A very good addition to the series. The puppets are looking good, especially six-shooter, who is an awesome addition to the puppets, and he really does some damage which was fun to watch. Also the villains and other side characters kept things interesting, along with Guy Rolfe as Toulon. He's perfect for the role. So with all this, you get a great little action horror with a chilling climax and the making of leech woman. This film is my second favorite I the series my first being PM1, and my third, PM5 the final chapter. I recommend this too fans of the rest of the series, or similar horror-revenge stories. It is very enjoyable, and has a stead plot. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 3 Toulon's Revenge","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better films in the franchise digs deeper in the past of Andre Toulon and his puppets. The puppets already alive in well are vindicating the loss of Andre's wife Elsa who is murdered by Nazi Major Kraus, a menacing villain in the movie. The characters and puppets in this movie are very defining and have strong character development. The quarrels between business partners Major Kraus and Dr. Hess provide a great subplot meanwhile the puppets and Toulon are trying to put an end to their master plan. The movie also introduces two of the main puppets that play large roles in later movies and explains who each puppet truly is. The film's timeline doesn't totally mesh with the movies that come chronologically before and after this third film and it was hard to look past that for myself. Otherwise Toulon's Revenge is a very enjoyable entry to the franchise and one of the shining gyms of the series. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series! *FULL PRICE*","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a Puppet Master fan for a long time and if I had to name a favorite this would be it, this is the second movie in the franchise chronologically and gives a great background to Andre Toulon. The acting in this movie is completely flawless with actors such as Guy Rolfe,Richard Lynch, Ian Abercrombie, (and even though she has small screen time) Sarah Douglas you can't go wrong. In Puppet Master 1&2 we saw the Puppets as killers but now with their calm and good hearted master their killing true villainous monsters the Nazis! The story is awesome and action packed and serves its purpose well as a VERY entertaining movie. If you're in the neighborhood and see this movie on ebay (it's usually fairly cheap) buy it! Hell, once you get your hands on it your guaranteed to get relentless hours of entertainment! "},{"Title":"Nazi's versus psychotic puppets","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PuppetMaster 3′s glaring narrative, production faults aside (for which there are countless pages on the net) and budget restrictions, this prequel gives an intriguing insight how those little killer puppets came to be. Set in Berlin 1941, evil Nazi's want Toulon's secret formula which animates his puppets to re-animate the Führer's soldiers and make an unstoppable army for the Aryan race.The puppets get a run for their money in the acting department this time around. Gestapo officer, Major Krauss played excellently by Richard Lynch steals the show along with James Bond recurring actor Walter Gotell as General Mueller. Both Guy Rolfe as Andre Toulon (previously played by William Hickey) and Sarah Douglas (Superman 1 and 2) as Elsa Toulon bring some emotion to the film.Naturally there's Richard Band's music and thanks to director David DeCoteau and the effects team it's a blast to see the creation of both Blade and Leech Woman. In addition, Jester gets a fair amount of screen- time.In a film with reanimated dead soldiers and Nazi's versus psychotic puppets, you should already know what you're in for. Without selling the surprisingly good cast ensemble short it's a low budget affair but what a recommended guilty pleasure of entertainment it is. Where as the first film had the burning question of &#x96; What happened to Theresa? The burning question with three is &#x96; if Toulon shot himself in 1939 what is he doing alive and well in 1941? Answers on a postcard "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Best in the Series","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Set in Berlin during WWII, the Nazi regime is attempting to develop a drug that will animate the dead, in order to use in the war effort. Toulon arouses suspicion as a Nazi dissident, and his secret is discovered.Can you believe David DeCouteau made a good movie? And he did it under the Full Moon banner? Strange as that may seem today (2012), in the not too distant past, this actually happened. In fact, part three is arguably the best film in the Puppet Master series -- which is saying a lot when you have eleven films (and growing). In fact, the only real complaint I have with it is the continuity, but that is a running theme with Puppet Master (we pretty much never have the same actor playing Toulon twice, for example).I love the exposition here, the development of the origins of the dolls. I am unclear how Toulon went from being the good guy here to the bad guy we saw in earlier films... but, hey, it happens (Darth Vader, anyone?). This production is slick, the story is solid, the effects are good... I was a little bit surprised. I thought Aron Eisenberg did a terrible job pretending to be a naive child (as much as I loved him on Deep Space 9), but that can be excused. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge Blu-ray takes us to the beginning","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Charles Band's Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge takes the series in an exciting new direction. Although there seem to be story contradictions, the third entry gives viewers the chance to see the events spoken of in parts one and two unfold before their very eyes. The puppets we've come to fear suddenly take a turn towards good as they become tools for taking out Nazi soldiers and officers. For a B-movie, the sets and locations used look and feel authentic.In 1941, a doctor named Hess is attempting to produce a serum that will re-animate dead soldiers to march on the frontline and give cover for the live ones in battle. He hears about a puppeteer named Toulon who uses stringless puppets in his performances. Upon investigating, Hess discovers Toulon has generated a potion that brings inanimate objects to life. Toulon's wife is killed by the Nazis and the puppeteer uses his wooden creations to exact revenge on those responsible for her death.http//contributor.yahoo.com/user/849014/eric_shirey.html "},{"Title":"Heil Toulon","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" David DeCoteau directs the 3rd instalment of the Pupper Master series and avoids the usual homo-erotic foreplay of many of his films. Incidentally DeCoteau returns later in the series using pseudonym Victoria Sloan. Focusing mainly of Toulon's battle with the Nazi regime and the loss of his wife at the hands of a vicious Nazi officer this is a fascinating foray in to the puppets history and Toulon's motives. Leech Woman is created in his wife's image and memory and we also meet the most tedious of the puppets to date - Torch. Once again the animation is outstanding. Richard Band's score is among the best ever produced and the film manages to continue a unique series in a quite exceptional way. "},{"Title":"No mercy my friends. No mercy.","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third entry of the straight-to-video series in producer Charles Band's Full Moon's Puppet Master goes for a prequel set-up in outlining the origins of Andre Toulon and his animated puppets in the backdrop of a war-torn Berlin through the Nazis uprise in WW2.During WW2 the Nazis led by Dr. Hess are conducting experiments on life and death, which involves reviving their dead to increase their manpower. However Hess is having trouble controlling his test subjects and the animation doesn't last for long. But Andre Toulon and his life-like puppets capture his eyes, but also that of the Gestapo's Major Krauss who sees Toulon and his puppet show negative propaganda against Nazi regime. They raid his theatre and in the process Toulon's wife is murdered by Krauss. Toulon manages to escape custody and then seeks revenge with the help of his puppets while on the run from the Gestapo.Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge is a straightforward (puppeteer of revenge), but effective low-budget b-picture that's a tad more ambitious and constructively complete in its narrative's vision than its formulaic, but playful predecessors. I would tag it as the best of the lot, so far. There's excellent performances stemming from the likes of Guy Rolfe (who sympathetically fills the role as Toulon), Ian Abercrombie and a suitably nasty, cold hearted villain turn by Richard Lynch as Nazi Major Krauss. Rolfe and Lynch simply standout, giving it a little more professionalism and class. What also makes their acting noticeable is that they have a better than average script, which is suggestively tailored and tightly projected in letting the plot evolve and giving space to provide a back-story to the puppets (especially that of Leech woman and Blade). Director David DeCoteau's compact handling is quickly paced and uses the obvious back-lot sets quite well where he crafts lasting tension, seamless excitement and atmospheric imagery of the artistically etched puppets (which once again are expertly engineered and brought across) as they gleefully hand out violently nasty and bloody attacks on the Nazis. Richard Band's recycled score is still as racy, but consisting of an edgy kick within the darker moments. "}{"Title":"One or the best sequels to Puppet Master","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge is a great sequel to Full Moon's Puppet Master franchise, for starters we get to see a lot more of Toulon's Puppets and understand a little about Jester and Pinhead's lives before having their souls placed into Puppets and we see how Blade is created to look like Major Krauss, we also see that Elsa has her soul put into Leech Women although that is a mistake as in Puppet Master I and II Leech Women was not Elsa because in II Elsa is reincarnated as one of the paranormal investigators.Puppet Master III has a few more plot holes like it being 1941 when in the first Puppet Master Toulon killed himself in 1939 also he didn't create Jester until he was in the inn in Puppet Master and Six-Shooter wasn't in the previous films but in this one and the following sequels.The plot holes don't really bother me since the film is great anyway, set in 1941 Dr. Hess is trying to re-animate soldiers to make an army of Zombies that can help the Nazis on the battle field but the experiments keep failing so one soldier Lt. Eric Stein watches Toulon and his Puppets moving without string and informs Krauss, they burst into Toulon's home and kill Elsa then take him away.Escaping with his Puppets Toulon takes his revenge on them by having his Puppets killing them. Dr. Hess want's to speak with Toulon so that he can perfect the Zombies since they still only move for a few minutes while Krauss wants to find Toulon and kill him.Dr. Hess meets with Toulon with the help of young boy Peter who is Toulon's apprentice, he tells Hess about the secret of the serum and how it works and that is the human spirit, they need to be willing to come to life again. Soon Krauss finds where Toulon is and the soldiers attack but they quickly escape.Toulon confronts Krauss and kills him in a interesting way then he escapes on a train with Peter using Kruass's ID papers. Puppet Master III Toulon's Rvenge is one that shouldn't be missed. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A brave prequel, rather than an obvious sequel","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master III is actually a far braver follow-up to the original movie than Puppet Master II- a satisfying move away from the familiar set up of visitors at Bodega Bay, as seen twice before, instead setting it in Nazi Germany, following Toulon's life with some surprising revelations as to how our killer puppets came to exist.At the end of Puppet Master II there's an implication that the next film would be set in some teenage delinquents centre. It's a pleasant surprise this film instead opts to down a route more challenging than let's give the puppets new fodder in the form of angry teens! Despite loving the Puppet Master films for it's underlying sense of camp, there are moments in Puppet Master III that really do resonate- you do feel the air of suspicion and paranoia during Hitler's Germany- of course Puppet Master III is never going to be Schindler's List, but it does use Nazi Germany as more than a fascinating backdrop, and you do get at least a taste of the tragedy.There are some tender moments also. Toulon in Puppet Master III is not the pantomime bandaged villain we are introduced to in the Puppet Master II. Here we see the tender old man with an almost paternal love for his creations, as glimpsed in the first film. It makes for a more interesting character- we can sympathise with him, and the puppets themselves, and it adds an extra dimension to the film. It also removes the guilty pleasure element of the death sequences- when the puppets kill in this film, you're behind them one hundred percent. Oh and can I just say it was great to see Ms Leech again- strange how you can't help but have a favourite right?! Puppet Master III represents a good horror sequel, something I feel is quite difficult to find these days. It isn't afraid to try something new, yet stays true to the roots of the characters, in fact adding to their complexity and the sense of tragedy there. I know, I know, maybe I'm taking it all a little seriously but even on a shallow level- Killer Puppets in Nazi Germany? Genius! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE FOR PUPPET MASTER FANS!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Set in Berlin during WWII, the Nazi regime is attempting to develop a drug that will animate the dead, in order to use in the war effort. Toulin arouses suspicion as a Nazi dissident, and his secret is discovered. During a Nazi raid on his home, Toulin's beautiful wife is murdered. Toulin vows revenge, with the help of his animated puppets. This movie gives a new perspective on Toulin and his friends. A new puupet six-shooter is introduced with six arms all with guns on them. An average sequel, the guy who Played Toulon did well. The puppets were great as always, all up a great movie for Puppet Master fans. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL MOVIE, RATES IN MY TOP 5 OF ALL TIME","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WOW, This is probably one of the best movies I have seen in a long time, Full Moon have outdone themselves with this mini masterpieceGuy Rolfe plays the part of Toulon brilliantly and Richard Lynch puts in one of the best performances of his life as Major Kraus, It was nice to see Ian Abercrombie without that dumb beard he wears in Army Of Darkness ha ha !.Six Shooter is my favourite puppet and I loved it when he shot that guy who played the head of Camp Rolling Hills in Sleepaway Camp 2.Great movie, best of the series so far ( i have only seen 1,2 & 3)RENT IT NOW!!!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Puppet Master was one of the greatest Puppet Master series,this movie was very excellent. It had a great explanation of how the Puppet Master began, it showed how Leech Woman and Blade was born.b Leech woman was born by a Mr. Major Krauss killed Mrs. Toulon and Mr. Toulon put her soul into Leech Woman. And Blade was dressed and based on Major Krauss,and it showed an appearance of Six-Shooter. And this showed a great realistic fiction war on this movie. It was sad, it was scary, it was Revenge, this was kick ass movie that you have to see.A wonderful movie in the 90's, this surly needs 9 out of ten stars. And if your and Puppet Master fan this is perfect for you, your number one best P.M. "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having seen the first two Puppet Master films I was prepared for yet another 90 minutes of self-torture when I saw this one.... but I was wrong! I guess Full Moon got lucky the third time round.The plot for this one is much more interesting than the original and its clone. It is 1941 in Berlin and puppeteer Andre Toulon (played by the superb Guy Rolfe) entertains innocent kids with his anti-Nazi puppet show. However, the Gestapo discover it and shut him down, and try to steal his formula for bringing his puppets to live. In an attempt to do so they kill his wife. Toulon escapes with the puppets and goes into hiding, resurfacing only to seek revenge on his hated Nazi killers.Sounds a lot more exciting than the first two, doesn't it? And it is. I was watching for things to pick on all the way through this film, and found very few.The first major revelation to the Puppet Master series by this film is that the CAST can ACT!!!!! Yes, Guy Rolfe was born to play the clever, wise, intelligent and mellow Andre Toulon, and he does so perfectly here, bringing a lot of charisma and charm to the beloved puppeteer. He treats the puppets like his children. I suppose in a way they are. Yeah, Guy Rolfe kicks ass as Toulon! Richard Lynch plays the films main villain, Nazi leader Major Krauss. And yeah, you really hate this guy - he looks like a twisted Marlon Brando, and makes an excellent and sinister villain. Kristopher Logan plays the young Nazi Lt Eric Stein, and we're all glad when he's dispatched by the puppets. Also credit goes to Ian Abercrombie who plays Dr Hess - another menacing performance. The acting this time is superb - I don't know what happened, I guess there must have been a Full Moon the night they shot it.......The puppets are cooler than ever this time. All the usuals are present - except Torch from the second one, as he wasn't made yet. The new puppet this time is Six-Shooter, a cowboy puppet with six arms holding six pistols... Six-Shooter is cool. We also see the man who became Blade.. He looks very like him, which is a cool effect.The tension in this film comes from Toulon hiding out, and the Nazis chasing after him. Nothing is more fun than seeing Toulon's puppets kick Nazi ass. Well, nothing in Full Moon movies.This is doubtless the best Puppet Master film - They should have started the series with this, and thrown the first two film reels in the fire. "},{"Title":" Puppets need just as much rest as you do","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Guy Rolfe is fair as Andre in this witty horror film. The remaining cast is awkward. The costumes are cocky. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Puppet Master 3 Toulon's Revenge arouses little spooks. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you only see one Puppet Master movie...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge is easily the best of the series.  Of course that's not saying much, and the film definitely has its flaws, but if you watch the films in order you will be amazed at the jump in quality from the awful first two movies to this third installment.First, and perhaps most importantly, the movie takes the series in a new direction by NOT setting it in a boring hotel with stupid, lifeless characters.  That setup was tired and lame when the first film came out, and then the second one took the exact same concept and somehow made it even more pointless.What amazes me is how well the movie handles a topic as sensitive as Nazi Germany.  It's certainly not Schindler's List--the Germans are obviously not German, most of the acting is sketchy at best, and some scenes are very, very boring.  But the movie actually seems to respect the time period, and never pokes fun at the Nazis or what they did.  Indeed, Toulon's explanation of how he makes his puppets gives everything a much more poignant significance.  Too bad it all conflicts with the rest of the series, where Toulon is usually a monster and occasionally fights his wooden creations.  Everything would have been so much better if only they had used this story for the entire series.  Even more amazing is how the film manages to deliver the comedy and inventive death scenes Puppet Master fans expect without ever cheapening the time period or feeling like a different movie.  The demise of the main Nazi is easily one of the most gruesome deaths I've seen on film.  I bet it took them days to come up with it.Puppet Master III isn't a classic, and it's not even really very good, but the rest of these movies make it look like Casablanca.  See it with friends and a pizza. "},{"Title":"The sequel to the sequel falls short","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Full Moon's Puppet Master III is a disappointing sequel to the classic series concerning killer puppets.  We are now taken back in time to Nazi Germany and have the general pleasure of watching the puppets beat the hell out of the Nazis.  The film is directed actually quite well by David Decoteau, however, a lot of the acting falls short and is flat(probably because we are not gifted with the talents of Paul Lemat(Puppet Master) or Charlie Spradling(Puppet Master II).  The movie was filmed on the backlots of Universal Studio, so you may recognize some of the scenery.  The new addition to this flick is Six-Shooter, a puppet with 3 pairs of arms, each armed with a gun(how creative).  The movie seems to run a little on the long side even though it is only 86 minutes.  Only for die hard Puppet Master fans.   "},{"Title":"Not great but it more then watchable sequel","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was hoping this was going to be Sequel to the Second, which kind of make the end of part useless. This movie now prequel and back in 40's or 50's when there a war going on. I liked the fact we get see how some Puppets came to mind however this movie were I think they lose there Creepy factor. The plot was decent, it flowed really well thought-out the movie, there were some bloody moment but nothing to gory. The acting wasn't to be in this movie, it's can be wooden now and again, I thought it was decent I give this movie 5 out of 10, Same and the first one, I don't think it was good as the second one. "}{"Title":"Bang up third entry in the series","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 1941. Berlin, Germany. The Nazis go after benign puppeteer Andre Toulon (the excellent Guy Rolfe) so they can learn the secret of how he makes his puppets come to life. Toulon retaliates by unleashing his deadly little pals on the Gestapo brutes. Director David De Couteau, working from a clever and inventive script by C. Courtney Joyner, relates the hugely entertaining story at a snappy pace, maintains a generally serious tone throughout, offers a flavorsome evocation of the period setting, and delivers a handy helping of splashy gore along with a decent sprinkling of yummy gratuitous female nudity. The fine acting from a sterling cast rates as a real significant asset Ian Abercrombie as the zealous and obsessive Dr. Hess, Sarah Douglas as Toulon's loyal and loving wife Elsa, Walter Gotell as the slimy and lecherous General Mueller, Kristopher Logan as the slippery and meddlesome Lt. Eric Stein, Aron Eisenberg as spunky young fugitive Peter Hertz, and Matthew Faison as Peter's concerned father. Veteran bad guy thespian Richard Lynch almost steals the whole show with his wonderfully wicked portrayal of the ruthless and ferocious Major Krauss. The ever-luscious Michelle Bauer has a memorably sexy minor part as foxy prostitute Lili. Moreover, it's a total treat to see the grotesque, yet still oddly personable puppets bump off detestable Nazi scumbags in assorted grisly ways (Major Krauss's terrifically ghastly fate in particular is a complete doozy). Both Adolfo Bartoli's sharp cinematography and Richard Band's supremely eerie score are up to speed. One of the strongest and most impressive installments in this franchise. "},{"Title":"Wicked Horror","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know people who have seen this movie are thinking How could he have given this a 10? Well, I finally seen this one for the first time the other day. When I was a kid, I'd sneak Puppet Master 1,2,4 & 5 into my room and watch them. I've never seen #3 but once I started watching it, I didn't want it to end. It has a very good story line, good acting and the puppets look more realistic than ever. This is certainly a must watch for anyone into the Puppet Master series or fans of old horror, killer dolls...etc. If you were compare this one to Puppet Master vs. Demonic Toys, then this one would blow the other one away. This one contains a lot of them sadistic little puppets. "},{"Title":"The best of the PUPPETMASTER films","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best of the Puppet Movies,Much better than part two this third entry in the series is entertaining and kind of fun. Fair Acting, good plot, good development. This is one of Full Moon's better ones,,,the stop-motion and puppetry in this series is well done. Despite the obvious lack of funds, the overall production values are quite good, and the quality of the acting better than average. Much care has been lavished on the puppets, and their scenes are always adequate and occasionally remarkable. PUPPETMASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE is a diverting piece of low-budget film-making. Though low-budget sequels are often out of steam by the third go-round , PUPPET MASTER III is a surprisingly lively and entertaining picture. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third instalment in the PUPPET MASTER rather than moving forward, instead flows back to war torn Germany, circa 1941 & discards the Bodega Bay Inn, site of the first two films massacres. Part III also gives us more back story on Toulon (we learn he also was a doctor in France at one time) & why the Nazi's wanted him in the beginning of the original film, before he killed himself. As it turns out, the Nazi's & Hitler have tried to re-animate dead soldiers in an effort to create an army of super soldiers, that can help them win the war. Although they are successful in re-animating them, the corpses are useless & the whole project is a complete wash. That is until they discover that the elderly puppet maker Andre Toulon has a far better formula, that re-animates his wooden puppets for his puppet shows. After killing Ilsa his beloved wife in cold blood, when he refuses to share his secrets to his re-animation formula, the Nazi's come under attack when Toulon resurrects her as Leech Woman & then sends her & the rest of the puppets out to brutally dispatch those responsible for his wife's murder, including the cold blooded Major Kraus (the late great RICHARD LYNCH) the sadistic ring leader. The film continues the tradition of adding a new puppet to the group with each new movie, this time in series mainstay Six Shooter (with six arms go figure!) ironically enough, Six Shooter was supposed to have been written into the original films script, but was oddly omitted. Though the film-makers never tell us where he was in the first two movies. What's notable is how Toulon is a good guy here (Like he seemingly was in the opening shot of the original film), played this time by GUY ROLFE (who also played another puppet maker in Producer Charles Band's DOLLS) who would continue to play Toulon in later entries, before his death. The film casts Toulon in a different light - as a tragic figure & the film continues to expand on ideas that were planted in the first two. We find here that the puppets are not just some lifeless wooden doll Toulon gave life to, but rather each puppet houses the souls of murdered people he knew in life! Ilsa would become Leech Woman, Dr. Hess a character in this film would become Blade (who was made to look like Major Kraus) & We also learn who Jester & Pin Head were (oddly Six Shooter & Tunnler's past is omitted). Again David Allen's stop motion animation puppet effects are well done & well caught on camera. The direction by David DeCoteau is superb & very well handled. That said, as much & all as I enjoyed the film, PUPPET MASTER III is nowhere near as scary as the first two (Although it is better than the original) there is no suspense or tension on hand, nor any atmosphere that helped the first two along. The puppets & Toulon are no longer bad guys, but good guys & this film is the very one that would basically spell out how the remaining chapters that followed this one would go. This is mainly due to Producer Band receiving letters from children, saying how much they loved the movies & would draw him pictures of their favourite puppet. As a result, the blood letting would not be as over the top & this film would be the last PUPPET MASTER movie that would feature the requisite sex & nudity. After this, the series would slowly but surely, become more like adventure films, with some horror around the edges, which resulted with each passing entry growing worse as they went along. Despite some of it's short comings, the film makes up for it with the story, which is arguably the best one the series has to offer. It is very interesting as are the characters & the acting is well above par for the series! in fact the film is the best reviewed by fans & critics & Producer Band would later re-visit this films storyline in latter entries, even going so far as bringing back Director DeCoteau several times, but he would never recapture the effectiveness this film had. The films continuity error continue to grow, as the film is set in 1941, yet in Part 1, Toulon kills himself in 1939!. Also we find out here that Ilsa was Leech Woman, since Toulon made her so. Then why did he think the heroine in Part II was Ilsa re-incarnated? surely he would have remembered that Leech Woman was Ilsa? & Toulon claims he learnt the magic of re- animation 15 years prior when he went to Egypt with his wife Ilsa. This too would be incorrect, since In Part II, it was 1912 when Toulon & Ilsa discovered the secrets & didn't Jester get made & given life at the beginning of the original film, a few minutes before Toulon shot himself? if so, how is he alive here?All in all, I highly recommend PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE, it's a very fun movie, with a story that is very easy to get hooked into & plenty of great stop motion animation & fun characters. Prequeled by RETRO PUPPET MASTER. Followed (story wise) by PUPPET MASTER AXIS OF EVIL & PUPPET MASTER AXIS RISING. Followed by a sequel PUPPET MASTER 4**** stars "},{"Title":"The best out of them all","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Puppet Master III is, in my opinion, the BEST Puppet Master in the series. Best script, actors, puppets, and overall best violence. It does go back in time to WWII but that makes it even better because you see what the puppets can really do. I would suggest this film to anyone that loves horror/cult films. "},{"Title":"Great premise, stagey, but terrific horror parody.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great premise, stagey, but terrific horror parody. Some of the inspiration for directing shows but it is the acting which carries the body of this movie. A couple of actors do try to carry it to the morgue (Say- wasn't that David Lynch?) and the rest do a very credible performance. No this isn't high art, get real! This is a horror flick - the DRIVE-IN genre!! Cudos to Aaron Eisenberg for a great command performance as Patrick. His work crafting the character really shows. (More so when you recall he went on to DS9 as Nog among other notables.) Try not to be jaded by the glitzy, schmanzy flicks that through Terminator your way, or Independence Day. There is not a lot of craft in throwing mega-bux into production. Nor is there a lot of heart. So, relax, have some popcorn, just enjoy the movie.  "},{"Title":"To date the best in the series!!!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this when it came out on video back in 1991 or 1992...anyways! I was very impressed with this installment in the Puppet Master saga. Very imaginative script and eye catching sets.  The puppet do look alive and very scary when they are killing someone.  Really the only on in the series that I have made an exhausted attempt to own.  Which I now do... "},{"Title":"By far the best out of the series","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some PM fans say PM 2 is the best and some say PM 3 is the best, PM 2 was a good entry in the series but it got a little too weird towards the ending. But PM 3 is a great entry in the series for so many reasons. For one thing it's the most serious and emotional, second of all, it actually shows the origins of Blade and Leech Woman, that's right, this is a prequel to the original PM.Most of the acting is great, Guy Rolfe is perfect for the role as the amazing Andre Toulon. Richard Lynch is bad ass as the main villain Gestapo Major Krauss, one of the best b movie villains ever. The only bad thing about this film is that Blade is barley in it. "},{"Title":"Wow, where did this plot come from?","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For a movie made by Full Moon studios and whose prior two sequels were kind of fluffy in terms of plot and such this one was very well done. I would say this movie is sort of a prequel to the previous two puppet master movies, however, the character of Toulon is done so differently here that he seems like a entirely different character than he was portrayed in the other two movies. The story has him as a puppeteer during the Nazi regime. Many of his friends have been killed, and he has indeed placed their souls so to speak in his special puppets. Certain Nazi agents are aware of this and want the secret, tragedy ensues and Toulon begins his quest for revenge. Once again, the plot is totally different from the other puppet master movies, and it works great for a Full Moon film, they should have made more movies like this and they might still be around today. Of course, I do not know if they are gone or not, but I have not seen a movie by them in a long time now. By movies like this, they do not have to have super scripts or anything, just a horror movie that did not feel the need to have lots of laughs in it. I like comedy horrors when done right, but you have to do them right. This one is not a horror comedy, but it has good pacing and rather good acting for a low budget movie. The highlight of the puppet master series. "},{"Title":"!!The Best of It's Series!!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by Far The Best Puppet Master Film. The Main Reason I Loved It Is The Fact That It Takes Place Before The First Puppet Master. But That's Not The Only Reason. Six-Shooter is My Favorite Puppet, and this is his Debut Film. But Don't Think Those are The Only Reasons to Watch This film. The Best Reason is that It Is Scary. Really Scary. It is not only Scary, But Terrifying. It has Many Twists and I Would Reccomend It for Any Fan of The Puppet Master Series, or Any Horror Movie Buff. I Would Without doubt Give It 5 Stars Out of 5. A MUST SEE!!!! "}{"Title":"Short review about....","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best Puppet Master Films, with a lot of laughs and a lot of gore! Introduces Six-Shooter, and add a little to the backstory of the Puppet Master films set during the Nazi-era. Get to see how Blade is being made! Awesome but cheap special-effects add to the atmosphere. "},{"Title":"A B-movie alright...dull !","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nazi's doing dark experiments, puppets coming to life to kill people, yeah I thought I was gonna enjoy this horror movie. Unfortunately most horror movies are B-movies, so is this one. And it shows. The worst thing about this movie is the acting. It's so wooden, it made this movie unbearable to watch. Some of the fx weren't bad, but most wasn't. If you want to see a movie about puppets causing havoc, go see Small Soldiers or Toy Story... "},{"Title":"Good prequel with no strings attached...","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge is set in 'Berlin - 1941' where scientist Dr. Hess (Ian Ambercrombie) is working on a project for the Nazi's in which he is attempting to bring the dead back to life so they can be used as a human shield in battle. Meanwhile puppet master Andre Toulon (Guy Rolfe) makes fun of Hitler in his show's, fellow puppet maker & Nazi Lt. Eric Stein (Kristopher Logan) becomes aware of Toulon & his political satire which pokes fun at Hitler. Stein is also suspicious of Toulon's incredibly life like puppets, he reports back to his boss Major Krauss (Richard Lynch) who sends the Gestapo in. Dr. Hess wants Toulon alive so he can find out how he gives life to his puppets, Krauss captures Toulon but in the process kills his beloved wife Elsa (Sarah Douglas). Toulon is devastated & vows vengeance on those who killed his wife & he uses his puppets special skills to do so...This Full Moon production was the third entry in the Puppet Master series of films, an unusually high quality couple of flicks that introduced us to the pretty damned cool killer puppets of Andre Toulon. Since Full Moon aren't exactly know for the quality of the films they produce imagine my surprise when Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge actually turned out to be good & considering David DeCoteau is one of the worst genre filmmakers ever I was doubly surprised. The script by C. Courtney Joyner is a fun little romp & showcases Toulon & his murderous puppets to good effect in a fairly original & well thought out story which is silly but not too silly & is set before the previous two Puppet Master films. The character's are good, the dialogue is fine & there are some nice set-piece scenes involving the cool killer puppets which to be honest is the only reason anyone is watching this. This may sound silly but Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge bears a few resemblances to the recent big budget Hollywood horror flick Hannibal Rising (2007), wait a minute don't laugh straight away because if you think about it both films are the third entries in their respective series, both films are prequels to the previous two, both films are at least in part set against the backdrop of World War II, both films feature evil & sadistic Germans/Nazi's/those associated with them, both films feature the main title character hunting them down & gaining revenge on them for some horrible wrongdoing & both are, when it comes down to it, nothing more than simplistic revenge flicks. Sure the content may be different but the themes & ideas are actually not a millions miles from each other, am I right or not? However, Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge isn't an overblown bore that goes on forever & I know which one I'd rather see again & it ain't Hannibal Rising.Director DeCoteau does OK which in itself is an achievement, the film moves along at a nice pace, there's some decent gore, a touch of nudity in a couple of scenes & the killer puppets are just great fun to watch, they are totally cool & I'd rather watch them than Chucky from the Child's Play films, period. This one sees the first appearance of Six Shooter while I still say Blade is my favourite, the special effects aren't quite as good as in the previous instalments & there's noticeably less of them but they're still fine. The ending is good here with the main bad guy strung up like a puppet himself using huge meat hooks attached to rope.With a supposed budget of about $800,000 this didn't have much money spent on it so it's surprising at how good this looks, it's not going to win any awards but it's competent with reasonable special effects & decent production values. The German period setting is well realised with convincing costumes & props, this was actually shot at Universal Studios apparently. I must admit to really liking the main Puppet Master theme music & I'm glad they used it again here. The acting is fine with Rolfe & Lynch both putting in a decent shift as the hero & villain respectively.Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge is a very good prequel, sure it's not as good as either the original Puppet Master (1989) or Puppet Master II (1991) but it's still an entertaining killer toy type film that I enjoyed. Followed by Puppet Master 4 (1993), Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter (1994), Curse of the Puppet Master (1998), Retro Puppet Master (1999) & finally Puppet Master The Legacy (2004) before the killer puppets appeared in the spin-off travesty that was Puppet Master vs Demonic Toys (2004). "},{"Title":"What is this #$%*?","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, wait. So, first they make PUPPET MASTER and PUPPET MASTER II. Then, they make a prequel and then they make two more sequels. First off, if they were going to make this terrible excuse for a horror movie, they could have at least done the story in order, with this crap at the beginning. But they're probably too smart for that. They knew that if they made this the first film, that no one would be dumb enough to go back and see all of the many sequels. So, nevermind, that was actually pretty smart on their part.Now, again, what is this #$%*? I have never seen such a dumb movie in all my life. There are absolutely no scares in this film, and not to mention that it is boring as hell. I'm not even going to write about it anymore because I think my head might explode. PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE gets 1/5 only because it had the puppets in it and because it occured during World War II. "},{"Title":"Rather Deep Prequel That Delivers","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master III (1991) ** 1/2 (out of 4) The third film in the Full Moon series is a prequel to the first two and takes place during WW2 as Andre Toulon (Guy Rolfe) is captured by the Nazies after doing a spoof of Hitler. They eventually murder his wife and want him to tell them how to bring life to the dead but instead he and his puppets set out for revenge. For a direct-to-video release I think most people are going to be shocked at how serious the majority of this film is. You're certainly not going to confuse this with SCHINDLER'S LIST but for a cheap, low-budget horror film the thing has quite a bit to say. I was really surprised to see how much drama the movie tries to build up and this includes stuff early on between Toulon and his wife but we even get another subplot about a man and his son hiding from the Nazies. With that said, the majority of the running time this here is just a revenge flick and a pretty good one at that. I thought what really carried the movie was the very strong performance by Rolfe who fits the role very nicely. You really have no problem believing that he's this brilliant man who brought life to these puppets but the character also works when he simply wants to kill those responsible for the death of his wife. I also enjoyed the way the screenplay introduces the puppets this time out and that includes the creation of Blade as well as a new puppet, a six-armed cowboy who of course has a gun in each arm. The death scenes this time are fairly creative, although we get a couple typical gun deaths there's one very memorable sequence early on dealing with a man trying to be brought back to life by the Germans. The gore level isn't all that high but we do get some nudity and brief sexual situations to add to the R-rating. The film was shot for around $800,000 and it certainly looks it in spots. I think it's fair to say that you never once get the feeling that you're watching something that takes place in the 1940s and it's also fair to say that the costumes, sets and locations are all silly looking. However, with such a low-budget the special effects are actually pretty good as it's clear the studio was getting better making the puppets appear to be real. PUPPET MASTER III is certainly the best of the first three movies and it tackles a subject that not too many horror films have dealt with in a serious way. "}]