[{"Title":"Solid and Underrated","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Solid, underrated thriller about murder and the domino effect of lies. Demi Moore stars as Cynthia Kellogg, a woman caught in the middle when her best friend (played by Glenne Headly) murders her jerk of a husband -- or so it seems. Great performances and intriguing plot twists and turns help elevate this forgotten effort from director Alan Rudolph (Breakfast of Champions, Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle). Moore and Willis (who went on to marry after reportedly meeting on this film) are particularly effective. Mortal Thoughts is made all the more memorable in that it constantly asks the viewer what he or she would do in the strenuous situations in which the characters find themselves. "},{"Title":"A Stellar Film Noir","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not being a fan of either Demi Moore or Bruce Willis, I was not prepared to be blown away by both their performances in Mortal Thoughts. The two actors give nuanced and very real performances as regular Jersey folks, and Glenne Headly steals the movie. Demi (Cythia) and Glenne (Joyce) play lifelong friends, both beauticians at Joyce's shop. Joyce is married to the insufferable Jimmy (Willis), who alternately ignores, harasses, and hits her, when he's not out partying. Joyce is constantly talking about killing Jimmy, and since the movie begins during the investigation into his death, the movie raises your suspicion from the start.The entire movie is told as a flashback during the police questioning of Cynthia, and Demi manages to bring to life a scared, distraught, exhausted and defensive woman whose life as a simple mother of two has been turned upside down. Harvey Keitel, as the lead investigator into the case, gives an amazing performance, supplying the audience with the right level of doubt about Cynthia's story to keep the suspense flying until the end - and all while sitting in the same chair for most of the film! Glenne Headly shows just how good she is as Joyce goes from kooky and fun to paranoid and potentially dangerous. The ending manages to tie all the ends of the mystery up while grabbing at your emotions. Truly a satisfying film for a dark and stormy night.  "},{"Title":"Demi Moore was Outstanding","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Demi Moore,(Cynthia Kellogg),G.I. Jane, played an exceptionally difficult role, where she gets involved with a very abusive lover played by Bruce Willis,(James Urbanski) who has mood changes like the weather, hot, cold and goes completely nuts. I was beginning to lose my patience with Cynthia because she never reported these incidents to the police in order to prevent this horrible human abuse. This is a good film to show innocent women in this world, if you experience this type of behavior, run to the nearest police station and turn this guy in immediately. However, I must say that Bruce Willis did such a great acting job, you actually grew to hate him and the role he played. Good Film, Enjoy "},{"Title":"Striking Change of Pace for Alan Rudolph","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first rented this film (I don't remember it being in movie theaters) I was excited to see what Alan Rudolph, who I associate with looser style character studies, would do with the taut, slick format of a thriller. Indeed, the whole presentation of the film is very different from the funky CHOOSE ME, one of my favorite films. The music, the pacing, the INTENT of the film-making are markedly different from this director's other works.MORTAL THOUGHTS is not a wholly satisfying film, but I am humbled to say that I was amazed by Demi Moore's performance. I have never sought out a film starring this husky voiced pinup, and have found her off-screen persona to be arrogant and grating. In the big films of hers that I'd seen, I considered her adequate...striking to look at, but slightly mechanical and hollow. Here, playing a working class beautician from New Jersey, her emotions are very real and she has a human warmth and vulnerability. Plus, with the tricky lighting and creamy lenses of big budget cinematography taken away, one can see what a natural, diminutive beauty she really is.Moore's interaction with the rest of the cast is never false. This is understandable with Bruce Willis (as he was her husband at the time) but she plays equally well with respected serious actors Glenne Headley and Harvey Keitel. In fact, in one midpoint interrogation scene in which he's slow coming in on a few cues, Keitel actually seems to be holding Moore BACK! Who would have thought?Maybe the surprise of seeing Moore be so convincing makes the performance seem stronger than it actually is, but I truly was deeply impressed with her work here. Perhaps playing a woman close to her own roots (Moore was raised in a series of trailer parks) unleashed something in the actress and let her relate to the role on a more personal level. Maybe having Rudolph, who is famous for drawing tender, intimate performances from his actors (see AFTERGLOW!), at the helm is the explanation. Whatever the reason, Moore is a knockout here, and the film gave me new respect for her. She is very affecting, and unforgettable.  "},{"Title":"Very Ordinary Suspects","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Bryan Singer's 'The Usual Suspects' was itself a rather unusual thriller almost the entire plot consisted of a criminal suspect telling the police a lie. By literally representing the character's words in images, the film exploited the trust that any movie-watcher has to put in what they see; the very concept of cinema only works if the audience can believe their own eyes, so it's a somewhat underhand trick to take advantage of this. But 'The Usual Suspects' nonetheless worked as a film, for three reasons. Firstly, the lie was extraordinarily entertaining in itself. Secondly, it's essentially falsity was brilliantly revealed. And thirdly, this revelation forced the viewer to reconsider everything they had seen in the film. If all movies were like this, cinema would die, but as an isolated film, it definitely made the grade.Alan Rudolph's curiously named 'Mortal Thoughts' (surely morbid thoughts are actually what feature in this film) is a kind of precursor to 'The Usual Susepcts', but less acclaimed, and with good reason. The basic tale is less interesting than in the later film; there's no cleverness in the revelation, and the actual truth does not anyway fundamentally change one's opinion of the characters. The film doesn't even try and fool the audience Harvey Keitel's policeman tells the witness throughout that he doesn't believe what she is saying, and once you accept that the woman may be lying, then the possibilities are limitless (something Singer dealt with deftly by only uncovering the lie at the very end, before it truly sinks into the audience that if the story was a pack of lies, then the truth could be anything). The result is a film that is reasonably watchable, but hardly distinguished. Yet in the true story, revealed at the end, there's actually a tale of human drama that might have driven a pretty strong film. The secondary tale of someone merely lying about such a story, however, is comparatively dull. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all I have no idea why this was named Mortal Thoughts. More appropriate would be, Fatal Lies or An Inadvertent Confession, or maybe Desperate Friends. Be that as it may, this is a superior thriller mainly because the story is compelling and the acting is first rate. Demi Moore who plays Cynthia is just outstanding. She commands the screen with her beautiful and expressive features and her great natural skill. If you don't like her, I guarantee you will not like this movie because she dominates the film. She is as vivid and unforgettable as an Al Pacino or a Betty Davis.As an aside on the career of Demi Moore, I want to say that it's a shame for her that her off-screen personality is not well liked, which in large part accounts for the fact that she is one of the most underrated, although one of the most often seen and hardest-working stars of the last fifteen years or so. This movie is an example of how she is ignored. The plain fact is her performance here is better than many who have won Oscars, and she wasn't even nominated. Another problem for her is that this movie (and others she has made) are not the sort of films that the Academy pays much attention to. Mortal Thoughts (which she co-produced, by the way) is too low-budget, too common one might say, for any part in it to be taken seriously in an artistic sense. Too bad.Glenne Headly (Joyce) is also outstanding while Bruce Willis is excellent as Joyce's drug-addled, boozing, wife-beating loser of a husband. The dialogue is right on, realistically depicting the lives of New Jersey beauty shop people while the plot told in ersatz flashbacks unfolds nicely with a fine tension.The story is that of two friends, Joyce and Cynthia who find they have to cover up a killing (NOT a murder, but at worst a manslaughter, or better yet, a case of self-defense), but fall apart as the investigation closes in on them. In a sense they are both like Lady Macbeth with blood on their hands and no effective way to wash it off. They are both appropriately naive as young working-class women, and both act foolishly, as many of us might in their predicament.Here's a nice bit of ironic dialogue. Joyce is questioning her ability to convince people about what happened. She tells Cynthia that she isn't a very good liar. But Cynthia reassures her Joyce, you're a terrific liar. You just lost confidence in yourself. This is all to the good as far as film-making goes. It is the ending that is the problem.One might ask, what happened to the ending? Maybe I need to watch this again to be sure I didn't miss anything. But better yet, YOU watch it and you be the judge. What I think happened is director Alan Rudolph truncated it. Either that or he decided to try something artistic, which I don't recommend in a commercial thriller flick. Maybe they just ran out of money and had to wrap it up. At any rate, we are left wondering what is going to happen and who actually did what to whom. Presumably, the last flashback from Cynthia tells us how Bruce Willis's character met his end, but that doesn't solve the problem of how or why (somebody else) was shot full of holes. Maybe the producers thought they would wrap it all up in a sequel. Actually, there's enough there for one, easily.I would also like to complain about a movie that acts out a false story told by one of the characters as though the story were true. That can be done, but it must be done in such a way that there is some kind of hint or coloring of the story that allows the viewer to suspect that something is amiss. True, Det. John Woods (Harvey Keitel) makes some compelling arguments along the way to suggest that Cynthia is not telling the truth, but we are mislead by the actions that our eyes see and the sounds that our ears hear. In movies, since anything can be contrived, it is the usual rule to have the camera show the truth while letting the characters do the lying.What might have saved this (and what I was expecting all the way through) is Joyce's side of the story acted out on screen so that we could compare the stories and make our choice about who was telling the truth.Bottom line better than one might expect with a realistic edge clearly a notch or two above the usual thriller fare.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Under rated movie","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I caught this on TV last night, and decided to give it a go because it started Demi Moore and Bruce Willis. Cynthia (Moore) comes forward to talk to detective John (Harvey Keitel) about the murder of her best friend's husband. The story is told as a series of flashbacks... James (Willis) was a bullying, physically abusive husband. His wife Joyce has, on a number of occasions, expressed her intention to kill him.All the cast do a fine job, Glenne Headly slightly over does it with her accent, but it's only a minor gripe. Willis is solid as the sleazy violent husband, Keitel does what is required of him and then, there is Moore. This was the second of three Box Office disappointments she made inbetween the success of Ghost and A Few Good Men. It's a shame this never found an audience as Moore puts in a really good performanceFor me, Demi Moore remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast. "},{"Title":"a well meaning, well acted and constructive thriller.","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  with an impressive cast, intelligent dialogue (some improvised) and characters that are commendably well drawn; altman protege director alan rudolph should be commended for making a watchable and thought provoking movie on the subject of marital physical abuse and the retributions of such a hideous and despicable act. the plot mainly revolves around the relationship of a typical working class new jersey couple played by the then married bruce willis and demi moore. all of the situations and characters are totally believable and down to earth unlike other movies on this subject which i think make this head and shoulders above the rest. sterling supporting performances are also given by harvey keitel as the investigating officer and glen headley as demi moore's friend. the flashback sequences are particularly well done and effective and in no way affect the overall tension which is expertly handled throughout and which constantly keeps the viewer on their toes. a movie to be treasured! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good performance","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a big fan of Demi Moore but I have to admit that her performance in this film is very good. Bruce Willis does what he does best; that is to say, he's annoying to the point where I was hoping someone would kill him and put us all out of our misery, even though I thoroughly enjoyed his character when he wasn't being mean to his wife. Glenne Headly was amazing and Harvey Keitel, one of my favorites, was once again the consummate cop.But the best part of this movie, for me, was the realism. The New Jersey accents sounded natural and unaffected, especially Harvey Keitel's pronunciation of Joyce's name as Jerce. The homes looked like regular folks lived there, not like designer-inspired movie sets. The clothes were real, the hairdos were real, and the way the characters behaved was real.I've seen this film a couple of times and I haven't found any glaring plot holes; everything follows a believable and sensible course. If Demi Moore's character is lying, she's doing a damn good job of it.The only problem I have with the story -- and it is a problem I have with many stories -- is that at some point the characters completely abandon their day-to-day lives. After Jimmy's funeral it seems that Joyce never returns to the beauty shop that she owns and Cynthia and Cookie never work another day in their lives, even though all three women depend on the income from their jobs. I would have preferred to see how Joyce's alleged descent into madness affected her business, how her customers reacted to her, and how she and the other stylists interacted during working hours.Overall I give this film an 8 out of 10. Great performances by the main characters, solid storyline, and nothing fake to distract from the story. "},{"Title":"Fairly routine","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Fairly routine mystery/drama about a young woman who comes forward voluntarily to tell of how she helped cover up the murder of a friend's husband.Alan Rudolph's film works thanks to a reasonable plot (the very alert may pick this), simple yet sensible construction and solid performances from Demi Moore, Glenne Headley, Bruce Willis and that growing Hollywood talent, Harvey Keitel.The narrative may never enthrall you, yet Mortal Thoughts remains interesting enough to keep you watching. Hardly fantastic, but over all this is not bad.Tuesday, November 2, 1993 - Video "}{"Title":"My review for Mortal Thoughts","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mortal Thoughts stars Demi Moore and her husband at that time, Bruce Willis. I was instantly intrigued by this film. The storyline is fantastic and the casting is superb (although I would say that as Bruce Willis is my favourite actor!) I was impressed by the acting, particularly Harvey Keitel, who plays police detective John Woods. Willis is also very good as evil and abusive husband Jim. He is very convincing and instantly hateable. Although the film contains some disturbing scenes, it is exciting and tense throughout, with an impressive and unexpected twist at the end. Set in New Jersey, the directing is also good, with flashing images and slow motion effects. A creepy but enjoyable film from beginning to end, and well worth the watch! "},{"Title":"Well-done mystery/character-study doomed by that terrible title!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Two best friends who work together in a beauty salon are involved in the death of one's abusive husband; police investigate and question the girls, but get conflicting stories. Anytime talk gets around to the career of Demi Moore, inevitably someone else will ask, What was the name of that movie where Bruce Willis got killed and she played the beautician? This picture got seen, but not by many, and that's a shame because it's effectively stylish, creepy and perceptive. Moore and Glenne Headly (in her best performance yet) are amazing, and Willis is excellent too in support. Lots of quiet tension and unease that brings about a palpable feeling of menace and suspense. I found it quite impressive. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Carnival","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Carnival Scene in Mortal Thoughts was actually filmed in a small-time amusement park in Scotch Plains, New Jersey called Bowcraft. The park is still in operation today and is better than ever. Ironically the Ferris Wheel that appears on the cover of the movie has since been removed due to the death of a child a few years back. "},{"Title":"Thelma and Louise for Adults.","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Thelma and Louise was an entertaining movie about two women who shed their men and take off on a vacation in their convertible, during which they kill one man and humiliate and rob innumerable others. It's all okay, though, because all men are brutes anyway and deserve what they get. The climax has Thelma and Louise sailing off into the cerulean sky above the Grand Canyon, laughing gaily all the way.Demi Moore and Glenne Headly are pals too, and it has its comic moments, but it's not a cartoon but rather a reasonably well thought-out narrative of friendship, love, hypocrisy, marriage, betrayal, morality, and community. I don't mean to make it sound more complicated and pretentious than it is. It really boils down to a murder mystery.Moore is being questioned by the police and she tells the story in a series of flashbacks. Her girlhood friend, Headly, is married to the most abusive and obnoxious man you could ever hope to meet (Willis) and one night apparently cuts his throat and kills him. Moore helps Headly out, dumping Willis's body, getting rid of evidence, lying to the cops, and so forth. The murder is blamed on car jackers.Here's an example of what I meant before when I referred to comic moments. At Willis's wake, Moore's father, an old-fashioned, working-class, urban type, blames the killing on black kids, going into this extravagantly angry, hand-waving rant about how they should take all of them, line them up against a wall, and shoot them. Then immediately he asks about Willis, Did he rent or own? All the writing, comic or otherwise, is pretty clever and convincing. And the dialog coach should get a medal. Bayonne, New Jersey, is an ugly little industrial town but it's just across the Hudson from Manhattan and has a grand view of the city's majestic skyline.I don't think I'll reveal the ending because it comes as something of a surprise. Maybe a little too much of a surprise, like an Alfred Hitchcock television episode with a twist at the end. The director, Alan Rudolph, sometimes lapses into self indulgence with split-second flashbacks, mirror shots, and that sort of thing, but not often enough to distract the viewer. It may be Demi Moore's best performance in an adult movie; Glenne Headly has the most curious epicanthic folds; fascinating to see Bruce Willis as a thoroughly rotten villain; Harvey Keitel (who also tried to reason with Thelma and Louise) pronounces the name of Joyce as Jerse. "},{"Title":"Much better than typical Demi-fare","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most films that rely heavily on flashbacks feel contrived, but this film is redeemed by strong pacing and a tactile sense of desperation. The 'revelations' that occur throughout, if not necessarily original or surprising, are consistently entertaining, focusing more on the character's motivations for murder and betrayal than on the actual mechanics of the crime.  This is not a perfect movie, but it is oddly striking. I would give it a 6.5 out of 10, but the IMDB doesn't allow decimals. I rounded up to 7 because the film's current score of 5.5 is more fitting of a stodgy film like 2002's Unfaithful.7/10 "},{"Title":"Very good movie with a twist.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie one night on cable. I am happy to say that this movie was much better than I thought and as usual, Demi Moore is just awesome. Bruce Willis is also in this film but he playes her best friends abusive, drunk husband. The plot thickens when he is found dead. There is even a crazier twist at the end. Harvey Keitel was great as the detective investigating the murder. Overall I give this 8/10. "},{"Title":"I don't think that what were doing is the right thing","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** The film Mortal Thoughts despite the little attention it got when released back in 1991 generated over 19 million dollars in ticket sales. That's more the twice what it cost the studio Colombia Pictures in producing it. The film starts off with Cynthia Kellogg, Dami Moore, agreeing to be interrogated and video taped in the police station in what were the circumstances behind the brutal murder of her friend Jimmy Urbanski, Bruce Willis. Jimmy was found floating in the Hudson River with his throat slashed after he disappeared from sight at the annual Feast of Saint Rocco Festival.Interrogated by detectives John Woods,Harvey Keitel, and Linda Nealon, Billie Neal, with Woods doing most of the talking Cynthia tells the story of her friends the Urbanskis Jimmy and his wife Joyce, Glenne Headly, and what a violent marriage the two had. Jimmy a drug and alcohol as well as wife abuser got so out of hand that Joyce at one point tried to poison him, by spiking his sugar with rat poison, with a shocked in what her friend was planning Cynthia preventing that from happening at the very last moment! As for the horny as a tomcat Jimmy he had his eyes on Cynthia every time she was alone or even not alone with him alway putting his hands, on and under her bra, where they weren't supposed to be.**SPOILERS*** It was then at the Saint Rocco Festival that Jimmy high on drugs and booze made an attempt to force his way on his wife Joyce who, off camera, ended up slashing his throat with a box cutter in the couples van. It's in how both Joyce and her very reluctant friend Cynthia disposed of Jimmy's body that got the police in the persons of Det. Stone & Nealon to get a bit suspicious in Cynthia's story. The movie leads the audience and police in a number of wild goose chases with both Cynthia and her friend, who was since arrested in her husband Jimmy's murder, Joyce contradicting each other in exactly what were the circumstances that lead of to Jimmy's brutal murder; which turned out to be a case of self defense. As all this is going on Joyce now on the brink of a nervous breakdown keeps threatening Cynthia to keep her mouth shut about what happened that fateful evening at the festival or else. What the or else turned out to be was Cynthia's husband Arthur, John Parkow, who was about to take off with the kids and leave her on her own ends up being murdered, with his head blown off, by a deranged Joyce who accused him of trying to turn her over to the police.**MAJOR SPOILER** Very good but not all that surprising twist ending that's all in flashback brings out the terrible truth behind Jimmy's death. Jimmy was a brutal and uncouth individual and didn't really deserve what happened to him. But in him being the uncontrollable and sex crazed psycho that he was Jimmy went a bit too far and ended up bringing it-his death-all upon himself. "},{"Title":"Glenne Headly's best performance","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mortal thoughts is a strong character study which focuses on the friendship of two women. While the film has a degree of suspense it does move slowly at times. I enjoyed all of the performances especially Ms Headly's. One critic said that Bruce Willis should get killed early in all of his movies. That's way too harsh and  his performance is fine here. It is one of his most unusual roles to date. Give credit to big stars who allow themselves to take lesser roles when the project is right. Harvey Keitel is fine as the police detective but his character is somewhat dull. I recommend this film and list it on my top 200 films of all time. "},{"Title":"Worth the time","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of the genre but this one is very well done. The flashback technique works beautifully. The acting is good by Headly, an awesome actress who should be A-list by now. Willis, who is a bit underrated because of the action blockbusters but does comedy well, is pretty believable here in a stereotypical type character that he manages to get something more out of than your average actor. Keitel is marvelous and you have to appreciate the nuances he brings out as the pro that he is. John Pankow is good and should be working more than he is. Moore has the largest role and as usual, she's the weakest actor, but decent enough to carry off the role. The story is riveting; you always can't wait to see what happens next. The touches of humor are really funny and come naturally from the characters and situations rather than being jokes. The plot has plenty of twists. The ending, while a little unsatisfying to me, does leave it up to the viewer to make the moral decisions. If you like suspense movies and great acting, you'll love this and even if you don't, you'll enjoy it anyway. "},{"Title":"Excellent Mystery Movie","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mortal Thoughts is well acted and keeps your attention throughout.  It's a modernized Alfred Hitchcock type movie complete with Brooklyn accents. It makes you wonder how the judicial system can ever figure out who's telling the truth and also how many guilty people are acquitted because of their acting abilities.  Mystery buffs should be very satisfied. "}{"Title":"Flashback Film","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this film for its guts to take a story and almost present it all through Demi Moore talking to two police detectives(Harvey Keitel and Bille Neal) in a room - everything we see is via her character's thoughts and perceptions and ideas of truth and untruth and is entirely in flashback form. The story centers around Moore and her friend Headly recently married to a brute of a guy played by Bruce Willis - and goes from there to murder, mystery, and the eventual uncovering of what is the truth behind everything. Director Alan Rudolph does a good job creating a story convincingly told throughout by flashback and from the first person whilst coming back to present time repeatedly. This is not as easy as it sounds and has been messed up in other films, but it does work here because of Rudolph's sure directorial talents and the acting of Moore, Willis, Headly and Keitel. Demi Moore gives perhaps one her best performances(looking lovely I might add as well) as a New York woman torn between several things. Headly is as strong as is Willis. All of the actors give serviceable performances and the whole movie looks and sounds like a spin off from The Sopranos or something the way all of the actors walk, talk, and act. You will have no doubts where the film takes place to be sure. The story is inventive and delivers at the end. I didn't see it coming but others could believably so - but even if that is the case the film works on other levels as well. There are some nice psychological examinations made in the film as well as challenges made to perceptions. I must agree the title is really quite horrible and has virtually nothing to do with this film, but all in all this is quite a good thriller that needs another look. "},{"Title":"Interesting film falls short of real satisfaction.","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mortal Thoughts manages to sustain your interest throughout it is a well-structured murder mystery with good performances by the entire cast, particularly from Bruce Willis (in one of his most unconventional roles) and Harvey Keitel who, despite his limited screen time, steals the show. But the film still falls short, maybe because it never really takes off. The final twist probably influenced the screenwriter of a very popular mid-90's cop film; those who have seen both films will understand which one I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"Demi Moore very good in a better than expected film","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" `Mortal Thoughts' is another of those films which I nearly did not see, not because of any forgetfulness on my part, nor from any other involuntary reason, but quite frankly I tend to avoid any film with people like Bruce Willis (you can put in the names of Lundgren/van Damme/Stallone/Bruce Lee and other assorted muscular brainless types at your leisure) playing the big macho he-man; I'd rather have a try at cards on the computer, even though the two of clubs always goes missing when I most need it. As well as that, the title did not seem very inspiring. I mean, just how many films are there with the word `mortal' in them? I will tell you just over 200 including video films etc. according to IMDb's incredible search facility.As luck would have it, firstly there was not anything else on to while away a couple of relaxing hours, and secondly a few well-written commentaries from other IMDb users (I do not take any notice of badly-written commentaries, though of course I do take into account those little mistakes that creep in to commentaries written by people whose mother-tongue is not English) suggested that I was about to see a perfectly acceptable film.How right they were, I am glad to say. If on the one hand Bruce Willis' participation is somewhat limited and what he did was really quite decent, on the other, a very young-looking Demi Moore (29 when she made the film) played a stirring rôle, which helped to put this thriller drama a head above most of similar ilk.Alan Rudolph's directing of a well-written script produced a more than acceptable result, aided by those timely flash-backs between the interrogation and previous events. The formula was intelligently employed, such that at no time did you feel you were getting lost anywhere along the line - as so often happens in other films trying to use the flash-back/flash-forward method. Cynthia (Demi Moore) is `helping police enquiries', which means interrogated, into the death of her best friend's husband (Bruce Willis), and as she recounts events, the film flashes back, at times even synchronising with the dialogues in the interrogation. A handy device, which lent much to the coherence and continuity. Good work here by Demi Moore and Glenne Headly as her best friend, and it was real good to see Harvey Keitel as the detective (see him in `Shadrach' (1998) (qv), Ridley Scott's classic `Thelma and Louise' (1991) and in `The Piano' (1993), to name a few of his best rôles. As in all films of this genre, there is that plot twist in the denouement, but in this case perhaps it misfires a little it left me with a slight taste of incoherence after all that had happened. It left too many incognitos floating about. Perhaps the idea was not too well thought out, or perhaps I was left with the two of clubs and nowhere to put it...... Maybe I am being a little unjust, or pedantic, as the film is worth your while with some interesting interpretations from all concerned.Just about 6 out of ten on my scale, or a couple of decimals higher.  "},{"Title":"A great thrill ride!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had this movie on a tape that my mom's friend gave to me..i wasnt really interested in seeing it until i heard that Demi Moore was in it then i gave it a chance....And what an awesome flick! I loved it! The characters were so real, and Demi turned in an excellent performance as usual...Bruce Willis is okay in it..kind of unbelievable at times but other than that, i seen a very good movie! Rent it! 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Fifty ways to leave your lover......in pieces","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Talk about your off-shoot movies for major actors, like these two. Demi Moore is superb in this tale of urban violence against women and family and drug use. Bruce plays a character that I haven't seen him tackle before. He does it in an outstanding manner. Glenne Headley as Demi's close friend and co-worker drops the accent and does new Jersey as it should be done. I really didn't like this story, I was very uncomfortable, but I realize, looking back that it was right on the money. The subject needs to be dissected. Moreover it needs to be taken seriously and not swept under the carpet, as it has in many cases. Stats' read out to be 1-3 women are being abused, or have been in an abusive relationship. Demi shows her mettle, she also shows what it's like to come to the end of a violent union. Glenne, her friend was supportive and a little shaky at times. I can't figure who wouldn't be, but she was also strength for her friend. This was a dark and intense brief, look into what some are living through. I am glad that this was made, it shows the grit that it takes to just make it through the day with someone of that lifestyle. Demi is the type that is really believable in this, there aren't a lot of other actresses that have the ability to reach the emotionally burned-out look and feel that Moore does in this. Willis, was and I can't say enough about his performance as he was just a 'natural' in 'MORTAL'.When you can be close and taste it even just a little it is hard to try and blame someone for using the extreme method to exit a relationship just that way. Although, they have to take responsibility in it, when it's them that started the life together in the first place. There are 'signs' that any person should be aware of before abandoning them self to a relationship commitment. Seek counseling first, or talk with close friends around you and don't ever simply base your longing on an emotional state of being...for sure you'll be sorry in the end. And you will in deed be looking for the fifty ways to leave your lover. Recommended...learn from this one too.(****) "},{"Title":"Did they write this as they went along? (spoilers)","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Mortal Thoughts' believe it or not had the potential to be a decent thriller, if only the filmmakers knew what they hell direction they wanted things to go in beforehand (or if they did know, then they should've clued the rest of us in on it).Demi Moore is Cynthia, a distraught woman who comes in to testify about the death of her friend Joyce's (Glenn Headley) husband, a sick sadistic moron named James (Bruce Willis). James is an abusive husband, and it makes you wonder what the hell Joyce was thinking getting married to this guy (and him too, since he obviously didn't care about her). She saw his true personality from the start, since they argued about pure nonsense even at the wedding. He's just a no good guy. The guy you love to hate.Joyce always threatens to kill her husband, according to Cynthia. But, she never really goes through with it. Until one night at a carnival, when James's antics just get to be more than Joyce can take. Cynthia sure was wishing she didn't tag along, especially when Joyce shows her James bleeding to death in the back of the van, and hopeless Joyce admitting that she accidentally stabbed her husband.In one agonizingly long sequence of flashback events leading all the way up to Cynthia's decision to testify, she tells the interrogating detectives (including one Harvey Keitel) how she helped cover up the murder to protect her best friend, Joyce. But, one lie after another about what really happened seem to be a mounting problem for Cynthia more than Joyce because she seems to be the one left doing all the dirty work. What looked like helping a friend suddenly turns into a game of revenge. Suddenly, going to the cops right away after James's death doesn't look so bad now, considering the consequences Cynthia, more than Joyce, faces if she were caught. I suppose, with her confession, she hopes the police will go easy on both her and Joyce.All the while, we revert back to this interrogation, as the detectives are reviewing Cynthia's stories for loopholes, making her nervous as they point out her contradictions. And this is suppose to get our attention, not just push along the flashbacks because they never change even though her testimony may in order to accommodate the policeman's questions. But, sometimes it is just boring nitpicking rather than something that might make us consider that Cynthia's story is really just full of holes. Even Harvey Keitel doesn't make it seem interesting and neither does any of Demi Moore's forced reactions of confusion and guilt and sorrow. If the interrogation part had been much stronger, perhaps we would've been forced to take more interest in the general flashback. But the entire story is just too dull to muster that kind of support. On the other hand, the movie doesn't totally leave you hanging. The story does start to get good once Cynthia and Joyce get involved in this mess and then try one stupid thing after another to keep it quiet. But it just didn't seem like enough (and the story by itself was just too long), especially considering that the interrogation and pointing out Cynthia's contradictions are meant to make this mere drama a real thriller. It just fails to do so, and so you're left with about a half-good thriller which had the potential to be much better. And, when the final twist arrives, it just seemed like a tragic let down, rather than a real shocker. Nothing seemed to properly build up to it.  "},{"Title":"a change of pace for director Alan Rudolph","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ignore the generic title this tough and gritty murder investigation is one of the better commercial thrillers to fill a multiplex, and surprisingly cynical considering the otherwise glossy box office appeal of its co-stars. Glenne Headly and Demi Moore portray friends who become accomplices in the death of Headly's abusive husband (played convincingly by, of all people, Bruce Willis). Headly is the prime suspect, but the story is told by Moore, and there's plenty of evidence to suggest her view of the crime is not the whole truth and nothing but the truth. It's easy to guess the lie in her testimony, making the final surprise somewhat anti-climactic, but the facts at least are tightly plotted and smoothly presented. William Reilly's script maintains a high regard for suspense (even while taking a dim view of marital bliss), and the film shows much of the same distinctive, moody style as director Alan Rudolph's quirky romantic comedies. But the effect, in the service of such a downbeat scenario, is completely different, if no less compelling. "},{"Title":"Basic Talent? Demi-abled?","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing once.The suspense is well crafted. The story unfolds in flashbacks which work effectively. The score is stylish, eerie and possibly the best feature of the film. A number of optical effects greatly enhance the movie. The script is reasonable.Willis hams it up but shows some talent for acting; Keitel does OK (I usually think that he's supreme). Glenne Headly indeed, steals the show with a good performance.Demi Moore? Excellent? Awesome? My God - she's barely mediocre. It's a crime that someone with such a basic talent is paid such fortunes.  "},{"Title":"How to cover up a crime, or not.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off quite interesting. A young woman (Demi Moore) starts to confess to the police, that she was a witness to a murder, which was committed by her best friend (Glenn Headly). So far, so good. But then it takes her about 95 percent of the playing time of the movie to explain what happened. All that time you keep on thinking to yourself 'Why the hell did she do all the things, she's telling us she did ?'. And finally, because the film had to have an ending I guess, they give us the solution to the 'mysterie'. Most of us probably knew it would end like this 90 minutes earlier, but hoped the script would be more surprising. No, also the cast isn't very believable, except maybe for the policewoman, who knew all along how it would end, and wisely didn't talk.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't get into this movie","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I will confess that my personal life and upbringing played a big part in how I reacted to this film. I'm a West Coast boy top to bottom. I just could not relate to the Jersey culture or the Jersey people in this film. In all their personal relationships they were at war with one another. The characters, boys and girls, were overwhelmingly stupid in that they bought into the culture of personal violence and consuming vanity. So all in all I could not relate to any of the characters and really didn't give a rat's a** what came down. They all brought whatever happened to them upon themselves. Yes Bruce Willis was believable as a total reprobate of a human being, and Demi Moore and Glenne Headley were almost believable as two Thoroughly Beaten Beauty Shop Chicks without the sense to get out of their caustic relationships. That's enough of my rant. Good-By for Now, Minorth. "}{"Title":"Like Watching Paint Dry","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say the movie was awful, just that it was awfully slow. It seemed to have been filmed in slo-mo, if you know what I mean. The acting was decent, and there was a twist at the end, but by the time I got there, I was just glad for it to be over. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally Funny","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mortal Thoughts is a good psychological thriller with a good twist at the end. Demi Moore is excellent as always, but Gleane Headley steals the show with a superb performance as the paranoid widow. What i love about this movie is it has so many unintentionally funny moments. Id recommend this film its hilarious my rating 8/10. "},{"Title":"Headley's performance saves the film!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Who killed Glenne Headley's abusive chauvinist husband? The film never really gives us the answer but it takes us on an emotional roller-coaster from start until finish. Demi Moore sucked as the ditzy friend who helps clean the van after the night at the carnival in which divine Headley claimed to have lost control and stabbed Willis with a razor. They get rid of the body by throwing it into a deep ravine submerged with water. Of what Headley thought was her best friend is now her #1 enemy. That's all I'll say! See the film to kill a couple of hours. You might just like it!8/101991 107 min. Rated R CC. "},{"Title":"I did not like this wanna be thriller.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHFor some reason, although I should have liked this, my thoughts about Mortal thoughts were all negative. This was an attempt at a thriller, a psychological thriller, a genre I happen to love. Only trouble is, it wasn't very interesting. Probably my least favorite Demi Moore movie. Here are some of the reasons I didn't care for this(in no special order.) The whole plot was way to contrived and there was nothing frightening about it, though it was slightly creepy(But still didn't manage to fascinate.) The SECOND thing is the Bruce Willis character who really annoyed me. In fact almost all the characters annoyed me come to think of it. Very few were very likable.The movie featured amusement park scenes that could have been mysterious and intriguing-great setting-but wound up unappealing and lacked any sense of intrigue.The movie got to gory too(played almost like a horror movie then a psychological thriller at times)-and the twist was nothing to write home about AT ALL. And the way it unraveled wasn't that great. Also, the combo of Moore and Willis on film together wasn't very exciting.This was a movie I thought I'd like a lot but wound up actually disliking. This rates about a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SEE IT, JUST SEE IT!!!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Mortal thoughts is the kind of picture from which I never saw a good critic from, but God what a movie it is! The acting is superb from the beginning till the end. The story is about Cynthia (Demi Moore) and Joyce (Glenne Headly). Both are married and where as Cynthia has a workaholic as a husband, Joyce has to fill her hours with a swine, superb played by Bruce Willis who is swearing, fighting, sniffing and talking about sex during the whole movie. But the fun doesn't last long as he got killed.... But the question is  who did it? Demi Moore or Glenne Headly? And the question to that is what the film is all about, done in interogationstyle by cop Harvey Keitel. Demi Moore tells her story with flashbacks and bit by bit we know more about the history...and believe us, the plot is totally different from what is supposed to be in the beginning. Great art? Perhaps not, in fact it surely isn't but all the characters are played with tons of style (you will always remember the presence of Bruce Willis here). Sole thing which makes us wonder is who the hell was responsible for the clothes....it's made in 1991 but all we see are Duran Duran, Cyndi Lauper-haircuts...and Demi Moore looks awful in her stonewashjeans! But brilliant picture that is.... "},{"Title":"Very Intriguing Low Budget Thriller","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The hairdresser, wife and mother Cynthia Kellogg (Demi Moore) is in an interrogation room in a police department being questioned by the experienced detective John Woods (Harvey Keitel) and his partner. Through flashbacks, she reveals how her best friend and colleague Joyce Urbanski (Glenne Headly) married the scum and nasty James Urbanski (Bruce Willis); how hard Joyce's life with James was; and why Joyce became a criminal. The smart detective finds some questionable points in her statement and presses Cynthia, trying to disclose the truth. Yesterday I saw Mortal Thoughts for the second time. In the 90's, when I watched this movie for the first time, I was very impressed with such a tight screenplay and outstanding performances of the cast, and I decided to recheck my first impression. Indeed it is a great low budget thriller, almost theatrical and having a story with no flaws. Bruce Willis has a very different participation, in the role of a disgusting drug addicted, and proves that he is a good actor. Harvey Keitel in the role of an astute detective, finding the controversies in the testimony of Cynthia, is amazing. Demi Moore has also an inspired acting, in the role of a mother in a dilemma between telling a secret and hiding the truth. And Glenne Headly is also great, in the role of an abused and very unsecured low class woman. Even seeing this movie for the second time, it is very worthwhile and recommended. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Pensamentos Mortais (Mortal Thoughts) "}]