[{"Title":"A European view of Mediterraneo","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"65 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The outline of this film appears in other postings, so I will just add my two drachma by way of critical appraisal.  In case you are in any doubt, Mediterraneo ranks in my best three ever - a magnificent film. If you never see it, part of your life will have been unlived.Mediterraneo epitomises the difference between Hollywood and the demands of a largely US audience and the subtler approach of the European director/writer who seeks simply to express him/herself through the medium. I read two reviews in the Washington Post both of which managed to misunderstand the film completely, one going so far as to characterise the cast as Marx Brothers. In fact, they are probably the finest ensemble of characters I have ever seen in film - a completely disparate group of individuals who nearly all manage to find spiritual (and sexual) fulfulment in the sensuality of Aegean island life.The film is multi-layered and, the more obvious ones, such as the powerful anti-war message and the venality of post-Fascist Italy are often mentioned. But no-one has ever picked up on the phrase una face, una race which is repeated throughout the film.  This is the nostrum that Italians and Greeks have a common Mediterranean heritage (come on Washington Post hacks - didn't the title give you a clue?) and that there is an enormous irony in the Italians - who rightly pride themselves on the antiquity of their civilisation - seeking to subdue another culture whose origins are 2000 years older.This is underlined by the easy participation of the soldiers in both high and low Greek culture, .....the painting of the frescoes in the church (n.b. the Orthodox Church predating the Holy Roman Empire by centuries - clever eh!) and the wonderful unifying theme of football, which only a European or South American viewer could truly appreciate.The group's ambivalent attitude to sexual mores adds to the sense of the place as essentially a home for Greco-Roman sensuality - a fact which is gloriously exposed with the later juxtaposition of our band of heroes with the starched British Royal Navy officers who arrive to remove them from the island.I have not seen any mention in other reviews of the beautiful cadence of the Italian dialogue - as lilting as the bazouki music which accompanies much of the film.The sense of disillusionment that takes over the film at the end is very powerful and it is no accident that Salvatore shows us the Lieutenant returning to the island on a ferry full of burnt-pink tourists.This is a film that can only truly be appreciated if you have a feeling for, and understanding, of European culture. This is a film for grown-ups.Mediterraneo demonstrates that though box-office grosses for European films are small (unless it is something produced explicity for a US audience, like the truly dreadful Four Weddings) our directors have managed to stay true to their craft.If there are not enough car chases or shoot outs for you, look out for the five-star ratings in the Washington Post.Fact 1 Only 10% of Americans possess a passport Fact 2 None of them review for the Washington Post. "},{"Title":"The small island in the Aegean","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mediterraneo, which we saw during its debut run locally, has stayed fresh as when we first saw it. This small, endearing film has a lot going for it. In fact, it makes a perfect statement against WWII, or any war, for that matter, without being in one's face. The subtlety of this film stays long in the viewer's mind.We are presented a group of Italian soldiers on a mission to set a base in a small, and apparently uninhabited island in the Aegean Sea, not too far from Italy, but millions of years away in the way it has stayed primitive enough to offer anything to these men. As soldiers, under the command of Raffaelle, these are not the typical professional soldiers. In fact, these men discover themselves and a world they didn't know existed during their time in the island.What surprises the soldiers is not to encounter anyone living in the village facing the sea, where they disembark. It becomes clear everyone is hiding from them. When the populace discover these men are harmless they return and embrace the invaders with open arms. After all, they feel the Italians share a lot in common with them.The men, obviously abandoned, and lacking means of transportation, get stuck in the island. In fact, they don't realize, but when the Italian aviator arrives in his one engine plane, he is amazed how many years have passed since they arrived at that remote spot.This small film is a delight to watch. Diego Abatantuono makes a great Lorusso. Claudio Bigati, is Raffaele, the man with an artistic eye, who sees the beauty of the classical Greek design. Vanna Barba plays Vassilessa, the local whore who falls in love with the shy Farina(Giuseppe Cederna). The rest of the cast does a good job under Mr. Salvatores' direction.Watch this film as it will delight fans of Mr. Salvatores and the Italian cinema. "},{"Title":"Poetry and the Sea","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Mediterraneo is all about the sea.It is actually part of a trilogy from Salvatores (with Marrakech Express and Turne') about those who run away.It's about friendships, it's about people living their life in this beautiful planet. Enjoying the stars and the deep blue sea.It's about the stupidity of war, and how soldiers are foremost people and they should never forget that. (Notice the line on how good it would be if you trade weapons for hashish)It's about man being the same over millennia, since what makes him feel alive and happy has not changed a bit. Since what so many people fret about is the ugly uselessness of power. (Notice the ancient Greek poetries that are read at night)This movie is all about the greatest sea there is, the sea that will always be at the center of everyone's life. It's the sea for man. The oceans are not for man's size.It's the sun, it's blue and white.  "},{"Title":"Watch it and then go for a holiday","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A beautiful movie that addresses life's simple pleasures. Marooned on an island, this band of soldiers are left with nothing to do and no war to fight.  They mull around waiting for their apparent call up while soaking up along the Mediterranean.  As their thoughts of war wane, they begin to explore the meaning of life.With minimal dialogue, the juxtaposition between death (war) and life (the sea) is remarkably achieved through brilliant cinematography.  With the sea as a backdrop, we are asked to question our existence and deduce our priorities.  This film will make you go for a holiday! "},{"Title":"A funny, gentle story","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A squad of Italian soldiers arrives to occupy a remote Greek island during WW2, but soon goes native as the immediacy of the war slowly recedes from their island paradise. I enjoyed this film immensely. I hope this is only available in the original Italian with subtitles. The dialog among the soldiers is so quintessentially Italian and funny, that a dubbed version would lose almost everything in translation. The locations are terrific, the plot development is subtle but never boring, and it's a joy to watch a film that encourages you to lean forward and savor it, rather than one that pins you in your seat with technology and effects. "},{"Title":"What a beautiful work of art","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Whatever you can ask for in a film is sure to be found in Mediterraneo. This is certainly one of the best European films of the decade; very warm, appealing, and hilarious. The story of a small group of Italian soldiers (they're not actually very soldier-like) stranded on a beautiful Greek island during Second World War is very nicely depicted by director Gabriele Salvatores. The characters of Nicola Lorusso, Raffaele Montini and the soldier in love with Vassilisa are great. The island itself is beautiful, which calls to some incredible cinematography. The musical score is spectacular, a delicious medley of Italian and Greek folkloric music. My verdict 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Soldier's Escape","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I think IMDb explains the plot best An Italian ship leaves a handful of soldiers in a little island; their mission is to spot enemy ships and to hold the island in case of attack. The village of the island seems abandoned and there isn't a single enemy in sight, so the soldiers begin to relax a little. Actually, the island isn't deserted and when the Greeks understand that those Italians are harmless, they came out of their hiding places in the mountains and continue their peaceful lives. Soon the soldiers discover that being left behind in a God-forgotten Greek island isn't such a bad thing, after all...The film won the Oscar for Best Foreign film in 1991 and I'm pretty sure this wasn't the best foreign film of that year, but I can understand why it won. The film captures something I think many people can relate to or understand...escape. These soldiers find an escape from the war. Which is something anybody who has been in a war can relate to. And, the film also captures the freedom these men have. For the moment they're at the island they can also escape from their everyday responsibilities and do what they like best. That's something most people want. For instance, the lieutenant enjoys painting and at the island he gets the opportunity to paint the church. Instead of fighting a war or worrying about how to pay the bills he is doing what he enjoys best, painting. The film may not be the best foreign film of 1991, but it is a very warm-hearted film that you will enjoy.3 (***) out of (****) "},{"Title":"light film, heavy message","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  It was a very good Italian film I've seen along with Cinema paradiso and Barnabo delle Mongtagne. On the island they forget everything, just enjoy peace and simple jolly life. 30years later,a few people left the island come back, because they couldn't adjust themselves in the world. Only place to return to was the island. On watching the film, I was quite saddened, because our life is like a dessert where Utopia is nothing but a mirage. Director's words I'd like to dedicate this film to people who want to run away says all. Very memorable film!!!    "},{"Title":"MedditerraneoClassic Italian Humour","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I am not one for Italian movies but this was a cracker. If you have to go by the sub-titles then pay attention at the beginning when the soldiers are in the process of securing the town and they engage a chicken.....its a bit of humour that has stayed with me for years since watching it.It is one of those feel good movies that you just don't want to end...highly recommended.In an age where any discerning movie goer struggles to find a decent movie at a video shop because of all the crassy Hollywood type movies that are churned out, this is a must watch movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful antiwar movie","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Italian cinematography always had interesting and beside all great movies. Mediterraneo is definitely one of them with strong antiwar message. A movie that Americans cannot make cause they haven't experienced wars like the ones that were led on European ground.Story starts when Italian ship leaves a handful of soldiers in a little Greek island during World War II. Italian soldiers must hold that island by any cost. Island seems to be deserted and when their sheep gets destroyed by enemies, soldiers must find a way to live on that island. Soon they found out that the island is not deserted when Greeks came out of their hiding places in the mountains. All of the inhabitants are women, children and old men, so soldiers began to relax and finally live their lives.Gabriele Salvatores made a movie situated during a war without any war scene, presenting the Greek island as heaven on Earth for those untypical soldiers. All of them have their dreams and desires, but as time pasts by, only one soldier always tries to leave at all cost (he wants to come home to his wife). Antonio Farina falls in love with prostitute Vassilissa (gorgeus Vanna Barba) and they even stopped counting days on that island, so they don't know what is happening in the war or in outside world. This island present oasis, imaginary world where everyone is happy. Like some sort of utopia. So from the first to last scene Salvatores directs this movie with no mistakes, cause he had great scenario, actors and he found beautiful location in Greece. I specially liked Diego Abatantuono in role of Nicola Lorusso, but I must also mention Claudio Bigagli and Giuseppe Cederna. Every single person who worked on this drama with elements of comedy created a movie that we all can watch whenever we want to escape from to real world. But is there a place like this on Earth? Yes, I think there are plenty of places like this, but we have to look for them cause nothing good comes easy. "}{"Title":"With Fuzzy Logic At Its Core","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Mediterraneo is a treat to watch. A feast not limited to the eyes, it reminds me somehow of Babette's Feast. The two movies have, in my opinion, much the same chemistry, though altogether different physics.The movie is replete with life and beauty. It is blessed with the rhythm of an enthralling sea, the almost ripple-free life of a village like town, the heat of day and the quiet of night. And above all this is house-full of noises, noises made by people, young people, at war and in love.What really touched me about this film was the fact that every body apparently gets what he had missed. The letter-writer does get a chance to escape. Cpatain busies himself in decorating the local church. Lorusso is happy with his extrovert style of life. And so is Farina, only he is introvert. Likewise, other men find ways to satisfy themselves. Last and probably the least, the followers of Saint Balthasar, make their own contribution towards fun, chaos and misery that other more self-important members of this no-mission task force are going through. It is fantastic to see how these tense woe-befallen war-laden become gradually satisfied with themselves and at ease with their surroundings. Whom, other than themselves were they ever at war with?Again, it is wonderful to watch them both anxious and worried simultaneously, at the very prospect of retuning to peace and quiet of home, i.e., when the man in the helicopter brings the news of lost causes and changed times. A new world order awaits them on the other shore, to which they are later obliged to migrate, only to suffer ridicule, confusion and disillusionment. Only one man stays behind. Antonio Farina, who with his humble beginnings and meager infatuations showed no promise at all in the outset, yet in the long run, emerges as the most powerful, most memorable character of them all. From Italy's point of view, he is a run-away. From island's point of view he is the one who stayed. Madly in love with the ex-prostitute of town, he hides himself in one of the barrels used for storing olives. For one spare moment, he resembles the Baron-in-the-trees, Italo Calvino's hero in the second part of his Our Ancestors trilogy.All this happens during the course of this film. And yet there always is this almost magical aura of nothing happening at all, and a foreboding of what is going to happen, something wicked coming this way.But there is more to this movie than what first meets the eye.With its simplicity aimed at nothing in particular, Mediterraneo manages to achieve more than many films laden with heavy messages. The film raises difficult questions in an easy manner, more like a curious youth rather than an adult raging with anger. Like the see itself, it knows a deep lot which it lets us steal a glimpse of only to fathom at what wonders and monsters lie beneath surface. The film becomes all the more effective in spite of and due to its fuzziness. Mediterrraneo blurs the boundaries of war and peace, plays with the concepts of comradeship and loyalty, blends us with them, reveals certains to be mere perhaps, compares being to nothingness. This film has the magic to transcend space and time. It has fuzzy logic at the core of its magical wand.MemorabiliaBarbecue party, where they merrily eat their enemy chicken shot to kill in one-sided combat.Recitations of Greek poetry in the heat of the night.Surprise! To discover behind curtain of white sheets, a whole town, alive and kicking. They find their Oz without ever going over rainbow.The local whore files complaint for being out of job.Wedding ceremony held in the local church, renovated by the invaders.With utmost solemnity, Lorusso's bodyguard declares his eternal love for none other than Lorusso himself.The Finale Three ex-compatriots sitting around a table in Farina's hotel. Their peeling and cutting vegetables in harmony is reminiscent of their polishing and mending their guns together in an inglorious past, not so far away. "},{"Title":"Wonderful cinematography & philosophy - highly recommended","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The message at the end of this film states that it is dedicated to all of those who are running away - as at least three of the main characters in the film ultimately do. As such, it could not be greater escapism for all of us watching; the only way would be to travel to Greece ourselves!Mediterraneo is one of those films that can only make its audience think, laugh, reflect on deeper questions despite the fact that the actual storyline therein is quite simplistic indeed. A number of Italian soldiers, stranded on a Greek island, miss out on the end of World War II - such is the premise here and, just like that, this could have been quite the run-of-the-mill umpteenth boring war film, if done in a certain more marketable way... But it was done the European way exploring the thoughts, aspirations, even a hint of the souls of these soldiers, rather than their militaristic exploits. And it was done in a lyrical way, even, I dare say! This movie delves into what every single soldier truly aspires to, even in the midst of war - and that is peace and love of course. And where better than a paradisaical Greek island to find such a thing, hmm?Even if time does not allow for much exploration, the ensemble cast is well-defined and each soldier is given such endearing personality traits through the characters as they were written as much as through the fine performances by each and everyone in the cast. They are funny, witty and oh-so-Italiano, while the ladies they meet on the island are voluptuous and strong, and oh-so-Greek too...! Beyond boundaries and borders, we are all the same and this film underlines that in many ways. There is another phrase that will stay with you after all this, if you are either nationality or belong to any other in the vicinity of the Mediterranean sea; and it is one race, one face. Or the later, amusing version of it, as the second-in-command makes it up as he is indulging in all the good food that is so plentiful there one race, one stomach.The scenery is stunning, the music is haunting - I cannot say enough (or more than has already been said) about the intrinsic qualities of this production. It is a feast for all the sense - and for the soul as well.Above all, the entire exercise reminds us of this, too life is so short. Enjoy it while you can. Find that place where you can finally stop running away. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" An outstanding movie. The film flows like water, masterfully directed.Watching this film was enjoyable and it seems like an escape from reality.In them we can identify our desires and our feelings. Escape from the world of war. Shows how little is enough to be happy. Luzers in the war are actually winners and lucky people. People who would kill other peoples yesterday, show us real face, ordinary people with same wishes like ours. This movie proof that is not necessary to spend millions of $ to make great movie. For me personally it is a pleasure to watch this movie any time, sometime I feel that I would like to find similar place today to escape from our modern, hectic life. All in all, great movie, I wouldn't change anything. "},{"Title":"The Way War Ought to Be","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I was awake at 300AM with insomnia the first time I saw this film.  When the English subtitles appeared, I thought, I don't want to read a movie, I want to watch one.  A few minutes later, I was hooked. Now, I own a copy and watch it every few months.  It's a story about a group of men, in soldiers uniforms, sent to a Greek Island of no significance, who are forgotten about and left for years.  They adapt as humans do when placed in a different environment.  Because they are Italian, they do it as only Italians can, with simplicity and grace.  I'm glad to have it my video collection.  "},{"Title":"War Drama Comedy","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This war comedy drama is a breezy, colorful and often funny film set on a small Greek island during world war 2. A ship lands on the deserted Island with soldiers defending it from invading Germans. The troops soon find some old men and a group of young women, including a prostitute living on a beautiful oasis in the middle of nowhere. They are well fed and entertained by the inhabitants and learn to love their environment.The cast is excellent and the story moves along with a moving script. The scenery is gorgeous and this is a feel good movie which is on my list of best foreign films. "},{"Title":"A beautiful postcard from Mediterranean world","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Honestly I don't know how this movie could have been translated into English or other languages, since I'm referring to the original, Italian, version of it. I never expected any American so-called critic to full understand what European, and specifically southern-European movies can be about, since we never based the quality of a movie on the amount of car chases, shooting, explosions, well polished (but fake) dialogues and so on. Our cinema is far less shiny but more down-to-Earth. The director, through the words of the character of Lt. Farina, in the very beginning of the movie starts telling a story, which could have been truly happened that way. Why? Because in Italian movies actors act like normal everyday people is. So it appears pretty credible what happened in the movie, between acts of humanity, friendship, inner struggles. Of Course there are typical elements of Italian culture throughout the plot, as the soccer matches, the highly informal language, the warm friendship, and of course to whom is totally unaware of Italian culture, these can appear as childish and pretty silly. But if you look deeply into that, if you leave all prejudices aside, you will discover a beautiful postcard which paints a wonderful small Greek island, in which Italian and Greek people (re)discover their common cultural origins. With the WW2 as background (but there are no fights at all). All in all, reading about American reviews about this movie, in which the writers looked at this movie with a smile of superiority, it reminded me about the part in which the two British sailors came to rescue the marooned soldiers, point at them with a sort of disgust and justify their feelings with Italians. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This film reminds me there are still wonderful films that are true works of art. Beautiful open eyes dream on the worst nightmare of war that becomes the most beautiful reality. Great directing and beautiful colors are just following warmest human atmosphere obtained. It is hard to watch this film and not get into it. Simple life and most delicate feelings are what we love about it. Great acting and story that proves that perfection lies in the simple things. Did we make our lives that complicated that we don't want to try beauty of simplicity offered? Our heroes in this film decided to do so in pretty unconventional situation. Watch Mediterraneo and say how much do we really need to be happy. I say 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" One of my favorite movies of all time. Every element of the movie is fantastic, the cinematography, the scenery, the acting, the music... It's also always a pleasure for me to watch any movie in Italian. The plot is very beautiful, a group of young and patriotic Italians go to a small Greek island for their country and end up enjoying life as they never had before. One very timid soldier falls in love with a beautiful prostitute and another, who speaks Greek and loves literature and art, gets to paint the frescos on the walls of an old church. They are isolated from all the violence of the rest of Europe and the world, but the viewer still feels all the history of the Mediterranean, the Italians, the Greeks, the Turks. As an Italian and as a lover of history, especially ancient Mediterranean and WWII history, this is an incredible and very touching movie. "},{"Title":"This is the real Casablanca!","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I understand all the elements play in favor for this movie the scenario, the outcasts, beautiful women, and even the priest is a centered person. Everything is just perfect when you're not in war with yourself and nature. They even had guns, but for what!? hahahaha... It is a wonderful poetic movie and I understand why it won the Oscar for best foreign language movie of that year. Remember George Bush senior and Kuwait? Well, part of that too... although this time no one was aware for what, 3 years!? (man oh man!) they were suppose to be fighting the second world war! This is the best metaphor of all! A small feel-good masterpiece that will certainly transport you to paradise, especially if you're in war with the world. Casablanca fans will excuse me, but, if time goes by, then it will flash before your eyes while watching this one. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies - as an Italian (living in South Africa, far away from Italy) everything rang true. The sense of community, the sincerity and hilarity, and the more relaxed approach to life. I recently watched it again after having last seen then movie in 1991, and it reminded me again very vividly of why I loved it in the first place. For those who have not seen it, do so! In an era when we are overloaded with movies produced in Hollywood that reduces humor to anything relating to the human anatomy and bathroom (or pies) in combination, it is exhilarating to see how Europe interprets humor. While there are still elements of slapstick in the movie, it is done in a way that it amusing, and not insulting your intelligence. "}{"Title":"Outstanding film that should be put on DVD.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  The film is very entertaining and the location is photographed superbly. I would rate it along other films such as Cinema Paraiso, El Crimen de Padre Amaro, and Pantaleon Y Las Visitadoras, for its great entertainment value. "},{"Title":"A beautifully, photographed comic commentary on life, love, and fate.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A brilliant comedic look at an arresting group of Italian conquerors, who are ultimately absorbed, charmed and bewitched by the rhythm of the isolated Greek isle and its congenial inhabitants.  A wonderful cast with fine direction make this just the tonic for a case of the winter blues or blahs.  It invokes fond memories of Greek and Italian islands and the myths and legends that we learned in our youth. "},{"Title":"Dedicated to all those who are running away","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This film story is culturally valuable because of the ways in which it contradicts itself. The film's credits say that it is, Dedicated to all those who are running away. A line of dialog reinforces this idea. Lorusso says, In times like these, escape is the only way. To live and keep dreaming. And yet at the end of the film, Antonio, Lorusso and the Sergeant are all together again on the Greek island that they had wanted to escape so badly at the story's start. They escaped the war by accident. They escaped the reality of their desertion periodically with drugs, sex and games. But the film asserts that once a person allows a culture, a place, or a people to move them, there is no escaping it. Once a person finds beauty within a situation and makes a home out of it, the good feelings and ideals created in that context are forever within them. When Lorusso returns to the island many years after, he says of Italy, They didn't let us change anything. His life on the island had given him an ideal for a compassionate existence, where people can grow and change, and when he didn't feel capable of achieving that in war-torn Italy, he escaped once again to the island where he had been happy.The beauty of this story shines through because of its immense craftsmanship. The story would not have been so moving had the compassionate existence not been created by unlikely people in an unlikely place. The soldiers, the Sergeant admits early on, are a platoon of misfits a Bacchus-like Russian, a frequent deserter who wants to get back to his pregnant wife, a pair of goat-herding brothers from the mountains, a weak and feminine but ever-loyal Antonio, a man in love with Lorusso, and a man in love with his donkey. They are anything but soldierly, and their nationalistic feelings, if they ever had any, quickly wane. I feel abandoned, one of the men comments. Lorusso says, They left us here and here we'll stay. Staying on the island, early in the story, doesn't seem a very welcome proposition since Greece is the Tomb of Italians is written on the wall of the town. But the audience learns, as the characters do, that the townspeople are not only harmless but welcoming and warm. Beautiful cinematography and music ease the audience into a comfortable life on the Greek island along with the soldiers; their senses are our senses, their feelings our feelings, because the elements of film are so carefully crafted. The Sergeant's statement about the poets, philosophers, warriors, and goddesses from which they are all descended sets the tone for the film. Antonio recognizes the poet within himself, Vasilissa the goddess. The Sergeant is clearly a philosopher and Lorusso learns to project his warrior-like tendencies towards compassionate means, such as protecting his friends. The story, by allowing us to feel and witness such growth within such ordinarily quirky and believable characters, suggests that such a compassionate existence is available for everyone. The film is dedicated to the audience, who is allowed to escape within its beauty for a while, and come out knowing a little better what human compassion is capable of. "},{"Title":"Identity","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" I remember the recurring phrase Same face - Same Race. In the early '90's when I first saw the film, I was involved in diversity and multicultural education and training. There were advocates and detractors. Remember this is when the term Politically Correct came into fashion. Well, after seeing the Italians and Greeks in this film greet each other with the same face - same race phrase, I would immediately think about the message of common humanity. And then there was the comedic turn of the phrase when the Turk sailed in and they eventually smoked hashish around a campfire Same face - Same Stomach. That had me rolling on the floor. I recommend this film for anyone wanting a good story, a diversion or who likes to read subtitles, because of the different languages in the film "},{"Title":"Excellent story telling","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  This movie clearly deserves to win Best Foreign Movie at the Oscars and is indeed one of the best Italian movies I have ever watched. It's not so much the plot as is the story telling of it. At first, we don't really know the point of the movie but as it goes on, you don't really care. You just want to enjoy the sights of the gorgeous Greek island and watch how the soldiers learn to integrate with the local community. A love story is included when one of the soldiers fall in love with the local prostitute and then marries her, presumably to help her escape her profession that she seems destined to practise for the rest of her life. As time passes by, only the appearance of a pilot (who had to land on the island coz of engine trouble) seeks to invoke some reality back of the lives they left behind and the world they were supposed to have conquered. At the end of the movie, we see how the gorgeous, quiet, deserted island of the 40's make way for the tourist attraction that it is now and you are bitterly disappointed, more for yourself and for other people.  "},{"Title":"The most charming movie in history.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  After seing this movie I had a feeling that I haven't felt very often - a feeling of pure joy. Because this movie is a celebration of life itself. Such a picturesque scenery is absolutely stunning, the way paradise probably looks like. Who can even think about war or anything like it after seeing it the way these eight italian soldiers see it. Gabriele Salvatores is a poet, he should be placed among Lorca, Petrarca and others, cause his movie is nothing but a poetry. "},{"Title":"L'armata s'agapo","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The movie presents WWII in the Aegean the way Italians would like to remember it. As a result of fascist imperialist designs on the Balkans soldiers were sent to claim back (in the views of Mussolini) what would form once more a Roman Empire. It didn't work that way, and the Italians got stuck there, and tried to arrangiarsi, do their best to survive in what was both a tragedy and a comedy. Salvatores' movie chose to show the lighter side of the war of soldiers stuck on a little island in the Aegean. Don't just dismiss what the movie show as unreal there are reasons why the Italian occupation forces in Greece earned the nickname of armata s'agapo (I love you army). The captain able to read and speak some Greek, and helping the local priest restoring the local orthodox church, the soldiers mingling with the population, etc. were quite real. For instance, a high-school teacher of mine spent his time going to the theater while he was in Athens in 1941-1943.Salvatores showed that somehow these soldiers had made a positive difference on that little island in the Aegean. It is with joy that the islanders greet back their own coming home from the war, but there is some sadness in seeing the Italians leave. At least that is what we Italians would like to believe.However, post-war Italy, or better, capitalism, bypassed the Italian soldiers as they themselves returned home, and even their little island had turned into a consumerism monstrosity. I think that here Salvatores is tossing the towel, and could have made a better movie (that's why I gave it an 8 rather than a higher grade). "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A simple, evocative and beautiful film with an envious Marino backdrop.  A well told (and partly true) account of a group of Italian seamen marooned on a Greek island.  An innocent laugh in the face of war and very moving also. Superb. "},{"Title":"Good Italian cinema Una faccia, una razza","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" The story is relatively simple, with a bunch of Italian misfit soldiers getting stuck on a remote Greek island and going native with the people who only in theory were their enemies. What sticks to one's mind, though, are the characters, most of them nicely outlined and easy to empathize with. For me, that is the hallmark of a good movie.There are some tongue-in-cheek moments, with Italians that never get used to the Greek coffee or that want to change their country for the better only to be thwarted by pettiness and greed, but most of the film shows that underneath each soldier there is a human being.This film was shown to me as a transition from Greek to Italian patronage of my institution and I have to say that I liked it a lot. It isn't a masterpiece, but I would find few reasons to dislike the movie. In retrospect, showing a movie where Italian soldiers get the Greek girls wasn't such a good choice if they wanted to keep the Greek good will in my institution, but certainly the likes of beautiful Vanna Barba playing in the film did not diminish its appeal.Bottom line you barely notice that the film is a humanist film, one that is antiwar and anti-government bull and for the human nature of all of us. I liked that it was that subtle, but still powerful. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Location, location, location!', provides a remarkable contrast to this film's military/war backdrop/context. Current DVDs of 'Mediterraneo' (1991), provide an enjoyable, if not undistinguished, digital transfer from film that could easily be improved with a clean Blu-ray print. Cinematography is inconsistent, but mostly captivatingly beautiful, likely to evoke a 'wish I were there' aesthetic. 'Mediterraneo' is a glimpse into a significant, yet often overlooked, perspective on the era. For similarly themed films consider Werner Herzog's seminal feature 'Signs of Life' (1968), and Aleksandr Rogozhkin's feature, 'The Cuckoo' (2002), all highly recommended for the WWII genre enthusiast, and/or the casual international/foreign film viewer. Also consider George P. Cosmatos' 'Escape To Athena' (1979), Fred Zinnemann's 'From Here To Eternity' (1952), Joshua Logan's 'South Pacific' (1958), Ralph Nelson's 'Father Goose' (1964), Sydney Pollack's 'Castle Keep' (1969), Steven Spielberg's '1941' (1979), Keith Gordon's 'A Midnight Clear' (1992), or Rodney Gibbon's 'Silent Night' (2002), all interesting for their unique perspectives of the genre. "}{"Title":"A great,sweet and funny Italian movie","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" A sweet and funny history in a the Greek's island. A group of young army forget by the national army arrives in a little Greek's island thinking to face the enemies,but fortunately there are only a little and gentle group of people form there. They involved from army trying' to live with this new people. Many scenarios and sketches are memorable. Probably the most important movies make by Salvatores. Cederna and Abatantuono are spectaculars in this film following' the great pasted movies like Marrakesh Express. A piece of my life.Also a little view about Greece and how to spend holidays between history and sea.In any case a great Italian movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  I've seen this movie about 6 years ago and I think I'll never forget it.It was excellent, simply the best movie I've ever seen. You can see in this movie that there is no reason to forget humanity even in a war. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable and very different WWII film.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A cadre of inept WWII Italian soldiers set up an outpost on a small Greek island where they discover all the young men have left and are quickly assimilated by the population for the duration. A best foreign film Oscar winner, Mediterraneo is a serene and amusing picture postcard scrapbook memoir which American audiences may find too understated to make contending with subtitles worthwhile. Recommended for viewers who are into Europics. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is a enjoyable, funny movie about a group of Italian soldiers in an island, with only women and children. The screenplay is the best thing of this movie, and it makes it worth watching. The characters are funny and ridiculous, and at the same time you connect with them; the storyline is simple, but interesting, even if the romances are a bit idiotic; and the dialogs are usually great, even if sometimes sappy. Besides, Italian sounds beautiful. The acting is mostly good, especially because the screenplay helps a lot. The men are all funny and make a strong ensemble, and all the women have to do is look cute. The direction is very nice, not brilliant. The sets are great; the island looks like a paradise, and you truly envy the characters for being there. The cinematography could have used the set in a better way; it wasn't bad, just you feel like it could have been better. It has touching moments, and most of it is just laugh out loud funny. It's no masterpiece, but certainly it's hilarious 8/10 "},{"Title":"Light-hearted fare","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  A group of Italians invade a Greek island during World War II, and soon, after encountering no resistance, they turn their attention to themselves and their interests, thus continuing with their lives as war rages on elsewhere in the European continent.What I found really interesting about this film is that the writers/director almost seemed to go out of their way to not be stereotypical in the depiction of the characters.This is not a movie that demands much from the viewer. Essentially, it is light, and probably good for a quiet evening at home. "},{"Title":"Kind, funny and slightly lyric movie... about war","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Well, this is definitely NOT a Hollywood film. I can't remember any American movie of such kind. There is too much Italian spirit in this movie for that.For example, Italian army is not an army in American meaning. More, it is not an army at all (doubt that Hitler had any useful help from this ally in WWII). And when a group of Italian soldiers got stuck on a small Greek island they very quickly begin to feel themselves like at home. War? What war? What is this - war? All the more that there are enough native women there... and their men are not (because of this very war). Italians have where to live and what to eat, what more do they need?Didn't I convince you yet? Then maybe you trust an Academy Awards of USA?(10 out of 10 in my vote collection, if you're interested) "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly bad","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" Incompetent Italian soldiers arrive on Greek island and learn to appreciate sex, dope, and football in the sun. That's it. Lots of scenes that you know are supposed to be funny, but they're just not.If this film had been made in 1967, there might have been some excuse for the total lack of narrative interest. Having been made in 1991, it is unforgivable. The only decent thing in this film is the scenery. The plot, such as it is, is predictable and boring in the extreme. The male characters are all cardboard stereotypes, and the female characters are so thin as to be almost non-existent.If you start watching it and you think it's maybe not that good, believe me it gets much worse.It seems incredible that the same director went on to make Io non ho paura (I am not afraid), which is excellent. Just go straight to that, and forget this early mistake. "},{"Title":"Soldiers find their destiny","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Gabriele Salvatores Mediterraneo won the best foreign film at the Oscars and its hard to believe that the Academy didn't have another film to vote for. Not that this isn't a decent film, it is. It definitely has its heart in the right place and actually has a hard statement to make about post war Italy. Eight Italian soldiers in 1941 are sent to a Greek island to make sure its not invaded (Again) but after a while their ship is destroyed and it appears that they are stranded and abandoned by the country that they're fighting for. Eventually the men blend in and grow a real fondness for the land. One of the soldiers marries a local prostitute. Another admits his love for another soldier and a talented and bright officer is asked to paint the inside of the church ala' Michelangelo.  ****SPOILER ALERT**** After a few years a British ship shows up to take them home but the soldier who married the prostitute decides to remain behind. Very simple story told in a very beautiful scenic location that is essential to the film. The location has to be beautiful so that we get a sense of not wanting to leave. Its here that the soldiers can relax a bit and reflect on what they're purpose in life is. They also add cynical comments on their own country and how it has turned their back on them. These are the moments that make up for the simple nature of the storytelling. I have to admit that at the beginning of the film I thought I was watching a comedy on the Travel Channel. But slowly the film begins to make its little statements and ultimately it becomes reminiscent of Cinema Paradiso. Nice little film that is well photographed but did it really deserve the Oscar? "},{"Title":"Different Kind Of Comedy-Drama","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This was a pretty solid comedy-drama about a group of Italian soldiers who spent World War II on a Greek Island. That doesn't sound too exciting, but it's interesting and there are some very funny lines in the film.Like many of the European films I own, it features good storytelling and interesting characters although most of the men in here are just stupid, or simply a different mindset than what we have over here. People talk to each other differently than what I've ever heard in the U.S. The female lead, Vanna Barba, looks terrific as does the camera-work in general. I didn't see a rating on my VHS box but I would rate it an R for usages of the f-word and some brief nudity. Any film that looks this good on VHS should be seen on DVD, which I look forward to doing. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous scenario and gorgeous Vanna Barba","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This Italian film has a pretty title for a start, referring to the name of a sea. Even though it has military men in it, I didn't realize it takes place during World War II. The story is set in Kastellórizo (an island in Greece), surrounded by the magnificent Aegean Sea. Therefore, the scenario is one of its best attributes Greece and the Aegean Sea are owners of a legendary beauty.I also loved Vanna Barba as Vassilissa. She is gorgeous and so hot. I thought she was Italian. She certainly looks Italian instead of Greek and yet she is Greek. Greeks are usually VERY unattractive, so it's quite an impact to see a Greek woman this beautiful, this hot.There is some nudity in the film, which is great, as those hot scenes allow us to see the lovely Vanna Barba nude.As a movie, this was okay. It sort of seems like a comedy with soldiers, a bit in the style of 'Blackadder'. "}{"Title":"nice, but not really good","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":" This is a nice Italian movie, with some beautiful scenes and adequate acting. It would seem that some scenes have been cut in a clumsy effort to speed up the story. One wonders what the Academy Awards jury were thinking when they awarded the Oscar for best foreign language film to Mediterraneo, rather than to Raise the Red Lantern. I could easily name a lot of films from 1991 that weren't even nominated and deserved the Oscar more than this movie La belle noiseuse, Delicatessen, Europa, Obloko-raj, Toto le héros, Tous les matins du monde, Urga, Merci la vie, and maybe even Go Trabi Go or probably a dozen others I haven't seen. Still, Mediterraneo might give you about 90 minutes of light-weight entertainment; so do watch it if it's raining and you're feeling lazy and have nothing better to do. But don't expect a great classical movie that changes your life. "},{"Title":"Pleasant but completely overrated","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, War","Review":"  Characters are funny and the settings are beautiful, but the plot and the story are clichè, old fashioned. Above all, actors speak with a EIGHTIES italian slang and accent, while the movie is set in Greece in the FOURTIES .Absolutely overrated, it did not deserve an Oscar we made much better films here in Italy (see L'ultimo bacio) !  "}]