[{"Title":"rare gem overlooked as much as statue","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" It is difficult for me to comprehend why there is only one viewer comment for this film, or why it is rated under a six. If an excellent film is about entertainment, intelligence, great acting and a terrific story with a treasury of clever humor that expounds the deeper meaning of a good relationship between a man and a woman over wealth and selfishly egotistical success, then this is a standout film that achieves a richness of artistic accomplishment that very few films do. No one truly sees the beauty of the bronze statue except the lowly and weathered housekeeper, a financially struggling mute, unable to express the profound feelings that are moving within her in words, but Rudi Davies sure gets it across with her expression and eyes. I had to drive 30 miles to the Cedar Lee Theater, Cleveland's only real art house, during it's original release, but after the film was over I realized it would have been worthwhile if I would have had to walk...some films are just that special "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film, Not Given Enough Credit","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This is by far one of my favorite little films, & just yesterday I bought it on DVD for a mere pittance ($6 & change)& settled in happily to enjoy it again. Only once in a blue moon does it turn up on artsy/independent film-type channels, so don't hold your breath looking for it on TV.Everyone in this film is perfectly cast, & what makes it come together so beautifully is that each character in this piece exhibits faults & foibles, as we all do. It's so refreshing to watch something entertaining where the characters are portrayed as real - albeit flawed - people. In addition, the jazz musical score throughout the film fits the mood like a glove.My favorite not-to-be-missed extremely funny scene? John Malkovich's Jake, in a moment of depressed exasperation, talking aloud to himself composing his own obituary. I laugh every time I hear it - his delivery is perfect. Another favorite scene, very poignant, is when Mr. Malkovich's Jake phones his parents, after an apparently long absence, with the apparent intention of requesting monetary assistance. From the one-sided conversation you hear, you get an automatic insight into Jake's upbringing, & perhaps why he's taken the path he has. Even though short, it's an extremely moving & insightful scene.This movie is definitely worth renting if you can find it - but for the money, it's also worth adding to one's permanent DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated movie; filled with irony.","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" One of the most underrated movies of all time. I am amazed at how many people can watch this film and not get the point. The Object of Beauty is an intelligent conversation about rich and poor, selfishness and giving, and basically how to be! How to behave as a human being. The language of the film is irony, specifically situational irony. It is ironic that Malkovic's character refers to himself as a pig being placed in a very sweaty position. Pig's don't sweat! It is ironic that the female deaf character claims that the inanimate sculpture spoke to her. It is ironic that while John's character is reporting the theft of the statue we learn that he has stolen an object of beauty from another man; MacDowell's character. Ironic even more that the insurance investigator is used to bring this info forward. You will enjoy this film much more if you pay attention to the irony of the value placed by different characters upon this Henry Moore sculpture. It is worth nothing to some, only money to others, an emotional commitment to another, and an object of aspiration to one other. All of these perspectives speak to each other, and it is a very interesting conversation. "},{"Title":"How did I miss this first time around","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Not the usual fare for PPV on Bulsatcom in Bulgaria and, with Malkovich currently appearing every few seconds on CNN, in ads for one of their items about him (I've seen the item and he is sickeningly pretentious), I was in two minds whether or not to use my last (free) token to watch it.My God! I am glad I did. Malkovich and MacDowell gave superlative performances in a beautifully written, directed and acted piece where even the minor roles combined to make this a masterpiece of story and film. Not just even the minor roles, as these were excellent performances by Joss Ackland, Ricci Harnett, Bill Paterson, Roger Lloyd-Pack, etc., etc., yes even the few lines from Pip Torrens as the art evaluator. Rudi Davies was excellent (not sure why we haven't seen anything from her in the last fifteen years).Well, my free token ran out three minutes before the end. Pity! "},{"Title":"living well is the best revenge","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" The object in question is a pint-sized Henry Moore statuette, owned by shallow sophisticate Andie McDowell and appraised at $35,000, an amount in many ways even more beautiful to its owner than the item itself. Especially when McDowell and her 'husband' (played to haughty perfection by John Malkovich) find themselves at a fiscal disadvantage while living beyond their means in a posh London hotel. In the vernacular of the upwardly mobile, they aren't 'fluid', and when the statuette disappears they immediately accuse each other of plotting to collect the insurance value. The film is an underhanded, cynical, satirical poke at American materialism, pointless in the end because nothing is resolved. But the plot itself is secondary to the characters (ugly though they are), and rarely have two actors been better suited to their roles McDowell's poor little rich girl routine is by now second nature, and Malkovich captures all the self-absorbed boredom of the ersatz upper class with his languid voice and steady reptilian gaze. "},{"Title":"many have missed the point-Possible spoilers","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I particularly have to disagree with a couple of reviews which see the deaf mute maid as unsympathetic, selfish and idiotic. She is the movie's emotional core, and the only character who has a true arc. Yes, she commits a selfish act, but she returns the statue when she realizes it was as wrong for her to take the statue from its owners as it was for her brother to take it from her. That is development of a kind the other characters don't have, and admittedly such a lack is a problem with this movie. Before one tosses aside her return of the statue as merely ethical on a childish level, consider what prompted her to take the statue in the first place her first caress of the earless statue reveals a profound identification with it. In a world severely limited both by physical challenges and her economic situation, her opportunities to see herself as having any sort of beauty have obviously been rare to non-existent. Be certain that this statue is a full-strength totem object for her, rendered with the sensitivity of a master artist's hand. Out of a life so empty, the statue's return represents a genuine sacrifice of self. Then perhaps the why anyone in this movie does what they do problem becomes less vexing, at least with regard to one.The movie's major mistake is ending with Jake and Tina, whom one suspects will never really change their habits or lifestyle even if they are talking about it, instead of giving us any idea what's to become of the maid, even (or perhaps especially) on an internal level.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" The Object of Beauty (1991) it has all that is needed for a movie to keep you interested I love it. Its funny, interesting and romantic kind of...and let's not forget who is playing  John Malkovich & Andie MacDowell I recommend it. EnjoysynopsisAmerican couple Jake and Tina are living in an expensive London hotel way beyond what they can afford. When they were asked to pay the bill, Jake wants to sell Tina's 20.000 pound Henry Moore sculpture, but she is not happy about that. The deaf-mute hotel maid admires the sculpture for its beauty rather than its value. When the sculpture goes missing, the couple start fighting over it... Written by Sami Al-Taher staher2000@yahoo.com Charming comedy about how a couple's relationship waivers in tandem with the disposition of their statuette. With no fixed abode, Jake and Tina live in hotels across the world. With a large bill due, and money in short supply, their plan to steal their Henry Moore statue and claim against it is thwarted when someone else steals it first! They soon start distrusting each other's motives as they search for the statue, and keep trying to get its valuation boosted while avoiding the bill. With no sign of it, they start to drift apart, despite being in love, and don't reconcile until it reappears one day - having been stolen by a deaf-mute maid, who feels the statue spoke to her. Written by Cynan Rees cynanrees@hotmail.com "},{"Title":"hidden gem on the video shelf","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  a smart, little chekhovian drama about greed and infidelity.  malkovich and mcdowell play themselves a cold, calculating bastard and a spoiled, falsely naive princess.  a great little film that deserves to be mentioned more often.  "},{"Title":"A Comedy with Style *Possible Spoilers","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  John Malkovich and Andie McDowell play a couple of jet-setters who hatch a plot to steal their own statue so they can collect the insurance and pay off their ever-rising hotel and credit card bills.The chemistry between the two of them reminds one of William Powell and Myrna Loy.If they had picked up the pace a bit,they would have had a real classic comedy here.This film is highly watchable,though.The score by Tom Bahler fits the film like a glove.Lolita Davidovich's (as a girlfriend of McDowell's)performance is a bit too low key,but it doesn't really hurt the film that much.All in all,a pleasant way to kill a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Definitely worth more than the 2 star rating given on Comcast Xfinity","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" John Malkovich (Jake) was really good looking in 1991 when he was 38. Andie MacDowell (Tina)was 33. In a nude scene from the rear and partial side she is drop dead gorgeous. Jake and Tina are stylish, selfish and broke. He is a wheeler dealer who's latest gamble on a shipment of cocoa is a disaster, and his credit is maxed out. She owns, and adores, a small Henry Moore bronze figure of which only 9 were cast and then the mold was broken. It is their only thing of monetary value. She muses about reporting it stolen to collect on its insurance, but he says it is too risky. The sculpture goes missing. A deaf-mute hotel maid admired the sculpture for its beauty rather than its value. The plot thread about her is perhaps the heart of the film, but I enjoyed most of all the character development of Jake and Tina. The film is a delightful exploration of how the two lovers deal with the disappearance. Spot on acting and directing. I loved it. "}{"Title":"Worth seeking out","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" There's a genre I like to call little English comedy that really traces its roots back to the Ealing studios in the late 40s. The movies didn't have high budgets (they couldn't afford them), but frequently had clever scripts that made them eminently watchable (Alec Guiness got his start there in movies like The Man in the White Suite and The Horse's Mouth).The Object of Beauty fits this category nicely. It's a little puzzling that it didn't do better, actually, with two American leads and rave reviews from Siskel and Ebert. Their review, in fact, is the only reason I happened to be on the lookout for this one.It's an elegant, witty comedy of manners. It's carefully, quietly scripted, and rather subtle. Totally worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"Funny and Bittersweet; One of my Favorites","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This film probably has the highest ratio of great lines/minute of any film other than Withnail and I. If you liked Withnail and I, you might like this one. For all their differences, the two films share many of the same characteristics a great script, a couple of grifters as main characters, quotable lines, funny scenes, and one or two moments that will break your heart. The two main characters in this film are also scroungers -- but at a high-end London hotel. The film follows them as they try to climb out of a hole they've dug for themselves, but the plot is less important than the characters. It's a great cast, working with a clever script. Like Withnail and I, it's funny and ironic, but about love and hopes and individual identity underneath all that. Some of the scenes -- the funny ones and the bittersweet ones -- have stayed with me for years. I think it is John Malkovich's best role (which is saying something); Andi McDowell's also (which is saying less, but she is well nigh perfect in this). "},{"Title":"Object of Beauty a Must See for your own sense of Morality","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I watched this for the first time on DVD last night and early this morning. I totally fell in love with Jenny and wanted to take her into my world and live happily ever after. I am sorry that more wasn't concluded with her at the end. Jake and Tina other wise should have been swept out to sea by a tsunami at the end. Jenny portrayed the commonalty & frailty of most of humanity(her brother being the subversive side of the rest of the commoners). Jake of course was the corporation and greed aspect of humanity with Tina being the human lemmings that follow the Jake side of life. I am sure though that if Tina had realized the true reason why Jenny took the statue she would have probably given it to her.(NOT!!) Tina's self-obsession during the encounter with Jenny just shows how shallow she really is. Glad I watched this movie and goes again to prove that the the Yanks still don't know how to make a good movie. Well not since D.W. Griffith that is. DEVO the guy who will never see ET. "},{"Title":"Mammon.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" John Malkovich and Andie McDowell, unmarried but happy, are high-living surfers on a wave of risky investments and the luxury that can come from them. They are in a fancy London hotel when Malkovich's ship not only doesn't come in; his pier collapses and they are out of money and credit. The only thing of value they own is a pint-sized bronze head of a woman by Henry Moore, which looks like something you might make in a high school art class out of papiere-maché if you happened to be drunk.The object of beauty disappears, stolen by a poor, mute, plain-looking made to whom it spoke. It doesn't speak to the owners, except to say Twenty-five thousand dollars. Tension between the lovers. Arguments. Their relationship is questioned. Finally, after much difficulty, the object of beauty is restored.It's slow. The direction is competent and the art direction fine. A lot depends on the characters and the dialog. McDowell, Malkovich, and Lolita Davidovich meet the challenge.It would have been a good screwball comedy from the 1930s, with maybe William Powell and Carol Lombard. But then we'd have been deprived of a lingering look at the sleeping Andie McDowell's beckoning haunch.Diverting enough to keep you watching. And there is some with distributed through the writing in little bits and pieces. "},{"Title":"A celebration of hedonism &#x96; or film about two pointless lives","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I had difficulty watching The Object of Beauty to the end. What kept me going was the little bit of intrigue about Jenny, the deaf-mute hotel maid who steals the statue. That little subplot, with the unknown outcome of theft, is all that kept this film together. And, it's what kept my interest in watching to the end. Otherwise, scenes of eating, drinking, and sex that repeat ad nauseam could hardly make for an interesting story.A few viewers saw something of social commentary in the movie -- that it poked fun at materialism. I didn't see that. What I did see seemed to be almost a celebration of hedonism and self-centeredness. The producers may have intended criticism of that way of living (I can't call it a lifestyle &#x96; while they lived it up in style, there was no real life in them). But that didn't come across as obvious. Whatever intent there may have been, the film seemed to me to be mostly about two people who lead hedonistic, pointless lives without regard to or consideration for other people. Indeed, their attitude toward all others in the hotel is demeaning and dismissive. Some reviewers commented on romance, comedy and the acting. The script clearly showed two people who didn't live for each other, but simply in companionship with one another. That's not love, but using. Is that the romance some saw? I didn't laugh once in this film, or even smile once. I didn't hear any real clever or witty dialog. If it was a satire, it was so far over my head (very possible, I admit) that I didn't get it. But, I don't think this film was quite that sophisticated. It just doesn't have any comedy that I could see. A couple called it an intelligent film. But I couldn't find any intelligence in two characters living high on the hog and constantly avoiding, skirting, maneuvering around, conniving and cajoling with people to keep from paying their bills or confronting reality. On the surface, they seemed calm, but they worried about their next move all the time. Surely, that's not an intelligent film, is it? As to the acting, I saw nothing special or exceptional. One other reviewer noted that Malkovich and MacDowell were their usual selves. They seemed to me &#x96; Malkovich as Jake, especially &#x96; to just blithely move from scene to scene. This movie has no energy. Not in the script, the actors or the direction. There is no real drama, and certainly no comedy. The dialog between Jake and Tina was mostly meaningless and drivel. And watching a couple's continuous indulgence in food, drink and sex just isn't my idea of entertainment. I give it four stars for the subplot and the supporting cast in the hotel. "},{"Title":"stylish comedy","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" John Malkovich and Andy McDowell star in The Object of Beauty, a 1991 film directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg.Malkovich and McDowell play Jake and Tina, an unmarried couple (she's getting a divorce) who love to travel, stay in beautiful hotels, call room service, and go to lovely restaurants. Just one problem Jake is in commodities and the cocoa shipment he's heavily invested in is being held up, and he's broke. The hotel wants their money. His credit card is declined at dinner. He is able to give the restaurant a check, but if the bank refuses to pay the check, it will bounce.Jake eyes one of Tina's gifts from her husband (Peter Riegert), a small Henry Moore statue, worth a fortune. She won't agree to let him sell it. Finally she suggests that if it were stolen, they could collect on the insurance. She asks a good friend Joan (Lolita Davidovich) to keep the statue for her should she ask her to do so. Joan agrees.When the statue appears to be missing, Jake thinks Tina took it. But Tina didn't. It appears that the statute was actually stolen. The hotel and insurance company start an investigation, and, seeing Jake's financial problems, don't really believe him.Amusing comedy fueled by a wonderful performance from John Malkovich, who is very funny, especially when he's lying on a bed composing his own obituary, and during a phone call to his parents where he wants to borrow money but ends up not asking for any. Andie McDowall is sweet and beautiful as Tina, who wants to be taken care of but realizes she's in the relationship for more than that.Very charming and stylish comedy, not a laugh out loud one, but a sophisticated one that has some warmth underneath it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful concept - inadequate execution","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This movie disappointed me. It's billed as a 'low key comedy', but ends up being so low key, you wonder (with the exception of a couple of scenes) where the comedy is. Most of my disappointment, however, stems from the script - aside from the chambermaid and her brother, I simply did not care what happened to the characters. The juxtaposition of the two ways of life was excellent - but it's too obvious where the scriptwriter's sympathies lie.  "},{"Title":"Not One of My Favorites!","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I have to give credit to Andie McDowell and John Malkovich, American citizens, who are living it up in the lapse of luxury in London, England. They are living beyond their means and owe plenty of money to their creditors especially the hotel. Anyway, Tina has a statue which is worth thousands but doesn't protect it very well. It lays about in their hotel suite. When a dead chambermaid take the statue, Tina and her partner's plan to stage a fake robbery to collect the insurance gets thwarted. They don't trust each other when it comes to the statue. While the film is fine, it's not great but bearable and almost forgettable. The cast does the best with a weak script. I enjoy the London locales. The girl who played the chambermaid does a fantastic and believable job in creating sympathy. She lives with her brother in a small flat in London, England. Getting the statue doesn't buy happiness for anybody involved. "},{"Title":"Pointless and dull.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" It was a real trial sitting through the entire duration of this tiresome film. It doesn't come even close to being successful as a comedy, and as a drama it is pointless and absurd. Additionally, the story could have been easily told in an hour; many events and characters are irrelevant and only prolong the suffering.The film gets annoying as soon as the deaf-mute maid steals the object of beauty; we find out at the end that she stole it because it spoke to her - what a load of crap. In the meantime, she returns it, then re-steals it! (Why Malkovich simply didn't put it in a safe place as soon as he found it remains unexplained.) The flaws and inconsistencies in the characterization grow as the film progresses, and the whole thing is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"That Henry Moore miniature!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"","Review":" The Object of Beauty is a film best forgotten since it doesn't add anything to the acting portfolios of all the cast one sees in it. As directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, this is a film that defies all logic, but we go along with what is presented to see if makes some sense at any given point. It doesn't!The only thing that is fun to watch is the easy bantering between a wigged John Malkovich and Andie McDowell. Other than that, the premise of the film makes no sense. At any rate, wouldn't it be nice to stay in a posh London hotel, live it up and hopefully not be reminded to pay the bill? We have been on some London hotels where the management was always reminding us to please settle the account promptly! Jake, the obnoxious character played by Mr. Malcovich has to be one of the worst arrogant guy ever to be seen in a film. Andie's Tina reminds us of a conservative Imelda Marcos for her affection to shoes. "}{"Title":"Don't invite me","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Have you ever been to a party where you dislike everybody? By that, I mean, you can not find one single person whose company you enjoy. This movie is that party!There is not one single redeemable character in this movie, no one you can sympathize with or care about. No one worth spending your time, which means this movie is not worth spending your time.The two main characters are two spoiled, rotten, selfish, moronic individuals without one good character trait I can see. The one character that you would expect to illicit sympathy, the deaf house maid, is also portrayed as selfish and idiotic. Each character's moves throughout the entire movie illicits the following question Why would anyone do that?!If you like this type of party, then enjoy, but if you're like me, throw the invitation away. "},{"Title":"Now That's (NOT) Entertainment!","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"15 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Call me a goody-goody, but I have a hard time liking a movie (or a story) in which dishonest people - right from the start - are made out to be the good guys.The main couple in this film - Tina and Jake, played by Andie MacDowell and John Malkovich, respectively - are a couple of cheats, liars and bankrupt people when it comes to ethics. We are supposed to root for these people, and laugh along with them?Later we have to hear them squabbling all the time when their con goes awry. No thanks.What a sick message and a poor excuse for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not my taste (DVD)","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Or should I say, my cup of tea, because the major turn-off of this movie is its too-much British character. You can tell easily that's a production from BBC slow, conservative (the rich & the poor), uptight, colors lavished, intemporal (you can't pinpoint the time from the scenes or the locations it can happen now or in 1950 or in 1850.....) Now, the story is irrelevant what's the matter with rich / spoiled / idle people whose only worry is their money ? A good movie is at least for me, one from I can find inspiration for my life, and this one gives me nothing... There isn't humor, or irony only a cold examination of the facts.The only survivor is the deaf character, for whom the actress gives a strong performance without any words, you know what are precisely her feelings.... "}]