[{"Title":"An underrated treat...thank you, PBS!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"35 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  I first saw this film courtesy of Masterpiece Theater, a weekly program presented by PBS -- had it not been for the good taste of one PBS program manager out there, I might never have seen this charming and provocative film.Yes, it's a period piece.  Yes, there are flounces and top hats and castles and duels.  But the core of Impromptu explores love, jealousy, and the process of artistic creation in ways that keep the film captivating for the most jaded modern viewer.Judy Davis capably assumes the mantle of convention-bucking authoress George Sand, providing a fiery counterpart to Hugh Grant's self-deprecating (and effective) Chopin.  Mandy Patinkin shines as one of Sand's many jilted ex-lovers, and Bernadette Peters is maliciously admirable as Sand's friend who wants Chopin for herself.  Emma Thompson's hilarious cameo  as a dense provincial duchess itself provides almost enough reason to watch the film.Impromptu boasts a great ensemble cast, witty dialogue, balanced humor and pathos, luscious period costumes and scenery, and the music of Chopin playing all the while -- what more could one want? Impromptu unfolds like a 19th-century soap opera, with arresting characters and meditations on art saving it from the banality of a typical romance...or a typical period piece.This one's worth the flounces.  "},{"Title":"The perfect antidote for the summer blockbuster","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  Whenever I get tired of the typical summer movie featuring highly evolved apes, genetically engineered dinosaurs, and other such foolishness, I pull out my (well-used) copy of Impromptu, and all my blues go away.  Far from an expensive, smug, carefully marketed blockbuster, Impromptu is a thinking person's film.  The plot is cleverly constructed, the costumes are lovely, and most important What A Cast!!!  Any film that puts Bernadette Peters and Mandy Patinkin together is a winner in my book (those of us who are theatre junkies are aware of their previous marvellous collaborations), but this film manages to include Emma Thompson, Judy Davis, Julian Sands, and Hugh Grant.  What fun!!!   "},{"Title":"probably the best film ever made on Chopin and Sand","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  This excellently written, splendidly acted, marvellously sound-tracked and beautifully filmed picture is most probably the best film ever made on Chopin and Sand, that subject most difficult to approach without crashing into drab sentimentality.  The film is a comedy solidly anchored in historical and biographical data and impregnated with a deep love for Chopin's music as well as an understanding of the complex relationship between him and Sand.  Through its apparently light touch, the film manages to convey deep sorrow, longing, extatic joy and true sensuality (the scene where the relationship between Chopin and Sand becomes physical is a master example of how such scenes should be made Sand's naked shoulder speaks more than hours and hours of steamy make-believe, because it is the spectator who fills in the experience in his mind).  Anybody who has made music will recognise the excitement and satisfaction in the scene where Chopin and Liszt play à quatre mains and manage to find JUST the right note at JUST the right second.  Witty, almost farcical comedy alternates with most delicate, expressive, sober dialogue - witness Judy Davis' face when Sand tells Chopin what the reality behind her free love propaganda is.  Hugh Grant shows himself once again to be the good actor that he is when working with a good director - compare this film with Maurice, The Remains of the Day, An Awfully Big Adventure.  It is as if this film were an enchanted one, not a single element being amiss.  And last but not least, it makes you fall in love with Chopin's music, in case for some reason it hadn't happened to you before.  "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is a little different than most period films in that its characters, although known historical figures, are real people and certainly not above swearing, throwing fits, drinking, smoking or carousing. A wonderful comedy romance with an outstanding performance by Judy Davis as George Sands.It is also interesting to note how closely the plot of this movie resembles that of Renoir's classic Rules of the Game 1) group of romantically and socially inbred cityfolk go to the country, 2) romantic and social inbreeding continue in the country, 3) people slipping from room to room, 4) mistaken identity, 5) hunting in the woods, 6) big hunting scene, 7) gender-bending, 8) poking fun at the upper classes, and 9) climactic theater performance chock full of satire and causing some conflict. This similarity can be no accident. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  Recently re-watched this movie and I am going to buy some of Chopin's music. I just loved the story and the acting-I thought Judy Davis and Hugh Grant were fantastic.  It is the kind of a story that remains in the back of your mind and need to watch it over again--that is my mark of a great movie! "},{"Title":"Romantic, Genuine, Gorgeous, Remarkable","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  It doesn't happen often that one knows the portrayed characters better than the cast, however star studded this production is.And it is amazing what they all achieve ! These great actors really come close of BEING the Sand, Liszt, d'Agoult & Chopin you think you know after reading and listening as much as possible about them.It's a costume drama which is nicely tuned down, no need for grand sets when the principal & supporting cast is so flamboyant and magnificent.Of course, the music for the soundtrack is a pure delight too. Is all truly marvelous then ? Well, alright, the accents of Chopin & especially Liszt were ludicrous. Liszt was raised speaking French, and never managed to utter more then one sentence in his 'native' Hungarian. Stylized Chopin was brought up in the aristocratic circles of Poland, knowing the French language better then his 'own' tongue.Silly, but forgivable, since it is the only flaw in this wonderful film. Thank you Judy Davis, Bernadette Peters, Julian Sands, Hugh Grant, Randy Patinkin; and of course Sand, Liszt, d'Agoult, Chopin, Delacroix... "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" When I saw this during its theatrical release, it was one of the few films for which I hadn't prepared myself by reading printed reviews and checking out available TV commentators.  Therefore my enjoyment was, perhaps, a little keener than it might have been otherwise.  I wasn't expecting the definitive biographical treatment of the various famous artists depicted and I'm sure that wasn't the intention of the film-makers.  Instead it looks like they achieved exactly what they intended, enabled by a gifted cast (especially the marvelous Judy Davis), a witty script and quite adequate (though not luxurious) production values.  I suppose the ultra-demanding can complain about virtually everything in this production, but, my goodness!, it's far and away more entertaining and adult than nearly 100% of the big special effects extravaganzas pandering to today's sensation-seeking audiences. "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  I liked Impromptu, I liked the characters, their development, the setting, the costumes. I like it all. It was a genuinely funny film. The kids, the duel, the horse's commentary were priceless gems. The story was well written and the acting was outstanding.George Sand (Judy Davis) a very independent character falls for  Frederic Chopin (Hugh Grant) a sensitive basket case who is a genius when it comes to the piano. I understand this is a true story. I hope the original was as fresh and funny as the movie portrayal.  "},{"Title":"A Delightfully Charming Movie","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  Impromptu is one of the more charming, lighthearted period movies I have come across. If you are expecting a sweeping drama, prepared to be disappointed. Some people might not like this film, as it lacks some of the lengthy, tragic dialogue and overly melodramatic style that many period films have. If you are looking for something fun for the whole family, this is it. Judy Davis' role as George Sand is strong, and she delivers her character with the perfect amount of gusto. Hugh Grant performance as Fredric Chopin is priceless, and he makes himself very endearing and believable as the timid composer. Bernadette Peters performance as the jealous and spiteful Marie D'Agoult is marvelous - you leave the movie feeling quite annoyed by her character, which is exactly what I imagine the director wanted from her character! The costuming and set designs are exquisite, as is the cinematography, and backs the actors wonderfully.  "},{"Title":"my absolute favorite movie","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  i have seen this movie probably 20 or so times, and i can quote many of the lines off by heart.it is totally unique, and the acting is superb.  judy davis as always gives a fantastic performance as george sand.  she is dynamic, spirited and strong-willed which i would have thought was rare in women in those times.hugh grant is great as chopin.  he has a bit of an accent which i'm not sure is realistic but sounds okay to me.julian sand and bernadette peters make good foils for grant and davis. julian sand's liszt is a man in love with his music and his mistress.bernadette peters is very good as an abrupt, jealous sometimes-friend of davis character.emma thompson was hilarious as a bubble-headed aristocrat.  this was the first time i saw her and have remembered it as a very unique performance, different from most characters she plays.don't forget mandy patinkin as one of davis' ex-lovers.  he has many hilarious lines and scenes with and without her.i give this movie two thumbs up, an A+, a 10, five stars and a resounding seal of approval.no matter what i've seen to date.  it is still, and will still be my favorite movie. "}{"Title":"Wonderful rental.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you like any of the following, you will like this movie  Chopin music, comedies, Judy Davis, romance, cross-dressing, Hugh Grant, period films.  It really is a delightful piece to watch, inspired by the long romance between authoress, George Sand (Judy Davis), and composer, Chopin.  At times you will be swept away by the romance of the scenery and music, then jolted back into the comedic chase of George's love-sick admirers.  So very worth the renting.  "},{"Title":"Music Brought Them Together George Sand And Chopin","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Impromptu (1991) Starring Judi Davis, Hugh Grant, Bernadette Peters, Ralph Brown, Julian Sands, Mandi Patinkin..Directed By James Lapine Judi Davis is doing what I feel is an Oscar winning performance as French feminist radical cross-dressing author George Sand, who is ultimately a woman who belongs to no one and who lives life to the fullest. She has raised children to be as creative as she is and taken full responsibility for her children as well as for her elderly mother. Bored of the dull life after her divorce from the father of her children, she takes her current lover to the French countryside. There, she is invited by a wealthy hostess to her estate. The drama heightens in a soap opera sort of way when none other than Alfred De Musset the poet and ex-lover of Sand shows up. Her jealous boyfriend, Malfitte, challenges him to a duel. Meanwhile, Sand has fallen for Chopin, who is her polar opposite. While she is free, intense, devil-may-care and very healthy, Chopin is reserved, emotional, sensitive, refined and suffering of bad health with tuberculosis. Their relationship is accurate to truth but not in the way the film depicts. The disaster that happens in the country estate, comedically produced, never really happened. Bernadette Peters delivers a terrific performance as well as the scheming and bitter Marie D'Agoult, whose own marriage to Franz Liszt after having many children with him, including Cosima who later marries Richard Wagner, but that's another story and even another movie. This is a well-done movie with lots of charm and witty scenes. I especially enjoyed the entire portion in the country estate, in which the artist Delacroix, Franz Liszt and Chopin discuss over dinner the existence of God in front of a priest, put on a satirical farce play that ends badly and Sand's adorable children who are always finding some excuse to play with explosives and dynamite.This 1991 movie directed by James Lepine is an absolute charm. It's a romantic comedy, it's a historical piece and a colorful introduction to the music of Frederic Chopin, Franz Liszt and the life and writings of Madame George Sand Aurore Dudevant. The romantic comedy is well-written, the actors are doing top-notch performances and the music is heaven. I don't know yet if there is a soundtrack but it's likely there is and it must be beautiful. George Sand was the pen name of the feminist writer Aurore Dudevant who scandalized proper Victorian society in the 19th century by dressing as a man, smoking cigars, abandoning her wealthy and respected husband to live the liberal lifestyle of a bohemian writer of novels. She had many lovers, including Alfred De Musset (who is played in this film by Mandy Patinkin)and her most famous lover, Frederic Chopin. It is their love story that this movie focuses on. Stars Judi Davis as George Sand, Hugh Grant as Chopin and Bernadette Peters as the Countess Marie D'Agoult. I will not give away the answer. But Chopin, though he never married Sand, was greatly influenced by his knowing her and his most productive period of composing piano music came after their heartbreaking separation. Chopin died young of tuberculosis. It's very possible that he loved George Sand but I'm thinking that for Sand, no man was really ever good enough for her. After all, she was the embodiment of the feminist, independent single woman who did'nt really need marriage or love. Great scenes Judi Davis must woo Hugh Grant as a man wins a woman (gender role switch because Chopin was very frail and feminine) and Sand was more aggressive. Art does not apologize is another great line. Great movie, great music. "},{"Title":"Really awesome movie.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. It was really enjoyable. The other thing that i would have against it, was that no one ever called Chopin by his first name. Which was really unusual, as everyone else was addressed by their first name, and friends don't really call their friends by their last name. If only they had called Chopin, Frederic, then i wouldn't have a single thing to say against it. I thought that the acting was done very very well, and all of the actors portrayed very believable and at times very funny characters. Malfie certainly provided a lot of laughs, as did most of the other characters. I highly recommend this film to everyone, and i give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"I am not full of virtues and noble qualities. I love. That is all. But I love strongly, exclusively and steadfastly.","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  Lines like that are what really made me fall in love with Impromptu. It is a movie that incorporates an array of delightful characters (and actors) that just suck you into the story. Though Impromptu is a period piece, it still has this certain modern air that other movies in this genre just don't have. The dialogue is superb in this, the character of George Sand (portrayed by an amazing Judy Davis) is one of the best I've ever had the pleasure of watching. Of course, this movie isn't going to be for everyone, but if you're interested in watching a different type of romance/comedy/drama, I truly recommend this. It is unique, it is real, it is wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Stupid Stupid Rain -- Great Great Movie!","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" As someone who has never been especially fond of classical music or French literature (bite me, Proust), I wasn't exactly drooling when my roommate cajoled me into watching an art film about the romance between Frederic Chopin and George Sand. I wound up laughing my derriere off. First off, ignore the Parisian drag, this is a British sex farce -- witness the cast (Hugh Grant, Emma Thompson, Judy Davis) and the screwball plot (an aggressive woman who enjoys wearing men's clothes tries to win the heart of a shy, mild-mannered man). Big kudos to director Lapine and screenwriter Sarah Kernochen for treating the famous figures they depict as flesh-and-blood characters, not icons to be revered or reviled. And special reverence must be accorded an absolutely outstanding cast -- Judy Davis is usually pretty damn brilliant, and she does it again here as George Sand. One forgets that Hugh Grant was actually a good actor before he started playing Hugh Grant in all his movies, and he makes Chopin an utterly charming wimp. But this is the movie that made me love Emma Thompson. Hers is a relatively minor role, as a flighty French noblewoman (stupid, stupid rain! she curses foolishly at the weather) whom the other characters alternately mock and seduce. But Thompson has the talent to make the Duchess D'Antan both hysterically clueless and touchingly vulnerable -- if your eyes remain dry as you watch the Duchess hang her head after viewing the play Sand writes specifically to insult her, your heart is made of stone. Even the normally annoying Bernadette Peters is pretty decent here. Watch it now. "},{"Title":"Worth watching!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  Well, I saw this movie yesterday and thought it was good; since it told us about Mr. Chopin's life. I really liked the way this movie told us his life because we realize he was a very timid person, which perhaps was the truth. I certainly like the way Hugh Grant stars as Chopin. I never thought he could act so well, he envelops himself into the role quite well. I think this is definitely his best performance; this is the only Hugh Grant's movie I've liked so far. It was completely delightful to listen to the way he played the piano. It's also remarkable, as Madame George Sand fell in love with him because of the way he played it. This movie has a good plot, and you'll find out many interesting things about Chopin's life over the course of the movie. I truly found out a lot of things about his life after watching this. As for Judy Davis; I think she carries out her role admirably, she really knows how to act. The costumes and the scenery were completely fitted to the movie. Overall, I think this is an enjoyable movie that tells us about Chopin's fears, happiness, sufferings, etc. it's great as he shows George Sand he could love her without dreading it. It also shows us that injustice will always be plotted out. It's worth watching even if the ending was somewhat disappointing. 7/10  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" I want to add my voice to those who rate this as among the best films ever made. The writer seems to deserve a bit more credit. The whole script is like one of the wonderful, rich piano pieces by Chopin or Liszt -- loaded with details that the actors and director have exploited to the full. Judy Davis is exactly the actress for this part. Her public and intimate scenes are both magnificent. For the first time I realise that she is on the same level as Emma Thompson. Hugh Grant and the others, right down to the bit parts, are all perfect or as near as one can expect. A fine film about art which recognizes the most important thing about art, that it is a reflection of life. On selecting it on TV I suppose I expected a more limited, tear-jerking sort of film and what is now termed a chick-flick -- instead, I found a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A promise that never delivers","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" With such a stellar cast and interesting subject (not to mention high marks on this site), it seemed this picture would be a delight and a treasure. Instead the plot is very short, tediously dragged out by the repetition of the same scenes over time The Publisher's Room, The Ex-Lover, The Duel, The Come-On, The Visit. The best part of the film, where Emma Thompson delights as a daffy duchess, has no relationship to the rest of the picture. Themes are begun but never finished, and as the end credits ran, I cried out loud, That's *it*? I was willing to put up with the repetition in the hopes that the ending would somehow tie up the loose ends or show character development, but instead it was just plot, plot, plot. The actors played their parts well (I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of Grant's performance) but this is a film of no texture or depth. Definitely no reason to see it again. "},{"Title":"Choose your weapons..red or white!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Brilliant direction from stage legend James Lapine highlights this delightful comedy of manners based on the romance of Chghopin and Sand.The cast is all together perfect. Judy Davis, sexy,strong and dynamic as Sand, Hugh Grant very low key and real as Chopin, JUlian Sands, arrogant and proud as Franz Lizt, the always wonderful Bernadette Peters, charming and duplicitous as his mistress.special mention must be made to Mandy Patinkin's scene stealing role of Alfred DeMussett. although on screen for probably no more than a half an hour total, Patinkin manages to steal the film as the cynical,alcoholic poet. Emma Thompson and the late Anton Rodgers provide delightful support as the Duke and Dutchess who invite the artists for the weekend and wind up the but of their jokes.all in all 'Impromptu is a real treat. "},{"Title":"What a brave man she was, and what a good woman.","Date":"16 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Impromptu (1991),a very enjoyable period romance/biotic/dramedy based on the real events, portrays truly famous and even legendary figures of 19th Century culture such as George Sand, nee Aurora Dupin, Frederick Chopin, Franz Listz, Eugene Delacroix, and Alfred De Musset. The main heroine (or the hero) of the film is George Sand, who is equally known for her Romantic novels and her quite scandalous at the time way of life. For a young woman from the upper-class society, to leave her husband, take two children with her, make a living with her writing, and especially to show up in public wearing men clothing and openly smocking - it was shocking. To act like a man when it comes to love affairs - taking lovers when she felt like it and leaving them when the affair bored her was simply outrageous by the rules of the society. George Sand did not care; she had a strong personality and followed her own rules. Her contemporary, the Russian ex-patriot, famous novelist Ivan Turgenev said about her What a brave man she was, and what a good woman. That's exactly who Judy Davis is playing in the little known but witty, intelligent, charmingly silly and believe it or not historically accurate movie called Impromptu. It tells the story of the romance between strong and full of life George Sand and very talented romantic composer, Frederic Chopin whose music made her fall in love with him even before they met in person. It is difficult to imagine together two people more different than a delicate fragile Chopin who died young at the age of 39 from the lung illness and fiercely independent, notorious and unorthodox George/Aurora but their romance which was the union of two lovers, close friends, and eventually more like mother - son relationship is the historical fact. Hugh Grant in one of his earlier roles as young Polish composer and virtuoso piano-player is refined, well-mannered and very attractive. Actually all cast of the movie is delightful, Mandy Patinkin (Alfred de Musset), Jules Sands (Franz Listz), Bernadette Peters (Countess D'Agout, Listz lover, muse, and mother of his children who believed she could be even better muse for Chopin), and fabulous Emma Thompson who brought much appreciated comedy as Duchess D'Antan, rich aristocrat who sees herself as a patron of Art and the friend of the Artists. What the artists think of her is the different story.Needless to say that the film is filled with the captivating music, charming costumes, and gorgeous locations. It is a hidden treasure and I am glad to have finally discovered it. "}{"Title":"What a delight","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Every so often I find on TV a major film that I somehow never heard of but nevertheless is surprisingly good. I don't know how I missed this one before. It was recently on the cable channel PLEX with no commercial interruptions.Drama, comedy, and romance, all in one excellent film. Great script. Great cast. Great Music.Reunites stars of the musical Sunday in the Park With George but this time not singing and their characters have little interaction. Emma Thompson in a minor role. Judy Davis does a marvelous job as George Sands. Hugh Grant is a handsome but foppish and squeamish Frederick Chopin, and is as he usually is.* Nov. 13, 2014 The above review was written about 6 months ago. I just re-watched the film on MPLEX and didn't recall a single thing about it, so it was as if I was viewing it the first time. I still enjoined the film but I don't think it deserved my previous 10 star rating. I can't say it is one of my most enjoyed films. "},{"Title":"Woma or Man gets her Man or Woman","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" I like strong women. Maybe i am weird in that way. George Sand was a strong woman. She knew what she wanted and she was willing to wait until she found it. In the meantime, she took a man's name, she dressed like a man, she smoked and cussed like a man, and she didn't call her lovers the next day either. That didn't keep them from running back panting and that made this movie hilarious.I had never seen Judy Davis before. She was in two movies last year (The Break-up and Marie Antoinette), but I'v not seen either one. She was magnificent in her role as George Sand. I think I use the word magnificent too much, so let's say she was stupendous and tremendous.Then she found him. The one she was waiting for. She knew the moment she heard his music. he could talk to angels. He was Frederic Chopin, and he was definitely not interested. No matter she plowed ahead, despite the interference of her best friend (Bernadette Peters)and ...well, I won't tell you if she succeeded as that would spoil it wouldn't it.With Hugh Grant, Mandy Patinkin and Emma Thompson helping Peters support Davis, this film had all one could wish for. It was an enjoyable romp through the countryside, funny, and a charming love story. "},{"Title":"Great cast, Charming story...","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Unfortunately,the story is not that interesting. Actually, the plot is pretty standard love story formula. With some role reversals. Here girl loves boy, girl(dressed as man)pursues man. Girl's trusted friend, betrays her, and in the end the girl gets the man. Although he is the female in the relationship, she is the male...well, it's all a little muddled,and too neatly resolved for all.I thought that this movie was going to try to make some kind of statement about artists. Their sacrifice for art, how art moves them to love, or simply about the commercialization of art. Unfortunately, it was just a simple love story.The cast is one of the best there is. Judy Davis, as Georges Sand, is wonderful, a real powerhouse. Hugh Grant, is surprisingly very good as Chopin, the brilliant pianist who is taught by Sand how to live.Mandy Patinkin, Bernadette Peters, and Julian Sand are all quite good as well. Emma Thompson is especially strong.Well worth renting, Impromptu is a wonderful looking, beautifully acted 19th century not very absorbing,period piece. "},{"Title":"Fluid, Woven Passion","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Sometimes you just like a movie. I admit I was prepared to like this. It features Chopin, and he is a large part of my musical world. His stuff really is magical, but only when flowing through a rich vessel. The things he wrote when he was with Sands are a touchstone of sorts for sustained passion, the kind that roots you to air.And. And it has Judy. She seems to have made some very bad choices in projects, a situation I cannot understand. But when she's tuned in, she gives echoes of just the sort of passion I hear from Frederic. She's tuned in here, despite the ordinary direction. Her character is close to the one that initially impressed me, in her brilliant career. Judy is capable of folded acting, giving us emotion directly from a character and at the same time standing as the writer (here, the writer) reporting that emotion and the immediate context to us. It seems to have been perfected by Australian actresses.Plus, we have Emma Thompson. She's so early in her career she wasn't billed so that I could find, so she was a real surprise. She inserts an Austen-derived character, a brunette, moneyed dope wishing to become sharper by rubbing against artists. The script is ordinary, riskless, surprisingly so. But it has one clever moment when the artists assembled in her country home give a play that makes serious fun of their hosts. Two other joys; the men playing Chopin and Liszt actually do play the piano. And finally, through the whole thing we hear Chopin pieces. They aren't performed by passionate, controlled pianists, but any Chopin in a film is welcome stuff. I think on my film site, I'll have a list of films that have Chopin pieces as central. You'll be surprised how many there are. Five Easy Pieces and Autumn Sonata are the obvious ones.All this, plus a nice opening scene of our writer as a redheaded girl, are enough to give you pleasure. It almost helps that the direction and story are lifeless. They don't challenge. Its as if we had Chopin perform for us, giving us the harvest of his pain and none of the pain itself.Hugh Grant is wrong for Chopin, but apt for the placeholder named Chopin in this film. He has only one good scene, where he worries over an impromptu that seems contrived. It should reflect spontaneity, he thinks. It isn't that it needs to be actually spontaneous, but that it be crafted in such a way that gives that impression. What is the impression of spontaneity? If you have a chance, check out Martha Argerich, in her 1965 recording. You want overflowing passion that seems always on the edge of falling but is shaped smoothly? You will never be the same. Thank George Sand, I think.The one really dire problem is that they used his piano music without regard to whether it would have been then written.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A charming version of how Chopin and George Sand could have got together","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" One of the most delightful of later day music films, the music of Chopin being used throughout and only to advantage and to the flattery of the composer, which he undoubtedly deserves. Judy Davis is perfect as George Sand and couldn't be better, so you wonder if she really could have been that good in reality - her reputation and reports tell a slightly less flattering story. Julian Sands is another perfect impersonation of Franz Liszt, whose poor Marie d'Agoult is perhaps the most convincing of all in her very uncomfortable situation. Emma Thompson is yet another triumph of the play, perhaps the best actor of them all, while to Alfred de Musset and his excesses and exaggerated feelings there are no holds barred - he appears to have been even worse in reality. It's a wonderful play all through, and the most astonishing bit is perhaps how good Hugh Grant is as Chopin - you never expected such a character out of him, but he even makes it convincing. Cornel Wilde, however good, was not that convincing in A Song to Remember in 1945 with Merle Oberon as a less realistic George Sand, which film however is good to remember in this connection. This is a charming story, no matter how constructed, and gives pretty much a true impression of the romantic circles and their intrigues and sophisticated maneuvers in Paris around 1935. A must for all music lovers, and especially Chopin lovers. "},{"Title":"A pleasant way to spend 2 hours","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out 21 years ago and really liked it. On second viewing it didn't hold up so well, though. The sets and costumes are beautiful, such as you find in the best Merchant/Ivory films. The actors are all first rate. The problem is that the script is often either clichéd or silly - an adjective I don't think I've used in several decades. It's as if Merchant/Ivory left the writing of the script to the Woody Allen of Midnight in Paris. The various historical characters are all likable enough, and George Sand gets more fully developed as the movie progresses. Chopin comes off as a comical caricature, though, as does Musset - though he was probably rather like that in life. In fact, several of the Romantic artists who figure in this film probably did no little posing in their day, and may well have come off equally silly in real life.There's no reason why a movie like this should provide uniformly serious or realistic portrayals of the artists involved. It's a feature film, after all, and not a documentary. And as a feature film it is wonderful to look at and often entertaining to watch.For me, it would have been even more entertaining had it been a little less clichéd. "},{"Title":"This is a slapstick farce","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" I am writing this because I've read 10 reviews and people seem to be taking this movie seriously. I don't understand. It's clearly a silly spoof of a film, not to be taken the least bit seriously. It's somewhat entertaining in that regard, though not particularly inspired. The acting is passable - though the more this is seen as intentionally silly, the better I would rate the acting. Whether it does the least bit of justice to George Sand, I'm not sure, but I hope not. Emma Thompson and Hugh Grant are pretty much wasted, since they are not especially comedic actors. Though as usual I enjoyed watching the sublime Mandy Patinkin, he can do no wrong in my eyes...Anyway, just don't expect a serious drama here... "},{"Title":"Perfect an understanding in Chopin's life.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  I went to Valldemosa in Majorca, Spain sixth years ago. Impromptu does not tell everything about Chopin's life but a part of it. A good movie to watch before you go on vacation to Europe and visit where Chopin lived. He lived in various locations in his lifetime living in Poland, France, and Spain. A must see movie for traveling. "},{"Title":"Amusing...but no masterpiece","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  My wife and I watched this movie last weekend.  I enjoyed it more than she did, I think, but my enjoyment was tempered.First, I don't know much about the personal history of Sand or Chopin, so the story was unknown to me, and I didn't watch the movie to learn about them.  (In fact, when the movie started, I had no idea what it was about.) So I watched the movie strictly on its own merits.  It has much to recommend it...overall a good cast (though I've never been a big Hugh Grant fan), good chemistry, a fairly good screenplay...and of course the sets and costumes are nearly perfect.  What pundits call production values are very high indeed in this movie.But the movie can get pretty annoying.  The key virtue in the director's mind was apparently quirkiness.  Now, quirkiness can easily drive a movie straight off the rails, almost from the beginning, so it's a credit that this movie only tips and veers alarmingly at time, threatening to plunge into the abyss, but always pulling back just in time.  Nevertheless, the boundaries are pushed several times.The biggest problem with the movie, though, is the vacuum that is Grant's portrayal of Chopin.  He isn't a man, merely a well-dressed cough.  We get no sense at all of what kind of person he is, or why he behaves the way he does.  We know only that his health is delicate and he is afraid of physical intimacy.  Since the movie revolves around the Chopin's skittish relationship with Sand, I'd have to say that, taken as a romance, the movie is a failure.This failure is underlined by the overpowering strength of Sand's character, who could be compared to the asteroid that tried to destroy Earth in Armageddon, except that all the king's horses and all the king's shuttles wouldn't even slow Sand down.  Chomping cigars, striding relentlessly from place to place dressed head to toe in men's black clothing (and looking rather like an undertaker), playing croquet as if she were wrestling an alligator, she bowls over everything in her path, including the rest of the movie.  She's fun to watch, but not terribly believable.  Maybe Sand herself was not terribly believable either.And then there is the problem of the sound.  This may have been due partly to the transfer to DVD...so often movies and old TV series suffer terribly in the sound department on DVDs, for some reason...but it seemed as if the movie makers deliberately tried to make the viewer strain to understand what was being said.  Frequently this was because Chopin's music was being played very loudly in the background.  Other times, there were no other distractions, but the actors practically whisper their lines.  I suppose this is intended to lend an air of seriousness.  It merely annoys and frustrates me.Still, in spite of all my complaints, it was a fun movie to watch.  Emma Thompson gives possibly the most alluring performance I've seen from her yet.  There are plenty of golden moments in the film.  The duel.  The amateur theater.  The horse rendering his opinion of Sand's latest manuscript.  The demise of another horse.  So I'm sure we'll watch the movie again.  It just isn't (to me) the masterpiece that some people think it is.  "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" Of the two Chopin biopics seen in the past month, Impromptu was the (much) better of the two. The other was 2002's Desire of Love, which looked and sound good but was tedious, disjointed and read of very badly written and done soap-opera. Impromptu could have been better, the ending was abrupt, the transition from Chopin's avoiding of Sand to loving her was rather rushed and underplayed and Lapine's direction was a mix of over-eager and stodgy at times, not always knowing what to do with the story. Impromptu is exquisite to look at though, it is so beautifully photographed and the sets, scenery and costumes are accurate and so lovingly rendered. You won't be disappointed by the music either, Chopin wrote some of the most beautiful and soul-searching of any composer and it is placed and played in Impromptu in a way that those involved know that. The writing has humour and pathos, there are some funny situations(the farce-play, you have to love Emma Thompson's facial expression when she realises it's about her) and doesn't forget to explore some of the social themes and oddities. The story is witty and charming on the most part and the characters are engaging and not too distorted in personality(though admittedly Chopin and Liszt are not quite as complex as they actually were), Georges Sand's character is the most interesting and Mandy Patinkin's character was so much fun that you wish there was more of him. Hugh Grant gives a nuanced performance as Chopin(if at times too healthy), while Emma Thompson is alluring and hilarious and Bernadette Peters gleefully portrays a character that is very easy to hate. Mandy Patinkin has some of the best lines and brings a huge deal of charm to whenever he appears, but the acting honours go to Judy Davis who is brilliant here, one of her best performances but sadly one of her lesser-known ones too. In conclusion, could have been better but it was good, at its best very good, and is the superior of the two Chopin biopics personally seen. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"The Overlong Musical Piece","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" If it weren't for Judy Davis' overpowering presence (which might sound redundant since that is what she is known for), IMPROMPTU would be an extended piece of boredom modulated by the occasional incursion into repartee, blended with the revolving door of (then) rising and established British actors, peppered with an occasional American thrown in for sport. What little plot there actually is, revolves around Aurora Dupin, a.k.a. Georges Sand -- arguably the first feminist the world and literature ever had -- and how her life becomes a sitcom of sorts where men and women flutter in and out, some of them -- Franz Lizst (Julian Sands) and Frederic Chopin (Hugh Grant) -- becoming lovers, and others, like Felicien Mallefille (one of her former beaus, played by Georges Corraface) turning mildly psycho and trying to prove something by challenging the effeminate Chopin into a duel which never officially establishes itself since Chopin faints dead away and she has to shoot Mallefille herself. Some characters are written rather shabbily -- most notably Marie d'Agoult played by a shrill Bernadette Peters -- who switches personalities quicker than she would do outfits and seems to act on whims that have to do more with her love/hate acquaintance with Sand than actual preoccupation with anyone else. Other than that, with Emma Thompson in a small part, IMPROMPTU lives up to its ad hoc story and execution and is a solid piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"a good cast, wasted","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" It can be a disconcerting experience watching determined feminist George Sand pursuing such an insecure object of desire after the freethinking French author goes weak in the knees for the heavenly music of young Frederick Chopin. Judy Davis gets plenty of mileage out of Sand's confident iconoclasm (ignoring the low moment when she tries to win the composer's attention by exchanging her trademark trousers for a lacy dress patterned after the Polish flag), and her lively performance goes a long way toward overcoming the inadequacies of a script that is less witty than it would have us believe. For everyone else in the cast it's simply a costume party, and director James Lapine leaves them free to indulge in some shameless overacting (Emma Thompson, in particular, gives a rare irritating performance). The whole thing doesn't amount to anything more than a shallow, highbrow romantic comedy, but at least the music is good, and if nothing else the film helped support the costume design industry for several weeks. "},{"Title":"A comedy!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" We were surprised to find this film in the comedy section. We were interested in it because of the music, which turned out to be very nice. And, eventually, Hugh Grant started to become a sickly musical genius, but everything else got in the way. The whole thing was a melange of caricatures of all these guys, Mallefille, de Musset, Emma Thompson, her husband, the kids, George's mom, Delacroix (he was the most straightforward of them all), and last but certainly not least George Sand herself didn't have to be so frenetic, like she had some kind of motor disease. Bad script, bad directing, they had a good time acting, music beautiful, scenery super-beautiful. "},{"Title":"Fabulous music, farcical Chopin.","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" On the face of it, this is quite a good movie. Judy Davis puts in an entertaining performance as the eccentric and lovelorn George Sand, Emma Thompson amuses herself, and us, as the slightly mad Duchess D'Antan along with Anton Rodgers as her lovably gruff and occasionally outraged husband. Mandy Patinkin, Julian Sands and Anna Massey all turn up for work with a zesty delight, hamming it up like nobody's business.So far so very good. Everything rattles along charmingly, all and sundry delivering the amusingly droll script with great gusto and professionalism.And then just as we settle down for 90 minutes of above average entertainment, Hugh Grant turns up and sinks the entire ship with all hands.If I say that Hugh struggles manfully with an abysmal script, I would be lying. If I say that he presents us with a thoughtful portrayal of the tortured and sickly composer, rising to the challenge like the great actor he is (in some people's estimation), I would be guilty of gross misrepresentation. If I said that our highly regarded (at least by some people I know)and under talented leading man spends the entire movie looking like a terrified rabbit caught in the headlights of a speeding juggernaut, cowering with fear every time someone speaks to him and almost expiring with blind panic whenever George Sand is in the same room, my integrity and reputation as an honest man would be beyond doubt.I don't know who Hugh Grant based his performance on, or if he even took the trouble to research his character, but what he ends up showing us is a kind of consumptive, cowering, idiot who could no more compose, or indeed play, some of the most exquisitely ethereal and beautiful music known to man than I could eat the Eiffel Tower. I doubt whether this preposterous character could play a triangle without quivering in fear, let alone a piano.But never mind.The movie is actually an entertaining take on the famous love story, presented by a who's who of (mostly) British actors in a beautifully designed and photographed period piece to a soundtrack of heavenly music. And an unintentionally laughable piano player.Anyway, it's nice to see Hugh Grant in yet another comedy role.Any other actor would have portrayed Chopin as a sensitive, soulful and talented composer. "},{"Title":"Fun, silly movie","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is about a George Sand, a woman with enough testosterone for two men, trying to seduce Chopin, a gay man with tuberculosis. His appeal to her is his fame and artistic ability. Because he is gay, he represents a challenge. Sand, had she been born today, would have been a transsexual.Judy Davis brings tremendous energy to the Sand role. I'm surprised she is not already as famous as Glenda Jackson or Judy Dench.I was quite disappointed in Hugh Grant's portrayal. His Chopin was as bland and dull a raw pork chop. He did not recoil at Sand's physical advances. Then of course with one kiss, he turned into a heterosexual. What nonsense! It would not have been anything like that. I can tell you from personal experience as a gay who has been in similar circumstances. But that's the writer's failure, not Grant's.It is a movie about silly spoiled artists who abuse their wealthy patrons. It even makes you burst out laughing at a man getting shot.The costumes and settings are so lush, you might just watch it for that. "},{"Title":"Art does not apologize!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" British period pieces all carry the same themes. Two kindred hearts fight either for or against each other throughout the entire film until finally one succumbs and we are left with the cliché happy ending. The story behind Impromptu is no different, but what makes it a bit more enjoyable than your typical film of this genre is the wiry excitement of the cast. Director James Lapine has amazingly gathered a very talented cast of actors/actresses like Hugh Grant, Mandy Patinkin, and Emma Thompson, to carry his film, but what shames me to say is that it does not create cinematic perfection. These actors/actresses all have talent in which they demonstrate accordingly in this film, but (cause there is always a but&#133;) by the end you feel as if you missed their greatest of scenes. You feel as if you have been cheated out of their greatest potential. This realization is formed by the film's shabby editing, it's misleading story, its emotional-less connection of characters, or the randomness of the ending. Either way, even with the greatest players having fun with their roles, Impromptu slowly flushes itself down the period-piece toilet because it focuses itself to greatly on the actors while sinking the rest of the story.To begin, as I mentioned before, the greatness of the actors giving nearly 100% to their characters is a charm that is missed in so many other period piece films. Impromptu kept me awake and excited about what would happen next entirely due to the characters. Some may laugh at the portrayal of Chopin by Hugh Grant, but he contains himself well and shows that he may have some acting chops under that flopsy hair of his. Emma Thompson is hysterical as the dimwitted hostess, while Mandy Patinkin's Jiminy Cricket-esquire character Alfred De Musset definitely needed more screen time. Judy Davis did well with her character, I just have trouble with her I need to win an Oscar with every role type performance that Davis is notorious for giving us with every film. The only actress that I despised throughout the film was Bernadette Peters' role. Peters is a decent actress and has proved that she can handle some heavy performances, but her role as the evil friend in this film was extremely out of her league. You cannot portray corruption in Peters' eyes; it is just physically impossible. When all of these actors are together on screen, especially during their sinister performance at Thompson's house, one cannot help but be pulled into their world. Excitement, humor, and an aura of charisma surround these characters, alas; it is what Lapine did with the rest of the film that utterly destroys it.Sarah Kernochan has amazing characters, funny situations, and socially challenged themes; it is the direction of Lapine that internally destroys the film. The movement between the characters and situations were flawed because Lapine couldn't quite grasp the quickness of this film. From the beginning it is established that these are some of the greatest minds in British history together on screen, so why did we have to pace through the film as if they were also the oldest characters in history. There were times when I felt that Lapine saw the odd pacing of the story and told his actors to speed it up on screen. This only caused more of an issue because you cannot ask the characters/actors to carry the film on their own; they need a dedicated story to complete it. Then, when Lapine tried to counter by focusing a bit stronger on the story, he lost his characters and we, as audience members, missed out on possibly some great moments with our actors. Impromptu eventually became a big battle of tug-of-war, where on one side the actors (doing a great job) were pulling the film, and on the other side was Lapine pulling, trying to decipher how to correctly balance the pacing and story of this genre. Characters moved without reason, bonds were illogically formed, and hatred was built upon mismatched moments. It was utter and total chaos.What I am most disappointed about with this film was the lack of development towards the social oddities that surrounded our characters. Here we have the amazing opportunity to witness a great author and the rarity of cross-dressing. In this film we had the opportunity to develop why a powerful painter only drew dead animals. In this film we had the opportunity to explain the passion of love, the morbid curiosity of death, and the duels that combine the two. How about the opportunity to see the competition between Liszt and Chopin? Earlier I mentioned my concern about missing out on our characters because Lapine was struggling too hard with the story, it is these opportunities that I believe hurt us the most. I was angry that we had such strong characters, amazing actors, yet no excitement in developing them.Overall, as a character film, Impromptu was fabulous. If you would like to see the crème de la crème of British cinema doing their best, then this is the film for you. On the flip side, if you would like to see a director's talent train wreck the entire picture, then Impromptu is also your film. Typically, as a critic you find yourself upset with the actors, the mushy themes, or the ominous lacking of direction, for Impromptu, the latter would best describe the failures. Lapine bit off more than he could chew and thankfully had strong actors to pick up the slack. Sadly, that couldn't save this sinking ship. Lapine had so much potential with Kernochan's story that I do not think he did his homework well enough. Impromptu could have been a darkly entertaining story that could have evoked historical conversation. I will adamantly maintain that it was due to Lapine's horrid direction that this film failed to ever take off into mainstream cinema.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"An uneducated, improperly researched insult to culture","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" An insult to the memory of one of the greatest, if not the greatest music composers of all times.The director and writers should change profession and use the spare time to learn how to do proper research.Why does Hugh grant needs to speak in a pseudo polish-Russian-god knows what accent in a movie where everyone is speaking English and pretending being french without french accents? If Chopin was German or British or French surely this movie would have been burnt...Surely they can't take the fact that one of the greatest comes from Poland.But then if you have an IQ below 50 and you love soap operas this movie is for you! I can change my review for you.Alternative review Great movie, I, I ve learned a lot about history and music and Hugh Grant should have been awarded an Oscar for that true some portrait of the music composer. "},{"Title":"A Movie Unsure of Itself","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  I found myself quite disappointed in Impromptu, a movie that simply can't decide whether it is a comedy or a drama and consequently fails as both. The plot revolves around acerbic author George Sands (Judy Davis) and her relationships with fellow artists Frederic Chopin, Franz Liszt, and Alfred DeMusset.  The acting is hit-and-miss (or perhaps hit-and-mister, given Sands' penchant for dressing as a man), but more importantly the actors simply weren't given enough to work with.  Davis is excellent as the biting, witty Sands, and Mandy Patinkin is engaging, if woefully underused, as Sands' ex-lover DeMusset.  But Hugh Grant is curiously limp as the prissy Chopin, and Julian Sands is frankly terrible as Chopin's friend and fellow composer Liszt.  Emma Thompson takes a nice turn as country Duchess-cum-housewife who, desperately wanting to bring some romance and art into her life, invites the artists to her estate.  But since she's playing an ineffectual nothing, even the queen of the period piece can't hold this film together.And the troubles don't stop there.  The movie fails as a comedy, despite a few genuine laughs from Davis and Patinkin.  Grant's Chopin isn't alive enough to be amusingly prissy.  He's just, well, lame.  Another sub-character, Sand's current (about-to-be-ex-) lover Malfie (Georges Corraface), could have been hilarious.  He's a young, passionate man who doesn't really understand his love or himself and keeps challenging everyone he suspects as a rival to duels.  But the acting here is unconvincing - neither passionate enough for a believable lover struggling with uncertainty, nor over-the-top enough to let that slide and be instead an amusing foil.  Another potentially amusing sidebar revolves around what I suspect was meant to be the comic antics of the children of Sands and Thompson's duchess.  But these few scenes a) don't really fit in the movie, causing more disjointment than hilarity; b) don't get enough screen time to keep the viewer interested; and c) seem to have been written by someone who thinks children are regular people, only shorter.Impromptu also fails as a drama.  It is lacking in both believability and cohesiveness.  The primary flaw is that Grant's Chopin is simply far too staid and tense to be a believable love-interest for the fiery and intensely engaging Sands.  Even if his truly beautiful music does captivate her, one can't escape the feeling that she would bore of him inside of a week.  At one point in the film, presumably to capture Chopin's heart, Sands unexplainably gives up her men's clothing affectations and decides to become more feminine (or something; as I said, it's not well - or even at all - explained).  This irritated me no end, as it perpetuates society's flawed concept that a woman can't be strong, funny and above all her own person while still finding love.  She must instead conform if she wishes to achieve happiness.  In a word, bull----.Other flaws exist in plenty.  As mentioned, the ex-lover Malfie isn't believable as an over-jealous young man.  And Julian Sands isn't even believable as a human being.  His Liszt isn't just cardboard, but cardboard left out in the rain overnight.  Emma's flighty duchess does seem to find some love at one point (with Patinkin) but the effects are never explored. The tryst is brief and has no discernable effect.  Even Bernadette Peters, a quite decent actress, can't do much as Judy Davis' rival for Chopin's affection in a terribly written part that wants to be Glenn Close in Dangerous Liaisons, but only achieves one of the bad-guy cheerleaders in Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion.Cohesiveness is another problem, as the film jumps around too much and never either explains itself or goes anywhere.  In fact, not going anywhere would be the description for all of the characters as written.  Not a one of them ever evolves, with the exception of Sands, whose changes are both implausible and annoying.Finally, on a technical point, the cinematography is awful.  The colors are washed out, the focus-points ill-chosen, and the distance shots are from too far away to make out any details.In the end, despite a potentially good story line and a decent cast, Impromptu is just flat not a good film.  Leaving Las Vegas was funnier; Die Hard was more believable.  If you want an excellent period piece about an acerbic writer and her artist friends, check out Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle instead. "},{"Title":"Good cast, miscast","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":" If you are looking for a definitive biographical film of Frederic Chopin's life, Impromptu is not it. Hugh Grant is terribly miscast in the major role; he is too healthy and robust to play the sickly Chopin. We never believe for one minute looking at Hugh Grant that he would be afraid of having sex, anytime, anywhere, with anyone! The actor who played Liszt (Julian Sands, A Room With A View) resembled the real Chopin much more than Hugh Grant did.That said, the film was passable as modern entertainment and might just inspire people who view it to learn more about Chopin's gorgeous music (not highlighted here as well as it could have been), or more about the love relationship between Chopin and Sand, which surely in real life was mostly platonic and artistic, even when they briefly lived / traveled together.The script could have been better too; I'm sorry, but I don't find much humor in watching a horse enter a parlor and defecate on a table. Yuck. The children were bizarre, always wanting to blow up things and get into trouble. Obviously they lacked discipline by having a nut case as a mother. Judy Davis was o.k. as Sand, but just too weird, going back and forth between manly dress and hoop skirts. I had trouble having any sympathy for her.The only part of the film I really enjoyed was watching Emma Thompson as the Duchess. She is such a pip! So funny and pretty. I love it when she tries to hide her meager painting from the great artist Delacroix, who is visiting her home as a guest. He tries to take a look at it and she runs with it and eventually they bump together (signaling an attraction) and the paint goes all over her beautiful gown. Bernadette Peters gave a good performance of a very deceptive character. However there is no historical evidence at all that Liszt's wife had the hots for Chopin. Where do modern screenplay writers get these bizarre notions? Do not expect a classic with Impromptu, or even an adequate representation of the glories of Chopin's music. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"charming nothing special film","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Music","Review":"  NOT worth owning - which for me is one big criteria. There are good actors, the acting is barely ok. The story is a bit boring, the characters try very hard to act the famous artists but are so alike that it gets boring. And the main part of the story, namely George Sand pursuing Chopin, almost takes a second seat - and then when it comes to a conclusion we have The End. Missing out on the super-dull like Sand and Chopin had in Spain, until Chopin was brought back to Poland by his sister, wrote and played passionate powerful music again, and died. I guess this would have been to much for a movie that only wanted to be calm, mildly entertaining, middle-of-the-road.Again, DON'T buy the DVD, renting it is plenty (and I'd be surprised you'd want to rent it again).Antoine "}]