[{"Title":". This road will never end. It probably goes all around the world.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"136 out of 157 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't about being, or even about being a hustler.  My Own Private Idaho is about finding a home.  In his finest performance, River Phoenix plays Mike, a narcoleptic street hustler with false memories of a terrific childhood.  Mike wants to find his mother and family, but how or why he left them is never discussed. This is a movie that shows life at the lowest rung, and is very similar to Kerouac's On the Road and especially John Rechy's City of Night.  (In fact the line about becoming a fairy is straight from City of Night). Mike and Scott (Keanu Reeves) are both male prostitutes in Oregon.  Why either of them have drifted into this profession is anyone's guess.  Scott is clearly not gay, but Mike might be and their relationship is what holds the movie together. The film works on many levels, but does have its flaws.  It's faux-Shakespearen scenes make the film drag in the middle.  Van Sant directed the movie like a dream, which is what Mike's life basically is.This is a haunting and very sad tale about friendship and finding a home. The performances, especially Phoenix and Udo Kier and Van Sant's dream-like direction are what you remember. My Own Private Idaho may be a flawed film, but in my opinion, it is one of the very best of the '90's.  "},{"Title":"A triumph of pathos and bitter poetry","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"107 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I adore this movie, have owned it on VHS long before there was anything else and have seen it an insane number of times. It isn't perfect, but with me personally, though I'm a European female and thus have no personal life experience that could resemble anything the main characters go through, it struck a chord of universality that made it heart-breaking. The pathos in it, the bitter poetry, the warped magic is just unbelievably beautiful... and painful. It is visually inventive and the casting - even Keanu Reeves's, which has been so often criticised - is top-notch. Reeves's character is a flippant, spoilt young man who goes through life acting in his own self-glorifying drama what better actor to cast in that role than someone whose acting is so contrived? And Phoenix... well, what can I say... to me, this is THE River Phoenix role, the one that can single-handedly turn him into an immortal, a legend. The Shakespearian quotations I adored the relationship between Prince Hal and Falstaff from Henry IV, Part II is among the most mesmerising of the Bard's dramatic repertoire - that play was like an emotional earthquake to me. My Own Private Idaho caught its spirit perfectly, and translated it into a context that was original in its own right yet more faithful to Shakespeare in feeling than a more literal transposition might have been. Also, I found the portrayal of Rome in the part in which River's character goes out there to search for his mother, refreshingly true to life and totally cliché-free. As an Italian from Rome, it's very rare that I see a non-Italian film portraying my city of origin with so much authenticity. The FEEL of the place at a given time - the late 80s - was spot-on. In conclusion to me, not only was My Own Private Idaho one of the best adaptations of (at least parts) of a Shakespeare play that I've seen, but also a tragedy of almost Shakespearian intensity in its own right. It had it all the unhealthy, consuming passion (the fatal flaw), the power struggles, the young heir in his reckless, youthful days eventually maturing into the arrogance of the privileged (Keanu), the parental ghost that one of the protagonists looks to as his prophetic voice, the voice that may give his life a meaning (River's search for and the flashbacks to the memory of his mother), the intense pathos throughout, the tragic deaths at the end... that film is just pure magic to me! Just writing about it makes me want to see it again - what, for the 20th time or something?! And the tragedy at My Own Private Idaho's core is so universal, it really becomes completely secondary whether it's about and between men, women, homosexuals or heterosexuals. "},{"Title":"Wherever, whatever, have a nice day, River Phoenix","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"83 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this film on TV 5 years ago, when I was only eleven years old, and I remember that I was especially impressed by River Phoenix's magnificent performance. I had already watched Stand By Me (one of my favorites), and it was very interesting watching him older in such a daring film. I think he was the best actor of his generation but, unfortunately, he died too young. My Own Private Idaho is a poetic and bittersweet road movie, one of Gus Van Sant's best. Here in Brazil it received a bad title, Garotos de Programa (something like Rent Boys). Yes, the main characters are rent boys, but this is not what defines them. My Own Private Idaho (what a beautiful title!) mostly deals with loneliness, virile sexuality and friendship, and paternity. It's much more than a film about rent boys. Besides, watching it the so-called modern boys would realize that Keanu Reeves isn't Neo from The Matrix, but a versatile actor; and, perhaps, they'd discover that boyish friendship may be truly sincere. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Odd, touching, River Phoenix is intensely brilliant..","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"61 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the movie that I sincerely hope River Phoenix will long be remembered for. His performance as the narcoleptic and confused street-hustler Mike is so perfect and touching and realistic that it makes me cry every time. Gus Van Sant's films often have a strange aura about them (see Drugstore Cowboy, To Die For) and never has it been more evident than in this oddly affecting road movie/drama. The camera shots of long horizon-spanning roads and skylines, fast-motion clouds, surreal and symbolic shots of houses and rushing rivers provide the film with a strange almost other-worldly charm. Interspersed with the gritty realism of life on the streets of Portland Oregon in the early 90's, and (stranger still) Shakespeare. Some of the plot (Bob and Scott mainly) is based on the Shakespeare play Henry IV (with Keanu Reeves playing the Prince Hal character of Scott, and William Richert playing the Falstaff-like role of King-Of-The-Streets Bob.) It's a fascinating, touching and very successful blend of styles overall. The big themes (the search for love and belonging) are conveyed in a very interesting and genuinely moving manner. I particularly enjoyed the symbolism and pathos the film flittingly suggests. The performances are uniformly excellent, and this movie remains one of my all-time favourites. One of the greatest (and most unique) indie movies of the 1990's. "},{"Title":"An odd but compelling film","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"56 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like others, I had heard about this film, but had never seen it because it can be hard to locate. Finally I rented it from an independent video store.I am not familiar with the body of River Phoenix's work, but his performance was outstanding in this film. This makes his untimely death even more tragic.The film has its merits and shortcomings. The Shakespearen references are unexpected, and I agree with others that they don't exactly work. They seem too forced. But they do add an interesting texture to the film, elevating it above just another social commentary. Keanu's performance isn't as flat as others may lead you to believe -- it's not bad, but it probably could have been better. I think that, now that he is more mature, he is coming into his prime as an actor. In this film, he was still rather young, and for some reason it's hard to take him seriously. Keanu doesn't quite make the transformation that his character requires. River Phoenix, on the other hand, is entirely believable, if not inspired.The film is an allegory for a lot of things. Mostly I see it as a commentary on the basic human needs for love and home. Keanu's character can go home any time he wants. River's character is searching for the ghost home of his heart; a home he will never find on a road which never ends.It's an odd film, and not everyone would enjoy it or get it. But if you're looking for something different, thought-provoking, and of course, want to see Reeves and Phoenix (not to mention Flea), then take a look.  "},{"Title":"Astonishing, haunting...","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"52 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *VERY MINOR SPOILERS*My Own Private Idaho is a sublime drama focusing on the relationship between two rent boys in Portland, Oregon. Phoenix (in career-best form) plays Mike, a narcoleptic, quiet homosexual searching for his mother. Reeves, inevitably overshadowed by his outrageously,talented co-star, is Scott, the son of the Mayor, slumming it as a hustler. Based on Shakespeare's Henry IV, the cast and director make bold and brilliant use of the play, playing fast and loose with the rules and the dialogue and creating a glorious, freeform odyssey of expression and discovery. Noted independent director William Richert is marvellous as Bob (the Falstaff figure), with Udo Kier, Flea, Rodney Harvey and Chiara Caselli rounding out an outrageous supporting cast.Brilliantly acted and directed, with fine use of colour, recurring motifs and bold credits, Idaho possesses a rare, dream-like quality. The music too is perfectly chosen, and complements the magical dialogue perfectly. You'll never listen to The Pogues' Old Main Drag without thinking of this movie and of its central figure of Phoenix appearing from left of frame with only a black bag and a stopwatch ... of the fireside scene, and of the final line. Added to that, it's funnier than most comedies - River's simple Thanks when his pleading with a fat naked man finally gets him ten more dollars, the sight of our hero hurdling fences as Reeves tells a policeman I guess he doesn't like cops, and the superb, absurdist dialogue by the fire - and exists as one of the most honest and moving depictions of love ever seen on the screen. Delightfully, Idaho remains a film that polarises audiences it will either go straight into your Top 10 or your dustbin after you've finished it, though you must see it, to decide where you stand. Whether you love it or despise it, you will never, EVER forget it.Haunting, affecting, funny and wise, Idaho simply works on every level. "},{"Title":"Updated Henry IV","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant, truly one of the best directors in this century, has a visionary eye that enables audiences to see life in a different/new way. In this case he takes Henry IV- usually overshadowed by Henry V, and turns it in to a heart wrenching tale that modern audiences can appreciate. The visual pictures that get layered on and on and on our eyeballs are like dance steps carefully plotted. The use of lesser known actors is refreshing, and the chemistry between River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves is overwhelming. This is a must see for any lover of independent films, for any person tired of predictable plots, or for anyone who wants to open their heart to vulnerable characters and love them. This movie gets you involved. "},{"Title":"Van Zant's best, he must have lived it to portray hustling so accurately","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"53 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This most important film powerfully and accurately looks into the life of a hustler.  Phoenix and Reeves put their butts (careers) on the line to make a film about a subject virtually taboo for a mainstream America.You must see MOPI many times before you can understand the full meaning of what Van Zant is saying. Every scene has meaning, although at first it is hard to relate some scenes to the whole, than after many viewings, GESTAULT, you will see the whole picture.If you saw the ending a sad or tragic, watch again with the idea that Scott picks Mike up again off the highway as he did through out the film, in the final scene.  Now the ending is positive, even hustlers care and friendship triumphs.Phoenix should have gotten an Oscar for this James Dean like characterization, which no one has ever come close to since Dean's death. Was he trying to be Dean like, I think so.  Watch 'Rebel Without A Cause' then MOPI back to back, and make your own decision.Reeves simply does not get the credit he should for his best work here.  His understated interpertation of Scott Favor is masterful.  For me it is hard to separate Reeves from Scottie Favor, he makes the part so natural.  Both Reeves and Phoenix characters are so right on, their story seems true.Van Zant, who wrote and directed this classic, must have had some exposure to hustlers to so clearly understand the lifestyle. Did he use real hustlers for the bit parts? Sure seemed like it to me.Aside from the ending, the best scenes are the funerals and the campfire scenes.  How would you want to be buried, like Scottie's dad, or like Bob? The interplay of the two funerals says so much about the sad state of affairs of Christian America. I'm a Bob, so bury like a Bob.The campfire love scene between Phoenix and Reeves is so powerful, I can't find words to describe it.  Did they have any real feelings for each other or are they just terrific actors? Same question applies to Sal Mineo and James Dean, interestingly Mineo said yes in an interview, he was attracted to Dean. Ok so I'm attracted to all four of them.Anything I didn't like, not much, but I could have done without the stereotypes of the guys Mike and Scott tricked with.  Also I don't yet understand the choice of Eddie Arnold's 'Cattle Call' (an all time favorite song of mine) early in the film.  Most of the other music has obvious significance, but why this song here?This film put gay subject matter into mainstream America, in a most unique way.  There are other important films with great gay scenes (Lion In The Winter, for instance) but a whole film with nothing but gay lifestyles so clearly defined and beautifully portrayed. This is the best yet.  Every Christian should have to watch this and maybe a few will remember Jesus's teachings, as it applies here, and not accept church teachings that gay lifestyles are in some way unacceptable.   "},{"Title":"My Own Private Idaho","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike (River Phoenix) has narcolepsy, and whenever he feels super-stressed he suffers what I interpret to be attacks of cataplexy, that is, sleep triggered by heightened emotions. His friend, would-be lover and fellow male prostitute, Scott (Keanu Reeves), has a rich dad who's going to leave him a hefty sum when he turns 21. These two characters are the main focus of My Own Private Idaho which deals with common and uncommon themes, such as home, sexual identity and love. Van Sant throws in some Shakespearean language plagiarised straight from Henry IV and a non-linear narrative and you've got one very cute surrealist indie film.The credits to this film are it's director and star, River Phoenix, whose understated and moving performance lifts this film above the trash it easily could've been in another director or actor's hands. Van Sant uses symbols to represent emotional states and his use of special effects is limited and effective. There is some really heartfelt dialogue in this movie, especially the much-mentioned camp-fire scene.This film can be irritating; sometimes the Shakespearean dialogue doesn't work (and it's okay to admit that a near-perfect film like this has flaws) and Reeves is sometimes a little stiff. The film is mostly redeemed by its bitter-sweet ending and fun opening titles.I'm not going to tackle any issues in this film because I just don't have the energy. Just appreciate the film for what it is and have a nice day. ) "},{"Title":"The road of life","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"31 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My opinion is that 'My own private Idaho' is a masterpiece! Gus van Sant did a great job and created a very artistic movie with many truths about life.Both River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves give wonderful performances.I read some other comments too on this board and I have to say that the story, is not only about 2 male prostitutes that sell their bodies for the money.Try to catch that underlying message that each viewer interprets it in his own way.In the way HE feels it.The movie gets really sad at the end but it makes you realize a lot of things.In this road of life that ...goes around the world... you get hurt, betrayed, you believe, you hope, you pay, you earn, you lose, you win...that road never ends. "}{"Title":"Uneven, uncertain, untenable","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard some good recommendations on this film but am lost as to why the overall rating (6.9) on IMDb is so high. Am I missing something?I watched the whole movie intently, even though my attention was flagging a lot. Those long (metaphoric?) cloud scenes with houses falling apart, reminiscent to me of the Kansas tornado in the Wizard of Oz, lonely stretches of road reminding the protagonist (over and over) of a face, yeah we get it, we don't care. And on. River Phoenix, in the lead playing Mike, is remarkable and eerie too - so much of James Dean in him, the short intense and talented life.This is loosely based on Shakespeare's Henry IV part one, and it transfers huge chunks of the play into the movie script, some of it sounding forced and odd. An experiment that for me, fell flat on its face.Keanu Reeves, playing Scott, plays a street hustler in an act of rebellion against his father the mayor of the town. He befriends Mike, a narcoleptic prostitute who falls asleep on the job all the time, and who to all intents and purposes falls in love with him. They go on a road trip to find River's mother who abandoned him when he was small. The details of Mike's parentage are appalling and the road trip takes them to a rather weird Italy and then back again to the streets where Scott turns his back on his old ways, abandoning Mike.Uneven and actually frustrating, the dialogue was very muddy and hard to understand at times and the shifting of script from modern to Shakespeare not successful.4 out of 10. Could be to some tastes, but not to mine. "},{"Title":"cinematic poetry","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"39 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus van Sant's talent as a film maker with a unique vision reached  fruition in this wonderful movie.Its a remarkable achievment in all departments. The visuals are stunning, the soundtrack excellent and the acting spot on.River Phoenix reveals himself here as an adult actor of great promise and his untimely death only adds to hopelessness of the character he plays.Sadly from this pinnacle Van Sant would go slowly but very surely downhill towards the main stream Good Will Hunting and the misguided Psycho remake. Not only not to be missed, its one to see and see again  "},{"Title":"River Runs Wild Forever","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"34 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is the movie, in my opinion, that showed the true talent of River Phoenix. I was sitting on the couch one night flipping through the channels and saw that River was in it and I thought Why not? Hes a good actor. This movie absolutely blew me away. Its this sad and heartful story abut a young boy who is abandoned and is thrown into a life he never should of fathomed of having. He has to sell him self just to get a meal. This movie has touched so many hearts and inspires so many!! River isn't the only great actor, Keanu Reeves does a wonderful supportive job. His character is a rebel against his political dad (trying to make him look bad...typical teenager!!). His and River's paths of live cross and they become traveling buddies!!Its a movie that you'll never forget and i think it becomes more powerful as the years go on. I have to say, movie lovers really do miss River Phoenix. He was a great person and hopefully he adchieved all that he wanted to. "},{"Title":"You're getting sleepy...","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not quite sure what to make of 'My Own Private Idaho.' I am aware of it's huge cult following and that makes me want to like it more than I did, or at least give some thought as to why I didn't think as highly of it as many others did.Gus Van Sant is a hit or miss director - Drugstore Cowboy, To Die For, and Good Will Hunting were all excellent, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues and his Psycho remake were horrendous - and I hate to say that I'm leaning more towards the miss column with 'My Own Private Idaho.' The best way I can put this film is that it seems like there are too many cooks making the soup and all the ingredients have been served better. Van Sant wants to make this a road movie, a comedy, a coming-of-age movie, a Shakespeare play, a surreal picture... I feel like he's taken the best elements of 'Easy Rider', 'Pixote', and 'Henry V' and mangled them.River Phoenix is excellent though, he's the best part of the film and I give the credit solely to him. Why? Because ever other performance just isn't very good. Reeves seems uncomfortable in almost every scene whether it's quoting Shakespeare or lying shirtless in bed with Phoenix, he can't pull off what this movie wants. Neither can Richert as the leader of the band of hustlers - who comes across so over the top and theatrical that as a contrast to Phoenix's mellow/realistic hustler it just doesn't work. The problem with taking dialogue straight from Henry IV is for one it's awfully hard to top the Bard for writing. Two; you need actors who can deliver it well.Van Sant has imagination and the visuals in the film are breathtaking. The movie starts off extremely well, but it's obvious that he had little control of the script or the actors and in the end that kills the movie.Very surprising that Phoenix didn't pick up an Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"tedious, mind-numbing nonsense","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was so uninteresting from the start. It's about two gay losers who also seem to be rent boys who get involved with drugs and can't stop taking them, they waste their lives and one of them played by Keanu Reeves has some sort of bizarre, incestuous relationship with his dad. This movie is awfully hard to figure out as it just shows the drug-addled losers lazing around different apartments all the time wasted on drugs and booze. Are we supposed to care about these characters and their story? They don't seem to come across as particularly pleasant people even before they start their road to ruin.For the most part this movie has lots of odd scenes thrown together purporting to lead somewhere, only they never do. There are way too many characters besides River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves and not one of them is developed beyond a couple of lines of mawkish dialogue or arouses even a bit of interest. In the end this movie ends how it started with one of the gay chaps passed out on the floor. One to avoid, really. "},{"Title":"Absolute rubbish posing as art","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is almost impossible to watch, and will only be praised by either jaded film critics or people feigning artistic understanding. I suspect the only reason this film has any following at all is that it doesn't follow the typical path to tell its story, rather it is a mishmash of disjointed images strung together with Theatre of the Absurd dialog. It is incredibly boring, pretentious, and fantastically frustrating. It also throws the whoring homosexual lifestyle of two losers back in your face, daring you to criticize the movie and thus be branded a homophobe. What an incredible waste of time.I am sure film critics everywhere are raving about this (no doubt) Cannes Film Festival fodder, however that just shows you that existential film making is still only the darling of the festival circuit. It is yet another in a long list of if you didn't understand my movie, you are a plebeian pet projects from a director throwing nonsensical moments together and pretending they have meaning. Ho hum, what tripe. "},{"Title":"Abandonment, American Style","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two young men living in the Pacific Northwest explore personal relationships, and search for meaning in life, in this American art house film from Director Gus Van Sant. Depth of characterization is the story's strength.The protagonist is a narcoleptic young street hustler named Mike (River Phoenix), who suffers from uncontrollable seizures. Mike feels abandoned by his family, and alienated from society in general. His close friend is Scotty (Keanu Reeves), the son of a wealthy big city mayor. Scotty resents his father's power over the less fortunate in society. Together, Mike and Scotty gravitate to a bohemian lifestyle, living among urban street people. The film's theme is one of lonesome abandonment. The tone is depressing.As the story moves into the second Act, the film takes an unfortunate turn. The leader of the street people, a character named Bob (William Richert), takes center stage, thus shifting the focus away from Mike and Scotty. Bob and his band of impoverished gypsies, which include Mike and Scotty, live in a dilapidated old downtown building. Here, they romp and stomp, do drugs and, led by the annoyingly Shakespearean Bob, go through contrived experiences in a way that is irritatingly theatrical. The dialogue is very talky.Later, the focus shifts back to Mike and Scotty, as the two travel to France in search of Mike's long lost mother. It's an odyssey that brings them back to America, and eventually to the lonesome, wide-open prairies of Idaho. The story's ending is extremely depressing.The film's cinematography is excellent. River Phoenix gives a terrific performance. And the music enhances a downbeat mood. Despite a wayward middle Act, My Own Private Idaho is worth watching. It has a lot to say about contemporary American values, rendered ironic and even more poignant, given the tragic death of River Phoenix. "},{"Title":"The magic of River Phoenix mixed with the brilliance of Gus Vant Sant.","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are very few movies that makes us wish we had never seen it in the first place. My Own Private Idaho falls under the same category, except, its the overwhelming sadness which engulfs us as the movie ends which makes us feel that way.Calling Gus Van Sant's My own private Idaho, a bold and imaginative film, would be an understatement. The only other film of Gus Vant Sant's that I had watched was Good will hunting and Psycho, the latter of which was more of a travesty than a remake. But I had always liked Good Will Hunting and thought it reflected his ingenuity as a director. But after watching My own private Idaho, Good Will Hunting seems to pale in comparison.My own private Idaho cannot be described in one review. It cannot even be fully appreciated in one viewing. Van Sant explores a plethora of motifs and manages to mold them together to show us the universal meaning of 'home' and how it differs with respect to each character.To Mike, home is where his mother is. As a result he spends the entire film searching for her, for which he is even willing to travel all the way to Italy. But sadly, Mike has a highly sublime image of his mother and his childhood, which are both nothing but a faux fantasy that he holds onto . To Scott however, home is just another word in the dictionary. He's the truant son of a rich Mayor and thus feels compelled to rebel. This takes him to the streets of Portland where he takes up the vocation of a gay prostitute, which is where he meets Mike, a fellow hustler. Scott is loosely based on Prince Hal, the son of the king in Shakespeare's Henry IV.Mike is also narcoleptic, a condition of the brain which causes the person to suddenly fall into brief intervals of sleep. This makes Mike's story even more sad as he has no means to support himself and thus finds himself getting picked up by strangers and waking up in different parts of the country.However, Scott is the only one who seems to take care of Mike when he needs him the most, something which gives way for a strong friendship which develops between the two and as the movie progresses, a romantic affection on Mikes part. Together they embark on a journey to find Mike's mother, which takes them from the grimy streets of Portland to the magniloquent structures of Rome.There are lots of things that strike you as odd when watching this movie, Van Sant goes as far as he can in breaking the traditional norms of movie making. The best example being how the dialogues between the hustlers are in Shakespearian prose. I am not sure whether it works well for the movie though. But it does provide for some interesting viewing, especially if you're bored with the clichéd mainstream presentation of plot points and dialogues.The movie is without doubt a visual treat. Its cinematography brightens up the film with its astounding imagery of the long sky engulfing roads and clever shots of the clouds looming above, each time Mike falls asleep. His thoughts while sleeping being described by scenes of salmons jumping upstream.This would have been just another film, with the audiences admiring the picture for its novelty and brilliance and leaving the theater not wasting another second thinking over what they had seen - if it wasn't for one person. River Phoenix, who plays Mike, literally owns My own private Idaho and this movie wouldn't have been the same without him, no offense to Van Sant .River doesn't just portray Mike, he is Mike Waters. River plays Mike to perfection. There is a certain rawness to his performance which makes his plight, his sad existence, his unrequited love for Scott and his drug addiction - all the more tragic. Ang lee might have spend millions of dollars in making a gay romance flick like Brokeback mountain, but the five minute conversation that Mike and Scott have during the campfire scene is more touching than the two hour movie could ever hope to be. Mike doesn't have a lot of dialogues but his mere presence touches your soul, as his face wears that constant grief and sadness and with one look at his face you can tell that he is wounded deep down.It was hard to believe River wasn't nominated for an Oscar for this performance. He did however win numerous accolades, including the best actor at the Venice film festival. Its so hard to accept the fact that he's gone and one wonders, how far he would have gone and how many brilliant performances he could have delivered.Overall, if you want a movie that makes you think, takes you beyond the usual grasps of reality into transcendentalisms and is quirky and unconventional. But mostly, if you need to watch some great performances, and in River's case, sheer excellence, then this is the movie for you. My own private Idaho can either be loved dearly to the point of obsession or thought of as trite and chucked down the dustbin. Either way, you'll remember the story of Mike Waters and reminisce about him with pain, long after you've seen it.The movie has its flaws, but at the end of the day when put together, the salmons and clouds do help us in understanding what and how different the term 'home' can be, which is what this movie is essentially about. So my review-o-meter points to a nine out of ten for this bold and piquant masterpiece, that thoroughly deserves its cult status, to which it has been elevated. "},{"Title":"River Phoenix is excellent, as is the film.","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant has always been an interesting filmmaker. He cares about character and story and through the process, his artistic integrity is able to shine through his work and that is why he's considered a prominent director in independent cinema. My Own Private Idaho is more of is more well known independent features and is often viewed as a triumph of independent cinema from the 1990s.The film follows Mark Waters (River Phoenix) an aimless, misguided young man who hustles on the streets and is yearning to find his way in life. His best friend is Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves), who is also a young man and and a hustler, but who instead is running away from his life in the hope of finding something better. Scott comes from a lot of wealth but chooses not to live that lifestyle because when he's this young and wild, he just doesn't believe that its right for him.However the film is centered around Mark, who is played with such brutal honestly by the late River Phoenix. River is completely dedicated to the character and brings a wonderful vulnerability to a lost soul and it makes him relatable. We watch him go from scene to scene, leaving us as unaware of his future as he is. We watch him make many mistakes and we want him to better himself but such a task is not easy. Because that's the way life is.Mark hustles because its just who he is. We don't know how he got here, but we know that he has fallen into this lifestyle and it has consumed him. He needs the money. All of his friends are hustlers, too. He has dreams but its tough to say if he ever truly wants to leave the lifestyle. It seems that getting clients and often falling asleep during it (due to him being narcoleptic) doesn't seem to take as much of a toll on him as does his thoughts about his mother, or his feelings for his best friend.Gus Van Sant crafts a very fine film here that focuses on such a lifestyle that we're not exposed to in our every day lives and turns it into something we can all relate to. It all comes back to that road, the road that we're all on. Does it really end? Probably not. Much like in the way that Mark is shown standing on that road, staring out into the nothingness. Its really about our lives. We live and we're happy, and we're sad, and we're lonely, and we're lost, and we've found ourselves, all of these things happen on the very same road that never ends. "},{"Title":"Phoenix and Reeves do the hustle in the potato state.","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant has never been my favourite director and approaching his work is always a very hit-and-miss experience for me. Having said that, when I do respond to his work positively it's a thoroughly enriching experience and while My Own Private Idaho is not my personal favourite of the movies he's made it IS a very, very good viewing experience.The late, lamented River Phoenix plays Mike, a troubled and narcoleptic street hustler on a quest to find his mother and perhaps some form of domestic bliss he revisits/imagines often during his bouts of sleep. His best friend, for most of the movie, is Scott (Keanu Reeves), a young man only a week away from a large inheritance who is also hustling in the meantime and enjoying the lifestyle and the discomfort it causes others. These two skirt around the edges of, and join in with, a ragged, rugged band of brothers led by Bob (William Richert), a man who tells colourful lies and enjoys his dubious, lofty status as the king of the streets.There really isn't that more to say, plot-wise, about the movie. While there are certain details and character arcs that are well planned and well portrayed, there is a very loose feel to the movie and a sense of the disconnected, whether it be from the characters and the way they stay on the fringe of society or whether it just be the occasional happy episode shown in a life of mild desperation.The performances are uniformly excellent. I don't think anybody nowadays remembers anything bad from River Phoenix so it's almost redundant to praise his fantastic turn here . . . . but it's a fantastic turn. Harder for many to appreciate is the fact that Keanu Reeves really can do well in the right role and this part is definitely one of his very best. He's charming, cheeky, at times he's arrogant and cold whereas at other times he's warm and caring, it's a performance that covers quite a range and Reeves does great, hence why this movie has become so adored by fans of Phoenix and himself. Elsewhere, Richert is excellent, Flea (that well-known bass player from some small rock group you may know of) doesn't embarrass himself and we get some small, great moments for the likes of Grace Zabriskie and a scene-stealing Udo Kier.Van Sant brings us into a world we would other wise be unaware of and lets us see the dangers inherent without actually putting us in harm's way ourselves. Some may say that he provides a romanticised take on the street life shown, everyone having their moment as a beat poet and free lover, but the movie isn't really about every speck of dirt and every ounce of harsh reality that these characters have to endure. The movie is about living however you have to live whilst still holding on to your dreams, however impossible and ethereal they become behind the grey concrete of surrounding reality. Yes, there are definitely some negative, downbeat moments but I prefer to take away snapshots from the movie, memories of a friend I have spent good times with and who has gone on to their own, dangerous way of living.See this if you like Drugstore Cowboy, Leaving Las Vegas, Henry V. "}{"Title":"Hard Not To Like","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the beginning, up till it's last moment the movie is brilliant.The two main actors River Phoenix, and Keanu Reeves had an excellent performance. I found the movie heavy to watch, still i am glad i endured it to the end. Phoenix and Reeves, both assume the roll of rent boys. Not only the acting, and story itself were great ... but also the ambient sound of the movie excelled. Most of the story is spent in Portland, yet for a short while you are taken to Italy. There you'll be faced with incredible views, adorable sheep, and amazing sound.The end of the movie leaves you all the space you may need, to think about what you just watched. "},{"Title":"The greatest Gus Van Sant's movie","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this amazing film there are a lot of symbolic images that are the keys to understand it. Mike Waters is a young drifter who works as a male prostitute. He has had a very difficult childhood because his mother was mentally ill and he discovers, but maybe he had always known, that his brother is his father. This is probably  the cause of his narcolepsy. He don't succeed in overcoming his past and the narcolepsy, making him fall suddenly asleep, takes him away from the real life and brings him in the life he always have dreamt, exactly his own private Idaho. In fact Mike, in the beginning and in the end of the film awakens on the street for the Idaho because this is the place where all is problems have starts and from which he has to restart if he wants to go on. The street is one of the symbolic images he can decide to cross it, going on with is real life, or ramain at the point of starting.  Another symbolic image is that of leaping fish that try to sail up a stream that reflect just his impossibility to overcome his past. This film is surely the greatest Gus Vas Sant's one , one of my favourite director. A shocking drama of uncommon strength and beauty. The actors are the best they would have been, River Phoenix is superlative (this is his greatest performance too and I am very happy that he had been rewarded with the `Coppa Volpi' just in my country, Italy), Keanu Reeves gives also a good performance in a very complex role, Udo Kier gives  great charm and charisma to his character and James Russo a strong dramatic charge. The cinematography is excellent as well as the soundtrack through which song there is the beautiful Madonna's song `Cherish' that stress the Mike's search  of a person who loves him (who cherishes him), a man or a woman this does't matters. During the films all his hope seem to be shattered but the end of the film leaves an open door to different interpretations Make falling asleep and being bundled into a car by a stranger&#133;..he will finally go on and find a person that cares for him or he comes back again to Idaho? "},{"Title":"Love is scarce in the world","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MOPI is a mostly grim road movie about Mike (played by River Phoenix). Mike is a poet who falls asleep a lot. When he's awake, his life is like a nightmare. Nobody loves him. In fact, nobody in the movie even seems capable of love. A bad place to look for love. Everybody Mike meets uses him in some way. He has somewhat of a friend in the Keanu Reeves character, who helps him on a journey to find his lost mother, and even manages to take some pity on Mike. But in the end, he's still alone.Somehow Mike keeps winding up back on the same stretch of lonely scrub-surrounded Idaho highway. A sign on the highway reads Warning to tourists don't laugh at the natives.In the final scene, back on the Idaho highway to nowhere, Mike is poetizing about the road when he falls asleep again.  Now we get a bible-like scene --  the parable of the good samaritan. First, close-up, he's robbed of his bag and shoes, then, in a distant camera shot, a car pulls up, parks protectively, and the driver puts him in the front seat and drives away.It's up to us to decide whether that's a happy ending or not.The movie is salted with some Shakespeare, and more interestingly with all kinds of American patriotic music, which Van Sant has placed wryly. As in the much earlier Easy Rider, we're not just seeing the underside of American culture here but some painful truths about America as well.Why is it called My Own Private Idaho? One man's opinion would be one guess ... Van Sant gets credit as the screenwriter. On the other hand, it has a lot of things to say about love ... some things Shakespeare forgot to say ... and so applies to us all. Oh yeah ... and maybe because I.da.ho sucks.  "},{"Title":"poetic and beautiful, if a bit too avant-garde","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a very un-epic way, this movie really gets to the heart of the loneliness at the center of our being. Somebody described it as tender but never sentimental which I think describes it perfectly. It tells the story of two teenage hustlers at a specific period in their lives. Mike (River Phoenix) is somewhat of an enigma. He is dreamy, gentle, and in love with his best friend. He is also, unfortunately, a narcoleptic, and is obsessed with finding his long-lost mother. Scott (Keanu Reeves) is his best friend, who is a rich boy and only prostitutes himself as a way to be rebellious and humiliate his father. A plot is somewhat secondary, since the movie is about the inner lives of its two main characters (given Reeves' acting talent, more like one main character) but there are a few points I will mention...an older homeless guy named Bob is also in love with Scott, although it's more of a father/son thing. In the scenes with Bob, Shakespearian dialogue straight out of Henry IV is used - and unfortunately, the story has the same turnout Scott (Henry) comes into his fortune and reforms himself, refusing to associate with any of his old friends, and ultimately breaking Bob's (Falstaff's) heart in two, and he dies. Kenneth Branaugh pulled Henry off pretty well, in part because Henry's motives are unselfish (good of the country) whereas Scott is only concerned with money and himself. When Scott and Mike go to Italy to try and find Mike's mom, she's long gone, but Scott falls in love with an Italian girl (Sorry Mike!) and abandons his friend to a life of prostitution, completely alone. By the end of the movie, Scott is in a three-piece suit and Mike is fast asleep in the middle of a road in Idaho. The film does a great job portraying the unending loneliness in our souls that we attempt to break up by human relationships that never end up meaning anything. Every man is an island. It also conveys a sense of there only being the past - the future never seems to enter Mike's consciousness. Overall wonderful, although uneven and slow in parts. River Phoenix is not a great actor, but he was much better than I expected him to be. He seems like he's from another planet, but he's so sweet all the time and never seems to have any hatred in him - not even when Scott deserts him. He does a great job portraying the painful plight of the gay best friend...and the guy who played Bob was also pretty good. Not Keanu, though. Scott is supposed to undergo pretty radical character development, but Reeves just goes on AutoKeanu which really isn't too exciting to watch, all considered. "},{"Title":"Gus Van Sant's Masterpiece","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was born in Portland,OR and sometimes I wish i still lived their. Portland,Oregon is my favourite city i've ever lived and this is best film set their ever made and thats not saying much except for Gus Van Sant's other great film Drugstore Cowboy.I don't remember if i met Gus Van Sant or not but i know my mam knew him i lived their same goes for the author of the book i'm reading which was made into a film which is one of my favourite film and that film is Fight Club and the author was Chuck Palahniuk and funnily enough their both Gay.My Own Private Idaho is mostly set in Portland but their do go to Idaho and Roma,Italy.The Film is about to Street Hustlers who sell their bodies to both men and women but mostly men because Portland has a huge population of gay people much like San Francisco (where my parents did live before i was born) and one is clearly gay and that is Mike Waters (Played by River Phoenix,in arguably he greatest performance and some say this is the film which finished he career because this is when he had his drug problem and sadly died a year or two after) and also he is narcoleptic and the other is not gay and his name is Scott Favor (Played in a career performance by Keanu Reeves) and he is mayor of Portland's son in the film. Mike wants to try to find his mother. So they go on a road trip to find her and both find love because they soon becomes lovers but something happens (i will get to that in a second). They first go to Idaho and talk to Mike's father and his father is kind of a dickhead and says he is really not this father even though he might be but because his son is gay, he kind of disowns him and tells him his mother left him,which she did because she was upset she, the person who she was having sex left her so she left her family and went somewhere else in Idaho. So go their and they say she moved to Roma in Italy. So they go the airport and fly over and finds the place she was staying but she went back years before but Scott falls in love which some cute Italian girl and they leave Mike all alone. Mike having no other options goes back to Portland and is left alone while Scott is having a some huge job and a wife.I fell a lot like Mike Waters a lot and i don't want to explain it.The Film is visually beautiful.The Acting should have won the Oscars but it didn't sadly.The film is poetic tragic story of 2 lovers who are different but yet very similar.It is easily Gus' best film and most personal.One of most underrated and important indie films of the last 20 years "},{"Title":"My Own Private River","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"29 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For many of us - Idaho - changed everything. I was still in High School when the movie came out and, like so many of you; I was never the same again. However great the script and direction, the lighting and camera shots, (motorcycle scene and campfire to name a few) there is no doubt that this is River's movie. No disrespect to Van Sant or anyone involved. I realize the movie would not be the same or nearly as perfect without them - particularly Gus. The truth is, however, River made this movie everything to us. Never has a movie touched us so deeply or any one person's unrequited love so deeply resonated. I think I can safely say that I was not the only teenager in the world whom would have given anything to be in the camp fire scene with River. In reality though you know? No movies, no actors, no props or fake lights and as far away from Hollywood as possible. Simply, River and me alone by a fire a million miles away from fear. "},{"Title":"As current today as it was then....a modern classic perhaps.","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho Director Gus Van Sant Starring River Phoenix, Keanu Reeves, James Russo. Gus Van Sant essentially takes on Shakespeare's Henry IV; it featured the aesthetically delightful River Phoenix as Mike Waters, a wonderfully apt narcoleptic male whore who we first get a glimpse of tipping down an open stretch of road in Idaho. Mike and the action shifts from the cold Seattle to equally cold Portland. It is here that he makes friends with Scott Favor, a secretly soon to be rich guy who is also on the game played by the often-maligned Keanu Reeves. The future for both is as uncertain as uncertain can be, will Scott take up the inheritance he about to get, will Mike survive the streets with his narcolepsy? ￼ Mike feels real affections for Scott, however Scott refuses to believe men can really love each and it would seem that Scott is only doing the gay whole whore thing to kill time and get back at his family. Mike believes Scott will continue with the grand life on the streets, turning tricks even after he bags the inheritance; such is the allure of the unknown. There are many of fellow working boys who agree with Mike's view. This is an uneasy picture, a colourful and surreal attempt to really take the characters to a different kingdom. At times, it is a wonderful although slightly glossy take on the real street hustlers shagging their way to oblivion or not as the individual case may be. Drug abuse and risky behaviours are commonplace on the streets and in the world of the male hooker and it is a small feature of this sometimes-disturbing film. The character of Mike seems almost apologetically plausible, abandoned as a child and obsessed with finding his real long lost mother. Scott less believable as the rebellious disillusioned spoilt little rich kid gone rebelliously bad. You really would not have put them together by design, but fate disregards those lines and together they embark on a quest to find Mike's mother, from Portland to Idaho to Italy they do travel. There is no argument the cinematic quality and the unbelievably stunning settings help to make this film an intriguingly striking viewing delight. It is exceptionally well thought out in terms of location and setting and a master-class for any would be cinematographer. The characterisation I found to be impressive, even Keanu Reeves played his part with just the right amount of smug pathos and humour, especially with the flippantly arrogant lines afford to him. River Phoenix works pure magic on screen with this performance and I am fairly sure I'm not alone in believing this is the role that set him into the great immortal movie star hall of fame. It is no wonder that he pulled in a number of 'best actor' type awards for this intrinsically faceted role. His campfire scene, in which Mike declares his love for Scott, is much applauded by audiences and critics alike &#x96; Newsweek claiming it to be A marvel of delicacy it really is a testament to what a wonderful talent River Phoenix was, because he wrote that part of the script himself. Village Voice said, Phoenix vanishes with reckless triumph into his role. It earned around £5 million at the box office worldwide, which is quite impressive, more than that in video and DVD sales. My Own Private Idaho takes the spirit and passion of Shakespeare, bends, manipulates and shapes it to find form in a more modern setting, which works beyond expectation in the most part. Although the traditionalist in me seems to hold the opinion that you should not mess with old Shaky and if you do, you best be prepared to face the harshest of critics. Adaptations are always open to personal interpretation and modifications, which others may not agree with, like or even accept, yet this one seems to work and seems to be commended as a job well done.Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"A gem in the movie genre - very emotional & moving with great performances","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard of this movie for a while now (since it came out I guess) and never had the chance to watch it. Finally, I got my hand on a DVD and was stunned how could I have missed this before? I would classify this movie in the Indie genre (if that applied to movies), as its style is unusual. Essentially, the dialogs may go into long theatrical speech (literally) rather than a fluent every day life dialog. You get annoyed at times (did not expect a Shakespeare play but a movie) as some of the scenes within this style are not working out (imagine Keanu Reeves in a play - nope! doesn't work for me either). But if you can pass beyond this problem, you will find a gem. Indeed, the characters! What a treat. River Phoenix (Mike) performance is simply breathtaking and inspired you immediately feel the character of Mike, the abandoned and confused child not only reverting to hustling for money but striving for belonging, acceptance and love going in life with the dream and memory of his mother. His friendship with Scott (Keanu Reeves) will bring them into a journey where emotions and classics are all covered lightness and energy of youth, rebellion of the privileged, loneliness, burning passions, struggles and survival, loss, desire. On second thought, perhaps it works well as a Shakespearian play (yes, I know it was intended) but not only because the dialogs are like so but due to the in-depth drama of this movie the breadth of emotion it covers. The story line is flooded with the view of Mike (also narcoleptic) and appears at times as a dream. As a result, to me, the whole movie is simply a great piece, poetic, breath taking and emotional you stay watching through the theater scenes wanting to know what's next, you get hooked to the artistic aspects of the movie (music is often blending and you find yourself noticing that many details have significance) and you feel for the characters at a deep and intense level as if the topics treated are archetypal. For sure, you will remember this movie whether you were thrown off by it, liked it or loved it. "},{"Title":"Like a super 8","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like a super 8 film from the 70's/80's New York this felt like it was art created for the screen on a setting, the open plan falling down dilapidated building. Beautifully shot with scenes of the hills and fields that seemed to roll on forever. The acting even included San Sant himself as well as Grace Zabriskie who is normally in David Lynch's films.The story was maybe even too weird for me and didn't really get a resonance and stayed very flat, it was not his best but showed how he can make his films.Although it was maybe too weird it still made me want to be there in that building, the place where creativity happens, as spaces like that spark imagination. "},{"Title":"a sad tale of love & longing thats breaks your heart","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i donno which made me yelp in silent pain more , , , was it mike's longing for his mother who abandoned him when he was small , his incurable narcolepsy , or the fact that he was irrevocably in love in with Scot who does not share the feeling and deserts him the same way his mother did years ago ? your heart goes out to mike who has nothing to live for .... its a film thats heart felt.. that makes you wanna cry out .. and hold mike in your arms , tell him everything will be okay.. but it wont .. and you ll know it ..thats splits your heart into two .. an astonishing performance from both the leads.. keanu is as good in emotional scenes as he is in scifi ... what can i say of river phoenix? like heath ledger his absence will never be filled... an amazing talent incredible performance in this movie should have earned him an Oscar i ll like to thank the director for making this movie... reminds us we are still human ... "}{"Title":"a spear to your heart","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i really wasn't sure if i was going to like this movie. i can now say although its almost as old as i am that it is still one of the best films i have ever seen in my life. the film was simply touching to say the least river Phoenix was amazing i truly feel his character in this movie and my heart cries for the loneliness he feels. i saw this film for the first time today and i shall not regret it. its sad how the other guy decides to leave the main character and he is left alone to stagger on his own. i usually hate shakespears work but this is one film out of his work that i have simply fallen in love with. it really hit home for me and i thought the video was amazing the way the scenes were stuck together the transitions in the sex scenes were still life to represent the point. really amazing how good the two main actors were i feel saddened that river phoenix is gone. i bet he could have made so many more touching movies had he lived. thank god his presence still lives on with this touching film "},{"Title":"Incredible, haunting, heartbreaking, beautiful.","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I was fourteen I got it into my head that I absolutely had to watch this film. I went to all the video libraries etc and it was nowhere to be found. It also wasn't stocked in shops, and this was a long time before the days of DVD polish up/ releases. So I was going home on the bus, when I passed this tiny rundown old video library which was having a closeout. So I hopped off the bus and checked on a whim to see if it they had ever stocked MOPI. And they said no. I checked through their stock anyway, and then just as I was about to leave, the guy came from out the back with a GIGANTIC ex rental box from the early nineties and gave it to me. Just free. Said take it, he's closing shop. So I was amazed. I walked eight blocks home in the rain, and watched it that night. I was mindblown. That was ten years ago, and it still has that effect on me today. I've never watched a film that has had such an effect on me since. It breaks my heart, as you said, in so many amazing ways. The loneliness, the isolation, the simple gestures of friendship, the emotionally crippled characters trying so desperately to find a place to belong... I guess it touched a very raw nerve in me. "},{"Title":"River's finest hour...","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a remarkable film with a remarkable performance. Accepting these roles was risky for both Pheonix and Reeves, but they clearly had no regrets; they threw themselves into the project. Phoenix especially. The greatest performance of his short career, River shows everyone just how much talent was tragically lost outside the Viper Room that fatal night. I personally have never been a fan of Keanu Reeves' acting (he tries, but he's as stiff as a board), however he manages to be quite watchable throughout this. A moving film, it will likely leave you feeling sad, but eager to watch it again. And again. This was also Gus Van Sant's finest hour as a film-maker. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"such an interesting, yet lovely film...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd been a fan of Gus van Sant, since I finally got around to watching Drugstore Cowboy a couple of years ago. By that movie, alone, I'd made up in my mind that van Sant was someone whose mission in film-making was clear he wanted to create what others were thinking of, but were just a tad too afraid and conservative to actually have their ideas visualized.It's that kind of tell-all, show-all film-making that van Sant experiments with in My Own Private Idaho. What seems to be the oddest of journeys into the lives of two street denizens, as he calls them, turns out to be a beautifully poetic and both emotionally and visually stimulating film, charged with a touch of classic, underlying romance.River Phoenix, who I didn't declare as one of my favorite actors until 13 years after his death, truly shines in Idaho. He's the character that, even though you understand perfectly that his way of making a living is far less than desirable, you immediately care for and ultimately fall in love with. He brings, along with the other characters throughout the film, something magical to the screen, as Shakespeare's work is revived once more.I'd seen Phoenix's work before, and didn't quite know what to think of him, other than the fact that he definitely did his other films justice. But after ordering a copy of Idaho, it was then that the realization hit me in the opening scenes of the movie had he have not met such a tragic, early end, River could have easily had a career as entrancing and great as Johnny Depp, who after the film was over, I was able to see, with great ease, as playing the role of Mike Waters.I received my copy of Idaho about 3 weeks ago. Already, I can quote the entire film, because I have watched it just that much.In my book, it's clearly a definite must-see. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Poetic, An Influential 90s Masterpiece In Art-house Cinema","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant may have had his ups and downs (Psycho anyone?), but this is without a doubt, one of the best pieces of cinema to come out of the early 90s.Starring the infamous River Pheonix, and today's megastar Keanu Reeves, this film is well acted, has a great script, is filmed in a wonderfully minimalistic way and is just too good for words in general.It has a poetic, Shakespearian, maybe even slightly beatnik plot and script, which also appeals to me in a movie. It is also very interesting to see the fantastic roots of Keanu Reeves, and just goes to show he didn't always make terrible films.I really can't recommend this film highly enough. 5/5 from me.  "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a truly great performance of River Phoenix. Keanu Reeves was also great. You should really go and see this film because then you realise how much the world lost in River Phoenix. Many titeled him as a teenie idol but he was more. River was also a great actor and he wanted to make the world be a better place. It's tragic it ended up that way. All we can do is keeping his memory alive. Believe me if you saw that film you'll think the same. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A story about love and belonging","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is definitely underrated, those who have seen it either love it or do not want to see it again.River Phoenix plays Mike, a gay Narcoleptic hustler trying to find his mother and a place to belong. Keanu Reeves plays Scott, a rich boy just wasting his time hustling until he qualifies for his family's inheritance. These two are friends, looking for the same sort of thing, love and to belong.I first stumbled across the film at 18, it was on T.V. and my dad quickly turned the station over from the start of the film. Curious, I rented the movie and although I do not usually watch films about drug-use and hustling and homosexuality, I like dark dramas so I instantly loved the film in all its glory.I have been a fan of River for two years now, I absolutely adore him, this is one of his best films.Keanu, I think, is a little less of an actor, though I thought he did terrific as Scott.You don't have to be gay or interested in drugs or hustling, anyone can relate to wanting to find love and to belong somewhere in the world. This film belongs with the best! "},{"Title":"MOPI is a film following Mike and Scott, two friends making a living as street hustlers, on a journey to find mikes birth mother.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is a deeply moving film about two friends Mike Waters (River phoenix) and Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves) living their lives very low as street hustlers. The two find themselves on a quest to find Mikes mother who had abandoned him as a child. Mike is a narcoleptic which causes for some trouble throughout the film. Scott is the mayors son making a statement by doing his own thing until he inherits his father's fortune.This movie was truly one of my favorites opening my mind to a whole world i never knew the truth about. The film is so realistic you honestly feel their pain; especially mike who is looking for anything or anywhere that he can call home.The whole script beautifully written by the talented Gus Van Sant who also directed the film gives you a certain vibe and also a strong sympathy for both men making a living at a very low point. Aside from the lifestyle they live, having sex for money, Mike understands the meaning of true love as he develops that very thing for His best friend and companion.The ending op MOPI leaves you with a bittersweet feeling yet also leaves room for you to imagine how mike continued his life after the credits begin to role. This picture is honestly the most interesting and intriguing i've ever seen. As you watch it you feel a lot of sympathy ( for mike especially ) but their is also a very humorous and witty side throughout the entire film. I know anyone can enjoy a movie so strange yet creative. "},{"Title":"Great story, even better acting","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not only did I love the story, a unique interpretation of Shakespeare's Henry IV, I truly believed everything in the film was perfect. The direction and the visuals were stunning. However, it was the acting that was most captivating. River Phoenix was amazing, as  he always was. He completely owned the role. I was surprised by Keanu Reeves' performance. I loved him from the Bill and Ted movies but he really got to shine in this movie. Flawless acting.Also, the movie was at times very witty and at the same time there was a lot of darker humor. I wasn't completely satisfied with the end but I would still give it 4 (out of 4) stars. "},{"Title":"A film never be forgotten","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two years ago I rented a video from a mini store and enjoyed it with my roommates. Each scene jumps in my mind now and then still now, even it's not a film attracted librarian. I was blamed for rent a film full of depravation,chaos,cruelty, and somewhat eroticism---maybe it's not right hamburger for someone . But, it did not immerse my cells that were shocked by the overwhelming scenario, pictures, music, and the atmosphere mixture with sorrow and shining. The way in Idaho which is appeared time and again just like a warm face from which both desperation and hope are risen .I can catch the scene of that long way with golden paddy field and floating shadow of cloud, although most parts passed me away. Even Gold but me think the Movie-----¡°my own private Idaho¡± is a film related with problems of gay, almost nothing attached in . Mike, the leading actor, is a complicated boy who came from an especially family and life, and he is really a convergence of those teenagers in fragile families and dizzying societies. From the beginning of the film, Mike has already been a sickle to his degraded career because of too much hurt, loneliness, and desperatation in a long time. But Mike is a kid hunger for true love and care, and he is not the only person who wants a warm home. Remember those young hustlers appeared as folks? I think that is one of the most successful parts of the wonderful movie. They were showed in such an ordinary way, tender, innocent, helpless. Some of them even talked about their first misery experience in a soft tone, the tone you do can feel their aspiration for love from. Maybe Mike fell in love with Scott because that Scott would not belong to their chaos circle for ever, maybe he contain a thought for a kind of natural, warm home, maybe he could help Mike be out of desperate life, or maybe just a gleam of love he can get from him. But even not an illusory emotion had he got from Scott. The scene of Mike standing lonely at the entrance of the road always reminds me of a perplexing feeling for my future in teen-age. Isn't it a symbol of our experience and state as young persons ? We are so lucky to be surrounded by love from our families, relatives, friends, but no help for your private problem deep in your mind. Everyone has a Idaho in the heart where you taste your agony , pacify your hurt, and try to find a bright way to serenity. That maybe the reason that I love the name of the film so much. I didn't know the movie bases on the play ¡°Henry IV¡± of Shakespeare two years ago. Even then I didn't feel any thing assonant in the dialogue, and I think the scene form a Shakespeare's play has been successfully used in a film way, which add some fantastic matter into the desperate atmosphere . Everything you can find in the sway camera lens blatancy, cynicism. naivet¨¦, depression, humor, and intense heartache. And they can't be get rid of after you ending watching for one year, two year, no one knows how long. I formerly wanted to see the film because of keen reeves, and then found River Phoenix a superexcellent actor in Mike. I can't help feeling sad when I heard of his death. I don¡¯t know it is true or not that he drugged because of a will to act well as Mike. River Phoenix is an actor of something, but he had to accept a kind of trite death. I am looking forward to River Phoenix or Gus Van Sent's other films now, and I hope that I can see a same style in other movies of them. I don't know how much feeling I've express in my poor English, but my own private Idaho is a movie I wanna treasure up in memory for my youthhood. "}{"Title":"there began all my dreams (the saddest thing I've ever seen)","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this when I was 12 and remember not really understanding it but being so profoundly touched by the tenderness, lonliness, frustration, isolation, confusion and beauty in River's character when he breaks down telling Keauno he wants to kiss him. (sorry for the queer focus of my review)Being young and long away from being comfortable with my sexuality that scene just freaking resonated with me. Eight years later I just watched it again and was just as blown away by River's immaculate performance and Gus' subtlety, beauty and cinematic articulation of the Water's characters upstream struggle. The scene where River thrashes around in some German guy's hotel room...wah...I almost cried.I gather Gus is taking on JT Leroy's novel 'Sarah', cannot frigin wait! Sorry, this isn't a very an objective review. But I don't care. This movie is so precious to me.Have a nice day. "},{"Title":"All the lonely people","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An excellent film, and one about people whom no one needs. And about life and ex-friends giving you a finger.The film has nothing to do with gay-ety, since Mike is just desperate for love, to be loved by anyone, preferably his mom.This is a life-long quest that ended one episode too late, to my thinking the 'tribute to happy end', however open-ended, has been an unnecessary extra in otherwise perfect story that gets right to your guts. "},{"Title":"great performance/uneven film","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  spoilersMy Own Private Idaho contains a loose film version of some of the Hal & Falstaff drama in the Henry IV plays.  Keanu Reeves plays Prince Hal and the scenes taken directly from Shakespeare's plays are kinda stiff.  A battle of wits with Falstaff and his eventual rejection are staged like musical numbers and the language is abruptly laced with clunky similes.  I don't think it works that well, especially since it's such an artificial subplot inside the larger drama of Phoenix's character.  Even the documentary-style look at the gang of child prostitutes and the utterly bizarre Van Sant vignettes of the tricks being turned outshine the Falstaff plot.  In fact, plotwise, it is a very frustrating film.  At one point the Phoenix character throws a tantrum after being ditched in Italy and I felt sorta the same way. All the way to Italy for that?  Crap!  That was like 20 minutes just so I could watch Udo Kier be weird looking and other stuff that could have been handled in a couple minutes in the USA?  (Wait a second. maybe they had to go to Italy just as Henry V went to conquer France with a lot of his old buddies tagging along in the infantry and marry a French princess.  Ack! That's annoying.)The jewel of the film is River Phoenix who so completely inhabits his character that it is difficult to watch.  His character has tried to cultivate a cynical indifference to the world since stress can induce a narcoleptic episode.  The problem is that he's a lonely, somewhat empathetic young man living a very stressful life.  All the film's best images and dialogue are reserved for Phoenix's Mike Waters character.  In the scene where he is rejected by Scott Favor, Phoenix does a remarkable job of showing his character's heart breaking.  So much so that it seems River Phoenix has vanished and all that's left is this bruised teenager who is being swallowed up by humiliation, loneliness and pain.  There are times when he seems like he's been beamed in from a better movie.I think MOPI is worth seeing just for the Phoenix performance and the Van Sant grotesques and vistas.  It's definitely a flawed film, but it looks and feels like they had a great time making it.   "},{"Title":"The seamy side of America","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My Own Private Idaho is a very important movie, in more than one way. First of all it shows us a side of USA which is always hidden or ignored in the flow of mainstream American movies. It shows us the underbelly of society The outcast. It is a brave and honest portrayal of what goes on in the streets of Portland, and in every large city in modern society. Except for one film (pretty boy, a Danish movie), this is the only film I know that tells us about the lives of hustlers (young, male prostitutes). And what makes MOPI unique, is that Gus Van Sant describes them in a nonjudgemental, caring way Not gloryfying them or their sad lives, not preaching moral on their lifestyle, not trying to make a political statement. Another thing that makes MOPI a very special movie, is the surreal way the story is told. Mike, the main character, is a hustler who lives on the streets. But Mike suffers from a strange disease which makes him fall asleep at the most inaproppriate moments, because it's caused by stress. And because the film is seen through his sleepy eyes, we are always uncertain exactly where we are and what is going on. In glimpses we see his dreams of a long lost mother, pictures of salmons swimming up current, and desolate landscapes. You'd might think that the harsh environment and surreal filming makes it impossible for you to connect and empathize with the characters. I did not think so. Though MOPI deals with some pretty heavy things, as for example prostitution and drug abuse, this is just as much a film about the search for love, which we all can relate to. Mike, the main character (fabulously played by River Phoenix), is always searching for love an acceptance, partly from his best friend Scott, but also from his father/brother and the dream of his mother, whom he have never known. Both Mike and Scott, who are best friends and the main characters of the movie, are looking for love and true relations. But both come from families which has never given them love. Scott, a mayor's son, has run away because his father was not able to accept and love him. Mike's family is dissolved and depraved Mike being the son of his mother and his own brother. In the streets both kids find a new family, a family of hustlers and junkies. And the two become best friends. But unfortunately this new family will also fail to give them the security and love they need. To me the story is not the most important thing What touched me the most was the touching and compassionate portrayal of Mike, a frail and vulnerable boy. River Phoenix is amazing in this role. With raw honesty, he strips away all defenses and shows us a young man, who is deeply wounded and always looking for love and accept, but never getting it. "},{"Title":"Great  Movie","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a gay American in Tulsa, OK (the buckle of the bible belt!) I absolutely loved the movie when i first saw it around 10 yrs ago. I think both Phoenix and Reeves were excellent in the movie and the creativity of the production was very captivating. I only wish River wouldn't have left us at such an early age. He was awesome! I think that River brought out the sensitive side of Kneau Reeves in a way that has not been accomplished by any other actor/actress since Idaho was made. Every time i watch this movie i see new aspects that i had not noticed in previous viewings. The main message is to always live life to the fullest because you never know when it will end. Steve L. "},{"Title":"Hip n Cool","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, I have this film on video. I cannot put everything down I want to about this film because there is not enough space. I have seen this film over and over again.  First two times I saw it I was like mmmm.. pretty good.  Now I have seen it again, again and again I am noticing small detail I have missed the first times around.  I think the film is brilliant. My father I know would hate it and it would be switched off inside the first ten minutes! Although it makes me wince a bit if you look past the first 10 minutes, it truly is a masterpiece. People who remark it is boring are not watching it. It is dark, it is humourous. I even love the long road (I would love to see it for real).  Even though I am a true Keanu Reeves fan I think we have to allow that Phoenix (Mike) is the best actor. Also that the film is axised around him and his desperate need to anchor his life because it is squalid and to find his mom for security. Like putting daises in a pile of dung. Phoenix (Mike) at the beginning of the film when he is in a sexual part with Walt when he sits up at the end; it is all too real. The criticism on the Shakespeare bit, well if Gus can throw in falling cattle sheds onto roads at sexual climax and cut to spawning salmon in a lake he can throw in Shakespeare too. Funny parts, when they ambush the rock n roll promotors and then Bob tells his lies to the group there was seventeen of them and they had it out with me. The Daddy Carrol episode scrub my little dutch boy and hands phoenix ridiculous looking house slippers so he wouldn't mess up his house!!  Keanu retelling the truth of what really happened to the story of Bob's failed robbery and much much more.  Although the main characters are mike and scott even the other denizens are required to make things happen and are they not cool, all of them. Also the bit when they go to visit Mike's father Dick I though was really good acting again by Phoenix. Bud to Bob The things we've seen. Bob Yes we have heard the Chimes at Midnight. That we have Bob That we have. Gees, the things WE'VE seen. It seemed that everyone in the film was in love with Scottie. I also found their journey of meeting weird and wonderful people like Hans (see his performance with the lamp). I thought I bet people really do exist like that and this is just too weird n wonderful. In the end Keanu gets his dead father's inheritance and married the french girl (how jealous of her was I) and Mike stays put in his world with the street denizens and dreamlike world he occupies.   I would like to have been that man for a moment though when he kisses Keanu at the bonfire.  Incidentally, can anyone out there tell me if that was meant to be a situation that really took place or was it one of Mike narcoplectic moments. He is on the floor after while Keanu is still starting the motorbike! Only Gus could tell. Ya jus don't know how much I love this film. For other films similar but far darker I suggest London Kills Me which is set in London in '97 against a backdrop of rave culture.  ENJOY FILM Julie "},{"Title":"Touching, deep and beautiful","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *possible spoilers, but nothing serious -  actually I think those are only things that will help you understand and appreciate the movie better*My Own Private Idaho is perhaps the most beautiful film I have ever seen. Deep and sincere characterization of Mike Waters and River Phoenix`s portrayal of that character are priceless jewels. As many other reviewers here already said, Mike goes through his sad, lonely life of a young male prostitute always in search of love and acceptance... by anyone. His loneliness is beyond words, he doesn`t have absolutely anyone who cares for him in the entire world, and so he dreams about his mother comforting him, during his frequent deep sleep attacks by narcolepsy. His everlasting hope is to find his mother again, and be safe in her embrace, but he would settle for the romantic love of his best friend Scott, also a young hustler. Mike sells his body to men and women, and tells Scott he`s in love with him, but we actually don`t really know if he`s gay - he is just so desperate for any kind of love, affection and tenderness, from man or a woman, a boyfriend or mother, never mind.He embarks on a quest alongside with Scott to finally find his mother, and wherever they arrive during that quest, Idaho, Rome, a small Italian village, he is so certain he`ll find her this time, but he always fails. Then Scott, his only companion, finds a girlfriend and dumps him in the middle of foreign country, and Mike is left all alone in the world again. Then, at the end of the film, he`s back on that road in Idaho, looking at the desolate landscape, dreaming about his mother... And then he suffers another narcoleptic attack, falls asleep in the middle of the road. Someone stops his car, picks him up and drives him away, and first you can only wonder who picked him up, is it someone who will help him and care for him, or not... maybe Scott, the object of his romantic affection, maybe his brother, who is actually his father... or maybe his mother... you never know. Perhaps good fortune has finally smiled down on the poor boy who suffered so much in his lonely life.And later, if the movie really touched you in a deep and profound way, like it did me and many more people, you could also imagine that it was you who stopped that car and picked Mike up... and drove with him to some place safe and quiet, where you could just hug him and tell him he`ll never be alone again, and then just hold him in your arms and care for him... because he needs it, human warmth, human touch, sincere human love, so very badly.This is the gentlest, sweetest and most delicate and beautiful and emotionally powerful movie that I have ever seen. I was so sure of that when I just thought about the words in that sweet title, and they almost made me cry.This is a beautiful, complex, symbolic movie... many things will be unclear to you at first, many things illogical and strange, but you will discover its real beauty and tenderness when you will be thinking about it later, pondering every scene and remembering every significant little detail, of this dreamy, touching, quiet masterpiece. And it would never have been possible without River Phoenix, a brilliant actor with a beautiful talent, whose unforgettable, fascinating performance is the very core of this movie.Beautiful. Unforgettable. 11/10. "},{"Title":"A tale of self discovery and truth","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Gus Van Sant made this film, he created truth through art. Not often do you find a cinematic endeavor so full of angst, loss, despair, frustration, yet at the same time, in the same film, almost simultaneously, you also discover and experience celebration, joy, peace, and finally, resolution.Essentially this film is a collage of portraits. It's not just about Mike Waters and Scott Favor. Every character has their own tale, from Bob Pigeon and Bad George, to Hans and the nameless male hustlers who stand alongside River in a few scenes.The truth that is housed within this film is told in unflinching detail. River Phoenix owns this element of the movie. His scenes are egg-shell delicate, yet at the same time, his character exudes a strength and consistency that none of other characters seem to have. Mike Waters is Mike Waters. He is consistent throughout the film. Yet, at the same time, he is a breakable soul, and it's almost painful in certain parts of the film to watch him.I could go on forever, but I won't...Every aspect of this movie strikes a chord with me, from the masterfully filmed images that bring a level of symbolism to the film--The salmons swimming upstream, the wooden house crashing to bits.The fact that when River Phoenix rewrote some of the dialogue, he undoubtably had a hand in giving his character the last name of Waters, and Mike's mother's name-Sharon Waters. (For those of you who don't know, River's mother's real name was Arlyn Sharon) I doubt that this is coincidence. Mike also speaks about a movie- Rio Bravo. Again, Rio/River, this is no mistake. River Phoenix purposely places himself in the character of Mike Waters, and he wants you to see his signature in every single pore and essence of Mike Waters. He doesn't want a separation of character and actor. He wants the blend to be flawless, seamless. This is why without River Phoenix, this film never could have possessed the level of truth that it possesses.Too bad that there are not more films being made like this one. Too bad River Phoenix is not here anymore to act in them.  "},{"Title":"Appreciation","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A truely intuiative film. So many producers seek to make speed out of some section of human life they deem to be marketable. This film is different. It focuses on a marginalised section of human existance and awards it a place of deference, as should be done with every section of human nature. It makes no pretences, and to the uninitiated might even offend. The most important achievement on this movie, is that it accurately portrays what is to some, an everyday true to life existance and not a far off, some people who are deviant, live like this, fantasy.  This movie is so real, to those who know, and to those who don't, is a gentle but accurate exposure of just what really happens in this world. I don't believe the characters are significant, just the fact that this type of thing happens, to real people, all the time... if only everyone would see. But ofcourse they won't. And yet this will not prevent life continueing as it will.   An honest and magnificent effort "},{"Title":"Really, really f**ked up","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not really sure whether I want to like this movie, or not. It has a definite appeal to fans of art films, which I'm not (though B movies.... wait, those aren't art films..), but anyone searching for anything resembling a mainstream movie is advised to look elsewhere. Though I'm sure this is the effect director Gus Van Sant was aiming for, the movie looks very crude and low budget, it may have even been shot on 16mm. The only positive effect this has is that it seems to be happening to us, and that the movie was made specifically for us, and no one else. This is hardly the main reason that it's, to be frank, messed up. It's obvious that any movie that opens with the main character (in this case Mike, played by River Phoenix) getting a b***job is not going to be another Hollywood money pit.There is quite a bit to be admired about the film, however. One is the caliber of the acting, especially the surprise given to us by Keanu Reeves. That's right- he actually acts here. This is likely the only movie he's ever been in where the word 'dude' is not in the script. He easily delivers a career best performace here, not a hard feat by his standards. The rest of the cast, made up mostly of no-names, is also exceptional, and the acting may be the only thing saving this movie.My advice is to see it only if you're a fan of art house films, or of either of the two stars. Everyone else stay far, far away.5.5/10 "}{"Title":"Horrid waste of time","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like all sorts of films be it blockbuster or indie and this movie was just pitiful. Why anyone would want to star in a movie with Keanu Reeves and his stellar acting skills is beyond me. Quite possibly one of the worst, most pointless movies I've ever seen. I was intrigued after reading, Last Night at the Viper Room to see some of River's movies other than Stand By Me because I'm convinced he was going to be one of the greats. His acting is the only good thing about this movie. I wish I would have counted how many times I had to pause this movie to go and do other things. It didn't hold my interest in the least. I should have known when I saw that Flea was making an attempt at acting in this that it was in no way a serious film. The strangely posed sex scenes were nothing but corny. You'll catch yourself rolling your eyes quite often. I was hoping for a good film, even something artistic but instead I got bizarre, and trying too hard. "},{"Title":"one thing's for sure, you've never seen quite a Gay-themed film like this - not even from Van Sant","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was around the time of the late 80s and early 90s a sort of surge, if that's not too improper a word, in gay and lesbian character-centered films in the United States - as the South Park guys so eloquently put it and later echoed in Brokeback Mountain gay cowboys eating putting - and while wikipedia's entry on the New Queer Cinema includes Gus Van Sant's name, and this film plus Mala Noche, I would imagine few others could compare to the audacity and crazy daring displayed here. It's not entirely a masterpiece even as it strives to be one ever so much, but damn all celluloid to hades if it isn't some kind of 'experience' to get through it all, and usually in moving and hallucinatory ways. My Own Private Idaho mixes and matches, strikes together images and sounds and cuts and time-lapses and angles and characters that leave a mark on the viewer, like watching Godard make something quick if he wandered into a gay bar screening Un Chien Andalou and had to contend with a group of hustlers and other random crazies while also carrying with him some selected Bard. This isn't Brokeback Mountain, aside from that one little tender scene (one of my favorites if only by River Phoenix's acting) where Mike confesses his true love for Scott (Keanu Reeves) when the latter just has sex with men for money and is decidedly Bi-curious. It's indescribable in tone if not in plot; we are basically dealt with two street hustlers, one a practical orphan with medium-grade narcolepsy and the other a dejected son of a mayor who sits on his thrown like a dying king... or Henry the 4th for that matter. The rest kind of flows from that, with Mike trying to find his mother and Scott going quickly into his, well, destiny of sorts.Sure, having a movie that mixes documentary (tell me some of these guys weren't picked off the street by Van Sant?) and a kind of magical realism (yes, magical realism) that involves fish jumping upstream and 8mm filmed dreams of Mike's family plus the general illusionment of waking up somewhere random and alone PLUS Shakespeare is jarring. Most notably, indeed, when Shakespeare is pretty much lifted right off the page and given just a touch of gutter-talk or gritty Bowery-level attitude and wildness. It's so strange and original a move, and the actors all play it so sincerely, that it's hard sometimes to totally take seriously with the Falstaff aka Bob played by William Reichert as the Fisher King as a ruler, and Flea as a screaming/crying banshee... And yet, there are chunks where this method works, and one gets accustomed and accepts and gets wrapped up in this patchwork, such as when Bob and his men in pink monk clothes rob and fight with other street folk at night. It's so crazy it just about works which is incredible on its own, not to mention with special/awesome appearances by Grace Zabriskie and in Dean Stockwell ala Blue Velvet form Udo Kier!Also incredible is River Phoenix. People talk today about the lasting impact Heath Ledger will have following his passing and leaving behind the Joker (and, as some might forget, Bob Dylan). Phoenix as Mike Walters is that kind of performance only in the art-house setting, something really challenging and heartbreaking to see. This is a truly great performance, perhaps amplified even more by (or because of) Keanu Reeves who while very good and better than some would ever give him credit for is overshadowed by this brooding and harrowing force right next to him. Phoenix somehow makes us care about this character maybe more than Van Sant would want us to, and that too is something special.Even if you don't care very much for the movie itself, how Van Sant films and directs in his own hit or miss (this time mostly hit in a burgeoning iconoclastic) style, it's hard to argue the tenacity of the actor on screen, and his impact left if only here and in Stand by Me. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mike so-called life","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can't find a word to describe my feeling to this amazing movie, I mean, Gus Van Sant is an expert for this type of film,obviously , Drugstore Cowboy! This time, he turns the camera from a junkie to a hustler.Probably, he's good at picking the right actor to act the role, River Phoenix makes Mike Waters alive, not a role but River IS Mike! You can feel Mike's emptiness, loneliness through River's facial expression and any gesture. Imagine if your Dad is your brother, your Mom is a mental patient, what can you do? Mike doesn't give up his dream for finding his mom. Every time, he brings his hope to a place, wants to meet her, however, all he gets is frustration. Tragic is Mike's symbol! He falls for Scott, a guy who grows in a rich, well-cultured family and rebels in his teenage time. Does it mean that Scott can fool Mike around? Hurts Mike's heart deeply? I can't say if Scott did love Mike or not, it's too cruel to dump Mike in Italy and flies to US with his so-called fiancee!Most of the people may not like this film as it reveals the darkness of the world, nevertheless, this is the truth of the world we are living. Why it's so good? Because it's so real, close to reality.Wherever, Whatever, have a nice day! "},{"Title":"A beautifully strange and touching story, told in an incredibly refreshing and original way","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a perfect example of the importance that a director has on a film and the way the film will turn out. Gus Van Sant's erratic, hilarious and creative storytelling of a gay narcoleptic hustler is one of a kind in the sense that you rarely witness a story being explored in such a unique way. It is important to note that the narcolepsy our protagonist experiences, together with a short-lived childhood and rough situations lead him to a scattered, direction-less existence. This is portrayed incredibly well by Gus' direction and Phoenix's performance, as Mike's life is reflected by the fragmented and hazy nature of the film itself. Being narcoleptic, Mike has no chance of leading an ordinary life, as these bouts of sleep leave him powerless, in the hands of nature and others, and it is apparent that at some point he stops caring about where he will end up next or where he will be in a day, month or year. Instead, Mike's only able to live hour by hour, hustling from one guy to the next, not really sure whether a particular event has truly happened or if it is one of his many dreams. It is a strange and touching story, told in an even stranger and incredibly refreshing and original way The magazine poster guys talking to one another, sharing thoughts on life as a hustler, sexual acts depicted through still erotic poses of the participants, and above all Bob, a character who is both a pathetic, fat thief and a spiritual, guiding poet. The kids One of the most entertaining aspects of this film is delving into the lives of these hustlers, listening as they share their traumatic experiences with a sincere honesty and optimism, watching as they celebrate the life of their teacher and friend, Bob the Poet, by yelling and jumping and going wild; these kids were full of life. Mike Michael's character is potentially the most vulnerable character I have seen on film; this person has no choice but to surrender to the hands of whoever happens to pass by as he goes through life in a state between reality and dreaming, never truly aware of where he is or when he wakes up. It is incredible to see Phoenix portray this complex character, one who does not seem to have any direction in life but one who longs for some kind of intimacy with someone, a highly ironic take on the fact that he supports himself by sharing intimate physical moments with strangers. Mike is often found talking to himself, lost inside his own head. He sees clips of himself with his mom dancing and visualizes these isolated wooden houses when he goes under. He has a deep urge to find his mom and with the help of his best friend he tries to locate her, finding himself falling in love with this guy and getting his heart broken when the guy falls in love with another girl instead. To see a guy that does not confide much about himself be so exposed and so vulnerable and express his love for this guy in such a fundamentally human way, to see him try to hug the person that is trying to undress him, longing for some kind of true intimacy with a human being; these little peaks into the soul of this kid that is most often seen lost in his drug-influenced mind are what make this film so immensely beautiful. One should not fail to mention the humor of this film, with scenes like the prank on Bob and the other thieves, Hans performing his outrageously bad one man show while holding a lamp. These scenes play an important part in the film as they give realism to the story, instead of the director and screenwriter opting to dramatize the already-dramatic lives of these young adults. It also shows the spirit of these kids, a spirit indestructible that manages to laugh at times like this and not take itself too seriously. Idaho signifies a special place for our character, a place he returns to every time he falls asleep, and a place where his fondest earliest memories exist. It is also the place where he'd shared a road trip with his best friend and where he'd confided his love for him. This road will never end, our character says, signifying both the endlessness of his situation as a narcoleptic hustler and on the other hand a sense of safety in this familiar road, and this is depicted in the very last scene of the movie, where Mike gets picked up by a stranger or possibly his close friend after being robbed by 2 others. "},{"Title":"This road will never end.","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It seems that this film is really two films in one, struggling with another. There is the quiet, brooding masterpiece which has at its core River Phoenix and his search for home and comfort. And then there are the lesser parts of the sum, loosely inspired by Shakespeare, that seem to want to complicate the plot and insert these moments of literary richness. The scenes with William Richert's Falstaff inspired figure take on a strange morphing of the speech, not completely copying the language of the Bard but applying a modern twist on it. What results is a strangely stilted dialogue that doesn't have the poetic and symbolic power of the original, yet is decidedly stiff and uncharacteristic for the manner of street bums. It takes powerful moments from the play, such as Hal's rejection of his mentor and father figure, and renders them stale and emotionless. The real power is in that funeral scene, where the group sing and dance of the late Bob while a cold, frozen Reeves looks on from his own removed domain, no longer a part of them. It's a stunning juxtaposition, and you can feel the regret two ways as they attempt to miss each other's glance. This is more acceptable than the other theatrical moments of the film, such as wildly flamboyant client who has Mike scrub his floors, and a salesman who puts on a wonderful show and dance in the midst of their wanderings. These feel less natural and more of an obligation on the part of Van Sant, as if he was the Bard himself, trying to please a royal patron. So, not as to dismiss these segments of Shakespearean influence, but the real meat of the story is with Mike. He has an odd condition called narcolepsy which has him collapse and sleep at odd times of the day - and this isn't just a technique to feign vulnerability, but embedded within his character entirely. His dreams are the most integral clues to unlocking his psychosis; there is a long straight road that seems to go on forever and onto nowhere, and he peers all around to no avail, and retreats to his late mother's lap instead. Van Sant overlays these dream sequences with red-blooded American country music that sings about their proud land and country and all the wonderful things it holds. It becomes tragically ironic, but also with a slight solace, because they abruptly cut out once he wakes up and he is back in reality, and somehow in the midst of a client's session. It is suggested that he is almost trying to hide away in his dreams and reject his real life - see the strange way in which Van Sant's blocking hides the identity of the client as he walks away after he is done with his 'business'. And of course there are those gorgeous time-lapse sequences where the clouds rush over the never-ending plains. Their fleeting, elusive beauty renders Scott and Carmela's lovemaking almost robotic in its static still-frames.River Phoenix is the real star. Not only in his shattered, clipped dialogue, but in his body language. The pivotal confession of love by the campfire is made doubly vulnerable and heartbreaking by the way in which he hesitatingly spits out each pained line, and then curls up into a ball as if he were naked and completely exposed. Later upon rejection, he will desperately collapse on hard pavement and succumb to his condition all while sobbing - he makes this an art, not just releasing tears but allowing his whole body to break down and shake uncontrollably all while a unsuspecting Scott passes by in his car. He seeks solace in his usual clients, and for a brief, tiny moment, he seems to find it...oh, before they begin to pull his clothes off and reveal their truer desires. The initial intention was to have simply blackouts cuts to indicate Mike's narcolepsy. Instead we have these moments of pure bliss, that speed by all too fast and slip out of his hands. Clayont's editing is erratic and visualises his condition; they will jump forward in time in the blink of an eye, and cut during action jarringly, as if to indicate another narcoleptic episode that robs Mike of whatever pain or pleasure he was experiencing. In one instance, he runs desperately into his mother's former home, as if expecting an embrace, and the footage switches to that grainy, nostalgic POV vision, shaky and nervous, betraying his innermost desires, and then it quickly speeds past the memory jolt, and then back to him sobbing into Scott's arms. This is a masterful bit of film-making; to elicit such a strong emotional reaction but to do it in such a way that robs the character of any moment of solace. And we understand. Van Sant himself is openly gay, but there is not even a hint of personal circumstances or experiences that drive this film forward, but a feeling of universal loneliness. There is a secondary tragedy that this film evokes; that the young River Phoenix, such a tremendous talent, was taken much too soon. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"19 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It really doesn't seem 25 years ago that I first wondered at this beautiful piece of cinema. Time has been kind to it. It's even more impressive now. Its Shakespearean element seems to lift it out of a particular era, turning it into the stuff classics are made of.It is poetic, idiosyncratic work, simultaneously cool/objective and passionate/subjective, a remarkable achievement. The famous campfire scene between River Phoenix's Mike and Keanu Reeves' Scott is heartrending. The powerful confrontation between Phoenix and James Russo as Mike's brother is equally memorable. The high passions running in both section are counterpointed by the inscrutability of Reeves'face. His charisma has never been put to better use.On this second viewing, I was struck by Beatrix Aruna Pasztor's superb costume designs. They help create the film's air of timelessness.My feeling is that this movie will continue to be held, rightly, in very high esteem for a long, long time to come. "},{"Title":"Just touching and multi talented packed","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First giving it a 10 because I cant find any flaws in the film . Keanu Reeves and River Phoenix did a perfect performance . I know very little about River Phoenix . Till I watched Stand By Me  I just found the most talented actor and had it not been from drugs his acting skills would have been unbeatable . Hollywood wants a tragic story to write this would be one .As for the film as I said not one flaw . Keanu Reeves as always shows off his talent at a younger age . Kudos for the director and writer and the casting director .I think I will use this movie for when I have kids to watch with the don't do drugs. Both in the film and the true tragic story of one of its actors ( with so much talent and drugs taking it away ) "},{"Title":"interesting....","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MOPI is a story about friendship, loneliness and the search for love; River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves play two young hustlers who live in the margins of society; Scott (the Reeves character) simply wants to anger his rich father while Mike knows no other way to survive -he is also a narcoleptic and constantly dreams about his mother taking care of him; the most moving images of the film, in my humble opinion. I really liked the imagery of the desolate roads, which kind of symbolize Mike's solitude and his need of love...this road will never end, it probably goes all around the world. The film's strength relies almost completely in Phoenix' outstanding performance and the director cleverly uses images of running water and clouds to give the film a kind of dream-like atmosphere; i also felt that the scene where the boys are running around the old building reciting Shakespeare was terribly boring and not too convincing... The ending is open and ambiguous; it's up to you to decide if Mike finds someone who loves him or just more and more loneliness... "},{"Title":"Worth watching.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this film, it is a strange one, a bit complex, but the truth why I love this film, is because of River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves. They play male hustlers, and their acting is fantastic. In this film, you can see how River gave Mike Waters ( his character in the film)life, in this film you can see how great River Phoenix was acting. It is also interesting to see Keanu reeves young, playing a role very different from the ones he plays nowadays. The interaction between them is also amazing. This film worths the time, money, everything, maybe the story isn't that good, but the actors and their acting skills, worths everything. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a great movie!...why can't you get it on DVD?..I had to order the video from the States!...Keanu and River are quite excellent in their relevant roles and the fireside scene was just so moving, what a fantasy couple they would make!..willl continue to own/watch it for ever. "}{"Title":"Intelligent reworking of Shakespeare","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Whatever you think about Keanu Reeves, River Phoenix, Gus Van Sant, or Portland, this is an intelligent reworking of Shakespeare's Henry IV and deserves a viewing.  Van Sant does an excellent job of capturing the dream life of a street youth looking for love and acceptance (River Phoenix) and a rebellious rich kid looking for kicks (Reeves).  The movie takes a turn as Reeves, as Shakespeare's Prince Hal, returns to his place in society and rejects the merry band of homeless men from whom he learned so much.  Only then does Van Sant make the correlation with Henry IV obvious.  Portlanders will recognize that nearly all the scenes (minus Italy) were shot in Oregon.  They will also recognize Steve Pachosa, Vana O'Brien, and Tom Peterson in supporting roles.  Also, the front of the now defunct Corno's serves as the street from which the street youth hustle. "},{"Title":"What do you feel when everything goes wrong...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What do you feel when everything goes wrong, when your best friend don't want to be your best friend, when you have a chance but have no money... I watched this movie three years ago and at first I didn't knew why, but I liked it. Now, when I've got more experience, I can tell that it saved my life. Because even if everything is f** up, if nobody loves you and you can't do anything, it can be better. I don't think that Mike really was gay, maybe only memories about his mother didn't let him love women, or maybe (that's how I think) he didn't care who love, if love. And even if we can't tell what happened in the end, we can hope that SOMETHING, not everything, will be all right. Someday.  "},{"Title":"a beautiful film.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  there's a few comments wondering about whether the car that stops for mike at the end of the film is driven by scott. i want to point out that one Van Sant's scripts for the film ends this way, with Mike in Scottie's car. But that script also contains a lot of dialogue and other stuff not included in the film, and obviously Van Sant has left the ending ambiguous.  "},{"Title":"Love this movie...","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant did it again. This time he made a movie about two hustler. The movie is very good. The movie is about Mike Waters (River Phoenix) is a narcolepsy hustler who is all the film looking for his mother, he is helped by his best friend Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves), another hustler. Mike is in love with Scott, who doesnt love him. In the end will Scott abandon Mike and get marry with a girl.River Phoenix did a very good work with his character Mike Waters. And it was River who added all the stuff where Mike was in love with Scott. Someone will say this movie is a gay movie, but gay people need a movie to. I love this movie because it is good directed, actor and it have great nature. And I think this movie is the best movie River have ever made. "},{"Title":"junkie beauty","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  what an absoloutely beautiful film. a story of lost love. river plays the depressed homless rent boy so beautifully, as always he does. gus van sant's amazing, he always contridicts everything and adds some fanatsy surealism to it. very art film, insoired me a lot, or maybe it's just like my personality odd. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie takes a while to get started, but then you get involved w/ the story and the characters. It is quite sad in my opinion, but don't let that stop you from watching it. The acting is very powerful, especially River Phoenix who was a perfect cast. The only thing that I didn't like was the Shakespearean dialogue at times. If Van Sant had just make it modern then it'd be a lot better. Anyhow, I'm happy with the movie the way it is. Watch it for yourself. Way better than Good Will Hunting! "},{"Title":"My favourite Winter Movie","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie requires about 10 viewings. It's a great film. It's in my top 3. River and Keanu were this close  when they made it, and it shows.  It's a great movie. Gets better each time you watch.  It is sad, and that's why it's a Winter movie for me, not a summer or spring movie.  It's good for the fall when all the leaves are falling off the trees. I love it. Can't wait for the dvd version. "},{"Title":"Drifter","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike is essentially why we loved River, and I think My Own Private Idaho will be remembered as his best work.  More than anything, this movie is about individuals lost in a world of strangeness and beauty, laughing and crying over the incomprehensible actions of others, and our own confused attachments to them.  This is how I will always remember Phoenix, as ahaunted lonely boy in the middle of an empty road. You don't have to be a narcoleptic street hustler to feel lost and overwhelmed.  "},{"Title":"Poignant indeterminacy","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, which along with Drugstore Cowboy has distinguished Van Sant as a remarkable director and perhaps even forgiven in advance the many foibles created with Psycho, is wonderful in its ability to strongly express uncertainty.  It presents very powerful concepts, such as the alarming humanity of the homeless young and the transcendence of love and admiration, but it does not draw them into a powerful and definite conclusion. Instead, it leaves the viewer license to imagine and ponder, evoking the special thoughts that only art can.  It is not without determinate moments, though (Van Sant's surrealism notwithstanding) the funeral of Bob Pigeon, the sex scenes, the clients.  The mysterious allure of this film is that it blends such stark visual imagery with vagueness, presenting, not coincidentally, vague recollections of a happy childhood, and concluding irresolutely, instilling the forlorn sense of motion and questioning that the movie's story carries with it. "},{"Title":"Beautifully poetic, memorable film, won't warrant everyone's tastes","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love watching River Phoenix act in this movie. He creates such a style and performance originality, in this real out there offbeat film, we are still reminded, of what a super great or more correctly, unique actor, he was, his acting talent and versatility, stretching more, than that of De Caprio. Along with Reeves, who's fair here, they're homeless hustlers, who dirty old pervs, mainly men, pay them for their services. Phoenix is on a search to find his mother, that takes him, with best friend Reeves, across a few states, to no avail. The film has comical moments, as well as some intriguing scenes, this fascinating piece of work, is not tainted one bit, in it's twenty two years of it's existence when watching it. Rich handsome, older perv, Hans (Udo Kier) has one trademark scene, where he's doing an exotic dance, lamp and all, to an old fifties tune, for our two hustler's benefit. A later scene has the three in a naked menois de trois of pose shots, Phoenix wearing bra and panties, that honestly wanted to make me puke, as a couple of other scenes did, like one young hustler, describing some sexual wants of his customer. I loved James Remar in this, his confrontation with Phoenix, when trying to pass him off as not his real father, his corny story I loved. The scene stealer here, was the veteran homeless drunk, Bob, a deep charismatic, and thespian orchestrated performance. What was the real heartbreaking moment of the film to be honest, was the severing friendship of Phoenix and Reeves towards the end, as Reeves falls for someone of the opposite sex, while turning his back on his whole homeless troupe. Reeves living up the high life after pop passes away, had me questioning if this was real, as it just seemed weird, in light of all that happened before this. o me this part didn't seem real. A lot of images to this film (dolphins flying through the sea, a barn crashing down, etc) and many other offbeat attractions, make this film, one of those fascinating and undying classics of peculiar tastes. I couldn't understand though as a hustler in this, Phoenix, wasn't attracting much female clientele. The whole attraction to this film is it's weirdness, and it doesn't stop, being weird right up to the end. If you love River Phoenix, you have to watch this film. Gus Van Sant's most daring work. I mean how often do you see Keanu atop River, rolling around under covered sheets. "}{"Title":"A Difficult, yet Absorbing Story!","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Loosely based on Shakespeare's Henry IV, Part 1, Henry IV, Part 2, and Henry V, 'My Own Private Idaho' is A Difficult, yet Absorbing Story! Its a hard-hitting tale about human-relations, that has been Directed most effectively by Gus Van Sant. Also, the performances are top-notch!'My Own Private Idaho' Synopsis Two best friends living on the streets of Portland as hustlers embark on a journey of self discovery and find their relationship stumbling along the way. 'My Own Private Idaho' deals with human tragedy & misguidedness. Its central protagonists, haunted by their childhoods, grow up as shallow & angry individuals. And when they embark on a journey together, much after developing a bond, even their friendship, sadly begins to decline. Its a heart-breaking, unsettling story of two lost souls in search of a better life. Gus Van Sant has made terrific cinema with 'My Own Private Idhao'. Although its not flawless, thanks to its dull pacing, but other-wise, it works wonders. The Maverick Filmmaker creates a bleak world, without any hesitations whatsoever. His Direction & Screenplay, both, are competent. Performance-Wise The Late/Great River Phoenix & Keanu Reeves deliver amazing performances. Phoenix, especially, delivers a searing performance as a troubled soul. He embodies the part & stands out from start to end. Reeves is a revelation. He enacts a rather difficult part, with rare ease & understanding. A Special Mention for William Richert. He's fantastic in a supporting role. On the whole, 'My Own Private Idaho' is a strong effort. "},{"Title":"Very good... and very flawed","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I bought the Criterion Collection DVD of this because I loved River Phoenix before it was a cliché.Nevertheless, I saw this in the theater when it was first released, and my opinion hasn't changed Phoenix is as good as you've heard and the film absolutely has it's moments --- many wonderful moments.Then there's Keanu.Who tried to marry this guy to Shakespeare? He's way out of his league with this kind of material. And these sections of the film, especially the group exchanges in the broken-down tenement house, seem badly edited, those conversations unclear in terms of point and plot --- and I've seen the movie multiple times.It's a shame Van Sant went down that road (the characters, specifically Keanu, breaking in and out of classical speech, which simply doesn't work), because there are many things about this picture that are really terrific... So view it with this in mind....and this after the first couple of viewings of this hauntingly-odd picture, the flaws just seem to melt away and don't matter so much.And you can almost always tell a (potentially) good flick when it manages to inexplicably capture the zeitgeist of its era; in fact, I'm not sure I've ever seen one that evokes the cusp of the 80s/90s as vividly. (So did Midnight Cowboy for ITS era, so maybe male hookers is all that's really required. Go figure.) Even Keanu gives a better performance in the normal (non-Shakespearean) scenes than usual.And, as with every single River Phoenix movie ever filmed, this one is chock-full of eerily prescient moments of doom like River seizing on the road, sidewalk, etc... "},{"Title":"The Quest for Security and the Return to the Tranquil","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I originally saw this movie years ago and I suspect that I knew that it had relations with Henry IV but until recently I had not see the original Shakespeare play. However, having read both parts, watched a BBC version of both parts, and also seen an amalgamation of both plays on stage I can say that I am much more familiar with it so that I can have a different understanding of this film.When I had first seen the film I had liked it, and I must say that I still like it, but the second time around, including being more familiar with Henry IV, I must say that it did not appeal to me as much. In part I think Van Sant has pulled away significantly from the original play with regards to the themes of the play as well as with regards to the character of Scott (played by Keanu Reeves and is Hal from the play). In a way Scott and Hal are both rebellious teenagers, but Scott is much more conscious of his desire to 'come good' when he turns 21 whereas this does not seem to be the case with Hal. In fact Hal has to prove to his father that he desires to become good, whereas it is clear from the film that Scott is in no danger of losing his inheritance.In Henry IV Poins is more of a supporting character who acts not so much as Hal's conscience but rather as a friend. In the film though Mike (River Pheonix, who corresponds with Poins) plays a much more important and central role. In fact the film is actually focused on Mike, as he goes on a fruitless search for his mother. There is tension between Mike and Scott because it is clear that Mike loves Scott but this love is not returned. This is something that we know is never going to happen, particularly when Scott says at the opening that as long as you do it for money then it is okay, but as soon as you begin to do it for free, you grow wings (and with that he then looks up at Mike as if suggesting that Mike has already grown wings). Another difference we see is that Scott readily deserts Scott when he gets his inheritance and finds the woman that he takes as his wife (though there is no indicating that there is any love, and we raise the question as to whether Scott is capable of love).Henry IV is many cases is about the right of passage that Hal takes from being a rebellious teenager to becoming a king, but this is something that we do not necessarily see here. Scott is not going through a rite of passage, nor is he learning, he is just having fun and behaving like a child while he is a child, and when he comes into his inheritance, he rejects his past and moves on. Okay, at the final scene, were the two funerals are contrasted (and one could say that both of Scott's fathers have died and are being buried) we see a part of Scott looking on at the other funeral. In a way the past has died, but one past, that of the wild and chaotic nature of youth, is also being buried to be replaced with the cold, clinical nature of adult life.I actually found Van Sant's attempts at Shakespearian language to be rather contrived. In the two scenes which are clearly taken from the play, that of Scott's rejection of Bob (who is the Falstaff figure) and the scene were he is mocking Bob after the robbery, we see that Van Sant is trying to create the poetic nature of the original play but using modern language in doing so. To me this fails completely. I can sort of see what he is going, and in a way he is using the play to build upon Scott's character, but the thing is that the movie is focused on Mike and not on Scott.Mike is vulnerable in many ways. Not only does he not understand himself, or even his sexuality (he confuses friendship with erotic love, and this is something that is not returned) he suffers from Narcolepsy. As long as Scott is around, Mike is safe, but as soon as Scott leaves we discover that he is more vulnerable than ever. In a way Mike's search for his mother is his search for security, in the same way that his quest for love is also his quest for security. We know that as long as Scott is around, Mike is secure, but when we see him on the street, back in Portland, we know that this is no longer the case.Then there is Idaho. The movie begins in Idaho, ends in Idaho, and visits Idaho in the middle. It is as if it is this tranquil place between the horrors of the world outside. It is the world of the unique, of the quite, and of the peaceful that pushes away the world of the street. We see the street in Seattle, in Portland, and even in Rome. Granted, we leave Rome for the country, but in a way it is not Idaho. Mike feels secure in Idaho, but not in Italy. However, we learn at the end that no even Idaho offers that protection, for when he collapses again, he is robbed. I guess the idea of the title suggests that is the case, one's search for peace, and that part inside of you were you can feel secure. "},{"Title":"trippy arty homage to Shakespeare's Henry IV. a powerful film","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every time I see this film, I forget how incredibly amazing it is. Yes I'm a huge fan of of the late, great, River Phoenix, think Keanu Reeves is highly underrated, and love Shakespeare. This is a modern adaptation to Henry IV, based around two hustlers Mike and Scott (River and Keanu) and their relationship, with the added wrinkle that Mikey is a narcoleptic and trying to find his long lost mother. Scott is the rich boy who turns his back on his street life when his inheritance kicks in. River's performance is astounding, tender and powerful, and it's a brave pair of best friends (in real life) that take on roles like this but the affection between them is palpable and somehow makes the story of unrequited love even more heartbreaking.The Shakespeare gets confusing if you aren't familiar, as it washes in and out, and if you haven't seen Gus Van Sant before you might not quite follow the surreal imagery and the trippy nature of the film. It's arty, weird and dark, but has a lot of humour and sensitivity, despite being a little bawdy in places, however for all it's adult subject matter it's quite discrete! River and Keanu are astounding in this, and it's a film that River should be remembered for as the bright star he was. "},{"Title":"My Own Private Screening","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember going all the way to Harkins Camelview 5 to see My Own Private Idaho in 1991. Thinking back, this was a milestone for me my first gay themed movie and before I was out. It was when I was barely beginning to know what the gay lifestyle was all about. Thankfully, I didn't take it all to heart, as this was not only more than a gay themed movie, but it's also a much darker side as well as just one aspect of the lifestyle, namely prostitutes.Of course, it helped, I was in love with River Phoenix at the time (who, sadly passed on a few years later.) And it opened &#x96; wide open &#x96; the future viewings of independent cinema. After watching this now, the very first time since late 1991, I can see this is the epitome of independent movies.Mike (Phoenix) suffers from a lot of what life dealt with him, namely and most obviously, narcolepsy. He's lost (literally) and holds on to his one love, Scott (Reeves) and his hope of reuniting with his mother. Scott takes care of him, and shows the one human side to his character looking out for poor/always falling (again, literally) into a deep, uncontrollable sleep.Mike lives on the street, hustling to mostly men in order to survive, but through his many sicknesses. Meanwhile, best bud, also street hustler Scott is set to inherit a rather large amount of money on his 21st birthday within the week from when the movie begins. Scott hopes to just live it up with his zany co-prostitutes and street robbers/sex-for-hires until he can safely turn his life into fame and fortune. But, again, he continues to take care of Mike and furthers his journey (possibly as a way to break up the boredom) to reunite with the mother of his memories.In a time where gay was still relatively taboo, I applaud Gus Van Sant for making the movie he wanted to, despite the still-general public ignorance. It's rather weird, and certainly not mainstream by any means. And having it not only based solely on the Shakespeare play of Henry IV and V, you'll truly feel that theatre presence in many of the scenes.In addition, the movie is mostly a sad romantic road picture about wandering and lost souls. At least you have a character to root for (Mike) and as sick as he is (inside/out,) you'll want to find his lost home. His lost mother.The movie's only real downfall you'll experience &#x96; that is, if you didn't get most of the symbolism, or what Gus Van Sant was trying to say &#x96; is, once again, Reeves. He continues to prove himself to be the world's worst actor. Ever. Phoenix and the rest of the cast were not only astonishing and believable, yet, Reeves is as wooden and stale as a 30-year-old fallen dead tree. As in most of his movies, it's as if he's standing as erect as he can while reading cue cards. How he would benefit if film students would simply give him some acting lessons.Nevertheless, the rest of the movie has wonderful cinematography and good music. Recommended for lovers of independent films and for people with the understanding of groundbreaking (for the time) film-making. "},{"Title":"There's no place like home!","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If we catch this simply but powerful final line of Judy Garland's most remembered film The Wizard of Oz, and we try to put it in a film which deserves it ... what film can be? There is not more perfect movie for this sentence like Gus Van Sant's My Own Private Idaho.My Own Private Idaho is simply perfect and unique and besides is one of the masterpieces of the contemporary cinema. Van Sant make a work full of tenderness, love and friendship, all that the human been wants and at the same time, the search of understanding and acceptance that only can you find at home, where can b e your family, your friends or your believes. My Own Private Idaho told us the story of the young Mike. A narcoleptic hustler who lives in the streets, for a lot of time he don't see their mother, and, in spite of have a lot of other companies, only have one friend Scott. But Scott is now decided to find his mother, and, with a motorcycle, and Scott goes to find her, no matter what they found in the road.My Own Private Idaho is just that search that each human been has, and that is one of the much others qualities that this film had. How movie, is perfect, the direction, the music, the performances... all of it... is perfect. The cast has River Phoenix, Keanu Reeves, William Richert, Chiara Caselli and Udo Kier as the pervert Hans (My God!!! Can you believe all the films that this guy have? ... Dario Argento's Suspiria, Von Trier's beautiful Dancer in the Dark and Europa , Fassbinder's Bolwieser, Die Dritte Generation, Berlin Alexanderplatz, Lili Marlen and Lola). Although all the performances are spectacular, there is one that stands out above all, and that is the performance of River Phoenix. River Phoenix has one of the most believable, lovely and unforgettable performances that i have ever seen in the movies that i have seen.I have not much more say of this movie. Only that, and that is enough to say that this movie is unique and one of the best movie that i have ever seen. Van Sant makes (Like he makes too in Elephant) a absorbent movie in all the sense of word. Is a movie about a lot of topics so hard to manage, and Van Sant manages it in so excellent way, without necessity of falling in some type of sensationalism. I fell in love with each second of this film ... and I'm so happy and I'm not worry for that. I would worry if I didn't feel this with a film as this.*Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"Like a weird painting","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is to me like watching an expressionistic painting. At first it seems unfocused, messy and unreal, but as you follow it carefully it becomes something intriguing and ultimately rewarding. It is one of Gus Van Sant's best movies, along with Drugstore Cowboy and gives us the best performance of late River Phoenix and perhaps also Keanu Reeves.My Own Private Idaho is a haunting ride across the desolate America and the main characters Mike, a drifting narcoleptic, and Scott, a rebellious son of a rich man, are travelers without direction. First they both find a home in a shelter for the homeless and there they make their way by prostitution. Then as they get closer Mike starts a search for his parents who abandoned him as a kid. They locate his father, excellently played by James Russo, who is an alcoholic stuck in a dead end existence, much like his son. Then they set out to find his mother, who is supposed to be in Rome, Italy.It is a very bleak and haunting picture Van Sant paints here and it gives very little hope or satisfaction in the end. Mike doesn't find his mother and returns to Portland alone, while Scott first stays behind in Italy with a woman and later returns to America totally changed. Maybe the trip to Italy straightened him out, maybe he simply realized that he could not or did not want to continue with the old life. So he turns his back on his true friends that sticked up for him when the times were rough and goes back to his father's fortune instead. It is a powerful ending and quite disturbing. Keanu Reeves really does show a potential here. Still the movie is carried by River Phoenix and his most emotional performance in a career that sadly didn't last long.This is one of the best pictures of the 90's and one of the most unique movies Hollywood ever produced. All kudos to Gus Van Sant for this. "},{"Title":"Good start, but dies in the middle","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The real wonder of this film is the performance of River Pheonix. He plays his somewhat sad character with detached perfection had it only been his performance that I would rate, it would have been ten! But now that is not the case. The film has a very good start and continues in a rather absurd and comic manner, with some very inventive film making. The story itself (the search for the mother) never really grips you, though, and the possible gay romance between the two main characters never becomes central, like in for example Brockback Mountain. This does not necessarily means that the film is bad, BUT after half the film has past it looses pace and the search for the mother never manages to drive the film forward. I felt rather bored at times, especially when the film takes place in Italy.So I give it 7/10, because River Pheonix and the beginning are really good, while the middle of the film is bad and certain potentially interesting aspects are never elaborated to the extent that they merit being there in the first place. "},{"Title":"The journey of two young men through a strange and vicious underworld.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There have been countless movies and books written about journeys of young men through the crazy American underworld (On the Road, Easy Rider)and Gus Van Sant's My Own Private Idaho is one of the best.The movie is the tale of two young American boys on their own separate journeys yet traveling side by side through thick and thin. Mike, played brilliantly by the late River Pheonix, is a confused young hustler from Idaho traveling through the Pacific northwest trying to find his long lost mother. Yet there is one tiny problem, Mike has narcolepsy and goes into deep sleeps whenever he is under stress.Accompanying Mike is his best friend, Scott, played surprisingly well by Keanu Reeves. Mike is a child of privilege and is wasting his time away selling himself and doing whatever comes his way in the streets of Seattle and Portland trying to past time until his father dies and leave his fortune to him. The friendship between Mike and Scott is as real and genuine as the gay sex scenes in this movie and even though their friendship can get a little close at times it's still as true and American as Thanksgiving.With a plot you don't see everyday, you can imagine the rest of the movie isn't the typical packaged Hollywood product, and it's not. The movie is actually an arcane, modern adaptation of Shakespeare's Henry V. It's filled with unforgettable characters, stunning locations, a script that would make Shakespeare proud and some filming that's as rare as a gay boy from Idaho.Two boys on the road trying to find everything besides what they eventually end up with, each other. "},{"Title":"flawed masterpiece","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never liked any of gus van sants films. Since seeing Elephant I really couldn't see any chance of ever watching a film by him again. Yet this came so highly recommended I had to watch it.And it starts as it means to carry on, this film is simply bizarre and as many others have said the Shakespeare-influenced script and dream like direction threw me and became so monotonous by the middle of the film I actually stopped watching it. But I persisted and since watching it through I have to say this film is simply so unique that you will not forget it.The sum of its parts are ultimately genius even if the script and direction irritate me it is only Pheonix who could keep someone watching. The relationship with (a rather good)Reeves is one of the best portrayals of love to grace the screen and I cant help but feel you could watch this film a million times over and still enjoy it.I still do not like this film so much, but like I said before it simply sticks in your mind and I feel with repeated viewings it'll just get better. "}{"Title":"When Gus was Great","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was a time when Gus Van Sant made great movies and My Own Private Idaho is one of them. There are images from this film that stay with you and the long road is the most poetic one.`I've been on this road before.  This is my road.' Mike (River Phoenix) says early in the film.  The emptiness and loneliness of the wide-open space imprints itself on your memory.  And River Phoenix's heart breaking performance does the same.This is not a story about gay hustlers as much as it is a story about looking for love, acceptance and a place to call home.  It is a film about life, the search for meaning and the roads you choose.River Phoenix is perfect.  You never sense that he is acting.  His vulnerability and pain are raw and intimate.  It's difficult to watch him sometimes but you can't take your eyes off of him.This is not a perfect movie.  The Shakespearean dialogue doesn't work and Keanu Reeves' performance is only slightly less awful than usual.  Anything that takes the viewer away from Mike is a mistake.  Everything else seems forced and artificial by comparison.I've seen little reference to how funny this movie is so let me add that the scene with Hans (Udo Kier) in the hotel room is hysterical.`This road will never end' Mike says in the final scene &#150;`it probably goes all around the world.' Some people have said that the last images of the film are ambiguous.  I never saw it that way.  Mike's life will continue on as it always has.  He will be used and discarded again and again. Oh, and the Have a nice day? - THAT'S your happy ending. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I refused to see this film for many years because of the association it has with turning River Phoenix on to drugs. Rightly or wrongly, Keanu Reeves has shared in this blame. I have known River Phoenix types all my life, at once so talented, yet suffering so profoundly that death becomes a longing, consciously or not. And I've known several Mike Waters types too. They have a lot in common, though their talents take them in different directions. The young hustlers of this world must harden, escape, or cease to be. In the case of Mike Waters, the character, River Phoenix, the actor, transcended art when he gave the camera the semblance of the essential being ceasing to exist. Few actors could have pulled it off so convincingly. (This film keeps bringing to mind Shakespearean quotes, but I'll spare you those. As for the essential being ceasing to exist, I can't help but thinking of Jim Morrison's soul-exodus on stage; or River's breakthrough in Silent Tongue. Filmed later, The Thing Called Love gave us an essentially soulless man.)My Own Private Idaho can rip your heart out at times, and change your perceptions of life. How you react will depend on where you are in your journey of life when you watch it. Your perception may change in time; I know mine have.Being a Shakespeare lover, I was amused at the actors attempts during the King Henry IV moments. William Richert alone felt at home. Perhaps this is where Branagh got the idea to cast Keanu in Much Ado About Nothing. (I kept expecting Scott to utter Like, uh, if your leisure served, dude, I would speak with you.) Keanu excels as the heavy in The Gift and is compelling as Siddhartha, as it fits his one-dimensional nature, but he will always be Ted Logan to me.)Back to Idaho. The scene where River, as Mike Waters, falls and crawls on the pavement among broken glass and trash, utterly abandoned, seems to foreshadow future events. (It has been said Johnny Depp scars his skin over important moments in his life. Is there a scar for River Phoenix?)The mere shell of Mike Waters is soon back on that lonely stretch of highway, and we are left with our own conclusions as to his fate. Narcolepsy overtakes him and he falls in the road. A car pulls up, two men get out and rob his prostrate form. They leave and another driver arrives. Because of the locale & the way the driver looks & walks, I choose to believe his brother/father happened upon him and took him home, maybe this time, with love and acceptance. What you choose to believe is just as valid. Only Gus Van Sant knows for sure, and I would not be surprised if even his opinion changed from time to time. "},{"Title":"See it for River Phoenix' performance","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film ranks number one in my all time film top 5. Why? River Phoenix, that's why. Forget Keanu Reeves, who basically sucks throughout the film (except for the scenes with Udo Kier). I have seen many, many films with River and this one is his best. His performance is the kind that should get A Prestigious Award but doesn't stand a chance in that category because of the subject matter of the film. Don't expect the best film ever, just one of the best performances by a screen actor ever. "},{"Title":"Watch It.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies.  It is so unique and so original it is like an art-house film.  I would very much so recommend this film to anyone who is a fan of either River Phoenix or Keanu Reeves; or really into eclectic films.  If you have a moral objection to homosexuality, I would not recommend it to you because this movie is jam-packed with it.  Personally, I would have to say that in my opinion, this is one of the best movies ever made; and not to mention one of River Phoenix's best performances. "},{"Title":"Phoenix saves the film!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  River Phoenix is by far my favorite male actor. In every film he starred in, he turned in breath-taking performances. Why did he have to die? My Own Private Idaho is not the best Phoenix film. But is not THAT bad. River turns in an excellent performance as the narcoleptic street hussler Mike. Keanu Reeves' performance as Scott is a little shaky, but that's to be expected. I am glad that River took this extreme role. It shows what a truly talented young man he was and some times I have to restrain myself from crying when I think of how it all ended up for him, that Halloween night of 1993. In my opinion, Stand by Me was the best Phoenix film, but he starred in so many great films. And I am proud to say that I love him as a actor/film maker. So, to fans of River Phoenix, if you haven't, give My Own Private Idaho a try. But I have to say I thought Sneakers (which was released one year later) was a lot more entertaining and much more fun.I give My Own Private Idaho a 5 out of 10.I apologise for the poor comments. "},{"Title":"Intense and somewhat inscrutable","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was very unique, very worth watching. I don't understand everything the director was trying to convey. It is interesting to read that others assume the ending was left vague on purpose, so we could create our own happy ending if we chose. I, of course, just ponder the imponderable, like what else happened to Mike as a child? River's portrayal of Mike was incredible. Makes one wonder where he got his inspiration. That goofy blond guy (Flea) is pretty cute. "},{"Title":"My favourite ever film","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this film, there was a total of 4 people in the cinema, two of which were me and my friend and the other two walked out after the first half hour.  I loved it, I thought River Phoenix was excellent, so sad. Keanu Reeves really came into his own, I defy anyone to say he is just a pretty face after seeing this film.  Flea was very suprising, but this was one of his first acting roles.  Everything falls into place when you realise River's dad is his brother,and the most moving scene in a film I have ever seen is the kissing by the fire, it makes me cry.  It's just such a weird, sad film, and you want Scott to be the one that picks River up in the end, if it can't be you.  Maybe the sadest thing now is that River Phoenix will never live up to his potential, which if this film was anything to go by was unmeasurable, it was such a loss. "},{"Title":"I don't understand this trashy movie....","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know why James Franco would consider this a favorite movie of his? It is rubbish!The storyline was hard to follow and too fast for me to understand what is going on with the characters Mike and Scott. It was just all over the place, all I know is River Phoneix's character had necropsy and a poor hustler who just thinks of his mother in his dreams. With Keanu Reeve's character, he just appears as a presidents son and hangs out with the homeless bucks! I wish I could have fallen the storyline and more of the characters better because I would be happy to understand what really is happening. Glad I only saw 30 minutes of the movie then wasting my time watching an hour of it! "},{"Title":"Eternally Weaving Its Way Across The Globe, It's The Ultimate Journey","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American cinema was in fast decline throughout the '80s and to be frank, it was not until the independent scene arrived that good things started happening for the industry. By the mid-80s the independent scene had begun to emerge from its obscure and relatively unknown roots. Directors placed in the indie category had unwittingly given birth to the American new-wave, whereby avant-garde cinema had slyly emerged via the underground film scene. This was paved by art directors, such as Gus Van Sant, who is often mistaken as the pioneer of a non-existent sub-genre Queer Cinema. Such a vague term is regularly misused and does not fit the body of Van Sant's works.Opening with the lonely, untouched Idaho road and emphasising the wide, desolate landscape which swarms Mike, the central protagonist to who the viewer has unwittingly been introduced to. Nothing is masked in a landscape of vast, picturesque beauty. It is in these opening moments that Van Sant instantly captures the notions, motifs, styles and themes of his magnum opus. By using time-lapse photography and exemplified close-ups for key shots Mike's narcoleptic, private Idaho state-of-mind conveys a detached and strained existence. Yet the ambiance could not be more opposed to Mike's looming, inner-torment. His heartbroken, alienated and unrequited soul echoes that of a character built from Shakespearian tragedy. Ironically, (as with many of the story's aspects) this bitter case of &#150;what is essentially- sexual identity is told through a metaphorical, estranged journey, incorporating many pathological and writing elements of Shakespeare's Henry IV, Part 1 & 2. Then the streets of Portland are turned into something fuelled by expressionistic, contemporary glances of wry, frisky lyricism.In many respects, My Own Private Idaho is often &#150;rightfully referred to- as a road movie, an observation which is preferably suited for a voyage of poetic exploration and self-fulfilment. It is a tale of repressed desires, held back by the confusion of a living life whereby selling one's body (to men and women) is the only way to survive. Mike is a distant wanderer of the street, forever destined to seek life on the road, as his narcoleptic state-of-mind is an unwanted escape route from his foreseen fate of falling apart from the one he so loves. You see, this is a tale following characters who are suffering from identity crisis, due to the way they have chosen/been forced to make a living.Mike's travelling partner, Scott is more than just a friend, and is in fact the man Mike loves so dearly. During that infamous, often mentioned campfire scene Mike expresses his devotion for Scott by uttering those crucial words, I love you, and you don't pay me. Regrettably, Scott is a selfish man, wallowing in his idealistic dreams of rebellion, whilst still preserving the knowledge that he can return to his roots, inherit a fortune at any time he likes. Unlike his companion, Scott has a family, yet shows no appreciation for such needless things, casting them off for carrying the traits he indulges himself in so dearly. Mike's quest for family and home is stimulated by his repressed desire to receive the love he has always deserved, but never received, and yet it is a mere excuse for Scott to continue his self-righteous journey into oblivion.These so-called low-lives, who have no home or money might be cast-off as hoodlums by many, but Van Sant respects such people, respectfully deciding not to dismiss them. Instead he opts for obtaining an understanding of such people's moral outlook, individual perspective on life and most important of all, the reasoning behind why they subside in a state which is so against the so-called norm. As a thoughtful director, Van Sant examines a situation by not dismissing it as a singular, deluded case of rebellion. By no means is his film a gesture of remorse, but a motion of respectful gratitude. Cultural acceptance requires broad understanding; something Van Sant has an incredible talent for capturing.River Phoenix's famed performance is tough to first grasp, but ranks among the greatest of all-time. It was the true showcase of his long-gone and often reminisced career, sustained by the paradoxically referential characters he portrayed. Phoenix's image of unrequited love is both the cynic's and romantic's most desperate vision. For those who accuse Keanu Reeves of being a wooden actor, observe his chemistry with Phoenix and then tell me he is unable to prove even the slightest hint of aptitude. Both performances are achingly sensitive and longingly receptive, two emotional elements emphasised by the sensually reprehensive screenplay.Some of us get it easy in life, whilst others subconsciously take the long way round. All is not fair in love and war, but My Own Private Idaho offers comfort in the notion of narcoleptic escapism, shimmering street life and those dreamy, forgotten landscapes. This is a sweeping, majestic kind of withdrawn beauty, which clutches the viewer's soul and breaks it into tiny particles of tender humanity. Van Sant proves his auteur status, not only as a master craftsman of direction, but as a storyteller for those unexpected, everyday, tragedy-stricken individuals. A story's route should speak globally; the life-affirming Idaho road achieves such and continues to obtain much, much more. Rarely can art obtain a more emotive and lingering sensation than that of this. "},{"Title":"Bob!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really, that one word says it all about the film that shows Gus Van Sant knows how to use his actors. Although I have not seen every film with Keanu Reeves in it, I have seen more than I care to admit, and so far, My Own Private Idaho (hereafter referred to as MOPI) is the only one where a scene actually benefits from Reeves' inability to change expression. It is also worth noting that while the makers of Brokeback Mountain attempt to promote their film as innovative for its gay themes, one viewing of MOPI is enough to highlight the fact that Hollywood is still firmly in the habit of recycling itself. While films that depict prostitution, the uglier realities of sexuality, and everyday life have to make an effort to get tired, MOPI manages to stay above the pack with a few twists and turns that keep the mix interesting. It is interesting to speculate on what today's Hollywood would look like had River Phoenix not died outside of a club just as his career was taking off. Would associated actors like Keanu Reeves been able to make as big a splash with his competition? I doubt it.At its heart, MOPI is a tale of a male prostitute with narcolepsy and his attempts to cope with his lot. As Keanu so elegantly puts it, viewers will be amazed that he can exist like this. At some point in the film, Phoenix's character becomes dedicated to finding his mother for purposes that are never completely established. One could call this a road movie, but the straight-up truth is that MOPI does not follow the standard structure of a road movie. Anyone who has sat in a car for more than two hours with persons they find less than enjoyable to be with for five minutes knows the fundamental problem inherent to all road movies. Simply put, they are boring. If riding along the road with people you do not want to be around is purgatory, watching other people do it is normally hell. Not so in MOPI, as Gus Van Sant shifts the focus from what happens on the road (unless it serves a good narrative or comedic purpose) to what happens after our characters get out of their cars.It also helps that Van Sant's film is full of quirky, three-dimensional, well-directed characters. Michael Balzary, or Flea as he is better known, is the kind of actor one has to carefully utilise in order to harness his strengths. He works best when playing an obnoxious man (Back To The Future II for instance) or a weird man. Under Van Sant's direction, he portrays a character that is little different from his past cameos, but somehow attains a rich third dimension. As said earlier, Van Sant also manages to put Keanu's plank-with-a-mean-face act to good use late in the film. The funeral scene in which the hustlers mourn the loss of one of their own while Reeves' character, having turned his back upon them, silently looks on as he is meant to be mourning his father, shows more diversity in two minutes than many supposed cross-cultural films show in two hours. All this scene needed was a cameo from Weird Al Yankovic, and it would be like a drug trip without the drugs.The powerhouse performance in MOPI would be that of William Richert, who plays the hustlers' surrogate father figure, a bloated, humorous man named Bob Pigeon. Unfortunate name aside, he gets many of the best lines in the film, including a comment on 1980s fashion that hovers on the tip of every tongue that was in the heads of those who lived through that august decade. Given that much of the dialogue in this film is based upon Shakespeare, it is a credit both to Van Sant and Richert that MOPI is able to deliver said dialogue to the effect of making me laugh rather than groan in pain. Thanks to MOPI, it does appear halfway believable that a human being ever actually spoke in the manner Shakespeare describes. Shakespeare references aside, Richert's performance helps cement a certain kind of message about loyalty and betrayal. If MOPI had a moral, one might be inclined to believe it is that one should be nice to those you meet on your way up, because you most likely will meet them on your way back down. Granted, we never see Reeves' character on his way down, but the film leaves us eagerly anticipating it.And that, friends and neighbours, is probably the best way I can sum up MOPI. Sure, it does weaken under repeat viewings due to the slow storytelling style, but that first viewing leaves one wanting more rather than less. It is somewhat like taking a trip to a world one has only read about in the pages of TIME magazine or the like, and making it seem almost welcoming. To quote a cartoon I once read in a more low-brow magazine, I half expect the hustlers to look at Reeves' character and say theirs is a world of respect or trust, but ours is not?. It is for that reason, as well as the funeral, that I gave MOPI eight out of ten. It should be seen at least once by everyone.Bob! "}{"Title":"A masterpiece One of the most beautiful movies ever put to film, both literally and otherwise.","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is a loose reworking of Shakespeare and stars... Keanu Reeves?! At first glance it seems to be a joke. River Phoenix in the lead role? A film using classical dialogue set in modern day dealing with prostitution, bisexuality, homosexuality, heterosexuality, drugs, violence, and sex? But it's more than just that. At its core My Own Private Idaho is a soft and delicate examination of a young man who doesn't have a place in life and is trying to find his way along the beaten path; the road that stretches continually onwards, never ending. I've been here before, Mike (Phoenix) says to Scott Favor (Reeves). He's speaking of the road before them. He isn't speaking literally, of course. But he's been there spiritually and mentally before. He knows he'll see it again, too.Gus Vant Sant was close to the material and based the characters on real men he knew in Portland, Oregon. Van Sant is a homosexual and perhaps that is why the subject matter -- fairly risqué and controversial even by today's standards -- was handled with such care, never seeming exploitative, but rather crucial and caring. It's a testament to the film's universal appeal that it was critically _and_ publicly praised on release and, at least to my knowledge, did not create the wave of controversy that it easily could have. (After all, it's a mainstream production centered around bisexual and homosexual street hustlers, and features on-screen orgasms and explicit -- or at least seemingly explicit -- freeze-frame sex scenes. After all, just remember the uproar Midnight Cowboy caused when it came out.) What I remember most fondly about My Own Private Idaho is its truly beautiful photography and direction. The cinematography is one of the best examples of truly stunning visuals I've ever seen. The touching musical score only complements the outer layer.I won't lie This film will not appeal to everyone. It is quite experimental and could understandably be criticized for its lengthy middle, which awkwardly transforms into a Shakespeare spin-off, and then -- in its last act -- returns to reality and abandons the stiff dialogue.Still, in my opinion, the Shakespeare elements are fairly important to the story and don't really harm it at all. The story, when stripped of its outer layers, is really just a tender story about the rites of passage of a young man. And love. Something we can all relate to, if we take away the specifics of the situation.River Phoenix is extraordinary in the lead role and in my opinion, My Own Private Idaho solidified his impressive talents as one of the generation's best young actors. And Keanu Reeves All is forgiven... most stuff, anyway. "},{"Title":"Great movie, brilliant River","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is great in many ways... excellent script, resists temptation to make the ending nice and keeps it open-ended, great overall cast (even Keanu Reeves is good here) and some wonderful photography and characters.  The star of the movie, however, is undoubtedly River Phoenix, giving one of his best performances as Mike the narcoleptic hustler who is trying to find his mother.  I can't explain in words how I connected with him in this movie, but the way he moves is just so real and invoked such emotion that i just wanted to teleport into the movie and give him a hug and help him find his mother.  How he escaped an oscar nomination for this movie I will never know, but he deserved one.  In my mind he was the best actor of his generation and would probably be the best actor in existence right now had it not been for that terrible accident in october of 1993, when I was only 7 going on 8 but has affected me years later as i have discovered his movies and talent, as i'm sure many more people will do in the future. "},{"Title":"Gay movie? Sad ending?","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What do you think about this film? A gay movie? A movie about hustlers? A movie of Gus Van Saint? Personally, I think this is just a movie about two friends. Just they are both men occasionally; Just they works as rentboys occationally; Just Mike love Scott....(hey, Mike might not be gay! Just whom he chose to love this time is a man) I found this is a quite sad movie Mike couldn't find his mother in Italy, to make thing worse, Scott, the person he love, fell in love with an Italian girl... Can you imagine how touch it would be if the person whom you love is doing with someone else, especially they are just doing right next to you!!! I also found that Scott is too cruel to him....... However, I didn't said that it has a sad ending! The open ending is a good hand, you don't know who take Mike along and what will they do next... It makes people, at least me, hope that 'he' could be Scott...... not saying that they would stay together, (never will be!) but Scott still looking after this poor little friend..... I really imagine that the ending would be like that, how about you???  "},{"Title":"Gets boring as it progresses","Date":"15 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that starts off promising but as it progresses it just gets weird and bizarre but just not in a good way. It had my interest at first with the introduction of the characters but after the introductions and a bit of bonding between two characters it just got boring. I think the part I lost interest is when River Phoenix's character is visiting his dad in a trailer. It's basically a depressing and bitter road movie about two gay or bisexual male prostitutes on a road trip. Because they both have mother and father issues that they have to deal with. I give River Phoenix's character some sympathy but not so much for Keanu's character. Maybe because one is more in a rut than the other. And none of the characters are likable in this movie, which is fine since when it comes to the tragedy. It didn't get all that depressing. But the relationship and bonding between these two characters played by River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves seemed authentic. Maybe because they were friends in real life. It's somewhat of a artsy flick and it's watchable but just didn't really entertain me or got my interest. It got weird and some of the characters gets pretty darn bizarre. But I guess it somewhat adds to the realism to a degree. This is the first movie I seen with River Phoenix and he basically owns this character. But maybe that is cause there is quite a lot of himself in this character. And Keanu...Well I never found the guy to be a brilliant actor. But he is somewhat versatile and fits right in usually with the role he is in. Overall, this movie through me off guard but not really in a good way. Plus I couldn't connect with any of the characters at all, although that may seem a bit conceited on my part.4.6/10 "},{"Title":" I am so lucky, I was born on April 4th 1944, thats 4.4.44, if you add that up it comes to 16 1-6, one plus six is seven luckiest number of all. ","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'My Own Private Idaho' is the intricate and inventive story about a male prostitute with narcelepsy from a broken home trying to track down his mother, from veteran filmmaker Gus Van Sant (Drugstore Cowboy, Good Will Hunting). I was lucky enough to catch it on HBO last night at 1245 a.m. I had wanted to see 'My Own Private Idaho' for a while, but none of the video stores around me carried it and I couldn't find it anywhere on DVD or VHS. As much as I wanted to see it, I realized I had to wait till it was on a movie channel, unfortunately. Last night when I was flipping through channels late, I spotted it and knew I had to watch it. I had high expectations for it, and I have to say I was a little disappointed, but I still thought it was a pretty great film. I mean, I really love independent films with strong performances, and for me, the late great River Phoenix's performance as Mike Waters in this made the movie for me, along with some great writing, music and directing from Van Sant.The film follows Mike Waters (River Phoenix), a young dumb broke male hustler who's trying to get through life and feed his slight drug addiction hooking with mostly men. Mike struggles with narcelepsy, and throughout the entire movie Mike keeps drifting off into unconsciousness when any stress is brought upon him. During Mike's harsh and dark journey through his so-called life on the streets, he meets another male hustler, Scott (Keanu Reeves) who's the runaway son of a wealthy and powerful senator. Mike and Scott become fast friends, and later on get mixed up in a band of other young gay male prostitutes led by Bob Pigeon (William Richert), an older gentleman who is kind of like a father to the boys in some kind of twisted and perverted way. The two (Mike and Scott) go on adventures together, and try to track down Mike's estranged mother when Mike finds out she's still alive from his could-be birth father, Richard Waters (played by James Russo). Scott and Mike's search for Mike's mom eventually leads them to Rome, where Scott falls in love with a beautiful Italian girl, Carmella (Chiara Casselli), which later encourages Scott to clean up his act, re-unite with his father, and inherit a fortune. Gus Van Sant's screenplay is loosely based on Shakespeare's historical production of Henry IV, and there are some scenes in the film that produce strong Shakespearian qualities along with dialogue, that I found enjoyable but kind of distracting from the story.The finest quality of Van Sant's modern adaptation of Henry IV, 'My Own Private Idaho', is without a doubt the acting. Like I said before, the best performance by a longshot of the film is River Phoenix's haunting and empowering one. This is without a doubt the tragically short-lifed River Phoenix's very best screen performance, and it almost shocks me he wasn't even nominated for an Academy Award for it. Phoenix achieves perfection in his role, really making you not only sympathize with his character, but understand him and his actions to some degree. A lot of critics raved about River Phoenix in this, and they should have. Keanu Reeves' acting however, is a different story. Reeves is such a poor performer in anything he is, but he really pisses on the movie (to put it so cruel) as much as he can. I really didn't expect anything more then a horrible performance from Keanu, but I was disappointed he was cast in such a pivotal and important role, that requires an actor with a lot of range. River Phoenix more then outshines Keanu Reeves in every scene in the film, even when Phoenix's character is asleep from his narcelepsy. William Richert does a fine job as Bob (the leader of the young hustlers/thieves/drug addicts, that kind of resembles the character of Fagin in Oliver Twist). James Russo is dazzling in the very short screen time he has, and German actor Udo Kier, is interesting as one of Mike and Scott's highly neurotic and creepy clients who puts on a musical dance for them using hotel lamps that has to be one of the most out-there film scenes since Dean Stockwell and Dennis Hopper's duet of 'In Dreams' in 1984's 'Blue Velvet'. I have to say I wasn't too impressed with Italian actress Chiara Casselli's performance in this, and although she was nice to look at, she really didn't pull it off for me. The film's music and cinematography is first-rate, and Gus Van Sant's screenplay is terrific. Van Sant does a excellent job directing as well. Van Sant really does a meticolous and careful job bringing this risqué and unsettling, yet poignant and beautifully crafted Shakespearian based tale about the friendship and hardship of two young male hustlers in Portland on a mission to find themselves.In closing, I didn't find 'My Own Private Idaho' to be as magnificent as I had hoped, but I really did find it insightful and a work of art. The film is enjoyable sometimes, but at times it's very dark and disturbing and kind of makes you uncomfortable. That's not said to take away anything from this extraordinary motion picture, because the film has to be unsettling because the story and whole point of the movie is unsettling and upsetting. I recommend 'My Own Private Idaho' to people who appreciate the art of film, and don't get disturbed or unsettled easy. Grade B+MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #261 "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first watched this film nearly ten years ago and, to a thirteen year old, it went right over my head. Today, I watched it for the first time since, mainly because it is featured heavily in my dissertation and I can not really find much to criticise. In my (humble) opinion, the relationship between Mike and Scott is reminiscent of that of John Voight's and Dustin Hoffman's characters in Midnight COwboy. There is a real screen chemistry that makes Mike's feelings towards Scott even more poignant. I have to agree with many of the other users comments that the campfire scene was beautifully written and touching in its simplicity. I also admire Van Sant's bravery. Few directors would tackle homosexuality in their films for fear of alienating audiences at such a time and equally, few actors would take the roles. Admittedly, this film is not about homosexuality per se, but the undertones create such tragically compelling relationships..Firstly, Mike is abandoned by Scott who also then goes on to break Bob's heart. MOPI displays some remarkable acting and it goes without saying really that River Phoenix's performance stands way above those of the impressive supporting cast. It is amazingly real and is so emotive that it makes you want to go and watch everything else he ever did.Although everyone is entitled to their opinions on any film, i really think people should give it a chance, rather than dismiss it after ten minutes.It is not a commercial or mainstream film..it is something better than that and actually makes you think. Give it a while and you too will find yourself drawn in to the lives of the characters. MOPI now has a place in my top three films of all time just ahead of #2, Dancer In The Dark. I didn't think i would enjoy it so much that it would leave me with such an after feeling of both emptiness and fulfillment. 10/10(Excuse the focus on homosexuality - my dissertation is on representation of gay men in 90s film - i did obviously notice other themes but i focussed on this!!)  "},{"Title":"Cult Favorite","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Sant's script, inspired by Shakespeare's Henry IV, Part I, is a fairly interesting updating of the classic tale.  In what has become his legendary, signature performance, River Phoenix delivers a fascinating character study.  Keanu Reeves ably supports Phoenix in this subculture setting of various street denizens on Portland, Oregon. Van Sant certainly set a challenge for himself in attempting this modern retelling, and he seems considerably more comfortable as director than as writer. Since this film was made, Reeves has gone on to do some more ambitious work. "},{"Title":"much ado about nothing","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A narcoleptic hustler and his 'degenerate' (to his father) pal travel the Pacific Northwest in search of&#x85;what? Freedom? Affection? Adventure? Gus Van Sant's follow up to his career breakthrough 'Drugstore Cowboy' is full odd stylistic tics and transparent social commentary, all of it adding up to a merely pretentious film even more aimless and unmotivated than its two primary characters. Viewers might be forgiven for wondering where the story is going after the brief detour into Idaho itself (the trailer home reunion is a highlight), when the scene shifts abruptly, and for no good reason, to sunny Rome (yes, in Italy). There's plenty to look at, but all the gorgeous imagery hides a shortage of real ideas, and Van Sant's mock Shakespearean dialogue is an annoying conceit (at least the Bard is acknowledged in the credits). Udo Kier, as 'Hans', steals the film away from its two young stars, and the brief documentary appearance of actual teenage hustlers discussing their 'dates' shows what the film could have aspired to. "},{"Title":"You gotta be kidding","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I honestly expected some sort of groundbreaking experience out of this; I mean, anything with that many 9-star ratings would just have to be worthwhile, wouldn't it? Nope.I was mostly interested in this film because I haven't seen that much of River's stuff and I wanted to see if he was all he was hyped up to be. With that much I can agree. He was a natural, something like Johnny Depp; he would be good in just about anything.Every time I see Keanu Reeves in a film, I shake my head and wonder what sort of slimy nepotic mechanism put him on the big screen, and how many people with actual talent he displaced. Putting him next to somebody like River, who really does know how to act, just magnifies his wooden emptiness.Unfortunately, this film is much too overpoweringly pretentious to be saved by a hundred River Phoenixes or Johnny Depps. I don't know who Mr. Van Sant thought he was fooling (no, wait, look at all the 9 reviews). This film would be praised by people who think it's probably deep and meaningful and artistic, therefore it's probably really good. The same people who buy Playboy for the articles and leave a few (unread) New Yorkers lying around the living room for visitors to see.Ersatz art imitating faux erudition. Beautifully photographed banality. A triumph of style over substance. If that's your cup of tea, then you'll love this. "},{"Title":"Modern day Shakespeare","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing My Own Private Idaho, it has nothing but great reviews from what I've read and heard, not to mention how killer River Phoenix's performance is. So I finally got the opportunity to see it and this movie was definitely interesting and not what I expected. This film felt like a poem, also like a play, a modern day Shakespeare if you will. Keanu Reeves, once again, someone who I always thought couldn't have talent if it hit him in the face actually pulls in a decent performance and carries this film well with River. Their chemistry is pretty on key with each other throughout the film and River's performance was definitely memorable. The way this film told the story was also unique and interesting, this isn't your typical drama, it has an independent movie feel and pulls itself together very well with some clever editing and great performances.Mike is a young man who is looking for his mother, he is searching all over Portland, he makes his means by selling his body to women and men. His upper class friend, Scott, decides to help him out with finding his mother, but Scott has sworn that he will one day reject his rebellious ways towards his father. Mike falls in love with Scott, but Scott doesn't respond and ends up finding another woman on their trip that takes them as far as to Italy to find Mike's mother. Scott finally feels like it's time to grow up and move on, but Mike will not give up on his strange lifestyle.My Own Private Idaho wasn't what I expected, it was a lot stranger than what I was looking for. I thought it was just supposed to be like an American Beauty in the drama sense, but instead, it's made like a poem, also it's presented beautifully. I really did feel sad watching River though, his performance is so wonderful and it was such a tragic turn that he had to leave this Earth so early, his talent shined in My Own Private Idaho. I do recommend it for the drama lovers, but it's definitely an acquired taste, as much as I enjoyed it, this is not a film I could really watch again to be honest.7/10 "}{"Title":"Interesting movie with narrow appeal, not mainstream.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My wife is one to tell it like it is, and when My Own Private Idaho ended, she simply said strange movie. The two main characters are street hustlers who pay for their bare existence via male prostitution. River Phoenix, 20, is Mike Waters, a lost soul who suffers from Narcolepsy, an affliction which causes a person to fall asleep without warning, anywhere at any time. Keanu Reeves 26, is Scott Favor, son of a wealthy politician, and about to turn 21. They are friends, but totally different. Mike really is gay and a confused person, while Scott is straight, and is simply rebelling against his father. The bulk of the movie is Mike's quest, aided by Scott, to find his mother who had left home when Mike was very young. There are lots of scenes of the highway, and Mt Hood recognizable in Oregon, not Idaho.SPOILERS. Mike and Scott head to Italy to find mom, after hearing she had moved there. (Never mind that they probably had no money, nor passports.) She had been there, but was gone back to the USA. Scott had time to meet and fall in love with a pretty, young Italian farm girl, and stayed when Mike left to go back to the States. Back home, Mike confronted his older brother, who it turns out was really his father also. Scott comes back with his new bride, turning 21 throws off his street life and assumes his position in the family after his father dies. Life goes on for Mike and for Scott, in two different directions.The final scene is Biblical. Mike falls asleep on the highway, two men in a car come along, rob him, and leave him for dead. Another vehicle comes along, the driver takes care of Mike, loads him into in car, the parable of the traveler who is beaten and robber, but his neighbor is the one who comes along and takes care of him. "},{"Title":"Gus Van Zant Is Brilliant.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gus Van Zant's work has been consistently brilliant except for To Die For , but nobody is perfect. Keanu's work on the other hand is very questionable, although he did do a superb job in this film as scott. This was a sad film not only because of the plot but also seeing a phenomenal actor such as River Phoenix in one of his last roles. Overall, I would say this film was beautiful............... "},{"Title":"My Own Private Frustration & Keanu (spoilers)","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie left me wondering who was the guy at the end who picked Mike up on the side of the road? Was it Scott or just a passing stranger? I hope it was Scott because if it wasn't then their whole relationship is arbitrary. If anyone knows please tell me.On Keanu, well I have heard some people say how wooden and devoid of emotion he is well, that's probably because Keanu seems to be constantly guarding his personal self from the public and therefore cannot feel free to truly open himself up in roles to be loose and fluid. He is working on the acting but until Keanu understands he must let go of himself when he acts then he will continue to worry his fans and critics. He seems to do best in nonleading roles probably because he feels he won't be noticed. Keanu's notoriety seems to be a double edged sword for him. For example, it seemed to me when he was unknown many of my friends and even critics thought he had talent and potential to be a great actor. But after the Bill and Ted fiasco and everyone knew him in the mainstream it seems the critics and everyone else started calling him a horrible actor. Anyway, if you care about relationships meaning something don't watch this movie but if you want to witness a strange journey with River(my fave actor) then definitely run and watch this movie. In the future my comments will be better. "},{"Title":"Gus and the boys hit the road.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mike Waters, (Phoenix in a haunting role) plays a narcoleptic, (an epileptic with sleeping fits), who finds himself hustling in the streets alongside pretty rich boy Scott Favor, (Keanu in his best role). Gus pushes the same technic he toyed with in DRUGSTORE COWBOY and goes that little bit further with success. It would have to be the best love scenes I've ever seen and the best adaptation of a Shakespearian play, (a portion of HENRY IV and a few other of his plays), that was ever modernised on celluloid. "},{"Title":"A highly original take on the way theater and film can combine","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was my first exposure to GVS.  I consider it a highly original take on the way film and theater can be combined.  Many of the visuals were inspired (the porno magazine rack for example), and the Henry IV stuff wove quite well into the modern story.  I thought the scene at the campfire had so much emotional immediacy it made me nervous.  This picture will stand years from now as a bold experiment and may (all by itself) at some time be called to stand and atone for Psycho.  "},{"Title":"The greatest Gus Van Sant's film","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this amazing film there are a lot of symbolic images that are the keys to understand it. Mike Waters is a young drifter who works as a male prostitute. He has had a very difficult childhood. This film is surely the greatest Gus Vas Sant's film , one of my favourite directors. A shocking drama of uncommon strength and beauty. The actors are the best they could have been, River Phoenix is superlative (this is his greatest performance too and I am very happy that he had been rewarded with the Coppa Volpi just in my country, Italy), Keanu Reeves gives also a good performance in a very complex role, Grace Zabriskie gives a great charm and charisma to his character and and  James Russo a strong dramatic charge. The cinematography is excellent as well as the soundtrack through which song there is the beatiful Madonna's song Cherish that stresses Mike's search for a person who loves him (who cherishes him), a man or a woman this doesn't matter. During the film all his hopes seem to be shattered but the end of the film leaves an open door to different interpretations.  "},{"Title":"Best movie ! Best director !","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For me this is Gus Van Sant´s  best movie ever,  I really love the movie, and River´s performance is great, cause it´s not just like a gey movie, the point is,  there are Mikes and Scotts out there on the streets, narcolepsy is real and sad . River´s background is terrible, he calls himself well adjusted though. I don´t know but I think this movie represents a lot of what we people have inside, for me it was very touching, cause it moves from friendship, love, inside demons (we all have). This movie deserved to be a lot more recognized, cause now we are used to seeing, strong scenes about  gay and not gay movies, but when Idaho was done, it was like really new and innovating from  MrVan Sant. Besides he picked my top favorite actors River and Keanu, I love them both. On the other hand as opposed to what I´ve been reading here I think that the one picking up Mike is Hans, driving Alena´s car, unfortunately not Scott. The sad thing here is that Mike was going to live that way his whole life, which anyway was not very promising. Ok last thing, cause I could talk about this for ever, is that I  really recommend the movie, the performances (all of them great) I love them all Digger, Budd, Hans (THE funniest) Bob, everyone. So if you are ready to see River and Keanu together doing their best, watch it.                 "},{"Title":"Independent poetic prostitution. Shame about the brutal acting all round (except for River)","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The independent cinema of Gus Van Sant is always worth a look. Some of his stuff is some of the most interesting stuff to come out of the States in the last twenty years. This is, in fact, one of his best known films, and although this is a Hollywood film, Van Sant insisted that some elements of independent film-making would be used. This was always going to be allowed after a film like Drugstore Cowboy, and with the theme of young male prostitution.This could have very easily turned into exploitation, but Van Sant treats this plot with poetic regard. He's very soft handed, even in showing the crudest sex scenes, particularly in the ones where he uses the still shots, a very interesting way of showing sex scenes, that reminds us of Le Jetee by Chris Marker. The acting does let the film down a little bit. River Phoenix is great. He is exactly what Van Sant wanted, with the muttering way of speaking lines, and acting the adult child part made to do grown up things very well. It's the rest of the cast that is close to terrible. Keanu Reeves' performance is brutal. Watching his recite lines taken straight from Shakespeare makes you want to slap his face repeatedly. But this time, he is hardly helped by everyone else in the cast, among whom only Udo Kier can save himself as the German 'perv'.The storyline was largely inspired by other classic works of literature. Scott's plot was notoriously inspired by Henry IV by Shakespeare, in fact they are practically the same storyline. But as well as that, we can notice and admire a strange similarity to Chimes at Midnight and Oliver Twist.There are lots of interesting aspects to the story. The friendship between Mike and Scott, even when we know Mike loves Scott because he is homosexual, is for example really interesting, as would have been Scott's relationship with Bob, hadn't Reeves' and Richert's acting been so brutal. So, within the film, the interesting aspect that turns out to be good lies all within Mike and his problems, past and present. And, as well as that, his character and Phoenix himself, who makes the fact he is narcoleptic look cool. "},{"Title":"homelessness","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant has made a living by making movies about down-on-their-luck people, and he always does a good job. In My Own Private Idaho, River Phoenix plays homeless Portland teenager Mike Waters, who hooks up with affluent Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves). Mike is often forced to be a male prostitute just to make ends meet. He and Scott hobnob around, but eventually, things don't work out.We can pretty much always count on Van Sant to make really great movies (although Gerry was pointless as far as I could tell). My Own Private Idaho may have been his best movie ever. Either that or Finding Forrester. But either way, you have to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Excerpts from a paper I wrote on MOPI for my university film studies course","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gus van Sant's 1991 film, My Own Private Idaho, which he wrote and directed, comes about half way through his career. Van Sant had written, directed and produced a number of films before this one; his experience evident in the films direction. Starring River Phoenix as Mike Waters and Keanu Reeves as Scotty Favor, van Sant received the best performance out of Phoenix, who's portrayal of the narcoleptic street hustler, Mike Waters, was inspired. Reeves' performance was not as powerful, yet van Sant seems to have gotten a much better performance out of him than most directors he had previously worked with. The film's writing included many excerpts from Shakespeare, and much of the dialog between the characters was untraditional, often sounding more like Victorian or Elizabethan English; which lends a slightly abstract sort of feeling to the film. Van Sant's grasp of the reality of the lives of gay street hustlers in fairly strong, a theme he has carried out in later projects in his career, such as Speedway Junky, which he produced in 1999. The direction of the film, its characters, its dialog and story were, for its time very original; and a dangerous undertaking by van Sant, who could have easily effected his career for the worse in making this film. The project however turned out to be a fairly incredible film, with a unique yet universal love story wrapped up in a world of street hustling, which lends a grittiness to the film and its story, which makes it great.Van Sant takes us along a journey through a period of Mikey's life, and Phoenix's portrayal of the character is beautifully acted, and engaging in a way that only Phoenix could be. An old traditional type of story, the love story, is brilliantly told in a refreshingly untraditional way, with unique characters in offbeat settings. The old story 'boy meets girl, boy loses girl' is given a new face with this film, and this face-lift is flawlessly applied by Gus van Sant with his creative and artistic direction and brilliantly quirky writing. The tone of the film, is both bleak and expressive, with many of the scenes taking place among damp and gray backgrounds and empty baron spaces, which all lend to the overall serious nature of the subject matter while not distracting from the story. This film is a refreshing change from the everyday hopeless love story; in which the characters are strongly played and the brief scenes, which expose the lifestyles of the people involved, are explicit without being a turn off to the audience. Van Sant strikes a good balance between the touchy subject matter and the touching and revealing story, which he hopes to convey to his viewers. I would recommend this film for it's artistry alone, and compound that recommendation based on the strength of its story and brilliance of it's combination of witty and unconventional dialog. "}{"Title":"Eh?","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Someone said that Gus Van Sant has never made any good movies ... he hem. I agree, Psycho was a shocker ( i assume this was remade merely because the original ios so popular and EVERYONE would want to see how he pulled it off - or didn't) but To Die For was a wonderful film. Hilarious. Dark. Here in Australia we're all supposed to love Nicole Kidman. I absolutely hated her until To Die For. She proved she could actually act and went on to do a few other decent films. Joaquin was also fantastic in TO Die For and also proved to be a terrific actor. I went through a river phoenix phase a few years ago and fell in love with Idaho. Now, i see it does have its flaws. Keanu Reeves' is terrible, who the hell cast Flea? River's performance in Idaho is certainly his best and apart from the poor Shakespeare revival, i think this is a powerful film. I watch it and afterwards feel depressed yet strangely satisfied. Go to Pogues! "},{"Title":"disappointment","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard such great things about this movie for a long time.  Often people told me to rent it but usually i found something more appealing and forgot about it.  Well finally I bought this movie on sale.  I was extremely excited to see it(not knowing anything really about it).  Right from the get go I did feel bad for some of the characters but all in all this movie was awful.  It took me over 3 weeks to finish it.  I'd watch about 10 minutes, get disgusted and shut it off.  Maybe I just didn't get it or something. I couldn't stand how the characters spoke as if they were quoting Shakespeare. I didn't see any of the reality to it.  I just felt this movie was made for people who have absolutley no idea about how people on the street actually speak or act.  And another mark against it...Keanu Reeves. "},{"Title":"This is the stuff dreams are made of.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Admittedly, this movie is not for everyone, but for anyone who has an appreciation for Gus Van Sant or River Phoenix, here is a movie that features them both at their absolute best. Van Sant proves himself once again to be one of the best directors of our time with this dreamily photographed film, and even Reeves is elevated above his usual catatonic state to play Scott, the character derived from Shakespeare's Prince Hal. The rapport between him and the remarkable Richert is sincere and at times tragic. Watch for a particularly good scene between the two of them in Bob's bedroom (Why you would not even look at a clock unless hours were lines of coke, or time itself was a fair hustler...). This is Phoenix's movie, however; his portrayal of Mike, a narcoleptic street hustler, is nothing short of brilliant, he is simply a marvel to behold. Van Sant's superb direction, the top-notch cast and the beautiful, lyrical screenplay combine to make Idaho an instant classic, and quite possibly the most original film to come out of Hollywood in the '90's.  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A truly great movie, My Own Private Idaho is like nothing I've ever seen before, and River Phoenix's performance deserved and Oscar nomination. There are scenes in the film that touch me in a totally new way, especially the campfire scene which is, in my opinion, one of the best acted scenes i have EVER seen! Remarkable! I will forever be a fan of everyone involved with this awesome film. It is tragic what happened to Phoenix, but I thank God that he was here long enough to grace our screens with his fearless performances. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the greatest indie flicks so far...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, first of all, for the people who only see trend movies, obviously, you are not open minded about indie flicks.  So what if it has 2 gay male prostitutes? So what if it as a twisted ending, let alone a beginning?  The fact is, nowaday, people only see movies with computer generated special effects, gen-x actors, a kickin' soundtrack and major hype.  For the old people who prefer to watch movies about shakespeare; fyi this is based on henry IV (but i'm sure that you knew that).  All i can say is that i won't have my personal comments about this because everyone is critic, but before you judge this movie, watch it again  for the first time with an open mind, and maybe you'll see something about the human conditions that exists within all of us.  "},{"Title":"The film is watch-able and has some great shots","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is flimsy, unconvincing and wildly overrated. Although it is a film worth watching, for River's performance if nothing else, its accredited greatness is no more than a wishfully constructed social myth.I wish I could say how truly remarkable the film is, but to be honest it lacks substance, it leaves you yearning for something more&#133;I think much of the talent in the film is unexploited to its best potential and the dialogue, in its second half, written in a kind of impromptu, mock Shakespeare, is devoid of any magic.Overall the film is watch-able and has some great shots, like that at the beginning where the viewer joins Mike (River Phoenix) toward the end of a blow-job he's receiving from a john; when he comes the image of an entire house being dropped onto a desolate highway charges the screen.It's sad and beautiful, and, is a perfect statement on Mike's yearning for a home he never had. "},{"Title":"Great Performances Redeem Extremely Uneven Film","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very loosely based on Shakespeare's Henry IV part one, MY OWN PRIVATE IDAHO incorporates great chunks of the Bard's play into its script--and the result is an film with exceptional performances but an experimental edge that doesn't really come off.Keanu Reeves, the son of a wealthy and influential man, has become a street hustler largely in order to infuriate his father--and hence director Gus Van Sant's recourse to HENRY IV. His closest friend on the street is River Phoenix, a narcoleptic prostitute who dreams of finding security by reconnecting with his trailer-park-trash mother. Together the two go off on a road-trip spree complete with a Falstaff figure and interspersed with takes on other teenage boys plying their bodies on the street in order to survive.Reeves gives one of his better performances here and the supporting cast is very good, but the heart of the film belongs to River Phoenix, who works miracles with the pathos of his role. It is largely due to his performance that the film is able to hold our attention. But the adoption of Shakespeare's lines, particularly since the film skips in and out of them from portion to portion of the film, seems extremely out of place, and the film as a whole never seems to find a cohesive visual style. Worse still, one is never entirely certain what point Van Sant is trying to make, and the uncertainty doesn't seem intentional on the director's part. Final thought interesting, but slightly pretentious and and not entirely successful.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"private idaho","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved the beginning of this film.  It started off so well.  It was offbeat, weird, funny.  But then about twenty minutes into it, I started to dislike it.  I had previously seen Van Sant's Drugstore Cowboy, which I really liked.  The two films are similar.I like to think of myself as a tolerant, open-minded person, but a gay love story just isn't my cup of tea.  If the film continued going the way it first did, I would've loved it. I don't care that the main character is gay, but the love story ruins it.I stopped watching after an hour, but I'd say watch the first twenty minutes and savour that.  But turn it off before it gets screwy and leaves a bad taste in your mouth.5/10 "},{"Title":"In-bred bumpkins?","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The title is inspired and River Phoenix does an excellent job in a very demanding role. The eclectic script is okay, but I found Gus Van Sant's stagy direction a little distracting at times and the embedded messages annoying Yes, street urchins are human too; and yes, a man may love a man over and above sexuality, even if he is gay; and indeed, one may find poetry in the most wretched streets and even among the most desperately lost.On the other hand, what is a disease? and what is society's attitude to what it perceives as diseased? and what is the value of an open road and sky blue vistas? are questions tantalizingly expressed. They really make the film.Henry IV comparisons? Let's not get Falstaff spinning, and leave Mistress Quickly alone--please!By the way, I'm sure Van Sant did not intend to suggest that narcolepsy is a result of incest, but some narcoleptics might squirm a little after the trailer scene, and I don't think Idahoans appreciate being made to look like in-bred bumpkins.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Good, but could be better","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The acting is amazing. Reeves gives a solid performance with depth we sadly do not see too often from him. And Phoenix is mesmerizing, he draws you in and owns every scene. He makes you care about a character which mainstream society tells you that you should dislike. It really makes you wonder what might have been and what other great performances he may have given. Even Flea brings his A game and the creepy German guy is great. However, the story does not satisfy and the film making tries to hard to be smart or interesting with flashes or farms and salmon, rather than simply and honestly let the actors tell a story (though I do have to say I liked the different way the love scenes were shown.) It is slow in parts and the end leaves you wanting more, but thank god for River Phoenix. "}{"Title":"Too weird to recommend","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do like the weird movies but sometimes they can go to far. This one went to far. There was never a point where I got interested. I just sort of watched until it was over with. This is a low grade Magnolia. In Magnolia, I was interested in the characters and where things would end up. There were better performances and a better understanding of what was going on. Here, I didn't know what was going on and didn't care. There never really was a story or plot and there was nothing to get interested about. The only good consistent thing about this movie is River Phoenix's performance. If this movie had been better, he might have been nominated for an Oscar. River Phoenix is truly one of the greatest actors to die before his time. His story is tragic b/c of how great a talent he was, and how we were robbed of what other things he could have done before his untimely death. If you're a fan of Phoenix, you might like this, but it just doesn't come together for me. I like Van Sant, I like Phoenix, I just don't like this movie. It happens! Oh well.  "},{"Title":"Puts me to sleep","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this film, River Phoenix has narcolepsy... a malady that makes people nod off against their will. It is a perfect image for this film, which makes its entire audience (those that have any taste) fall asleep every five minutes. I saw this film years ago... it left no impression on me. so I decided to try it again. Now I know why it left no impression on me. It is vacuous, puerile, self-indulgent (but that is typical of Van Sant when he is trying to be artistic). sloppy, and poorly written - if in fact it WAS written. i get the feeling that half of what I saw was improv... from people who had really very little to say. To be fair, there are a couple of witty scenes... especially the one in the x-shop where the magazine covers come to life; But that is hardly worth anyone's time, and since I have already wasted too much of my own on this film i will stop here. Oh, just in case you think I object to the subject matter... not at all, but it has been done so much better in so many ways... "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film because I enjoyed Drugstore Cowboy and To Die For.  As this film was also made by Van Sant before he fell off and made Good Will Hunting and psycho- I was looking forward to an off-kilter ride through rent-boy land.  What I got was in fact one of my favourite films, and certainly one of the most under-rated American independent films in recent history.My Own Private Idaho has a kind of grimy transcendentalism that almost touches wong-kar-wai territory.  The camera swaggers and frames with a touch that the cameraman must have been born with- the exposure always beautiful. Top marks to the DOP.  Another revelation is the dialogue- sometimes playing on the Shakespearian themes that riddle the plot- itself sometimes works its way into a psuedo Shakespearian grandeur (look at the scenes with Bob in them).  Another touch is the acting- fantastic performances from all concerned especially as it has been noted before River P.  But lets not forget Reeves here- he also plays a fantastic part.But please, regardless of what I have just said- please do not expect much (as I did not) and then you may emerge from the viewing amazed and glad that you had dedicated your time to this gifted film-maker (like I did). "},{"Title":"inspiring in a subtle realistic way","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my opinion, My own Private Idaho was fantastic. The use and imagery of roads was beautiful and River Phoenix's modern-day philosophy applied to modern day life. Because of course, he is a connoisseur of roads and it is ironic that in River Phoenix's lifetime he has moved from place to place; eg, from begging in south America to living the high life in l.a. I disagree with others saying it is a loose half way film. It is purely poetic and although it is about prostitution, River's characters love for his friends and life even though he is narcoleptic. In the future i would like to see another film prove poetic justice to our society in such a way that this film has. "},{"Title":"Reeves and Phoenix doing terrific work","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mike (River Phoenix) is a hustler prostitute who suffers from narcolepsy. He has dreams of being comforted by his mother. Mike's best friend is fellow hustler Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves). Scott is rebelling against his father who was the wealthy mayor of Portland. He expects to inherit money from him at 21. Mike is obsessed with finding his mother and is in love with Scott. Their journey would take them from Portland to Idaho to Italy and then back to Portland.Gus Van Sant creates a meandering journey of two lost souls. Reeves and Phoenix are doing terrific work. It gets surreal at times. I actually want a greater visual surrealism to his dreams although the indie budget would prevent that. I'm not so much in love with the Shakespearian influence on the dialog with Bob. It takes me out of the gritty street world. It's an up and down movie for me. I find parts of it fascinating but others too flighty. "},{"Title":"My Own Private Idaho","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, which featured this film, that it has mixed opinion, I'm sort of half way between, from director Gus Van Sant (Good Will Hunting). Basically, in Portland, Oregon, narcolepsy suffering Mike Waters (River Phoenix) and son of a rich father Scott Favor (Keanu Reeves) are two male prostitutes living on the streets. They take drugs and sell their bodies to women and men, but their personal lives come in to play a lot, with Mike being the quiet gay seeking his long lost mother, and Scott saying he's straight and only shying away from his rich lifestyle temporarily. They are travelling all over the place to find Mike's mother, Portland to Idaho, Italy and a few other places, the narcolepsy obviously is a problem as Mike will not remember anything, but Scott finds love with Carmella (Chiara Caselli). Even though the mother was not found the journey was more a self discovery experience, and in the end Scott returns to his true lifestyle, and Mike just falls asleep on the highway in Idaho. Also starring William Richert as Bob Pigeon, Rodney Harvey as Gary, Michael Parker as Digger, Jessie Thomas as Denise, Grace Zabriskie as Alena and Ace Ventura Pet Detective's Udo Kier as Hans. Phoenix is quite compelling in one of his last roles before his death two years later from a drugs overdose (he was of the live fast die young breed), and Reeves is pretty good as well. I think the fact the film is a little confusing most of the way, and I was hoping it would be a road movie, but with the controversial material it is not a bad independent drama film. Good! "},{"Title":"Galvanised Bucket","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An IVGO (Inverted Pyramid Group Oblivion) Environment on The Planet Earth which has access to Personal Wealth which is spooned out provides The Inhabitants with The Resource to be Entrepreneurial...As different Family Lines team up The Environmental Wealth ends up tilting into a pocket leaving some with more leverage than others...The Main Character builds-up his Co-Star with his leverage which allows The Co-Star to flee the Odd Situation of his Biological Mother & Biolgical Brother whom are his parents and whom live in a small-trailer in the middle of nowhere...The Co-Star is willing to help The Main Character stay at The Top Of The Heap but sometimes his crutched dependence upon The Main Character leaves him upon The Park Bench...Venturing through Squatters Villages, Prostitution, Narcolepsy, Psychiatry, Pornography, and even Loving Females has the two running from The Reality Of Poverty Of Self which no money can repair with the two friends refusing to hold jobs or residency independent of each other...The Main Character's Father is running for Elected Political Office and asks his son to keep his nose clean...An open car-door of another whether Family Or Unfamaliar has the two constantly living in their Own Private Idaho...VODKA...!They are in search of The Professor...An Imperial Scout & Owner Of The Planet Earth who knows The Best Swimming Holes...I will see River again... "},{"Title":"A frightful view on reality","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I saw this film for the first time, it scared me. I have known people like this, who are attempting to find out what the heck life is. River Phoenix plays the part of totally dislocated teen who follows Reeves into whatever area he goes. But, at the same time, he has a longin for life that is quite touching. I have seen a boy dragged by his circumstances into the ugly pit River Phoenix is drawn, both in this movie and in real life.Can't go on, sorry.( "},{"Title":"Genuine","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The true opening of nineties at its best! The esthetics is subtle mixture of elegance and grunge. Rising stars - Keanu and Fenix - completely took over the film. The picture goes deep into the layers of frankness and maliciousness. "},{"Title":"classic reeves/phoenix film with  great director  and cast","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this was  a very dramatic/poetic film from gus van sant (drugstore cowboy) that stars keanu reeves and river phoenix who have a very big loving relationship together. by having their mixed emotional, and feelings together on their trips. this film also stars Flea, James Russo and Udo Kier who played Hans, the one who sang that strange german song for keanu and river was fun. great movie if you love films by keanu and river.  "}{"Title":"a beautiful film","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i love this movie and have loved it since the first time i saw it. this is what i like to call a whole movie because it contains all of the things that make movies great great acting, great directing, great storytelling and a pleasing look overall. i keep waiting for keanu reeves to make another movie like this one because his character was so layered and human. river phoenix was of course an amazing actor if nothing else is said about him. the way he portrayed his character was touching and innocent and terrific. gus van zant just rocks. that's all i have to say about him. i don't know him personally but i would like to meet him because of this film. film is of course a very young medium, but even so, there are still a ton of films that could easily be considered great. its not the greatest film ever made, (but then again, what is?) but this film would easily make my top fifty list, no questions asked. go see it. then see it again. then make all your friends watch it. if they don't like it, make new friends. "},{"Title":"Viewed through the medium of TV.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The best film of all time. Art on celluloid. River becomes passion, sadness and joy personified whilst Keanu keeps his cool. Gus Van Sant's piste resistance. Flea from the Chili Peppers is in it too!Dan O'Neill "},{"Title":"Good acting, ok directing","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching River Phoenix in this, but I thought a lot of stuff was annoying.  The scene with the magazine covers was the worst.  It wasn't done very well, and even if it would have been it still would have sucked.  The other problem I had was that the characters occasionally talked in pseudo-Shakespearean.  It's very hard to do something like that and not come off as pretentious, and GVS fails.  Any time Keanu has lines like that he sounds ridiculous.  On the other hand, overall the movie was enjoyable and somewhat moving so I'd give it a 6.5/10.   "},{"Title":"There is a road","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Narcolepsy-a sudden attack of deep sleep. This starts with that sentence. Do you think it*s funny? There are 2 main characters. One guy finally settle down real world, the other guy has a Narcolepsy continue to his wandering. They represent main life style in our life. Some people live peacefully without any risk or adventures. Others don*t. They seem like making a trouble on and on. There is a road. That is our life! In that road, we must find our real estimate. If we don*t , the road don*t show the final stop and we start with sudden attack  "},{"Title":"River tunes out, Keanu slums","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Own Private Idaho is a bittersweet tale of two rent boys in the Pacific coast are and the contrasts between them. With the help of the greatest writer in the English language ever, William Shakespeare, Gus Van Sant draws two great characterizations in the characters realized by River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves.You couldn't find two more opposite types in the world. River is a street kid through and through. Even the circumstances of his birth are a tragedy that I won't reveal. His mother leaves him as a youngster and he can't get over it and go on. He was raised by an older brother in the sparsely populated 'potato state' as he calls Idaho and the and the family dynamic was strained. He's a gay kid in an area where that could be deadly so he takes off for the fleshpots of Seattle and Portland where his youth and beauty will bring him some cash. He has no skills or education to support himself any other way. Sad, but the only hope this kid has of a decent life is to get taken up by some older sugar daddy who might just treat him to an education of some kind. That is if he can decide to just get over a bad home life and lack of a normal family. I've known gay kids who came from as lousy a background as River Phoenix and who never could get over it. River has developed an interesting defense mechanism and a psychologist would have field day with him if he got him on the coach. When the stress gets too much for him he just has a seizure like an epileptic, but in fact all he does is fall asleep. It's called narcilepsy, but he's vulnerable in that state as the film shows as well. River just tunes out the world. Keanu comes from a different world, his father is the Mayor of Portland, but he's dying and hopes to have his son take over the family political dynasty. But Tom Troupe is bitterly disappointed in his 'effeminate' son who like Prince Hal likes to hang out with lowlifes and street trash. Keanu's Falstaff is William Richert, a gay older man of a Falstaffian bloated belly who likes the young stuff and in his world probably treats them well. Gus Van Sant was quite imaginative in seeing the gay subtext that could be drawn from Prince Hal and Falstaff. Indeed Keanu says that Richert is closer to him than his real father. But he also says that he's planning to work a change in him when he comes into his own. And he says it in dialog taken from Shakespeare's Henry IV Parts one and two.The most touching scene is with River and Keanu out in the country at a fire where River basically confesses his love for him. It's love to be sure, but River also sees in Keanu a figure who has confidence and self assurance and those are the qualities that draws him to Reeves. What Phoenix misreads is that self confidence is really a safety net that he knows he has and at the appropriate time uses. Although he's gay for pay as he states, he still allows River to have sex with him. I suspect that Gus Van Sant from his own background knows full well that gay for pay is not always 100% absolute.Reeves goes on to his destiny for which if you know your Shakespeare know what that is. Phoenix's destiny is less clear, more than likely an oblivion that a lot of those kids go to. As a fantasy I'd like to think that as Reeves denies himself, closets himself as he moves on in life, that an older River comes back to remind him of his roots.We all know of the tragedy of River Phoenix who died way too young just like a lot of street kids do ironically. There is a second tragedy in the My Own Private Idaho. Rodney Harvey who played one of River and Keanu's street peers also died way too young in similar circumstances to Phoenix. Not only does Van Sant give us an excellent two person character study, but his other character with less dialog than the leads also are fully formed characters which is the mark that many including me say indicates a great film. My Own Private Idaho is a troubling picture, but a realistic one of the underside of gay life that we cannot ignore. "},{"Title":"what a waste of my time...","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't get me wrongI don't need the typical, predictable Hollywood mainstream movie to have an enjoyable evening- but please, can somebody explain to me, why this movie has been so well received by critics as well as my friends? i have watched a lot of demanding movies in my life but the dialogue in this movie must have been the most torturous experience thus far. whenever keanu reeves opened his mouth i wanted to crawl under my blanket out of sheer embarrassment for his bad acting. unless you are deeply obsessed with his looks, it remains one of today's great mysteries why  and how he got so successful (and to talk in the movies he stars in). river phoenix on the other hand is intense and believable in his role and certainly the only positive aspect of gus van sant follow-up to his brilliant drugstore cowboy (what happened there, gus??). Even the beautiful landscapes and the cool, almost psychedelic flash-backs of Mike get really tiresome by the middle of the movie. My recommendation If you are not a male prostitute or not in love with either keanu reeves or river phoenix, the odds are you will have a hard time to relate to the story. Even if you were homeless, their portrayal as half shakespearean-half robin williams in fisher king is so farfetched that you won't care about them either. If you have seen the movie, liked it and don't belong to the categories mentioned above please feel free to enlighten me why this is a good movie in so many people's opinion.  "},{"Title":"Another overrated cult film.","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A so and so picture that never really grabbed my attention and fledged itself into a Shakespearian state throughout it never recovered from. Keanu Reeves does another one of his tame and unnatural performances and becomes sidelined compared to his companion River Phoenix, and though his performance is overrated he acts it all out and cements the film a cult status. Occasionally tedious despite the fact that it's blending of colors, locations and characters are constantly apparent. I find the film's 'finding a home' story not nearly as touching or compelling as I know many find it, and for me it on and off winds up in the corners of whining and tiresome tear-some. The good parts though are the few straight-forward scenes, as the opening scenes of trading male prostitution. "},{"Title":"My Own Private Sleeping Pill","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've enjoyed many offbeat indie films, but I found this movie boring and painfully self-conscious of its high art leanings. You know those people who don't read The New Yorker but leave copies of it on their coffee table just to impress visitors? Those folks would love this movie.A quick anecdote summarizes my opinion of My Own Private Idaho. My wife and I were eager to finally see this film, and we both fell asleep watching it. And I'm an insomniac. Really. "},{"Title":"Tiresome Gay Slackers","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Those long takes on Idaho farmland and back roads -- pretty, but ultimately boring. You see film is not a photograph. Film contains action, story, and human pathos. We get one of those in My Own Private Idaho. Gay street people are predictable, but in real life their clients are Joe Fag anybody, not these theatrical versions of Truman Capote or Dieter from Saturday Night Live. So, are we looking at a satire on street life or a serious look at street boys roaming Portland, Oregon. Are we to believe America had nothing to offer, but cheap sex and bad drugs? Come on! River Phoenix played himself, a boy sleepwalking through life. He has a famous father to spark his career. Oh, that's too easy I guess. He died pretty much as the slacker he really was. Keanu, another Hollywood legacy, he seems to be 22 years old whether he plays a seventeen year old or a thirty-five year old. I liked him as a dentist in Thumbsucker way more than this non-believable street boy with a city mayor for a dad. Come on!.Look, if you're going to do weird, see any David Lynch flick. He's so much better. Sorry Gus. "},{"Title":"Phoenix saves the film!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  River Phoenix is by far my favorite male actor. In every film he starred in, he turned in excellent performances. Why did he, of all Hollywood actors have to die? My Own Private Idaho is not the best Phoenix film. But is not bad. River turns in an excellent performance as the narcoleptic street hussler Mike. Keanu Reeves' performance is very shakey, but that's to be expected. I am glad that River took this extreme role. It shows what a truly talented young man he was as some times I have to restrain myself from crying when I think of how it all ended up for him, that Halloween night of 1993. In my opinion, Stand by Me was the best Phoenix film, but he starred in many great films. Well done River. And I am proud to say that I love him as a actor/film maker. I give My Own Private Idaho a 5 out of 10.I apologise for the poor comments. "}{"Title":"A bit boring","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite the nice acting and some really cool stuff this movie just drags terribly at some points. I never give a synopsis of a movie but with My own private Idaho I couldn't even if I desperately wanted to. The whole thing was just to confusing for me, I don't know if Mike and Scott were discovering themselves through their sexual needs and impulses or was My own private Idaho just another road movie. Some cool stuff; Bob's funeral, I hope my funeral's going to be something like that, the interesting way the director used to show the sexual scenes, Udo Kier's performance (I really liked the song and the guy looks like Sven Vaeth) and last but not least River Phoenix's hair. Man does he have the coolest haircut in this movie, all tousled up.     A different movie.   7/10  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but definitely unsatisfying","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Feels sloppily cobbled together out of many disparate parts. It's a movie about street hustlers (mainly River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves), and then suddenly something seemed familiar, the dialogue starts to get flowery and I realized I was watching an update of Welles' Chimes at Midnight. I hadn't realized Keanu had embarrassed himself by trying Shakespeare before Much Ado About Nothing (he plays the part of Prince John here). He starred the same year in the second and final Bill & Ted movie. Here he tries to graduate, but fails. The film jumps all over the place as Reeves and Phoenix look for Phoenix's long lost mother. The film doesn't work well at all. It looks very beautiful. Phoenix is very good. He died a couple of years later, and what a fine actor we lost. "},{"Title":"don't waste your time","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is F*@#ed up.  Don't try to be deep or see any profundity in it. Just skip it and rent Road Trip or something.  Seriously.  Anyone who tries to compare it to Shakespeare or find anything existential in the fact that two male prostitutes traverse the world while occasionally falling asleep in the road is clearly cracked-out.   "},{"Title":"Poetic road movie","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie leaves you with a very sad feeling. While there are some scenes that are there just to show the loveability of the lead actors, probably directed to the teen female audience, it compensates the viewer with its depth. It's difficult not to sympathize with the protagonist. River Phoenix is simply great, perfectly cast. Even Keanu Reeves proves he's talented and it's not in many movies where he does so. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most boring movies I have ever seen, next to Indecent Proposal. Too hard to watch the film completely. Gus Van Sant is probably the most overrated director, he has yet to do something good. Remember he chose to re-make Psycho - big mistake. "},{"Title":"Phoenix and Reeves Deliver... But I Am Not Sure What","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two best friends -- one the son of a powerful mayor and the other a street urchin -- living on the streets of Portland as hustlers embark on a journey of self discovery and find their relationship stumbling along the way.The film is dark, dirty and shot in a very gritty manner. That is alright. And the cloud sequences are very interesting to watch, but I am unclear what they symbolize. I felt the production was very cheaply put together, but maybe it was on purpose.The movie is a cross between William Shakespeare's Henry IV and a song from the B-52s. While I would assume this to be great, I did not walk away from this film feeling anything. Keanu Reeves is not known for his strong acting, and this is another example of that. River Phoenix is average, nothing compared to his brother Joaquin.In all fairness, I did not watch this film as intently as I could have (it was late at night). Maybe with different company or at a different time I would have taken more from it. But, in my opinion, if you want Shakespeare you are better off watching Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet or the teen comedy 10 Things I Hate About You. "},{"Title":"A total waste of talent!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the best examples of uneven and pointless film making, next to THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT.  It is an embarrassment to the short career of River Phoenix and to Keanu Reeves, who surprisingly is still a big box office star after this travesty.  I am not even going to try to summarize this film, because I honestly cannot.  All I can say is the themes of drugs, sexuality, journey and strange encounters keep coming up.  I rate this a 1.5 out of 4, and that is being nice. "},{"Title":"Uninteresting, unidentifiable, sometimes crude,","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had to fast forward through a lot of this movie, it was boring and uninteresting - a mess to watch. There was little entertaining or of cathartic value in what the lead characters were up to, and there was little to nothing to identify with besides River Phoenix's character trying to find his mother. From the bum scuffles and drug tripping scenes to the unpleasant male escorting and mostly in between, the movie doesn't offer much explanation other than a whirlwind of the Naraleptic's life. The whole Keanu Reeves character going from one way of life to another made even less sense. In the end there seems to be little purpose, reason, or meaning in what you just watched. "},{"Title":"good premise, bad execution.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gus Van Sant's My Own Private Idaho is film with a good premise. A male hustler with a mental condition (in this case, a condition that a times put him to sleep) is searching for his long lost mother. That sounds like a decent premise for a movie. However, the execution just fails. This is a movie with a script so clearly loose on it's hinges it's a surprise and a accomplishment that it actually got made. This is a film that doesn't have anything going on between the screen and the audience. What we have here is only a series of images, not an actual film. Nothing on the screen ever try to engage me into the story. As I was watching the film, several thoughts went through my head. Whatever. Stupid. Bland. and finally, an hour and 10 minutes into it, my mind was screaming,End... End... END! Not since Gigli did I want a movie to end so badly. The only thing that is keeping me from giving this movie a 1 is that River Pheonix gives a good performance, more than this movie deserves. "},{"Title":"real and unreal world?","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would say that this is a gay film. I should describe it as an effort to understand the real world throughout the unreal world but in comparison to Derek Jarman´s conception of film making, Gus Van Sant´s experience is really thousand light years from Jarman´s experience.  "}{"Title":"meaningless drivel","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the five stupidest movies I've ever seen.  Meaningless drivel and nauseating dialogue.  Keanu Reeves' acting is utterly atrocious, but that is no surprise.  Who has time for this?  Two hours, completely wasted time. Twelve years later and the memory of leaving the theater after watching this crap is still shockingly vivid. "},{"Title":"This film will give you Narcolepsy.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film-- but both River Phoenix and Keanu seemed wooden in their roles--- also at times I wasn't able to stomach some of the action-- and I'm a big fan of Chasing Amy and Clerks- so I am not a queazy person--- I can take strong language and even some perversion... this is a very sad film about the lives these boys lead... and the ending was totally lost on me.  "},{"Title":"Keeping walking; don't rent.","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Man, I had heard good reviews from my friends.  Those people are no longer my friends.  What can I say?  This movie was crap.  I had respect for the late Mr. Phoenix, but that is fading away.  The still sex scenes did nothing to add to this movie.  Although, you did feel really bad when his lover left him for a girl.  His life keeps going downhill and taking the movie with him.  Nothing like finding out your dad is your brother.  Give me a break, not this movie.  Leave it be. "}]