[{"Title":"Whatever, girl.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"69 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I came away from Truth Or Dare feeling the way I do when someone cuts me off in traffic and then gives me the finger. On the surface, it's a competent documentary, well-edited and interestingly photographed (even the grainy backstage footage).On the other hand, the film is like having obnoxious personalities thrust at you with every turn. It wants to be a controversial, no-holds-barred record of Madonna's large-scale Blonde Ambition concert tour. At the center of this carnival of hard-working but uninspired nincompoops is Madonna herself. Madonna certainly fancies herself the queen bitch, but also wants to show us that she's got a sensitive side too (like when she lies on her mother's grave in front of the camera). I had to laugh when I read other reviews that ascertained how this film shows us that Madonna is just another human being. What did we think she was? An alien? A ghost?I enjoyed watching the weirdness involving Warren Beatty. Some of it is curious too, such as when the only heterosexual dancer in Madonna's troupe tries to express the fact that he doesn't like the gay guys he is working with. His words portray him as ignorant, but about his co-dancers he is right on the mark--they are irritating in the same way a nest full of twittering birds outside the bedroom window at 4am would be.The one thing that fascinates me about Truth Or Dare is that Madonna herself had control over this film, yet she comes off as a self-obsessed clod. She's like a real-life version of the Faye Dunaway character from Network, interested only in success and having no depth of her own. So either she herself didn't realize how shallow it makes her look, or she knew her fans wouldn't notice it--or even stranger, perhaps they idolize her for being so self-centered and detached. Madonna has always put on airs about herself (like the faux British accent she speaks with these days), but here you can see her stumbling over her various phony images and fronts, like in her decidedly inarticulate prayer before the show that she dedicates to Keith Haring (...who doesn't have the luxury of being alive like we do...). The religious Madonna chokes on her words and seems flustered that the camera is still rolling, then reacts with a self-conscious aside. Wow, look--Madonna is sensitive!In fact she's so sensitive that her first reaction when she hears that one of her makeup staff was given a date-rape drug and sodomized is a giggle, albeit a nervous one. Then there's the infamous scene where she totally misses Kevin Costner's sense of humor and mocks him behind his back. Gad, she's so wickedly funny, isn't she? We also learn that Madonna is loyal, like when she excitedly waits to reconnect with a childhood friend, then disregards the woman when she says she'd like to name her unborn baby after Madonna.The movie also posits that Madonna is an artist and that her music is her art. It's hilarious to watch Madonna and her brother, Christopher, defending the more 'risque' parts of the calculated stage show by calling it a journey...you have to go through all the different parts to get to the end. See? They HAD to do the masturbation scene. This kind of self-important stuff seems to be norm for those working with Madonna. She certainly didn't invent this kind of elaborate stage show, but you'd never know it from the way the show is discussed in this movie. Elaborate concerts like this were going on decades before Madonna, and certainly with more substantial artists involved--Pink Floyd comes to mind. Although Madonna's show is opulently staged, it ultimately has little to do with live musicianship. Although there are musicians involved, Madonna is not one of them herself, and the focus of the show is entirely on her and her sets. Yet it doesn't seem to work as theater either, since the journey it is purportedly representing is vague, at best.I can understand how Madonna managed to sell millions of records (even people less talented than Madonna have done so), but I have never understood how she has inspired long-lasting devotion in some people who seem to find greatness in her, and Truth or Dare doesn't give much insight to this. In fact, she seems to have succeeded almost in spite of her bitchy attitude and her tendency to either alienate or disregard those who have befriended her or worked with her. Her music is sometimes enjoyable, often unremarkable, and she seems to want to paint herself as an individual who is relentlessly driven to succeed and gets everything she wants, at any cost--as if ruthless ambition were something to aspire to. While it may be true that Madonna is ambitious, Truth or Dare seems to overlook the fact that Madonna is also very clearly a product of a corporate entity, a mediocre recording artist who was so heavily promoted by both herself and her record label that she was bound to catch on. At one point Madonna makes much of her so-called talent for pushing peoples buttons (as if being shocking or titillating is difficult), and this may have been one of the ways she made her money, but you can bet that a bunch of guys in suits and ties have made a lot more money off of her. Her willingness to do anything to succeed probably looked pretty good to Warner Brothers records, so they lavished her with money and promotion and let her take off like an obnoxious little kid racing a bike down a hill. The thing that Truth or Dare taught me about Madonna is that she was the little kid who probably pushed all the other kids off their bikes so she would get to the bottom of the hill first.Blonde Ambition, indeed. "},{"Title":"Nothing surprising","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Nothing surprising is revealed in this documentary.  Perhaps ten years ago, when the film came out, it stunned many fans and non-fans.  But Madonna has remained in the spotlight ever since, and thanks to magazines, interviews, MTV, VH-1, not to mention her music, video, book and film work since 1991, we've seen most of the stuff in this documentary already.  Plus, Madonna shows us only what she wants us to see.  There are a few moments when the camera suddenly shuts off, like when she confesses that Sean Penn was the love of her life.  She also talks about her huge crush on Antonio Banderas, and when he snubs her, she jokingly admits that she will never work with him (obviously she was kidding because she worked with him in Evita).  When she's playful and in good spirits, she's fun to watch.  But in the end, this is really a vanity project, instead of the completely naked documentary it was supposed to be.  That probably suits her diehard fans just fine, but regular viewers are hoping to see more than her attitude backstage, long footage of her explicit onstage material, constant vulgarity, and high-maintenance daily rituals. "},{"Title":"Madonna takes herself very seriously","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time in 2009, almost twenty years after its release and this proves I am not a big Madonna fan. In fact, I never particularly liked or disliked her. I thought she was cool in Desperately seeking Susan, but that was the Into the Groove time, when she had just started her rise.The Blonde Ambition tour was probably the top of Madonna's career, and this would-be documentary shows her at her most unbearable. Somebody mentioned that it shines a light on her human side (as if she was some sort of alien), but in truth she comes across as a controlling, pretentious bitch who goes out of her way to humiliate and annoy people. Hardly the best human side one can show. Even the visit to her mother's grave is disgustingly theatrical. Instead of making you feel sorry for the child of five who lost her mum it makes you feel sorry for the spoiled brat she became.Of course we all know that Madonna built her career on sex and the Catholic religion and by now I doubt anybody would be shocked by her swinging crucifix or her masturbation. However, tasteful it was not... and still isn't. The part filmed on stage is disappointing because some of songs performed are just not good, no matter how much sex is thrown in to spice them. The documentary part is embarrassing to watch. It was interesting for me to see that Madonna had a crush on Antonio Banderas, but at the time he was married with a pretty Spanish lady (who looked a lot better both of Madonna and Melanie Griffith). Warren Beatty makes the only decent comment about the whole filming, but he is also brushed off and humiliated, not to mention the poor Costner.I am not a Costner fan either, but his comment sounded rather sarcastic to me (Neat applied to the overbearing and vulgar show sounds like a sarcastic way to say It sucked), but looks like Madonna did not get the joke. She definitely takes herself very seriously when she describes herself as an artist who will not change anything in her show, even if she risks to get arrested for indecent exposure or any such like - very unlikely - charge.Finally, when she talks to her father she is so arrogant and dismissive that I felt sorry for the poor guy. She even uses the word chatartic with the intent of confuse her father; but looks like she herself had no clue as to what that word means.Madonna was an icon of the 80's and early 90's and possibly a decent singer, but for sure she was never a great actress and definitely not somebody with any sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Excellent documentary","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  As a documentary, this movie is excellent.  It takes us behind the scenes of one of the most successful and most elaborate  music tours produced in recent times.  We take a peek at Madonna's private life including her likes and dislikes, her friends, her hectic schedule, and her incredible ambition of staying at the top.  But most importantly, we take a close look at how she influences everyone around her.  Madonna fans, especially those that attended the Blond Ambition Tour, will really enjoy Truth or Dare.  "},{"Title":"Less of each than we are led to believe","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" As a simple concert video, this one is above average. But the title is very misleading. First let's deal with the 'truth' aspect. Madonna's friends pop in on her - Warren Beatty, Sandra Bernhart - but you get little in the way of glimpses into her relationships with others. You see Madonna playing Mother Hen to her backup performers, but you get the sense that she isn't very close to any of them. Thus, even though this is supposed to be an expose of Madonna's true private life, there is so little of this on screen that the audience is denied a genuine insider's view. And when Madonna deals with the business aspects of her tour, the boardroom door closes on the camera and the audience. This aspect of the life of a performer so well known for her product-image management might potentially be the most fascinating part of the tour, but the audience is kept outside. And compared to some of what Madonna has done on the screen, this is so far below her usual standards of shock as to hardly qualify as 'daring'. It is worth a watch, but beware of a stretching of the 'truth' when it comes to packaging. "},{"Title":"too narcissistic","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" From the very first second that this documentary starts Madonna is full of her own ego. She is very self-centered from the get-go. Watching this documentary I understand why none of her relationships in life last very long. And I mean more than just romantic relationships, she's had a lot of broken friendships. Anyway after 7 minutes of watching it, I decided to skip around to the Warren Beatty parts, I was really curious about him. After his scenes, I skipped towards the end. Yea I skipped around a lot in this documentary because I didn't think it was worth watching the entire hour and 59 minutes. Sure I like some of her music, but her act of using her sexuality is nothing new. Also spoiled divas are nothing new in this world. In the end she's an entertainer and nothing more. I'm not impressed with her quests for spirituality either.I skipped a lot with this documentary, I was really interested in her relationship with Warren Beatty. She's very disrespectful, she calls him up and he's supposed to meet her but there's some misunderstanding and instead of working it out like a woman, she decides to hang up on him. To Madonna people are just expendable, its all just a game to her. I don't think people should take themselves seriously but its like she mistreats people and I don't like that. I get why none of her relationships last and why her marriage probably didn't last.Warren Beatty also tries to talk to Madonna and bring her to reality, he's not mean either, he actually seems like a very nice man, he speaks in a normal voice and tries to reason with her. I can see why it took a long time for Warren Beatty to commit to a woman because with a circus trainwreck like Madonna, even the nicest guy in the world would run.Warren grew up and married Annette Bening and Madonna didn't grow up at all. Not even with kids in her life. She's going to be one of those lonely old people in the end with no one by her side when she really hits her senior years. "},{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Madonna is the coach that everyone wishes they could break down and talk to on the same level.  Sure, nobody knows who exactly Madonna is.  This is what makes her so brilliant.  It is obvious she was hamming it up and portraying a character which she wanted everyone to see. If Madonna didn't act like a bitch she wouldn't be where she is today. "},{"Title":"a strictly narcissistic self portrait","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" The ersatz Madonna 'documentary' offers proof of the Material Girl's genius for self-promotion, pretending to be a candid behind-the-scenes portrait of her Blond Ambition tour when it's really just selling a lot of self-conscious backstage posturing, sandwiched between the expected MTV concert footage. Some fashionably grainy black-and-white photography gives the film a spurious air of raw slice-of-life candor, but the whole thing is one long public relations whitewash, no less calculated than her elaborate stage show and often just about as substantial. At times it seems the only purpose of the film is to reinforce the singer's image as some sort of blue-collar angel/whore, with strong maternal instincts toward her dancing troupe. Nothing else about her is revealed, except for a purely mercenary streak of exhibitionism, hardly front-page news. But there's a peculiar irony in watching Madonna (of all people) try to act natural with a camera lens constantly in her face; the effort to simply be herself can almost be called the best 'performance' of her career. "},{"Title":"In the midst of controversy...","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Between 1987 and 1993, Madonna underwent the most controversial period of her life. This documentary highlights one of the most notorious events right in the midst of that period of controversy her 1990 Blond Ambition tour, which spanned four months and took place in Japan, North America, and Europe. The tour was way ahead of its time, featuring innovative music, tour-de-force dance moves, magnificent sets, and dazzling costumes designed by French fashion designer Jean-Paul Gaultier. It turned out to be arguably the best concert ever (certainly Madonna's best concert to date). At the same time, the tour was considered blasphemous for involving the use of religious images and symbols, and it was called racy because of simulated sexual acts that were performed on stage.What's noteworthy about this documentary is that it shows a behind-the-scenes look at, not just the tour, but also Madonna's life during the tour's run. On stage (and backstage) she's a hard and demanding diva. Yet, this film enables viewers to see another side of Madonna, who according to Warren Beatty, doesn't want to live off-camera. You get to see Madonna surrounded by different people her entourage, her family, and other celebrities...but you also get to see her all by herself in some scenes. In one scene you hear someone compare Madonna to a little girl lost in a storm. One can only wonder if Madonna, who although is the biggest star in the world, could be the loneliest person in the world. I saw this documentary when it played in theaters, back in 1991, and it was great to see it on the big screen. I especially enjoyed seeing the scenes of the actual concert. I now own this film on DVD. This documentary was definitely the perfect medium with which to immortalize the then-controversial, pre-motherhood Madonna at the height of her career. "},{"Title":"Madonna - Like you REALLY have never seen her before","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I feel that this film shows Madonna at her best. Sure, there are some embarrassing moments but isn't that what is so great about the whole film? Here, we get to see Madonna as the bossy control-freak, as the carer, as the organiser, as the comedienne and more. As Madonna once said, the film is worth about 5 years of psychoanalysis so why not see it and find out about the real Madonna? You might not like her; but you can't help but love this film.  "}{"Title":"Strike a Pose","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This is Madonna at her best while during the prime of her music career. Although the film was released in 1991, Truth or Dare actually takes place during the summer of 1990, as Madonna went around the globe on her Blonde Ambition tour. This documentary / music film is a piece of history of not only of Madonna back in the day but what the styles and sounds of the year where like. Boy does it bring back memories! From spandex biker shorts, to that famous cone bra, and not to forget the hairstyles... its really great to watch and think back of what life was like when Vogue was her biggest hit to date. She is so revealing, funny, demanding, and warm at heart. It shows the no nonsense business side of her and the sad reflective side of her as she thinks about her mother who died when she was so very young. The film is packed with celebrities, including Warren Beatty, whom she dated while filming his blockbuster film, Dick Tracy. It shows the lives of her dancers, backup singers, and the crew behind the stage as they all mingle around her and do their best for camera time. LOL But in the end, there is no brighter star than Madonna. To this day she is still pushing buttons, creating great music, and daring us all to watch. And just like this film, I think its safe to say she accomplished what she set out to do. "},{"Title":"interesting, but not a documentary","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  ok, so by now you know im not a fan, as im not gushing about her in the Summary line. so i think that grants me a little more credibility...this was not really a documentary as i envision one, mostly because she was the subject *and* executive producer -- meaning she called the shots on this film. it is therefor impossible not to paint a completely biased and self-interested picture. frankly, it's  modanna propaganda (propadonna?). she knew she was making a movie about herself while she was making it... from the voice-over narrations to the staff testimonies of how sensitive she really is, it all seemed  contrived. in fact, the only real part about it were the music videos, and warren beatty (he was hilarious because he seemed so bored or disgusted of the whole thing. sardonically he humors her Why would you say something if it's off-camera? What..what point is there existing?). a that being said....madonna is a terrific performer. her costumes, routines, songs, sets, and raw sexual energy just blow me away.she's one of the privileged-few in society, but i can see why she got there. "},{"Title":"Bask in the greatness that is MADONNA","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Whether you love her or hate her, this is a very enjoyable film. T or D takes you for a look at Madonna's life which may give you more surprises then you had expected. In it she comes off more insecure, compassionate, kinder, interesting, and less sexual than generally thought. Okay, she's still pretty sexual in it, but there is much more to it than that. This film is quite enthralling and includes several full length color performances from the Blonde Ambition tour ( the tour is the basis of this documentary). The rest of it is in black and white yet, still grabs you like few films do. Cheers to Madonna and Company for a compelling and fun film for all to enjoy - except for the part where she flashes the camera. But, hey, it's Madonna. Who minds seeing that? "},{"Title":"Not only is there little truth in Madonna's blockbuster concert documentary film. The film is also very obnoxious & annoying. Not a great watch","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" While, I do like some of Madonna's music, and can easily tune in to them. This controversial, no-holds-barred concert film about singer Madonna's 1990 Blond Ambition tour, was still a hard watch for me. The reasons why, is because I'm not a huge fan of her personal life and how she performs her music. There just way too much sleaziness when it comes to her act, and not enough professionalism or class. This film directed by Alex Keshishain kinda shows that. The film is cut into two main sequences the stage performances which was filmed in color and the behind-the-scenes footage filmed in black and white. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I found the concert scenes to be in great quality. It was bright, well-shot, and had great sound. The tour was way ahead of its time, featuring innovative music like 'Vogue' & 'Express Yourself', tour-de-force dance moves, and magnificent sets such as the one that looks like 1927's Fritz Lang's film, Metropolis & Warren Beatty 1990's Dick Tracy. Then, there was the dazzling costumes designed by French fashion designer Jean-Paul Gaultier. The most famous design from the show, being the fame conned bra. For the most part, the concert looks entertaining. However, the MTV style of editing of the footage, the lip-synching, and her juxtaposition of Catholic iconography and sexuality is somewhat alarming and shady. The backstage footage are the scenes, I really hate from this film. All of the backstage stuff was a little too grainy with the black and white visuals. It had very lousy sound, so you can't really figure out, what people are truly saying. Plus, the guerrilla style of filmmaking is really hard to watch, with all the awkward camera movements, and quick pans. Not only that; but Madonna really comes across, as a self-centered diva. I get that she's very narcissistic and an attention whore, but her ugliness is peeping more than her likability, here. There are two scenes that really made me hate the person, behind the music, and those scenes are her lack of reaction when she hears that one of her makeup staff was given a date-rape drug and sodomized. The other is when, she try to seduce a married man, while yelling at her crew. Wow! Just Wow! This can't be, good for her career. I can care less, about her infamous Fellatio scene with a glass bottle, or her inviting her dancers, and backup singers, for a little bedtime. Those scenes were a less more cringe-worthy to watch, than the two examples above. Madonna got backlash for her awful treatment of her crew, as three of the Blond Ambition dancers, Oliver Crumes, Kevin Stea, and Gabriel Trupin, filed a lawsuit against her. The suit claimed that the singer had invaded her dancers' privacy during the filming of Truth or Dare, as well as charging her with fraud and deceit, intentional misrepresentation, suppression of fact, and intentional infliction of emotional distress for displaying the men's private lives in the documentary. In October 1994, after more than two years of litigation, the suit was withdrawn and an undisclosed settlement was reached. Still, the movie did try to paint, Madonna in a good light as well. Scenes like her, visiting her mother's grave, or her trying to reconnect with her stubborn father were somewhat emotional, but it totally get overlook by the notorious bad moments in this film. One thing that I did like about this documentary is how, they were able to show the stresses that come with, a musical tour, such as injuries, bad press, bad weather, and technical sound problems. There were some intense moments, that were kinda interesting, such as the scene, where the catholic associations called for a boycott of the show in Rome or the scene in Toronto, where the police threatened to arrest Madonna for lewd acts. Then there was the infamous scenes where she totally misses, actor Kevin Costner's sense of humor and mocks him behind his back. I really didn't mind, all the celebrities cameos in this, but one truly stood out from the rest. I love Warren Beatty's calling out Madonna's phoniness in the film, saying how this was clearly not the real Madonna, it's the Madonna on camera, and she is playing for them. I truly do believe him. Some of the scenes are pretty clearly staged, others are clearly orchestrated by the director instead of occurring naturally. This was an issue some critics back then had with the movie how much of this was really real, and how much of it isn't. Madonna is painfully aware of the camera at all times; they don't even try to hide that fact. That said, there are parts where it does seem like we're seeing a real Madonna in there somewhere. She gets tense and scared before shows, she holds prayers right before her very sacrilegious concerts. She genuinely cares about her band and dancers, sometimes. However, with 250 hours of film of Madonna, Director Alek Keshishian clearly see that her bad sides outlives her goods. In 2005, Madonna produced another documentary, I'm Going to Tell You a Secret, which followed her 2004 Re-Invention World Tour. It was filmed and narrated in the same style as Truth or Dare, with stage performances filmed in color and behind-the-scenes in black and white. It wasn't as famous as this movie, due to the fact, that sexuality in music isn't as taboo as it was, then & Madonna has somewhat calm down, due to her age. Overall There was only one movie that was ever gonna serve Madonna well, and that was a movie whom whose subject matter was Madonna. So if I had to sadly, recommend only one Madonna movie, I'd make it Truth or Dare, but just note, that it's a watch that is somewhat annoying and offensive to watch. "},{"Title":"A Riveting Rock Documentary","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I don't know sh*t about Madonna. I know that the media has a fixation on her aging (how dare she have a wrinkle at 57-years-old?), that she almost died at this year's Brit Awards while performing Living for Love, that she sliced censors in half during her controversial 1994 interview with David Letterman, that Robert Christgau thinks she's a pop genius, that the gays love her, that she's, all right, clinging to her youth. But still, I hardly know anything about Madonna. Maybe I could barely sing the chorus to Holiday, but that's all. I'd recognize her if she were to walk down my street. I saw her in Dick Tracy once. She was pretty good in that.I suppose I was expecting Truth or Dare to have a sort of Vogue tinged romanticism, painting Madonna as a pop figure still untouchable, like how Ready to Wear made the fashion world funny, nowhere near realistic, but was all the better for it. For all the cultural bullshit that misunderstands her, Truth or Dare dares you to hate and love the pop superstar at the same time, wanting you to scoff at her need to be the STAR of every moment, wanting you to appreciate her relentless work ethic, her need to be an entertainer at the top of their game. And like all good documentaries (and why this one is so damn good), the film is riveting for everyone, outsiders and insiders alike. I wasn't a Madonna fan before the documentary nor will I be afterward, but as a rock documentary, Truth or Dare stands as one of the finest.Recording the entirety of her 1990 Blond Ambition tour, the film is essentially an inside-look into what a day, a night, a week, a month, a year, looks like for Madonna. (Or maybe it just seems that way a master of camera manipulation, she may just as well be putting on a show.) Photographed in grainy black-and-white, save for the colored (and obligatory) stage performances, Truth or Dare is more warty than glamorized, emphasizing her vulnerabilities, need to be the center of attention, and her wicked sense of humor (she seems to laugh more when people are having a hard time than when everyone is having a ball).I couldn't care less about the complicated choreographic sets that circle around renditions of Like a Virgin, Express Yourself, Holiday, among others; what makes Truth or Dare engaging is its frank candidness. Behind the scenes, Madonna notices that the majority of her young dancers are insecure and need mothering; strange, she remarks, how she likes to be a matriarch, to give her stage family someone to confide in. We catch glimpses of her short relationship with Dick Tracy co-star Warren Beatty, who scoffs at the fact that real-life doesn't seem to matter to her unless it is captured on camera. Cameos abound, featuring pop-ups from Pedro Almodóvar, Kevin Costner, Antonio Banderas, and Al Pacino. But there are three truly great scenes in the film, where Madonna doesn't seem to be putting on a show, where she doesn't seem to be trying to make herself look a certain way for the cameras.Best is her reaction to Kevin Costner, who comes backstage for one show and describes the production as neat; disgusted, she gags, remarking Anybody who says my show is 'neat' has to go. Later, an old friend (pre-fame old) meets Madonna in the hallway of her hotel, asking her to be the godmother to her soon-to-be born child. Though it is clear that the women were close back in the day, Madonna blows her off; she doesn't want to be a mother any time soon, and she doesn't have time to waste time with non-celebrities from the past. And in one of the closing scenes, she infamously models what a blow job from Madonna would look like on a glass bottle. Minutes later, she describes her true love as Sean Penn, heartbroken, regretful.Fakery of course comes around &#x97; the scene where she visits her mother's grave doesn't feel all too sincere, rather the documentarian's hope to make appear feel bare- bones hopeless &#x97; but Truth or Dare, ultimately, is a winning documentary that makes the once chart-dominating pop-star more fascinating, and timeless, than ever. "},{"Title":"Truth or dare?","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This movie is supposed to be a documentary that depicts Madonna on the road. Just the way she is. But is this a real documentary? Madonna is bold, wick, weird, proud, provocative and she likes to be like that. Very likely, she wants to be like that, hiding her real personality behind all those provocations. So it doesn't seem to be so sincere as documentary, but it's OK as document. There are some celebrities, there'sher music and some interesting moments like her visit to her mother grave, her response to Vatican boycott. It's a very different Madonnafrom that showed in the following documentary, that comes 14 year slater. The difference can be seen also at the premiere in '91 she presented Truth or Dare at Festival de Cannes making all the press talking about her famous appearance, while at the recent documentary premiere we have seen a sober and shy Madonna. While her new documentary I'm going to tell you a secret (2005) it's a great documentary that everyone must see, this is only for Madonna's fans. "},{"Title":"Compelling viewing","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is like a spoof documentary, a real documentary, a manipulative media tool and Hello magazine all rolled into one!!From the first scene, to the credits, I thought this was gripping stuff. Who cares if we see the real Madonna or not? What we see is a no holds barred (if you believe that...) view of the most famous woman on the planet. May be Madonna is the superbitch she appears on screen, may be she's playing to the camera but who cares? What you get is a voyeristic glimpse into the life of a superstar on the road. Fortunately there are other people besides that woman - I particularly liked and ultimately felt sorry for one of the dancers (Oliver) who seemed caught up in the madness of the Tour and Madonna's camp world of gay dancers and life lived to the extreme, there's a few shots where he really does seem to have fallen head over heals for her.  Also, one of the most revealing scenes is when he is summoned by the Queen herself, who sits on her throne being prepared for another outing, and tries to sympathise with his feelings and confusion due to an unwanted press article. She is nice to a point but when Oliver tries to play the role of sulky kid, she doesn't stand for it at all ...and Oliver, don't give me an attitude, because I won't stand for it He is put in his place by the boss. Watch out for the look on her face, the most amazing icey stare you could possibly imagine....ouch!! Yes she appears hard, calculating and cunning at times, but also dedicated, highly intelligent and articulate and also funny. Mind you, if you had the whole world watching you and were brave enough to take the flak for your actions in the public arena, I reckon you might be tough too. May be it's not the warts and all documentary that Madonna claims it to be, but it certainly is the most revealing insight into the life of celebrity that we've ever seen. And I'll tell you one thing, we may all dream of fame and fortune but it sure ain't all roses!As well as the behind the scenes footage (shot in black and white to give the feeling of glamour and graininess at the same time) the concert footage (colour) is stunning and you realise why people will fork out £30 to see this woman. A great film about an ultimately fascinating woman, whether you like her or not, you can laugh along with her or shout at the screen, either way, you'll be compelled to watch.  "},{"Title":"Not bad as a documentary but what if your not a madonna fan?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Such is the case with me. Although, I don't NOT like Madonna, I don't really have an opinion one way or the other. So it was really hrd to be that into this. It is interesting to watch but if your not a true madonna fan, how into it are you gonna get? The people who I watched it with are in fact major fans which is probebly why they enjoyed it more. I do feel there were some interesting moments as well as some very touching ones. It wasn't bad as far as documentarys go. It just didn't do anything at all for me personally other then giving me a little gilmse into the life of a performer I was never heavily into anyway. However, if one is a major Madonna fan and hasn't seen thid they may want to, it was very definetly wellmade even if it didn't fascinate me personally.  "},{"Title":"Great documentary","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Documentary of Madonna's 1990 Blonde Ambition tour. Madonna had total control over this film so most of it was manipulated by her and she probably left off some of the really damaging material. Still, there are more than a few unguarded moments in the film with Madonna and her crew talking, fighting, complaining that can't be staged. Also there are a few hilarious moments with her then-boyfriend Warren Beatty. The documentary, backstage stuff is in grainy black and white (with lousy sound) and the concert scenes are in bright color, great sound and (sadly) MTV style editing. Still, it's fun, entertaining, very dirty (but this IS Madonna) and a hilarious game of truth or dare played with her and the crew.Low points Director Alex Keshishain strangely has fairly extensive interview footage with the only straight male dancer in the group--Oliver Crumes. Crumes comes across an as obnoxious, homophobic and sexist jerk. He's actually surprised that all the other male dancers are gay! What planet did he grow up on? Also his dancing (what you see of it) is pretty lousy. And the portrayal of the gay dancers is not exactly positive. The film is too long (it could lose 20 minutes) and not all the songs are good. Still, worth seeing.One BIG complaint--the video version has two extra added numbers--Hanky Panky and a Dick Tracy number--they're not on the DVD. Why not? "},{"Title":"Truth? Probably...Worth seeing even if it isn't?  Hell yeah!!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  After reading a few comments it's worth clarifying that this film was shot during her BLONDE AMBITION WORLD TOUR (1990) NOT her Girlie Show Tour (which was 1993 or some time thereafter).  From reading some of the reviews it seems that there are those who LOVED the movie...and those who did NOT.  I think it all comes down to whether or not you like Madonna.  I happen to be a HUGE Madonna fan and I think this is a GREAT movie/documentary/whatever. People may NOT believe that it's the true Madonna or not...but it's interesting when you look at the Toronto segment how they show the cops warning Madonna that they will arrest her if she does her Like A Virgin song and then we see a clip from a news report where the cops DENY they ever did that (IT'S ON FILM!!!) .  Now people may argue that this is NOT the real Madonna...but scenes like the Toronto one only lend more credence to Madonna (that she is telling the truth and being real) than to those who try to deny her that.  Either way, if you're a Madonna fan...you're gonna LOVE this movie. "}{"Title":"An in depth look into the life of a phenomenon","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Even if you don't enjoy Madonna's music, her attitude, or personal life, this is a first class documentary, no questions asked. This docummentary takes us behind the scenes of Madonna's early nineties tour, The Girlie Show. Madonna's life is on full display here. Her ability to control situations is amazing, her endurance and persistance through the worst of moments is also incredible. There are some diva moments, and other scenes in which Madonna is very aware of the camera, but the best moments come when we get a remote understanding of the woman who made herself into an empire. Madonna Truth or Dare is very entertaining and will not disappoint you. This is a Madonna movie that you will surely enjoy. "},{"Title":"Neat","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  At one point in Truth or Dare, Madonna confesses to one of her dancers that she is neither a great dancer nor a great singer. The concert footage throughout the film indicates that she is not engaging in false humility. Her dancing is awkward and her singing merely pleasant.  But do not be deceived for the woman does have talent.  Toward the end of this piece of imitation cinema verite, Madonna demonstrates her technique on a bottle of Vichi water, pumping the neck in and out of her mouth before tilting her head back to swallow a gush of liquid.  Yes, this seems to be where Madonna Ciccone's true talent lies but, as is the case with her musical abilities, it would seem Madonna is still a pretender.  When interviewed by actress Carrie Fisher in Rolling Stone a few years ago, the world's most famous female sex symbol confessed that she doesn't perform the act she demonstrated in Truth or Dare because she's afraid of choking to death. Hmm.  Is there anything genuine about this woman?I must say I enjoy watching the scantily clad Madonna prance around the stage, and I even enjoy some of her music.  Live to Tell, her theme for former hubby Sean Penn's film At Close Range is quite lovely, and Like a Prayer has a nice dramatic feel.  But I suspect that everybody, even her most devoted fans, realize that Madonna is a cultural phenomenon for reasons that have little to do with music.  To be a phenomenon for whatever reason is no small feat, of course, but in the future I predict that her performances will be reduced to mere artifacts of little value on their own.  They have all the substance of a presidential candidate's campaign buttons.Poor Kevin Costner turns up backstage at one of Madonna's L.A. concerts and, after thanking her for the invite, declares her show neat, a word that causes Madonna to stuff her fingers in her throat to feign vomiting. Because it gives the audience a backstage view of this shallow but provocative woman, Truth or Dare is kind of neat.  Like Gimme Shelter, the documentary about the Rolling Stones, and This is Elvis, it stands on its own as a film that can prove interesting even to viewers who are not fans of the subject.    "},{"Title":"Madonna Is The Best!!!!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This movie was awesome!  Madonna is my idol and this film show's how hard she works to be where she is, and that she doesnt take anything for granted. People that have commented on this film have said she is a bitch and that she is mean to the people around her, well to me thats perfectly understandable considering how grueling the tour schedules were, and everything that messed up onstage and how little time she had to herself. You would be mean and bitchy to, dont even say you wouldnt either!!! Also there are only acouple scenes with her being p***ed off.  Towards the end she has very funny, and cute momments with her dancers.  Also the concert scenes are so beautifully done.  Whether you like Madonna or not, the truth is she is not going to fade anytime soon, and she will always be the most successful female artist of all time. Madonna is my idol and no one can ever compare or come close to her.  10/10  "},{"Title":"Positive","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Madonna Truth or Dare is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Even though it's not a real movie, but a documentary, it's funny, sexy and exciting.Madonna is really cool and she's not afraid to be herself (we all know that of course), she doesn't only reveal her good virtues, but also her bad virtues. I truly respect her and I think seeing this movie is great way to get to know Madonna. "},{"Title":"absolutely fantastic","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a wonderful documentary. It shows the ups and downs of being a rock star. Essential to fans. "},{"Title":"exciting","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The entire film is very interesting, and exciting.  This was a brilliant film to make.  The show sequences were exquisite.  A great movie for all Madonna fans, and music lovers.  "},{"Title":"Madonna better on-stage than in bed...","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Pop singer Madonna's 1990 tour takes her and her troupe to different cities, where she inevitably butts heads with authorities, locks horns with boyfriend Warren Beatty and her management, and covers emotional hurdles, though not always with grace, tact or ease. If anything, this documentary exposes her human side, which is seldom apparent in her acting roles. Of course this was probably her intention, as she always has her eye out for the camera (and it is always on top of her, with shots lasting seconds too long--just in case something vital may be missed). The black-and-white photography off-stage is grainy and over-bright, a strain on the eyes, but the color concert sequences--though they tend to go on too long--are pretty incredible. Many moving, exhilarating moments, no matter how you personally feel about the Diva. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"There is no one like Madonna","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  ** Possible spoiler**  First of all I am biased- I have been entertained by Madonna since I was 5 and I am now 22, and I still think she's great. This documentary is great, often times revealing ,but still entertaining. She reveals that Sean Penn was the love of her life, breaks up arguments between her dancers, goes to visit her mother's grave, hangs with her family, and gets on stage and does whatever a lot of people in other countries find offensive and more. But I saw her when I was 15 in concert, and she was incredible. I hope that she now finds the happiness she has been searching for with her new husband Guy Ritchie and her two children. Thanks for the memories Madonna. "},{"Title":"Madonna proves to be the one of the best live performers ever.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is an incredible documentary,extremely well directed,black and white backstage scenes are fascinating while the on stage sequences are breath taking in color.Madonna is not afraid to reveal herself and she also truly proves to be one of the bet live performers ever "},{"Title":"Madonna The True Diva","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Madonna shines in this movie.  The supporting cast shines.  The whole movie shines.  Madonna is showing the world what she really thinks. She can be sweet, nice, rude, a bitch, a mother, and many more.  At least she has the guts to show the world that she is A true diva.  "}{"Title":"Madonna - Hot as ever!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Wonderfully filmed, this inside look at Madonna's Blonde Ambition tour allows the viewer a 'fly on the wall' perspective.  Say what you will about Madonna, she is wildly talented.  Filmed in black-and-white, the concert footage is in colour and definitely worth the price of admission! A must-see for all Madonna fans. "},{"Title":"Hanging Out With Madonna","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I guess you could say that whoever saw this probably knows now what it's like to be the most famous woman in the world (or at least one of them). Madonna is being Madonna, just living her life and having fun.  And in some ways, Truth or Dare revealed who the real Madonna is.  She's funny, she's daring, she's odd, she's fun, and in her own way, sensitive.  She's also one of the greatest entertainers of the 20th century, and she's very brilliant. After all, she has been doing what she does best for a long time without losing her creative touch! As a result to the Blonde Ambition Tour which is what this documentary is about, in my opinion, it's not theatrical, but it's exciting and it's fun. Madonna really can WOW her audience and spellbind them with every dance step (and let's not forget that Like A Virgin performance) I thought her Girlie Show tour was more theatrical.Yet what I liked the most about this movie is not the fact that you're actually experiencing Madonna's zone of privacy, but you're actually seeing the REAL Madonna!  I think this was one of the smartest things she has ever done in her career despite all those nasty comments people say of her, calling her a slut which is wrong and which she isn't.I recommend Truth or Dare to all music fans, especially if you're a big Madonna fan!!! o) "},{"Title":"Neat? Anyone who says my show is neat has to go.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I have always been fascinated with Madonna. I feel that she has been unfairly maligned over the years, as are many who stretch the envelope with new ideas and thinking.I have to admit I tuned into this documentary just to see Pedro Almodovar. I hadn't realized that Madonna had a thing for Antonio Bandaras and she got to meet him at a party thrown in her honor by Almodovar. Unbelievable, that she lost out to Melanie Griffith.Seeing Madonna backstage shines a whole new light on her and makes her out to be someone who really cares about putting on a good show and, more importantly, shows her as someone who loves every - black, white, gay, straight - it doesn't matter. Everyone except Kevin Costner, who had the audacity to call her show neat. "},{"Title":"The truth whether you want it or NOT","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is probably one of her finest works and that is because it is THE TRUTH.  Not a character role, like critics and nay-sayers seem to assume her as.  This is Madonna, whether you want her or not.  People are always trying to bring her down and criticize her career moves, but through it all she has had NO REGRETS.  At the conclusion of her movie, she makes it clear that she cares not whether unimportant people approve or disapprove of her lifestyle. While many may say that it's easy to act differently when you KNOW the camera is on you, she is an experienced and confident enough actress and entertainer to be herself at ANY cost - something MANY people need.  This is her, and if you don't like it, then change the channel to something you can handle. "},{"Title":"Some amusing bits.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Not for everyone, and certainly not for non-fans. Otherwise, a good documentary with some amusing bits and some rather startling bits. Not family entertainment but rather risque.  "},{"Title":"a natural star is born???","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" i loved this movie and was amazed by how natural madonna finally seemed in front of a camera. this is so interesting to me, primarily because of how terrible she is in every other film other then 'desperatly seeking susan,' which was just another version of her. in her other ventures into features the biggest problem with her acting is how forced, stiff, and unnatural she is in her every waking motion. it's like the camera goes on and every bad high school actor out there is suddenly channeling thru madge. yet how is it then that she is so comfortable in front of this camera? it's one of two things, as near as i can figure, either she's just a crap actress, having nothing to do with her stress in front of the camera, or, she overloads when attempting to create a manufactured person with a manufactured person. damn, i just lost my train of thought right when i was writing that second one. "},{"Title":"Greatest Rockumentary Ever Made!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Interesting look at the worlds most famous woman, behind the scenes of her Blonde Ambition Tour at the zenith of her career. Possibly Madonnas best performance to date - because shes being herself. Some classic scenes involving Evian water bottles and outstanding stage performances intertwined making the best rock documentary ever made, about the worlds most famous, successful, sexual and interesting female star of all time. "},{"Title":"Sexy goddess goes uncensored","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Madonna is probably responsible for my addicting to t&a today, she is hot, great body, love her. In this documentary, she have some great moments, the masturbation on stage, nude backstage scenes, vulgar languages and more. This is a must have in any collection. One of the best documentary ever. Here is the story thanks to Mehmet Karaca.This movie reveals Madonna as she really is, on stage and off - den mother to her family of dancers, sex goddess to her millions of fans, business woman, singer, dancer... the biggest superstar in the world of music. Join her and experience an intimate backstage look at her Blond Ambition tour.Buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Inside Madonna's Real World!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Amazing documentary that shows that Madonna, the world's biggest superstar, is just a human being.  She has her good days and bad days, ups and downs, just like the rest of us.  The only difference is is that most of hers happen in front of a camera for the world to see.   "},{"Title":"An underrated overlooked docu on the life of an icon","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Madonna's daring documentary where she allows cameras to go virtually everywhere during her Vogue tour in the US and europe. While some of the footage is most probably staged we do see some of the real Madonna - both sides - good and bad. At some parts she is a caring mother figure to her dancers as she tries to get them through the tour and the pressures of a big time tour production..other times she seems petty and the big star ego comes out. Mostly though it is a curious look at arguably the most popular musician of the past 20 years.  This documentary allows candid moments not normally seen. Warren Beatty, who Madonna was seeing at the time, appears briefly in the film and seems completely uncomfortable with the camera there and even chastises Madonna for allowing the filming to be so extensive.  Overall a exciting interesting and intriguing look with some great music performances, especially of her first hit Like a Virgin which is remade with eastern overtones. Recommended highly to all Madonna fans and fans of pop music. On a scale of one to ten.. 9 "}{"Title":"More than I needed to know, but great concert footage","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The main value of this movie is some magnificent camera work and editing during several songs from Madonna's concerts.  The cameras seem to be flying over the audience at times, or directly in front of her on stage.  Of particular interest is a slower version of Like A Virgin, which is so perfectly edited by a genius, and Vogue, which includes clips from the tour.As for the off-stage Madonna, I felt at times like I was watching Real World mixed with All About Eve, The Partridge Family and Queer As Folk.  I don't think that people are themselves when a camera is present; as a result I find most documentaries of this nature a little embarrassing at times.  I don't want to know as much as this movie gives.  I don't care how Madonna performs certain sex acts, its none of my business.  If she wants to show herself to the world, she certainly did that - she never comes off as particularly nice, sensitive or caring about anything other than the camera in the room.  Warren Beatty put his finger on it - she does not want to exist off-camera.  But as I said, I do give her credit for not always being concerned with showing herself in the best possible light.My favorite part of the entire movie is when she reluctantly admits that (at the time) Sean Penn was the true love of her life.  This was as real as it gets in a movie like this.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  It's candid it's frank it's Madonna! This movie is superb. The documentary thing is brilliant. The mother grave yard scene is touching.  The Kevin Costner thing is hilarious. And we get to meet Antonio Not so famous Bandaras. I love this film! "},{"Title":"The creme de la creme of music docs!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Maddy is at her sexiest and loveliest when she's HA HERSELF! The ultimate bad girl documentary showcases her behind the scenes on her huge mind-blowing BLOND AMBITION TOUR of 1990.It's very compelling - her relationships with the people who work for her, in particular the dancers. She goes from at one moment being one of them to mothering them to ultimately, being their employer... and a shoot straight from the hip one at that. Her encounters with Sandra Bernhard, Warren Beatty, and Kevin Costner are no where near as compelling as her partying with her dancers. Rumour is, in the party scene where she first me Antonio Banderas--females on her staff were not allowed to wear makeup or do their hair when they went--this is evident when you see Niki Haris and Donna DeLory--her two background singers. The concert footage is beautifully shot. What's of interest is that some of her dancers were doing massive drugs on this tour but that was somewhere left out of the footage. All in all FLAWLESS! "},{"Title":"Just plain sleazy and stupid.","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I do not listen to Madonna. What I've heard I've enjoyed, but for the most part I don't go out of my way to hear her music. As an actress she's never really impressed me and personally some of the tabloid stuff has rubbed me the wrong way and I just don't find her interesting anymore. In general I find celebrities who rely on tabloids for regenerating popularity (e.g. Paris Hilton) despicable, and Madonna does this quite often. Just as the tabloids stopped carrying lies about her, she kisses Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera on-stage and we endure another year of tabloid speculation.Truth or Dare was a documentary made in 1991 that followed Madonna on her 1990 Blonde Ambition tour, which was highly controversial. This is where she did all sorts of sexual stuff on stage including (simulating) masturbation on the floor of the podium.The documentary is really sleazy and basically follows the sex goddess as she candidly discusses...sex. Wow, how original.One scene in the documentary has all the people on her music crew climbing into her bed and they talk about all sorts of taboo stuff and she gets two of the guys to kiss each other.It's not even interesting in a car-crash kind of way, where it's so shocking you can't take your eyes off it. It's just plain boring and controversial for the sake of being so. Seen 15 years later, it just looks outdated, smug and annoying. "},{"Title":"A Portrait of an Artist as a young woman.","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Madonna is captivating in Truth or Dare, a self produced documentary showcasing the Blond Pop Star on stage and back stage. There are no cigarettes and their is little drinking, if any going on in the film. Truth or Dare is more about a formed family that produces one hell of a spectacle and at the center is Madonna who holds everyone together using a soft tongue, humor, vulgarity, sex and prayer. Madonna is a phenomenon who soaks up the paparazzi like a magnet; she loves the camera and attention. It is fun to watch Madonna shrewdly humiliate famous men like Kevin Costner and Warren Beatty. It's fun to see her get playful with her dancers and show her breasts off to her friends not letting them get too close. Madonna holds prayer meetings before her concerts with her dancers and back up singers as she chomps gum. It is more like a pep prayer getting everyone into a strong light of commitment and perseverance. The film cuts between stage acts with some of Madonna's top songs then to back stage of other avenues of Madonna's life like visiting the grave of her Mother. Madonna has a helpful brother who shows up in many scenes and his presence is laid back and intelligent. Madonna works hard and achieves much in return for her abilities. She is a living legend who speaks about our rights of artistic expression. We see a kind Madonna who mothers her extended family of dancers and friends and we see a strong Madonna who laughs in the face of humility and gets away with it. Truth or Dare is more rewarding now because we have seen the direction this woman has taken. She has set the example on how to succeed in the Music World and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Like You've Never Seen Her Before.","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Truth or Dare is a documentary that follows the escapades of pop queen Madonna and her backup dancers during her infamous 1990 Blonde Ambition World Tour. Some of her performances from this tour are included, and are filmed in color, while the moments she is not performing are filmed in black and white. Madonna is famous for constantly reinventing her image, and this Madonna is quite different from the Madonna of today. This was before the two kids and the African baby adoption, the second marriage to Guy Ritchie, and Kabbalah. This is the Madonna of 1990  bold, controversial, sexual, artistic, and constantly pushing boundaries and limits. Her Blonde Ambition tour was a spectacle, full of elaborate choreography, costume and set changes, religious themes, and sexuality. Whether you love or hate her, one look at this movie does not question why she is one of the most successful female artists ever. She is no doubt a visionary, very driven, charismatic, and an energetic performer. Everyone knows Madonna the performer. But, Truth or Dare gives you a peek at Madonna the person. Some people have painted a picture of her as a cold-hearted bitch. There is no doubt that Madonna can dish out some diva attitude when she wants to. She sees herself as the boss, and anyone who tries to step on her toes better watch out. Plus the BA tour was very demanding, with back to back dates and non-stop sets. I'm sure you'd be quite stressed or frustrated in that situation as well.But her critics don't really take the time to point out her good qualities. She has a great sense of humor & can be very caring towards others, like her family and her back up dancers, whom she regards as her family. She sings Happy Birthday on stage to her father, waits for hours for her brother to show up backstage, and promotes unity between her dancers. This all seems like very genuine behavior to me. In one scene, a few of her family and friends note how impatient and demanding she can be. But she does seem to gain the people around her's love and respect. Yes, Madonna is very smart and a master at manipulating the media. So she did have control over this project and what was seen and what wasn't. But I give her credit for being brave enough to show the good & bad of her, and being unafraid to face criticism for it. In my opinion, nothing in the film was too appalling. The infamous laugh when she discovers her makeup artist was drugged and raped was a nervous reaction, and she did immediately apologize after wards. Madonna has often taken flack for her image, and it could just be the fact that some people don't know how to handle a strong-minded, ambitious woman. I recommend this film to people who like Madonna, cause if you don't you probably won't appreciate it or like it. There's great concert footage included as well, which fans will especially enjoy. It's also a great snap shot of the past Madonna. Whether you agree with her actions or not, she's always compelling and interesting to watch. "},{"Title":"Live to Tell of this experience","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This, ladies and gentlemen is MADONNA like you will never see her again. How sad - yes. It is, but watching this documentry makes you want to be in Madonna's crazy atmosphere. Actually, if you don't want to be part of it all - boy, are you strong! The hype, the glamour, the controversy, the hard work and just about everything else is shown in this fantastic inlook into Madonna's Blond Ambition Tour and how ultimatly - she has everyone on a peiece of string and is such a powerful woman.Watch it, love it, watch it again, go out and buy all her CD's!  "},{"Title":"On Tour With An Icon","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" the Blond Ambition tour was never officially released, The documentary of Truth or Dare was the only way fans could have a piece of the tour on DVD. Madonna's documentary covers all her personal and private issues. while dealing with boyfriend issues with Warren Beatty to traveling all over the world with dancers she temporarily claimed as her own, To speeches at the Vatican in Rome to having legal issues in Toronto, this is real Madonna at her campiest best. this is the documentary of all documentary's. Madonna proves to be a true business woman and Icon.this is a must for anyone who loves Madonna or anyone that enjoys good music and a great show!Anthony V Jr "},{"Title":"Oh, please Madonna!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I found this documentary fascinating because the Material Girl is about as over the top as you can get.  Madonna has always manipulated the press and her public, because we allow her to do so.  She throws out the bread crumbs and we're only too glad to pick them up.  You have to hand it to her, even though you might shake your head at your own foolishness, you keep coming back for more.  "},{"Title":"Why did I bother?","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Exactly!  Why did I bother renting this film, it's been out for eight years, I never wanted it before.  Well I guess I was in the mood for a documentary.  I don't get it though, is this really Madonna?  A playful kitten who sings and who prays before shows, for some reason there should be more.  I rented it hoping to see more of people besides Madonna, not just Madonna getting her make up done and bitching about Warren Beaty.  Two good pieces of the film would be;  The Sandra Bernhard sequence, which was brilliant.  And the fact Kevin Costner called Madonna's concert neat. Sure, if your a hardcore Madonna fan you'll enjoy watching her primp and suck on a bottle, for me, I wanted more of the real Madonna. "}{"Title":"NEAT....NOT","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Worth the watch just to see how awful and self serving people really can be. Parents this might be a good movie to make your kids watch just so they know how not to treat people when they grow up....on second thought scratch that idea,bad flick for kids. Amazing I didn't know people like you really existed , gross Madonna... really gross!!! "},{"Title":"THIS SHOULD BE CALLED..MADONNA, TRUTH ? WHO CARES?","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  PLEASE........ IS THIS WHAT THE WORLD OF ENTERTAINMENT IS COMING TO? WHEN SHE ISN'T MUGGING FOR THE CAMERA(WHICH SHE DOESN'T KNOW IS THERE...wink wink nod nod say no more) SHE PRACTISES HER HOBBY WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY ABUSING HER STAFF...DON'T ALL PRIMA DONNA'S DO THE SAME? IF SELF-INDULGENT PABLUM IS YOUR SCHTICK THEN HOP ON BOARD AND WAIT FOR YOUR TURN WHEN THE MADONNA EX-PRESS GOES BY.BYE "}]